25-05-2020||News||In the Afghan theatre, India and its balancing act | Opinion||Prospects for peace in Afghanistan are uncertain. The February Doha Agreement was not about peace. For the Donald Trump Administration, it was meant to get the remaining United States (US) troops out of the country before the next presidential election. For the Taliban, it was to rid Afghanistan of foreign forces and bring it a step closer to take control over the Afghan government. The head of the Taliban, Mawlawi Hibatullah Akhundzada, described the Doha Agreement as the “Termination of Occupation Agreement”, while it is actually titled the “Agreement for Bringing Peace to Afghanistan.” All Afghans yearn for peace. They are bound to, after four decades of incessant violence. That is why the restarting of hostilities by the Taliban has been so disheartening. On May 12, Afghan President Ashraf Ghani announced the resumption of offensive operations against the Taliban, in the wake of several terrorist attacks, including one targeting a maternity hospital in Kabul that killed dozens, including mothers and newborns. The increase in Taliban violence has led to some discordance in Washington, DC. The Pentagon maintains that Taliban attacks have increased following the Doha Agreement. The State Department has been silent for the most part. Secretary of State, Mark Pompeo, noted that the Taliban denied any responsibility and condemned the recent attacks as heinous. After a gap of two years, the Taliban has announced an Eid ceasefire, again without any guarantee of it being irreversible. This is an effort to establish Taliban bonafides and take forward the intra-Afghan process, supposed to have started on March 7.The Doha Peace Deal, which blindsided the Afghan government, is not a capitulation to the Taliban. Rather, it is a capitulation to Pakistan. Pakistan’s objective is to have a pliant, Taliban-led government in Kabul, which would limit India’s presence in Afghanistan and provide a base for jihadi groups targeting India.Afghanistan has two important neighbours. While Pakistan may be fully on board with the Doha Agreement, Iran is not. Notwithstanding their new-found equation with the Taliban, Iranians have denounced as “destructive” the US role in Afghanistan, and the sacrificing of the interests of the Afghan people.Most international actors wish to engage with the Taliban. That the Taliban has friends is no reason for India to join the bandwagon. India was not consulted on the Doha Agreement. India has no responsibility for its implementation; it is for the protagonists to take it forward. India has been kept out by Pakistan on any material discussion about Afghanistan’s future, as the US accepted the Pakistan redline. That said, even if the US has decided to call it quits in Afghanistan, India cannot. Recently, there was news that in Muhmand Dara, Nangarhar, most of those killed in a supposed Taliban camp are members of Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM). Aslam Farooqi, head of the Islamic State of Khorasan Province, arrested in Afghanistan for his complicity in the Kabul gurudwara attack last month, was formerly with the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT). Both JeM and LeT have close ties with the Haqqani Network, whose leader, Sirajuddin Haqqani, is the deputy leader of the Taliban.The Taliban’s ties with the Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) are well-documented. Steve Coll writes in Directorate S: The C.I.A. and America’s Secret Wars in Afghanistan and Pakistan that the Haqqani Network has been the lynchpin of ISI’s covert policy since the 1970s. The group, the Taliban’s most important armed component, has targeted American forces in Afghanistan. It has also been the executioner targeting Indians in Afghanistan, including diplomats, military officers, and cooperation workers.The argument that India must discuss its concerns with the Taliban is specious, as if the Taliban is unaware of these. True, the Taliban has not made statements against India, but the hand of the Haqqani Network is well-established in almost all the attacks on the Indian mission and posts in Afghanistan and the recent attack on the Kart-e-Parwan gurudwara in Kabul. India has been supportive of efforts to bring genuine peace to Afghanistan. It has advised leaders of different ethnicities to work in cohesion with others for the common purposes of peace and nation-building. India favours the reintegration of insurgents and groups that give up their links with terrorist groups and networks, resile from violence, are inclusive, and embrace the Afghan Constitution. India opposes only the political accommodation of individuals, groups or organisations associated with known terrorist entities, since this will subvert the nascent Afghan democracy, undermine human rights, particularly women’s rights, and destroy emerging Afghan institutions. A further concern is that restoration of status-quo-ante in Afghanistan could lead to the unravelling of the state system in neighbouring Pakistan, with imponderable consequences.India must, as it has been, remain supportive of the Afghan people and their government, which needs to continue standing on its feet and taking its own decisions. India has to be far more proactive in doing so and openly engage with all actors across the political spectrum, including the moderate Taliban leaders through covert contacts. India has a decent track record in dealing with Islam-oriented regimes. Were the Taliban to change its behaviour, which given its present composition seems unlikely, India would have no problem interacting with it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/in-the-afghan-theatre-india-and-its-balancing-act/story-zaxtJRQaNHuIm5doIgox0N.html
25-05-2020||News||Returning workers can bring prosperity to rural areas||We have treated our migrant workers abominably. With no money to pay rent or buy food, these workers had no choice but to start walking back to their villages. Will they return to work in the cities that treated them so cruelly? Hard to say, but for the time being, at least, they are likely to stay with their families and make do with whatever they have.This tragedy is as much a humanitarian as an economic one. Workers have not just lost their livelihoods, they are now also staring at an uncertain future. Will the economy recover fast enough to absorb them again? Long periods of waiting and inaction will have a cost. Some of these people are unskilled labour, but many are skilled or semi-skilled. A large-scale deskilling could take place if they do not find work quickly because their skills will begin to rust and diminish if not used.One way to solve this mess is to enable rural enterprises that provide jobs and income opportunities in villages. They will plug the inequalities between rural and urban India, and become an engine of growth where it is needed the most. The skilled manpower that has returned home will raise the standards of such enterprises, and the labour will find work close to home. The neglect and injustice meted out to villagers in India’s development story can finally begin to be made good. The crisis can have a positive outcome if we are able to turn the current adversity into an equitable and inclusive growth opportunity.There is a great model which we can follow to establish rural industries: China’s Township and Village Enterprises (TVEs). It was based on value addition in the agriculture sector and rural subsidiary production. It started with reforms in 1978 when the country invested in raising agricultural production, agricultural mechanisation and liberalisation of rural markets. This helped start economic initiatives in villages and small towns. These enterprises were called TVEs, and went on to become the foundation for China’s formidable economic growth.As agriculture production went up, TVEs absorbed the surplus labour released from traditional farming, created employment in the villages, and increased the incomes of farmers and rural citizens. Once farmers established viable TVEs based on agriculture, they began to branch out into other industrial sectors and services. This diversification and growth of rural industrialisation was encouraged by the government. It resulted in the TVE output’s value increasing dramatically, helping absorb nearly 30% of China’s rural labour force. By 1996, these rural enterprises accounted for nearly 50% of the country’s exports.Despite their incredible success, they went into an abrupt decline after 1996. The reason was simple: The privatisation spree that overtook China as a prelude to its industrialisation boom. But, by then, it had created the conditions for an awe-inspiring economic success for the country.Our migrant workers were employed in several manufacturing and services sectors such as hospitality, automobile, textiles and garments, packaging and construction. Many of them have niche training and experience. They can be the foundation on which to build a rural industrial base.Rural enterprises will have significant advantages. They can compete with multinational products that are shipped to rural areas. Villages and mofussil towns have market opportunities, and rural enterprises can effectively cater to the consumer demands of farmers and other rural citizens. Once rural incomes start to rise – with an efficient and diversified agricultural and horticultural production unleashed from the tyranny of obstructive policies such as the Agricultural Produce Market Committee Act and the Essential Commodities Act – a TVE-like phenomenon will open up many more sectors for rural entrepreneurs.Suman Sahai is a scientist and chairperson of the Gene CampaignThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/returning-workers-can-bring-prosperity-to-rural-areas/story-pXolyXaCN9McZMzkLm7khN.html
25-05-2020||News||Why an absolute reliance on online examinations may not be the answer||Recently, many of India’s leading universities have announced the introduction of online open-book examinations for final year students. The process requires students to have Internet access, the latest smartphone, books and quality study material wherever they are currently locked down. The prospect of online examinations has brought anxiety among students and teachers.The RC Kuhad-led expert committee of the University Grants Commission has recommended other possible modes of evaluation, such as assignment/presentation-based assessments. But due to the extraordinary situation brought by the coronavirus pandemic, e-learning has been projected as a viable substitute for completing educational institutes’ syllabi. However, in the process, certain basic ground realities have been overlooked.While teachers tried to complete their syllabi using online methods, students struggled to cope with it, with many of them not receptive to the idea for various reasons. An online survey conducted by the Department of Communications, University of Hyderabad, suggests that a majority of the respondents faced problems with online education. Similarly, a survey among the students of Delhi University’s Lady Shri Ram College revealed that even in the institution where the majority is economically and socially affluent, the students are wary of the prospect of online examinations.A sizeable number of students of central universities are out-station students, who are stuck in their hometowns since the March mid-semester break. Many of them don’t have their books and notes with them, and are struggling to cope. A significant section of students is locked down in regions with intermittent Internet access. There are also numerous students who are handicapped simply because they don’t have smartphones and laptops. Even students who have smartphones point out, rightly, the severe strain long hours of studying on smartphones bring on their eyes. Besides, many students have had, among other challenges, difficulties coping with contingencies stemming from malfunctioning smartphones and laptops, the inability to easily navigate new apps, and the lack of quality e-resources in Hindi and other languages.A sizeable section of university students is from poorer households where the sheer lack of physical space within homes makes quality and uninterrupted learning a luxury. It is also necessary to factor in the special needs of students with physical disabilities, who may not have access to technologies that support extensive online learning, and instead, depend heavily on special resources and the infrastructure provided within campuses. Likewise, we simply cannot overlook the specific obstacles faced by a large number of women students, who share the burden of routine household chores, increasingly so during the lockdown.Furthermore, the implications of online examinations for the socially- and economically-marginalised students who are concentrated in the open and distance learning (ODL) mode of various universities have to be considered. The ODL mode students are a very large component of many universities. Due to the lack of seats in regular colleges, scores of students, many of whom are first-generation learners, have become dependent on ODL. Can we really expect these students to be in a position to appear for an examination any time soon?Differential learning capacities due to contrasting social backgrounds of students can only be properly addressed through teaching and socialisation nurtured in real classrooms, and not through teachings on virtual platforms. Direct classroom teaching creates a public space in which social and political understanding grow through collective participation of diverse individuals and groups. In contrast, e-learning tends to shift the entire burden of education onto the individual, isolates the learners from a real public space, and makes them overtly dependent on digital technology and gadgets that are synced to homogenised modules of learning.Considering the difficulties with online learning and teaching, and the related pedagogic issues, policymakers, and university administrations must take into account the genuine concerns of students and teachers, and work towards a viable solution that is acceptable and just to all stakeholders.Maya John teaches in Delhi UniversityThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/why-an-absolute-reliance-on-online-examinations-may-not-be-the-answer/story-PQFGIbKfuvXzLgs9YfpkbO.html
25-05-2020||News||India’s lockdown encouraged life-saving behavioural changes. Make them last||It’s been about two months since the start of the world’s largest coronavirus disease (Covid-19) lockdown – in India. For millions of migrant workers across the country, it has resulted in a humanitarian crisis. But it has also been devastating for the non-migrant and urban poor, many of whom have lost their incomes.The economic costs of the lockdown have been enormous, but there may have been one benefit: People did their best to comply with public health directives. They wore masks, washed their hands regularly, and followed basic social distancing guidelines. These behaviours can slow the spread of the coronavirus, ultimately saving lives. As the Indian economy gradually reopens, we cannot afford these behavioural gains to be lost, even as the novelty of the pandemic fades.At the Energy Policy Institute at the University of Chicago in India (Epic India), we have studied the impacts of the lockdown for a representative sample of mostly poor, non-migrant workers in Delhi. Our study documents large declines in employment and income. Over the first seven weeks of the lockdown, weekly income dropped by nearly 60%, on average. Daily wage workers were hit hardest first, followed by salaried workers – perhaps as it became clear that the lockdown will be extended. The situation worsened over time. By early-May, nine out of 10 survey respondents reported that their weekly income has fallen to zero.The reduction in employment and earnings is no surprise. What truly stands out in our data, however, is the widespread compliance with public health directives. Compared to pre-coronavirus levels, mask usage increased from 20%, at the height of the most recent air pollution crisis, to 90%; time spent indoors increased from 44% to 95%, and regular hand-washing became nearly universal. We need to view these types of behaviours, important in limiting the spread of the virus, as some of the hard-fought gains of this long and costly lockdown.This week, lockdown restrictions have been eased across the country. In Delhi, the intra-city movement is on the rise again. As some semblance of normalcy returns to everyday life, a few actions should be prioritised. First, the government should not only maintain but be prepared to expand its food assistance and relief efforts. In our data, a third of respondents reported benefiting from the Delhi government’s food assistance services, suggesting that these relief centres may have lessened some of the hardships caused by the lockdown. For many, it is not clear when employment will return, and with infections on the rise, these services should be continued.Second, we need to ensure that maximum public awareness of Covid-19 is maintained so that the behavioural changes achieved during this lockdown do not fade away. Most importantly, everyone will need to wear a mask at all times. This is crucial in densely-populated cities like Delhi, where maintaining a physical distance is often impossible.To keep the infection rate as low as possible, masks should not only be mandatory, they should also be free. In the current situation, wearing a mask generates positive externalities. The government should find ways to support private-sector investments to scale up domestic mask production and subsidise it for most.Some state governments have already introduced compulsory mask policies and penalties for non-compliance. Although this may be effective at the moment, the opportunity for authorities to selectively enforce such rules could end up causing more harm. Instead, we need to leverage the behavioural habits adopted so far to establish lasting social norms that encourage widespread and proper mask usage (for example, masks should not be worn hanging off the chin). Perhaps India’s leaders, social influencers, and celebrities can play a role in promoting such norms.Some argue that producing so many masks has environmental costs and, so, people should just make their own using standard materials found at home. But the effectiveness of Do It Yourself (DIY) masks in reducing the spread of Covid-19 is not clear. Until a vaccine is both available and widely administered, which could take years, it will be important to make sure that people wear high-quality, hospital-grade masks.The lockdown bought the government and the people valuable time to prepare for Covid-19’s rise, and probably also prevented countless deaths. We do not yet know whether the total benefits of the lockdown – flatter curve, life-saving behaviours and such – will outweigh the massive economic and humanitarian costs. The battle has only begun, and the final outcome will depend on whether some of the key gains from this lockdown—in terms of public awareness and public health compliance—will persist into the future.Kenneth Lee is an economist and executive director, Epic India. This research is co-authored by Michael Greenstone, the Milton Friedman Distinguished Service Professor in Economics at the University of Chicago and director of Epic, Patrick Baylis, assistant professor at the Vancouver School of Economics at the University of British Columbia, and Harshil Sahai, a doctoral candidate in economics at the University of ChicagoThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/india-s-lockdown-encouraged-life-saving-behavioural-changes-make-them-last/story-hBD5hUbqxQexK8rDzetA4N.html
25-05-2020||News||Disentangling the labour law debate: What does the evidence really say?||The coronavirus-related lockdown has made more than 130 million people jobless. Many of them are the migrants returning to their home states. During the last few weeks, some states, particularly the traditional out-migrant states, have issued ordinances to significantly relax or suspend labour laws. These changes are aimed at removing potential impediments to employment generation so as to absorb the unemployed — especially the returning migrants — and/or attract foreign direct investment. There are several issues related to the constitutionality of these ordinances, but that’s for lawyers and legal scholars to debate. As economists, our research, based on the readings of the evidence available, highlights the costs and benefits of these modifications. The adopted changes are a motley set. Madhya Pradesh has, among other measures, limited the role of inspectors and removed many provisions of the Factories Act (the law governing health and safety in manufacturing firms). Gujarat has retained the industrial safety rules and the Minimum Wage Act, but scrapped all other laws for new industrial establishments. Uttar Pradesh has removed all but a few laws for a period of three years (pending approval by the State legislature and the President of India for laws in the Concurrent List). Several states have amended daily work hours from eight to 12 (some with, and others without, overtime payment). Assam’s focus is different. It has legalised the fixed-term employment (earlier, it needed a licence under the Contract Labour Act) and stipulated equal social security benefits to fixed-term workers as permanent workers in the same unit.These changes can be usefully distinguished into two types. One, those that aims to lower firms’ labour costs by reducing workers’ benefits such as minimum wages, health and safety regulations, provident fund payments and bonus payments, and two, those that aim to increase firms’ flexibility by reducing firing costs such as the employment protection legislation. The conceptual implications and empirical evidence for each type are different.In a basic supply and demand framework, reducing firms’ labour costs should increase labour demand. But when you consider information asymmetries or market power, this prediction falters. Where workers’ effort is hard to observe, employers may provide higher than market wages in order to increase the productivity and minimise turnover (the efficiency wage theory). In markets where employers have wage-setting power, the most low-wage labour markets, introducing a minimum wage does not necessarily lead to adverse employment effects as empirically shown by Arindrajit Dube and co-authors, and, in fact, it can even generate employment gains, as shown by Vidhya Soundararajan, the co-author of this article.Further complications arise as the laws on the books are often not enforced. Urmila Chatterjee and Ravi Kanbur find that the Factories Act is characterised by a widespread non-compliance. Despite the non-compliance, these laws still seem to impose costs on some firms: In a recent paper, Amrit Amirapu and Michael Gechter find that the de facto costs imposed by type-1 regulations on firms can be very high (up to 40% of labour costs), but only in states with high levels of corruption or those which have not reformed their inspector rules. This implies that if there are corrupt inspectors, labour laws are sufficiently complex and opaque to provide them with leverage to extract bribes. Yet, they fail to generate full compliance, leaving workers under-protected. This might explain why, according to the 2014 World Bank Enterprise Survey, only 11% of (medium and large) Indian firms reported that labour regulations are a “major constraint”, while 36% thought corruption to be a “major constraint”.The solution, then, is not to remove these benefits altogether, but to consolidate and simplify them — so that they can be implemented effectively with less room for extortionary practices. Indeed, Parliament has already started deliberating on the issue, and it should be allowed to continue in a careful, if expedited, manner. There is no justification for the wholesale suspension of such laws, leaving workers completely unprotected and firms only marginally better-off.Turning now to the “reforms” of type-2: These relate to the employment protection legislation (EPL), which restricts hiring and firing. The relevant legislation in India is the Industrial Disputes Act (IDA) 1957. Most aspects of this law are fairly standard. For example, Section V-A of the law stipulates that a retrenched or laid-off worker must be adequately compensated, which is similar to policies in many other countries including Germany, France, and the United Kingdom. It is Chapter V-B of the law which prohibits firms with 100 or more permanent workers from firing even a single worker without government consent — and this stands out for its stringency (at least on paper). It is possible that this part of the IDA aims to compensate in some way for the lack of social insurance mechanisms (unemployment benefits/public health insurance) in India. The problem with using EPL as social insurance is two-fold. First, India’s EPL is limited to medium and large formal firms, so that only a fraction of the non-agricultural workforce is covered. Second, it might distort the efficient functioning of labour markets by dissuading firms from hiring permanent workers.The empirical evidence for whether India’s EPL has in fact reduced employment or output in India is not conclusive, and the debate started by Timothy Besley and Robin Burgess has been rebutted by Aditya Bhattacharjea (in 2006, 2009 and 2019) and others. However, there is clearer evidence from other countries that strict EPL can reduce employment, firm productivity, and investment (employment and productivity in the US by David Autor and co-authors, and Italy by Federico Cingano and co-authors). There is also evidence from India that EPL incentivised the use of contract work (as shown by Ritam Chaurey), the share of which grew from 15% to 34% in Indian manufacturing between 1999 and 2015. This phenomenon may have reduced incentives to invest in human capital and lowered productivity, in addition to undermining the bargaining power of trade unions, as shown by Nancy Chau and co-authors. Overall, the international evidence suggests that type-2 laws do constrain the employment generation, investment, and productivity. In India, although conclusive evidence is elusive, at least Chapter V-B, the most stringent part of IDA, could be removed and replaced with a more effective and expansive social insurance mechanism (such as unemployment insurance or UBI). These measures will provide firms with greater flexibility without undercutting the welfare of workers. How, then, do we understand these “reforms” in light of the above evidence and the demands of the moment? Given the tragic situation of migrant workers and general mass unemployment, the first-order concern should be to immediately save lives through a combination of cash and in-kind transfers. The next concern should be to improve livelihoods, by doing the necessary to facilitate re-employment.Given the stark human costs of unemployment on the scale witnessed, it is understandable that states wish to urgently remove impediments to hiring, even if that means tilting the balance of power towards firms. However, our reading of the academic literature suggests that the wholesale suspension of type-1 laws is unlikely to improve the worker’s welfare or substantially increase employment, and, should, therefore, be restored immediately. Removing type-2 labour laws would improve welfare by increasing employment only if redundant and retrenched workers are provided with adequate social security. Providing the latter should be the urgent task of the moment.Amrit Amirapu is a Senior Lecturer at the University of Kent, and Vidhya Soundararajan is an Assistant Professor at the Indian Institute of Management BangaloreThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/disentangling-the-labour-law-debate-what-does-the-evidence-really-say/story-Lef1TrckiCSkJGzje5dMBJ.html
