31-05-2020||News||Modi 2.0: Dark clouds have engulfed the nation, writes Sitaram Yechury||Surreal is, perhaps, the only way to describe marking of the first anniversary of the Modi 2.0 government. As the government data detailing the pre-coronavirus disease destruction of the economy and the consequent ruination of crores of lives during the last year was being released, Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi was writing to all of us describing the year as “a golden chapter in the history of Indian democracy”. This ruination has been aggravated by the coronavirus pandemic and the unplanned and abrupt unilateral lockdown announced by the PM. This lockdown has neither strengthened the efforts to combat the pandemic nor has it provided any relief to beleaguered citizens. The situation continues to worsen.India appears to have entered a post-truth society. The Oxford Dictionary defines post-truth as “relating to or denoting circumstances in which objective facts are less influential in shaping public opinion than appeals to emotion and personal belief”. The propaganda and spin machine of the government projects a surreal world divorced from the truth.The first year of this government has been traumatic. Apart from all other issues such as the economic downturn, increase in people’s miseries, assaults on democratic rights and civil liberties, this year has been traumatic for the single-minded focus with which this government began to systematically undermine India’s secular, democratic, republican order.Among the attacks — the delivery of a verdict and not justice in the Ram temple site dispute in Ayodhya, the triple talaq criminalisation of only Muslim men, not other’ for deserting their wives — are two that spring to mind immediately. Modi 2.0 began with an immediate assault on the Constitution with the abrogation of Article 370. In one stroke, the state of Jammu and Kashmir became a part of history and was bifurcated into Union territories. The promises made during the freedom movement and the Constitution have been betrayed. The manner in which this was done was an affront to the constitutional scheme of things. By dissolving the elected assembly and not holding the elections along with the 2019 general elections, this government deliberately bypassed the constitutional stipulation that the border of any state in India cannot be altered without the concurrence of the assembly. As the assembly was non-existent, the governor appointed by the Centre was presumed to be the substitute, whose consent was naturally obtained. The entire exercise was done surreptitiously.Then came the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA), a brazen violation of the Constitution in stipulating religion as a criterion for citizenship. The Constitution underlines the equality of every citizen, irrespective of caste, creed, gender or any other attribute. The corollary to CAA was the National Population Register on whose basis the National Register of Citizens would be prepared. This exercise was rightly seen by many as the intensification of communal polarisation that feeds into the larger construct of targeting the Muslim minority. These two, along with many other assaults, are part of the effort to transform a secular, democratic, republican India into an intolerant theocratic, exclusivist fascistic state, which is the project of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), the ideological mentor of the Bharatiya Janata Party. Citizenship is the fundamental requirement for every other right provided by the Constitution. Once people are stripped of their citizenship, they stand automatically stripped of all their rights and liberties in India.These assaults on the Constitution were accompanied by the weakening of the constitutional institutions. Both these issues were challenged in the Supreme Court (SC) and continues to remain there without being heard, considered or adjudicated on. The SC has chosen to consider matters such as anticipatory bail to journalists charged with aiding campaigns of hate as being more important than the defence of the Constitution. From the deepest recesses of my memory come surging images of courts during South Africa’s apartheid regime where criminals were acquitted, and the victims prosecuted. Retired SC Justice Gopala Gowda recently commented that the draconian experience of the infamous ADM Jabalpur case in which anyone considered a political threat to authorities could be taken into custody without trial, during the Emergency, is now passé.The four foundational pillars of the Constitution — secular democracy; social justice; federalism; and economic self-reliance — are taking a severe beating. Sharpening communal polarisation and the undermining of secularism are accompanied by attacks on any expression of dissent. Draconian laws such as the Sedition Act, the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and the National Security Act are used. The stigma of social oppression has worsened.There is increasing centralisation of all authority by the central government bypassing elected state governments, negating federalism. A unitary State is required not only to centralise authority to facilitate the realisation of the RSS project but also to create a surveillance-based “security State”.The grandiose announcement of ~20 lakh crore financial package in the name of self-reliance is nothing but a blueprint for India’s self-subservience. It provides profit maximisation for foreign and domestic corporates. The net result will be the further widening of economic inequalities which have already reached alarming levels.Such are the dark clouds that have engulfed the Indian Republic during the last year. The silver lining must be enlarged by all of us together to overshadow and consume these dark clouds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/modi-2-0-dark-clouds-have-engulfed-the-nation/story-0jH93FzLACaHfRrhirYHEJ.html
31-05-2020||News||How Covid-19 invisibilises concerns of women, girls||The coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic has cut across all sections of society, but while we are all facing the same storm, the boats we sail in are different. The hierarchies of class, caste and gender significantly determine the nature of challenges each of us face. In India, the pandemic has exacerbated existing inequities, including with regard to gender. Girls in India face a continuum of discrimination even before birth, with the risk of sex-selective abortions, through to childhood and manifesting even in adult life through a multitude of regressive social norms and practices. Women’s contribution to the economy is unrecognised.Women bear the silent and essential burden during crises as primary providers of care at home and in health care settings. For instance, over 900,000 accredited social health activist workers are at the forefront of the Covid-19 crisis management, working at great personal risk and minimal compensation.The pandemic holds the risk of further invisibilising women and girls and their concerns. So far, the government has extended support by providing Rs 1,500 over three months to nearly 200 million women holding Jan Dhan accounts, it has also promised to reimburse the cost of cylinders from April to June to beneficiaries of the Ujjwala scheme. However, there are issues of access to bank services as well as availability of cash that women, especially poor women, are facing at the moment. The halt of all economic activity has worsened growth prospects taking unemployment levels to unprecedented levels. This lack of jobs will further disadvantage women, over 90% of whom are employed in the informal sector. The female workforce participation rate in India is 23%, and is in danger of falling further due to the crisis. Besides endangering their own economic independence and the survival of their families, the lockdown has had the most impact on the health, both physical and mental, of women. With the lockdown now being eased, the government must categorise all services catering women’s reproductive health as “essential” and violence against women must be seen as a health care issue to prevent needless deaths and pain. Violence against women increases during most crises, including epidemics. The National Commission for Women has reported increases in violence against women in the last two months. The numbers that are reported are only an indication of the depth of this problem. Most cases of violence go unreported due to fear and shame created by dominant social norms. The culture of impunity ingrained in the patriarchal society stands to be further strengthened with the understaffed police force having to bear the responsibilities of enforcing lockdowns and ignoring issues of violence against women. The lockdown and economic stress act as a perfect storm for abuse of women. It is worsened by the grim reality of the digital divide between men and women, with males accounting for 67% of India’s online population. This means that even when those women who own a phone want to reach out to helplines, in many cases, they can’t as they are stuck at home under the control of family members. Proactive measures by the government such as awareness campaigns through local government bodies and NGOs and functional helplines are urgently needed to prevent the abuse of women. A much stronger gender lens needs to be built into the Covid-19 response so that we don’t lose hard won gains made in regard to women’s rights and well-being in education, health and empowerment. The inequality and high rates of violence experienced by women is a global pandemic and a national crisis. It has sadly been made worse by Covid-19 and the lockdown, and calls for attention both in our homes, and in the world outside.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/how-covid-19-invisibilises-concerns-of-women-girls/story-rRJMnaeAJ6SD0lLn8xBdkJ.html
