11-12-2021||---||86% eligible adults given 1st Covid vaccine dose||New Delhi, December 10Dispelling doubts on post-vaccination complexities in some people, Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya today told the Lok Sabha that vaccine was given approval only after detailed studies and cautioned against possible vaccine hesitancy by claims of health complications after vaccination.Vax effectiveness on omicron being studiedStudies (on Omicron) are currently on and only after their completion it will be known how effective the Covid vaccines are against the new variant. Mansukh Mandaviya, Health Minister"I request that such claims are avoided because they lead to vaccine hesitancy. It is because of lot of efforts and awareness that the (Covid-19) vaccine programme is going on, we should all support it," the minister said.He was replying to supplementaries by Anandpur Sahib MP Manish Tewari, who, referring to "post-vaccine complications" in a person known to him, wanted to know "if the Indian Council of Medical Research or any other medical body has conducted any kind of research, or is there any kind of empirical evidence which has been gathered, to determine that what really is the incidence of post-vaccine complications"."Has the government really, institutionally taken a view as to how to deal with it and surmount it," Tewari asked.Mandviya told the House that 86 per cent of India's eligible population had received the first dose of Covid vaccine and the government wishes that 100 per cent vaccination is achieved at the earliest.As on December 6, “about 80.02 crore eligible beneficiaries (85.2 per cent) (i.e. persons aged 18 years & above) have received at least one dose of Covid-19 vaccine and 47.91 crore (51 per cent) have received both the doses of the vaccine,” he said.Sharing data about the Covid vaccination levels in other countries, including the US, Germany and France, the minister said, "India has been doing well on the vaccination front."He also said 7 crore vaccines were lying with states. To a query related to Omicron, he said studies were going on and only after the studies were complete, it would be known which vaccine is how much effective against the new variant.In a written reply, he said the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation and National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 were deliberating and considering scientific evidences related to dose schedule of vaccines and the need for justification for booster dose.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/86-eligible-adults-given-1st-vaccine-dose-348776
11-12-2021||Aditi Tandon||Covid-19 impact: Schools' closure hit 320 million kids||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, December 10The closure of schools in India has affected 320 million children from pre-primary to tertiary levels, Ministry of Education has told the Parliamentary Committee on Women’s Empowerment, in the first official admission of the effect of the pandemic.In its statement to the Committee, which submitted its report on “Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao” to Parliament on Friday, the Ministry said out of 320 million children affected by the Covid-induced school closure, 158 million – 49.37 per cent – were girls.Officials said there were growing concerns that the pandemic would disproportionately affect adolescent girls. “Post pandemic, this can lead to a higher risk of girls permanently dropping out of school and reversing the gains made over recent years. One cannot also ignore the fact that there is a gender dimension in digital access to learning. In families which possess a single smartphone, it is likely that sons will be given the preference to access online classes, followed by girls, if time permits,” the ministry told the panel.During oral evidence, the government officials acknowledged a nearly three-fold rise in the number of out-of-school children, over the pandemic year.“We have seen during last year’s Project Approval Board under Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan that there is an increase in the number of out-of-school children. In 2020 to 2021, we had only 10 lakh out-of-school children. But during the current year, the states have given a total figure of 27.85 lakh out-of-school children,” the Ministry said, adding that such children were being tracked and a bridge course introduced to integrate them into the schools.The Committee has recorded alarming reduction in Gross Enrolment Ratio (GER) (ratio of total enrolment, regardless of age, to the population of the age group that officially corresponds to the level of education shown) for girls – from 101.78 per cent at primary level to 88.55 per cent at upper primary, 96.75 per cent elementary, 76.93 per cent at secondary to 50.84 per cent at the higher secondary level, with the Ministry admitting to GER decline in 18 of the 36 states.The data show that if out of every 100 eligible girls, more than 100 (overage and underage also enrol) enter primary classes, only 50 reach higher secondary school.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/schools-closure-hit-320-million-kids-348777
11-12-2021||---||Military Literature Festival begins today||Chandigarh, December 10The first part of the fifth edition of the Military Literature Festival (MLF), being organised by the Punjab Government in collaboration with Western Command Headquarters, will commence tomorrow. The focus of the event this year is the golden jubilee of the victory in the 1971 Indo-Pak war.The inaugural session will be addressed by Punjab Governor Banwarilal Purohit, Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi, former Jammu & Kashmir Governor NN Vohra and General Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Western Command, Lt Gen Nav K Khanduri. In addition, the reasons for the collapse of the Afghan National Army in August will be highlighted by former Army Chief Gen VP Malik (retd). Other sessions scheduled for tomorrow include inside stories on the prelude to the 1971 Indo-Pak war, a kaleidoscope of the western front and operations in the eastern theatre between April and November 1971.Besides “Bravehearts Motorcycle Ride” on Sunday to commemorate the historic win, the second day will witness a talk on the 1971 war by former General Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Western Command, Lt Gen SS Mehta (retd) and sessions on the Indian Army’s operational masterstroke of crossing the Meghna river in the east, special heliborne operations and the Battle of Basantar.Contemporary topics scheduled for the second day include countering the global hegemon and strategic imperative in the Indo-Pacific region. The festival’s second part is scheduled for December 18 and 19.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/military-literature-fest-begins-today-348778
11-12-2021||---||President Ram Nath Kovind concerned over degradation of nature||New Delhi, December 10President Ram Nath Kovind today said India has been able to save millions of lives by adopting a policy of free and universal availability of Covid-19 vaccine. Addressing a Human Rights Day event organised by the National Human Rights Commission, Kovind said the humanity was grappling with the worst pandemic in the history.Kovind said on this day, the world should also debate and discuss the “right to healthy environment and climate justice”. Expressing concern over the degradation of nature which is leading to irreversible changes in climate, he said, “We are already witnessing its harmful impact. The world is waking up to the harsh reality, but it is yet to build the resolve to make decisive change.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/president-ram-nath-kovind-concerned-over-degradation-of-nature-348779
11-12-2021||---||India in danger zone, can't discard masks, warns govt||New Delhi, December 10As Omicron cases rose to 32 on Friday, the government ruled out changes in Covid-19 treatment protocol, but said India was in the danger zone due to a drastic reduction in the use of masks.Maharashtra reported seven fresh Omicron cases and samples of 13 international passengers have been sent for genome sequencing to detect the new variant of concern that has spread from two to 60 countries in a few weeks.Worldwide there are 2,936 cases of Omicron with 817 in the UK. In India, Omicron makes up less than 0.04 per cent of all cases with Covid variants of concern.All detected Omicron cases were mild and there was no burden on health systems right now, said DG ICMR Balram Bhargava. Citing WHO data on laxity in the compliance with masks and distancing, Member Health, NITI Aayog, VK Paul said, “On the assessment of how mask usage is going on, the Institute of Health Metrics shows that we are where we were just before the second wave struck.”DISTRICTS OF CONCERN19 districts with positivity of 5-10%8 districts with over 10% positivity32 Omicron cases32 cases in five states — Rajasthan 9, Gujarat 3, Maharashtra 17, Karnataka 2 and Delhi 1||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/india-in-danger-zone-cant-discard-masks-warns-govt-348780
11-12-2021||---||Democracy Summit: PM Modi calls for joint efforts to frame norms for social media, cryptocurrency||New Delhi, December 10Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday asked the democratic world to join hands in framing norms for social media and cryptocurrency so that they are used to empower democracy and not undermine it.Clear message to the worldThe India story has one clear message to the world. That democracy can deliver, that democracy has delivered, and that democracy will continue to deliver. Narendra Modi, Prime Minister“By working together, democracies can meet the aspirations of citizens and celebrate the democratic spirit of humanity. India stands ready to join the democracies in this nobel endeavour,” the PM said during his national statement at the Summit of Democracy hosted by US President Joe Biden.The PM noted that different parts of world have followed different paths of democratic development, but there was much that each could learn from the other.“We all need to constantly improve our democratic practices and systems and enhance inclusion, transparency, human dignity, responsive grievance redressal and decentralisation of power. In this context, today’s assembly provides a timely platform for furthering cooperation among democracies. India will be happy to share its expertise in holding free and fair elections and enhancing transparency in all areas of governance through innovative digital solutions,” said the PM.The PM began his intervention by pointing out that the democratic spirit was integral to civilisational ethos. Elected republican city states such as Licchavi and Shakya flourished in India as far as 2,500 years ago. The same democratic spirit is seen in 10th century Uttaramerur inscription that codified the principles of democratic participation.“This very democratic spirit and ethos had made ancient India one of the most prosperous. Centuries of colonial rule could not suppress the democratic spirit of Indians. It again found full expression with India’s Independence and led to an unparalleled story in democratic nation building over the last 75 years. It is a story of unprecedented socio-economic inclusion in all spheres. It’s a story of constant improvements. The India story has one clear message to the world – that democracy can deliver; that democracy has delivered and that democracy will continue to deliver,” he observed.“The structural features like multi-party elections, independent judiciary and free media are important instruments of democracy. However, the basic strength of democracy is the spirit and ethos that lies within citizens and societies. Democracy is not only of the people, by the people, for the people, but also with the people, within the people,” said the PM.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/democracy-summit-pm-modi-calls-for-joint-efforts-to-frame-norms-for-social-media-crypto-348781
11-12-2021||New Delhi||Air quality 'slightly better', Supreme Court allows easing of curbs||The Supreme Court on Friday took note of “slight” improvement in air pollution level in Delhi-NCR and permitted the commission on air quality management to take a decision on various representations seeking easing of curbs, like ban on construction activities, within a week.Mulling measuresSeveral long-term measures are in contemplation to deal with the issue of air pollution. Tushar Mehta, Solicitor GeneralA special Bench comprising Chief Justice NV Ramana and Justices DY Chandrachud and Surya Kant asked Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan to comply with its earlier order by which it had asked the National Capital Region states to pay minimum wages to construction workers from the cess, collected by them from real estate firms, as their work was hit due to the ban. Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh governments will have to file compliance affidavits on the issue related to payment of money to construction workers, it said. “We direct the Commission (for Air Quality Management in the National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas) to examine requests of various industries and organisations about relaxation of conditions imposed by virtue of our orders or otherwise as per their circulars. We expect the commission will look into this in a week’s time,” the Bench said.The Bench decided to dispose of several intervention pleas, including those filed by builders’ body, sugar, rice and paper mills, against certain curbs imposed by the commission and others and asked the panel to decide these issues.The Bench, at the outset, said that now there was “slight improvement in the quality of air” and the commission may be allowed to decide the issues pertaining to curbs.Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre and the commission, said several long-term measures were in contemplation to deal with the issue of air pollution. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/air-quality-slightly-better-supreme-court-allows-easing-of-curbs-348852
11-12-2021||New Delhi||Afghan Sikhs, Hindus among 104 airlifted, scriptures brought back||The government on Friday evacuated 104 persons, comprising 10 Indian nationals and 94 of Afghan Hindu-Sikh minority community, from Kabul in a special charter aircraft.The flight brought three copies of Guru Granth Sahib and Hindu religious scriptures from ancient places of worship in Afghanistan that are now derelict. Union Minister Hardeep Puri and BJP president JP Nadda led the procession for carrying the birs of Guru Granth Sahib to Gurdwara Guru Arjan Dev Ji, Mahavir Nagar. Hindu religious scriptures, including Ramayana, Mahabharata and Bhagavad Gita, from the fifth century Asamai Mandir in Kabul are being sent to Asamai Mandir in Faridabad.External Affairs Ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said the flight was arranged under India’s operation Devi Shakti, which was launched to evacuate Indians from Afghanistan after it fell to the Taliban on August 15. The flight is likely to fly back over 90 Afghan nationals stranded in India along with some medical supplies, officials said. The marshalling of people willing to relocate to India was done by Puneet Singh Chandhok, president, Indian World Forum, and the flight was chartered by the Union Government. “It is a matter of pride that the religious texts have been brought along with distressed Afghans, who will be rehabilitated by Sobti Foundation,” said Chandhok.He said the family of Mahram Ali, a security guard who was killed during a terror attack on Gurdwara Guru Har Rai in Kabul, had also been airlifted. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/afghan-sikhs-hindus-among-104-airlifted-scriptures-brought-back-348846
11-12-2021||---||Never lose hope, crash survivor Group Captain Varun Singh wrote to students||Chandigarh, December 10Never lose hope, never think that you cannot be good at what you want to be. It will not come easy, it will take effort. It will require sacrifice of time and comfort. Find your calling, it could be art, music, graphic design, literature, etc. Whatever you work towards, be dedicated, do your best.This is the message Group Captain Varun Singh, the lone survivor of the Mi-17V5 helicopter crash, had sent to students of his alma mater Army Public School, Chandimandir, three months ago. He passed out from the school in 2000, and then proceeded to National Defence Academy, Khadakwasla, before joining the IAF as a fighter pilot. His father was an officer in the Army Air Defence. After he was decorated with Shaurya Chakra in August this year, he sent this letter to his school principal on September 18. He wanted its contents to be shared with students to inspire them to deal with complexities of societal pressures, academic challenges and sometimes an uncertain and frightening future.“I was mediocre and today I have reached difficult milestones in my career,” he wrote. “It is ok to be mediocre. Not everyone will excel at school and not everyone will be able to score in nineties. If you do, it’s an amazing achievement and must be applauded. However, if you don’t, do not think that you are meant to be mediocre. You may be mediocre in school but it is by no means a measure of things to come in life,” he said. At the NDA, he said, he did not excel either in studies or sports and lacked confidence as he thought he was meant to be mediocre. It was only after he was commissioned and posted to a fighter squadron that he realised that he could do well if he put his heart and mind to it. “It was at this point that things started to turn around in my professional and personal life,” he wrote.He was selected to undergo the prestigious Staff College abroad and on return posted to a newly raised Tejas aircraft squadron.Last year, he dealt with a grave and critical failure in his aircraft. The SOPs required him to eject and abandon the aircraft. However, he took a calculated risk and safely landed the aircraft, for which he received the Shaurya Chakra.“I bring out the above not to blow my own trumpet. I write to share some thoughts about my life which I feel may help and inspire children who might feel that they are meant to be only mediocre in this hyper-competitive world,” he said while crediting the award to all those with whom he has been associated with over the years in school, NDA and thereafter in the Air Force as he firmly believed that his actions that day were a result of the grooming and mentoring by teachers, instructors and peers over the years.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/never-lose-hope-crash-survivor-wrote-to-students-348844
11-12-2021||---||17-gun salute for Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat||New Delhi, December 10India’s first Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat and his wife Madhulika Rawat were cremated with full military honours and a 17-gun salute at the Brar Square crematorium here on Friday evening. They were killed along with 11 armed forces’ personnel in a helicopter crash near Coonoor in Tamil Nadu on Wednesday.his last rites on Friday. PTIAs millions watched on television and hundreds packed into Brar Square, the couple’s last rites were performed by their daughters Tarini and Kritika. General Rawat and his wife were cremated on a single pyre. Only three of the 13 bodies have been identified so far. Earlier in the morning, Brigadier LS Lidder, who was also on the Mi-17V5 chopper and was defence assistant to the CDS, was cremated with honours at Brar Square.Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, Union Minister Kiren Rijiju, Ambassador of France to India Emmanuel Lenain and British High Commissioner to India Alex Ellis were among those who paid tributes to General Rawat and his wife at the crematorium.Defence officials of several countries, including Sri Lanka, Bhutan, Nepal and Bangladesh, also paid tributes. Earlier, the mortal remains of the General were kept at his official residence to allow people to pay their last respects. Union Home Minister Amit Shah, National Security Adviser Ajit Doval, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and a host of other dignitaries laid wreaths.The body of General Rawat was taken in a decorated Army vehicle to the crematorium where the buglers played the ‘Last Post’, a traditional sombre military tune. Six officers — two each from the Army, Navy and the Air Force — of the rank of Lieutenant General or equivalent turned pallbearers and 800 service personnel were deployed for the cremations. A ceremonial battery of 2233 Field Regiment provided the gun carriage.As the first CDS, General Rawat was tasked with bringing in theatre command and jointness among the three services. He had been pushing towards his goal with a tough approach and specific timelines over the last two years. The Lidder family also spoke briefly of their grief. Geetika Lidder, wife of Brigadier Lidder (52), who belonged to Nawanshahr, told reporters after the cremation that she felt more pain than any pride. “Life is too long to spend but if this is the wish of God, we will live with it. This is not the way we wanted him back… It is a big loss,” she added.Was my best friendI am happy he did not have to suffer. It is a national loss. My father was a hero, my motivator. He was my best friend. Aashna, Brig LS Lidder’s daughterHer daughter Aashna Lidder said she was 17 and would keep all the good memories of the 17 years she spent with her father. The lone survivor in the crash was Group Captain Varun Singh, who is undergoing treatment in Bengaluru.Among those killed were Lt Col Harjinder Singh, Wing Commander PS Chauhan, Sqn Ldr K Singh, Naiks Gursewak Singh, Jitender Kumar, L/Nks Vivek, BS Teja, Havildar Satpal, JWOs Das and Pradeep.Daughters perform general’s last rites||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/17-gun-salute-for-chief-of-defence-staff-348841
11-12-2021||New Delhi||The last salute: Nation bids farewell to Chief of Defence Staff Bipin Rawat||The plaintive strains of the last post broke through the hush, men in uniform clicked their heels and a 17-gun salute rang out as General Bipin Rawat and his wife were cremated on Friday evening – the sun setting on a day written into India’s military history and on the life of its most senior military officer.India’s first Chief Of Defence Staff (CDS) and his wife Madhulika Rawat were given a send-off with full military honours at the Brar Square crematorium in Delhi Cantonment, two days after they were killed with 11 others, all from the armed forces, in a helicopter crash in Coonoor, Tamil Nadu.As millions watched on television and hundreds packed into Brar Square, the couple’s two daughters Tarini and Kritika conducted the last rites of their parents.On a day of barely held-back tears framed by the solemnity of the formal pageantry of a Tri-services ceremony, thoughts were also with the families of those whose last rites could not take place because their bodies are at the Army Base Hospital awaiting identification.Only three of the 13 bodies have been identified so far.Earlier in the morning, Brigadier L S Lidder, who was also on the Russian made Mi17V5 chopper and was defence assistant to the CDS, was cremated with honours at Brar Square.Underscoring the enormity of the tragedy that had befallen the armed forces – and India – the evening was for the Rawats’ last rites. About 800 service personnel were in attendance for the military funeral of their CDS.Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, Law Minister Kiren Rijiju as well as politicians, diplomats and others paid their last respects to Madhulika Rawat and 63-year-old Bipin Rawat,  who was tasked to bring in theatre command and jointness among the three services and was pushing it with a tough approach and specific timelines.As a priest chanted Sanskrit shlokas, the 17-gun salute rang out in accordance with protocol and the pyre was lit. “Both Gen Rawat and my sister were cremated on a common pyre. We will pick the ashes early morning tomorrow in a ‘kalash’ and then head to Haridwar where the ashes will be immersed in holy Ganga and some rituals will be performed,” said Gen Rawat’s brother-in-law Yash Vardhan Singh told PTI.    Outside the Brar Square, where the funerals were conducted with military precision, huge crowds of mourners gathered to say their goodbyes. People showered flower petals and as the flower-bedecked gun carriage carrying the late general’s mortal remains, wrapped in the tricolour, entered the crematorium, the only sounds that could be heard were slogans and chants in praise of him.The final journey of CDS Rawat and his wife began from his official Kamraj Marg residence amid chants of “Jab tak suraj chand rahega, Rawat ji ka naam rahega”.As the cortege wound its way through the streets of Lutyen’s Delhi towards Brar Square, about 10 km away, surging crowds jogged alongside. It was a sea of people, some holding the Tricolour aloft and others their mobile phones to capture the moment. At one point, a man in a white kurta pyjama was seen running along the biers trying to take a selfie. Slogans of “Vande Mataram”, “Gen Rawat Amar Rahe” and “Bharat Mata ki Jai” could be heard too.Military personnel drawn from all the Three Services marched on the streets as drummers played along in tribute to India’s first CDS.At several points through the journey, mourners stood with flowers in their hands to offer in tribute. And at some points, groups of people could be seen exchanging places with those who were accompanying the funeral procession on foot.At the Rawat home in the morning, Union Home Minister Amit Shah, National Security Adviser Ajit Doval, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and Chief Justice of India N V Ramana the host of people, including seers,  who laid wreaths on the mortal remains of Gen Rawat and his wife. Among them were some who belonged to Uttarakhand, the general’s home state.Tarini and Kritika, who stood in sombre silence next to the mortal remains of their father and mother as the large number of visitors streamed in, performed traditional rituals at their home before the funeral procession began around 2.20 pm.Jaipur-based Vijay Rawat, 60, Gen Rawat’s younger brother was there too.“I had spoken to him before he went to Tamil Nadu to attend the function at Wellington. Had never thought fate would take him away from us,” he said.The Lidder family also spoke briefly of their grief.Geetika Lidder, wife of Brig Lidder, 52, told reporters after the cremation that she feels more pain than any pride.“Life is too long to spend but if this is the wish of God, we will live with it. This is not the way we wanted him back… It is a big loss,” she added.Her daughter Aashna Lidder said she is 17 and will keep all the good memories of the 17 years she spent with her father.“I am happy he did not have to suffer. It is a national loss. My father was a hero,” she said, adding that her father was a happy-go-lucky person and her best friend.Gen Rawat, the country’s first tri-services chief who would have completed two years at the end of this month in the new post after serving as the Army chief, was on his way to Wellington when the crash took place on a hilly, wooded area near Coonoor.The lone survivor was Group Captain Varun Singh, who is undergoing treatment in Bengaluru.Besides Gen Rawat and his wife and Brig Lidder, the others who were killed were Lieutenant Colonel Harjinder Singh, Wing Commander PS Chauhan, Squadron Leader K Singh, Naik Gursewak Singh, Naik Jitender Kumar, Lance Naik Vivek, Lance Naik B S Teja, Havaldar Satpal, JWO Das and JWO Pradeep. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/final-journey-of-cds-rawat-his-wife-begins-to-cremation-ground-348689
11-12-2021||New Delhi||Brigadier Lidder cremated with full military honours; Rajnath Singh, Ajit Doval, ML Khattar pay last respects||Brigadier L S Lidder, who died along with 12 others in the chopper crash in Tamil Nadu, was cremated with full military honours at the Brar Square crematorium here on Friday.Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, National Security Advisor Ajit Doval and Haryana Chief Minister M L Khattar earlier in the morning laid wreaths on Lidder’s mortal remains, which were kept at Brar Square in Delhi cantonment before the cremation.Many senior defence personnel also paid their last respects to Lidder.Geetika Lidder, wife of Brigadier Lidder, told reporters after the cremation that she is feeling more pain than any pride.“Life is too long to spend but if this is the wish of God, we will live with it. This is not the way we wanted him back,” she stated.She mentioned that he was a very good father and their daughter will really miss him.“It is a big loss,” she added.Daughter Aashna Lidder said she is 17 years old and she will keep all the good memories of the 17 years she spent with her father.“I am happy he did not have to suffer. It is a national loss. My father was a hero,” she mentioned.She said her father was a happy-go-lucky person and was her best friend.“He used to infuse passion not just in me but in every person. He was a great motivator,” she noted.“I feel scared as I was really pampered by my father,” he added.Along with Chief of Defence Staff Bipin Rawat, Lidder was among the 13 killed when an Mi17V5 helicopter carrying them crashed in Tamil Nadu on Wednesday.Born on June 26, 1969, Brigadier Lidder was defence assistant to the CDS since January 2021.He was commissioned in the Jammu and Kashmir Rifles (JAKRIF) in December 1990 and commanded a battalion of the JAKRIF in Congo as UN peacekeeping force. He also commanded a brigade on India’s northern borders.He served as director at the Military Operations Directorate and also as defence assistant at Kazakhstan.Approved for the Major General rank, he was due to take over a division. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/defence-minister-nsa-haryana-cm-pay-last-respects-to-brigadier-lidder-348649
