01-05-2020||Vijay Mohan||BBMB generates 40 per cent excess electricity amid lockdown||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 1The drastic reduction in the demand for power following the lockdown in wake of the COVID-19 pandemic notwithstanding, Bhakra Beas Management Board has not only kept pace in electricity generation but exceeded its target for the first month of this fiscal.According to a senior BBMB official, the target given to the board for April by the Central Electricity Authority was 544 million units but 787 million units were generated during the month, translating to a surplus of over 40 per cent.Electricity produced by BBMB is shared among its member states of Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, and Rajasthan in accordance with a defined formula. States are required to purchase electricity from central sector projects, including BBMB, as mandated by agreements with the central government.According to BBMB officials, hydro-electricity is the cheapest source of power and in the days of lower power demand, member states can benefit by reducing purchase of costlier power generated from other sources like thermal plants.BBMB’s primary role in managing irrigation and electricity is the secondary product of its dams. All water being released from BBMB dams at present for irrigation is through the power generation tunnels. Water is being released from dams as per demand from the member states and decisions taken by the technical committee on maintaining the water level in reservoirs.BBMB has an installed capacity of 2918.73 MW—the third largest installed hydro power capacity in India and it also transmits power to the Northern Grid through a widespread network of transmission lines. With its projects lying on the Sutlej and Beas rivers, it has a total of 28 generating units in its six power houses, benefiting five states.After supply to some common pool consumers, balance energy is apportioned amongst the beneficiary states. The Northern Regional Load Dispatch Center, while preparing the drawl schedule of BBMB partners from the central sector projects, adds the scheduled share of partner states from BBMB projects in their respective drawl from the grid.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bbmb-generates-40-per-cent-excess-electricity-amid-lockdown-79022
01-05-2020||Jalandhar||Jalandhar includes 16 new coronavirus cases, district’s tally cross 100-mark||Jalandhar reported 16 new coronavirus cases on Friday, taking the district’s tally to 105---the first district to breach the three-figure mark in the state.Six of the new cases were contacts of the city Mayor’s OSD who was diagnosed with the infection last month.Two men, ages 50 and 43, from Jalandhar Cantt, a 59-year-old man from Guru Amardass Nagar, a 50-year-old man from Baldev Nagar, a 46-year-old male from Indira Colony and a 45-year-old woman from Urban Estate, Phase 2, all tested positive.One person---a 58-year-old woman from Rampur village in Noormahal--had recently returned from Gurdwara Hazur Sahib in Maharashtra’s Nanded. A 32-year-old man who is a resident of Rama Mandi took a recent trip to Rajasthan. Two of those--a 47-year-old man from Lamma Pind and a 26-year-old man from Garha’s Army Enclave, Garha---who tested positive were contacts of previously diagnosed patients.Six of the 10 were new cases, meaning that none of their contacts had previously tested positive.The others who were diagnosed with the virus were a 55-year-old woman from Basti Sheikh, a 19-year-old woman from Gujjarpal Nagar, 21 year-old woman who lives near DAV College, a 15-year-old man from Sangal Sohal village, a 25-year-old male resident of Wadala Chowk and a 60 year-old woman from Model Town.Meanwhile, the list of containment zones in the district continues to swell. Twenty-seven urban pockets and four rural areas of the district are already containment zones.This is the first time Model Town, Nurmahal in Rampur, Sangal Sohal village, Dhina village in Indira Colony, Wadala Chowk, Baldev Nagar have reported cases.Friday’s development means that district authorities would expand their containment zones to include these new areas.The central government named Jalandhar among Punjab's three red-zone areas for coronavirus. The other two red-zone areas in the state are Ludhiana and Patiala.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jalandhar-includes-16-new-coronavirus-cases-districts-tally-cross-100-mark-79014
01-05-2020||Aurangabad/Chandigarh||Nanded gurdwara closed, 91 more Punjab pilgrims test positive||Local authorities sealed Nanded’s Hazur Sahib gurdwara on Friday, hours before Punjab reported that 91 more people who returned from the shrine in Maharashtra had tested positive for coronavirus.So far, 197 pilgrims out of the 3,500 brought back from the Maharashtra gurdwara, among the holiest sites in Sikhism, have contracted the infection, according to authorities in Punjab.The returning pilgrims formed the bulk of 105 fresh cases reported in Punjab on Friday.The 197 Nanded pilgrims are a third of the 585 confirmed coronavirus cases reported so far in Punjab. Taking into account the 20 deaths and people who have recovered, they represent about 40 per cent of the “active cases” in the state.In neighbouring Haryana, 18 Nanded pilgrims are in quarantine, officials said.About 4,000 pilgrims from Punjab had remained stranded for about a month at Hazur Sahib gurdwara in Nanded due to the nationwide lockdown to fight the coronavirus pandemic.Gurdwara Langar Sahib on the same premises, which serves food to all visitors, has also been closed, officials said in Nanded.“District and civic officials reached the gurdwara in the morning on Friday and directed that it be closed and the langar service be stopped,” gurdwara superintendent Gurvinder Singh Wadhwa said.The pilgrims heading back to Punjab had made halts at Indore, one of the country’s worst coronavirus-affected cities, Bhilwara and Hanumangarh in Rajasthan, and Bathinda, according to gurdwara functionaries.Baba Balwinder Singh of Langar Sahib said there are still about 175 people from different states in the complex.In a video clip, Akal Takht jathedar Harpreet Singh on Friday claimed there was a conspiracy to “malign” the Sikhs just as the Muslims were after the Tablighi Jamaat episode.The reference by the Amritsar-based jathedar was to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi in March. Hundreds of people who participated and then returned to their homes across the country had tested positive.“It is being propagated as if Takht Sri Hazur Sahib was the home to coronavirus and these people carried it with them to Punjab,” he alleged.“It is a very big conspiracy,” the jathedar said.He said the pilgrims stayed at the Nanded gurdwara’s “sarai” for over a month, volunteering for the “langar sewa”.“How come they turned coronavirus positive after they reached Punjab? This question comes to the mind of everyone,” the religious leader claimed.Harpreet Singh said there were complaints about the quarantine arrangements made for them and urged Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh to set things right.“A video surfaced in Amritsar where some women are complaining that they are not getting water to drink. Some are being kept in ‘deras’ which is against their sentiments. It appears to be the irresponsibility on the part of the government,” he said.He said the state government should have contacted the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) for arranging the stay and meals for the quarantined pilgrims.Amarinder Singh has asked people not to be worried about the sudden spike in cases, saying most of the new cases are people coming from other states.The state government had already ordered a 21-day quarantine for people coming from outside. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nanded-gurdwara-closed-91-more-punjab-pilgrims-test-positive-79012
01-05-2020||Chandigarh||Anybody entering Punjab will be medically examined and quarantined: Capt Amarinder||With the state witnessing a fresh wave in increase of COVID-19 positive cases, largely due to the Hazur Sahib pilgrims brought back from Nanded, Maharashtra, Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Friday announced that anybody entering Punjab will be medically examined and quarantined, before being allowed to go home.In a televised address, the chief minister said no resident of Punjab would be allowed to enter the state before being thoroughly examined at the inter-state border check posts.He said he had got reports that people from Haryana and Rajasthan were trying to sneak into the state in a clandestine manner to avoid being quarantined.Those found positive would be treated and others would be quarantined in official centres, he said.“So far, 7000 Punjab residents, including 3,525 from Nanded Sahib and 3000 from Rajasthan, have been brought to Punjab. More would be entering the state in the coming days,” said the chief minister.“There was nothing to fear about the quarantine centres and it is for our safety,” said the chief minister.Asserting that this was not the time to indulge in petty politics, Capt Amarinder appealed to the opposition parties not to trigger panic among people by spreading misinformation about the Covid pandemic in the state.The chief minister said there were no mismanagement of the crisis or widespread infections in the state, as was being projected by the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP).Most of the cases now were those that were coming from other states, he said, disclosing that of the new cases reported, only seven related to local infection while 93 were Punjabis who had come from outside the state.The chief minister called upon the people not to be worried about the sudden spike in numbers that could be expected over the next few days as more people return to their homes from other states, with the Government of India’s decision to allow the movement of stranded people.Urging the opposition to join hands, and work shoulder to shoulder with his government, the chief minister said “we have a war at our hands, and it is time not to score brownie points but to show unity”. Citing the example of the appointment of Labour leader Clement Attlee as deputy PM by then Conservative UK Prime Minister Winston Churchill, when faced with war against Germany, Capt Amarinder said wars can only be fought and won unitedly.Capt Amarinder underlined the need for all to work together to save the state and its people.“It is a war of Punjab and for its people,” he said.In an apparent reference to the opposition’s criticism of his government’s handling of the Covid situation, the chief minister said nobody wants to hear negative things at this critical time. People are already going through very negative times, and want to hear positive things and good news, he added.Warning of possible escalation in the number of Covid cases as more and more stranded Punjabis return from other states, in the wake of easing of norms by the Centre, the chief minister appealed to the people not to be afraid of quarantine, which was just a means to ensure that the returnees do not spread the infection among their families, neighbours or others.Quarantine is nothing but a way to keep those coming back to Punjab in isolation while they are tested and given a clean chit by the doctors, said Capt Amarinder, making it clear that every person returning to the state would be kept in institutional quarantine as a preventive measure.Amid reports of certain people sneaking through the borders to get back home, the chief minister appealed to all not to resort to such dangerous measures but to come in through proper channels, with due screening, testing and quarantining.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/anybody-entering-punjab-will-be-medically-examined-and-quarantined-capt-amarinder-79003
01-05-2020||Aditi Tandon||Chandigarh, Patiala, Jalandhar, Ludhiana, Sonepat, Faridabad on Centre's red-zone district list||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, May 1Ahead of the May 3 deadline for lockdown-2, the Centre on Friday listed 130 red districts under COVID 19 vulnerability assessment, 284 orange and 319 green districts.The data present encouraging trends with 17.7 per cent of all 733 districts of India in the red zone; 38.7 per cent in orange and a significant 43.5 per cent in the green zone.While green zone districts are those which either have no cases or have not reported a case in 21 days, orange zone districts are the ones with no new cases in 14 days. Red zone districts are the ones with more than five cases each and case doubling at less than four days.The northern region covering Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Himachal, JK and Ladakh has 10 red districts, 41 orange and 15 green districts.Chandigarh has been retained in the red hotspot zone where active containment and lockdown conditions will continue beyond May 3, as in other red districts.Entire Chandigarh is now a Red zone and entire Chd is under single containment pocket.MHA has decided what can be allowed within red zone in "non containment"area.Only if Administration decides to redraw/restrict containment area,some exemtions will flow.Await decision by Monday  Punjab has three red districts — Jalandhar, Patiala, Ludhiana; 15 Orange districts (SAS Nagar, Pathankot, Mansa, Tarn Taran, Amritsar, Kapurthala, Hoshiarpur, Faridkot, Sangrur, SBS Nagar, Ferozepur, Muktsar, Moga, Gurdaspur, Barnala); three green districts (Rupnagar, Fatehgarh Sahib, Bathinda).Haryana has two red districts Sonepat and Faridabad and two green districts Mahendragarh and Rewari.Orange districts in Haryana are Gurugram, Nuh, Panipat, Panchkula, Palwal, Rohtak, Hisar, Ambala, Jhajjar, Bhiwani, Kaithal, Kurukshetra, Karnal, Jind, Sirsa, Yamunanagar, Fatehabad, Charkhi Dadri.Himachal has no red zone and has six green and orange districts respectively.JK has four red and green districts each and 12 orange districts while Ladakh’s two districts are orange.Green districts could see significant relaxations post May 3 while orange could see partial relaxations.The districts have been listed in a letter health secretary Preeti Sudan wrote to state chief secretaries on Thursday night.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/chandigarh-patiala-jalandhar-ludhiana-sonepat-faridabad-on-centres-red-zone-district-list-78996
01-05-2020||Chandigarh||COVID-19: Sikhs being maligned over Nanded, says Akal Takht chief||With many pilgrims returning from Nanded testing positive for COVID-19, Akal Takht Jathedar Harpreet Singh on Friday claimed there was conspiracy to malign the Sikhs over it just as the Muslims were after the Tablighi Jamaat episode.At least 115 of the over 3,000 pilgrims who have returned from the Hazur Sahib shrine in Maharashtra in recent days have tested positive for coronavirus, according to state government figures.The jathedar who heads the supreme temporal seat of the Sikhs has now compared this to the “maligning” of the Muslim community after people who attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in New Delhi were found carrying the virus on returning to their homes across the country.He claimed there was a “race to malign the entire Muslim community” over the Tablighi Jamaat episode and the “same kind of propaganda” is being carried out now.”                “It is a very big conspiracy,” the religious leader said. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-19-sikhs-being-maligned-over-nanded-says-akal-takht-chief-78992
01-05-2020||Ludhiana||Coronavirus: Panic grips jail as inmate tests positive in Ludhiana||Panic gripped the women's jail in Ludhiana after an inmate tested positive for coronavirus on Friday.She was immediately shifted to the civil hospital's isolation ward.As per the jail doctor, the woman was arrested by the Sangrur police in a drug smuggling case and was lodged in Ludhiana jail on April 28. She was medically examined at the time but displayed no COVID-19 symptoms.As a precautionary measure, the woman was kept in the isolation ward of the jail. Sixteen other women, who were also recently lodged in the jail, were also kept in the isolation ward and their samples were being collected now.The medical test of the women cops deployed in the isolation ward is also likely to be taken.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/coronavirus-panic-grips-jail-as-inmate-tests-positive-in-ludhiana-78973
01-05-2020||Saurabh Malik||Patiala jail inmates to prepare face masks; high court ropes in NGO for cloth||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 1Patiala jail inmates are all set to prepare protective face masks for free distribution to the visitors to the courts complex in the district.The project, being carried out under the supervision of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, was launched by Justice Rajan Gupta on Friday through videoconferencing with authorities concerned in Patiala.Justice Gupta, who is the administrative judge of the Patiala sessions division, is believed to have conceptualised the idea and expressed it in a tangible form. A non-government organisation has already been roped in for providing good-quality cloth for preparing the mask.A senior High Court functionary said that going by the current tend masks were likely to remain till the year-end and would provide essential safeguard to the visitors coming to the court complexes either without the protective gear or with inadequate safety measures.“Once the courts move out of the restrictive functioning mode, people from all segments will start frequenting the complexes and a face mask is the most basic and essential safeguard against the Covid-19 onslaught. Our apprehension is that not all coming to the courts will be careful enough to prevent the spread of the virus and protect themselves. Under the circumstances, free face masks will come in handy,” the officer added.The High Court has already made it clear that the restrictions imposed on the functioning of the subordinate courts in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh in view of the Covid outbreak will continue till the curfew and the lockdown is in force.It has been ordered that all district and sub-divisional courts in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh will function “restrictively” from May 1 “till the lockdown/curfew is in force in the respective area”.Available information suggests Patiala has four jails with adequate infrastructure, such as sewing machines. The samples, already prepared by the inmates, have been found to be of “excellent protective quality”.  “This way we will be using the existing infrastructure and the available manpower. The inmates, too, will be carrying out a more productive task,” the officer added.  Gurgaon Sessions Division, under the supervision of District and Sessions Judge MM Dhonchak, is also believed to have launched a similar project.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/patiala-jail-inmates-to-prepare-face-masks-high-court-ropes-in-ngo-for-cloth-78969
01-05-2020||---||Fight with coronavirus a long one, says Capt; thanks health workers in Labour Day message||Chandigarh, May 1Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Friday said our fight with coronavirus is going to be long one and we should all cooperate in eradicating this.In his video message on Labour Day, he remembered all workers and thanked all health workers who were doing a stellar service to society in these trying times.He said a concerted effort is needed to defeat the pandemic and we were all in this together.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fight-with-coronavirus-a-long-one-says-capt-thanks-health-workers-in-labour-day-message-78968
01-05-2020||Chandigarh||In special flight, 263 stranded people leave for Heathrow from Amritsar||A total of 263 stranded people, mainly Britons, on Friday left for their destinations in a special flight from the international airport in Amritsar in Punjab, officials said.Qatar Airways flight with 221 Britons and 42 Indians departed from Sri Guru Ram Das Ji International Airport to Heathrow via Doha, Special Chief Secretary K.B.S. Sidhu, who is in-charge to monitor statewide coronavirus cases, informed in a tweet.The British government on Thursday announced seven further charter flights to bring over 2,000 stranded British travellers home from India.Once these flights are completed, over 15,000 British travellers will have been brought back from India on 59 flights chartered by the government, it said in a statement.It said the Amritsar to Heathrow flights will ply on seven days consecutively from May 5.Minister of State for South Asia and the Commonwealth, Lord (Tariq) Ahmad of Wimbledon, said: "Our charter programme has already helped more than 10,000 British travellers return home from India by ensuring flights to the UK have run every day since 8 April, with thousands more due to depart in the coming days."Jan Thompson, Acting High Commissioner to India, said: "This fifth round of flights brings the total number of planes we have organised from India to 59. There have been daily departures from across the country for weeks, which have helped thousands of people get back to their friends and families in the UK." IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/in-special-flight-263-stranded-people-leave-for-heathrow-from-amritsar-78964
01-05-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus: In highest spike yet, Punjab reports 128 new cases||Punjab on Friday reported 128 new coronavirus cases in the highest spike the  state has seen so far---a development that takes the state's tally past 600.  At least 111 of those who tested positive on Friday were people who just returned from outside the state----either they were pilgrims who recently returned from Gurdwara Hazur Sahib in Maharashtra's Nanded or they recently returned from Rajasthan's Kota.Maharashtra is the state having the highest number of cases in India at over 10,000 infections, with 1,773 recorded deaths. Amritsar reported the highest number of cases at 48, taking Amritsar's tally to 90. At least 74 of these were people who recently returned from Nanded.Mohali district reported Mohali six new cases, one of whom was a contact of an already diagnosed case. Four were Nanded pilgrims.The development takes the district tally to 92---a figure that includes 20 pilgrims, including one from Ambala, who had arrived in the district on April 28. The pilgrims were among a group of 39 people who recently came back to the district. They have all been quarantined at a centre in Sector 70.All those who have been diagnosed with the virus have been admitted to Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur. Ferozepur district reported 15 new cases, all Nanded pilgrims. These people were quarantined at the various state quarantine facilities and immediately shifted to the isolation ward of the Civil Hospital after they were tested positive for the contagion. The district had no positive case till the driver of ACP Anil Kohli had come here a few days ago and tested positive. He was cured and discharged after his report came negative.The development puts the district's cases at 13.  Jalandhar reported 16 more cases, taking the total tally in the district to 105. Jalandhar is the district with the most number of coronavirus cases in Punjab, and also became the first district to breach the three-figure mark.One recently returned from Nanded, one came back from Rajasthan, seven were contacts of already diagnosed cases and seven were new cases.Ludhiana reported 13 new cases, all of who had recently returned from Nanded. Fazilka---a district that had until Friday been the only one to have no confirmed coronavirus cases---had Nanded pilgrims test positive. Moga and Fatehgarh Sahib each reported one positive case, both Nanded pilgrims.Patiala reported 24 positive cases, taking the district tally to 88. All of those who tested positive on Friday were Nanded pilgrims. This figure has yet to be added to the state's final tally.Some 193 Nanded pilgrims have tested positive in the past 48 hours. Reports showed that the samples of 109 people tested negative for coronavirus in Muktsar on Friday. The district has reported a total of 4 cases so far.Meanwhile, Pathrala village in Bathinda district has been sealed as Nanded pilgrims were housed in the village gurudwara. SHO Sangat police station has been kept in home-quarantine as he came in contact with the pilgrims.At 105, Jalandhar has the highest number of cases. Mohali stands second at 92, followed by Amritsar at 90, Patiala at 88 and Ludhiana at 76.Punjab has recorded 20 deaths so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/coronavirus-in-highest-spike-yet-punjab-reports-128-new-cases-78957
01-05-2020||---||Bizmen visit Kapurthala's RCF to kickstart work at units||Kapurthala, April 30A delegation of industrialists from Jalandhar and Kapurthala region led by Rana Gurjit Singh, MLA from Kapurthala and Narinder Singh Saggu, president, Focal Point Extension Association, visited Rail Coach Factory (RCF) here on Thursday. The purpose of the tour was to restart industrial activities in their industrial units as they have closed for more than a month due to the lockdown. The industrialists wanted to study the industrial activities in the RCF and its compliance to the guidelines issued by the state government while observing precautions at work.It should be noted that the RCF has started production of rail coaches with limited manpower from April 23. As many as 3,744 employees and officers of the RCF are working in various shifts. All officers and staff living in the colony have been called to work. Each employee has been given a kit to protect against coronavirus which includes face mask, gloves, sanitiser, soap and safety guidelines.All vehicles of the delegation were sanitised in the sanitisation tunnel at the entry gate of RCF and members of delegation were given kits, including gloves, sanitisers, face masks, as a precaution against coronavirus. The team visited RCF workshop where RK Mangala, principal chief mechanical engineer of the RCF, apprised them of the safety precautions being observed while working by the staff.The delegation attended a meeting in the conference hall in which RCF general manager Ravindra Gupta briefed them about the steps undertaken by the RCF to fight out Covid-19. He said the RCF administration was constantly in touch with the district administration and the Railway Board, New Delhi.A presentation was also made in the meeting which showcased the efforts being made by the RCF in the fight against Covid. Apart from this, a brochure prepared by the RCF was also distributed to all the industrialists which showed the precautions to protect besides, the efforts of RCF to fight against Covid. At the end of the meeting there was also an interactive session in which the industrialists held serious discussions to start work.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bizmen-visit-kapurthalas-rcf-to-kickstart-work-at-units-78882
01-05-2020||---||Nanded-returnees made to wait for 2 hours on roadside||Amritsar, April 30The pilgrims who returned to the city from Hazur Sahib (Maharashtra) in the wee hours on Thursday were made to wait for over two hours before they were taken to quarantine centres.The government had earlier announced a mandatory quarantine of 21 days for all persons returning to Punjab from other states. Around 150 persons who had been stranded in Hazur Sahib after the lockdown reached here in six buses sent by the government.Veer Kaur, a woman from Ajnala, said, “We had travelled not-stop for the last 14 hours. We were forced to wait on the roadside for two hours outside the city.” She claimed that they had been screened three times in Nanded and insisted that as they were all healthy they should be dropped at their homes.Another person Harpal Singh said, “The government should have made arrangements as it knew that buses are coming.” He added that there were many small children among them and it was very difficult for them to wait.District officials stated that they had received a total of 600 returnees from other states so far. Civil Surgeon Dr Jugal Kishore said samples of 480 persons had already been sent for testing. He said while 23 persons tested positive, 307 tested negative. The samples of the returnees who returned in the last 24 hours had also been taken, he said.Around 170 passengers who returned from Nanded in six buses in the wee hours today were not allowed to enter the city for two hours. The passengers complained that the administration should have made arrangements in advance instead of forcing them to wait on the roadsideMeanwhile, the district’s first positive case, 30-year-old Gurpreet Singh of Guru ki Wadali village was discharged from Government Medical College after 41 days of hospitalisation. Gurpreet Singh, who had returned from the UK, was admitted to hospital on March 21 and declared positive for Covid-19 on March 22. Besides, Ragi Darshan Singh (65-year-old), who had come in contact with Ragi Nirmal Singh, was also discharged from a private hospital here.GMC Principal Dr Sujata Sharma said Gurpreet had tested negative in two consecutive tests after which he was discharged. The district reported fresh 23 positive cases on Thursday. Of the 14 cases reported earlier, seven had been discharged while two had died. The total Covid-19 patient count till date is 37.Akali dal demands Sidhu’s resignationThe SAD on Thursday urged Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to ask Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu to tender his resignation as the pilgrims who had returned from Hazur Sahib were neither quarantined nor tested properly. The directions of quarantining the pilgrims had been received by the district headquarters on April 27 even though the pilgrims had started coming in on April 24 and 25. It was unfortunate that the Health Department did not follow the ICMR guidelines, said Majithia.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nanded-returnees-made-to-wait-for-2-hours-on-roadside-78866
01-05-2020||---||‘Hungry’ labourer climbs electricity tower, rescued||Amritsar, April 30A migrant labourer on Thursday climbed a high-voltage electricity tower in the Ram Talai area, lamenting that he had been rendered unemployed by the lockdown and had not received any help from the administration.The labourer, Shamu Awasthi, hails from Barley in Uttar Pradesh. He worked at an industrial unit in Partap Nagar. Some passers by saw Shamu and asked him to come down. He told them that he had not got food or other relief material since the lockdown was imposed and had not eaten for days.On getting information, the Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (ADCP), Harpal Singh, reached the spot and asked officials of Punjab State Power Corporation Ltd (PSPCL) to snap power supply through tower. Later, the police convinced Shamu to come down.The ADCP said: “The claim that he had been hungry does not seem to be true as langar was being organised regularly by a nearby gurdwara. Even before an hour he climbed the tower, an organisation had arranged langar of tea and bread.”The official said Shamu seemed disturbed over losing his job. He was rushed to the Civil Hospital and his condition is stated to be normal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hungry-labourer-climbs-electricity-tower-rescued-78859
01-05-2020||Chandigarh||To feed poor amid crisis, 44% of grain from Punjab alone||Snubbed by Niti Aayog in 2018 for seeking more funds, Punjab’s contribution to the FCI amid the Covid crisis stands at 44 per cent (to date). The state has sent more than 28 lakh tonnes of wheat and rice to other states via rail since March 26. As many as 937 trains carried grain from Punjab during March 26-April 30.Turning down Punjab’s plea for enhancing minimum support price (MSP) based on C2 formula (cost inputs plus land rent), the Aayog Vice-Chairman had asked a Punjab delegation to instead work towards securing good income for the state’s farmers through aggressive diversification. Punjab Minister for Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs Bharat Bhushan Ashu quoted the FCI as having stated on April 7 that foodgrain transported from Punjab comprised 46 per cent of the total stock moved across the country to feed the poor during the lockdown.This figure has since come down marginally.A senior FCI official in Delhi said: “At least 28 lakh metric tonnes (LMT) of the total 63 LMT metric tonnes of wheat and rice distributed during the Covid crisis so far has come from Punjab. This works out to be more than 44 per cent of the total contribution. Haryana comes next with a contribution of 11.50 LMT and Telangana with about 9 LMT”.According to the Director (Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs), Anandita Mitra, Punjab still has a stock of 102 LMT of rice and 75 LMT of wheat. Punjab immediately joined the supply chain for national foodgrain security after the Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA) decided to enhance quantities of essential foodgrain at highly subsidised rates for the poor, said a senior official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/to-feed-poor-amid-crisis-44-of-grain-from-punjab-alone-78700
01-05-2020||Chandigarh/Patiala||Sub-Inspector Harjeet discharged from PGI, DGP hands over job letter for son||On a day when Sub-Inspector Harjeet Singh, whose hand was severed by some “Nihangs” at a vegetable market in Patiala earlier this month, was discharged from the PGI, Chandigarh, his son was appointed Constable in the state police.The appointment has been made using special powers vested in the DGP in recognition of the SI’s bravery.Plastic surgeon Dr Sunil Gaba, who led the doctors’ team that treated Singh, said, “The hand was successfully re-implanted. All stitches have been removed. He is able to move his reimplanted hand passively, with the help of the other hand. The active movement will start in 2-3 weeks.”DGP Dinkar Gupta personally handed over to Harjeet Singh the appointment letter of his son Arshpreet Singh at the hospital. The DGP said he was sure Arshpreet would serve the people of Punjab as “bravely and sincerely as his father”.Harjeet received a hero’s welcome as he returned to his Patiala residence. Led by Patiala SSP Mandeep Sidhu, many of his colleagues followed his car in their vehicles.Harjeet was promoted as SI in recognition of his exemplary courage during an attack by a group of Nihangs after they broke a barricade.Singh was taken to the PGI where he underwent a surgery that lasted around eight hours. CM Captain Amarinder Singh had tweeted the surgery to “repair the severed wrist of ASI Harjeet Singh” was successful. Eleven persons were arrested after a standoff at a local gurdwara. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sub-inspector-harjeet-discharged-from-pgi-dgp-hands-over-job-letter-for-son-78599
01-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Government advisory for petrol pumps||3 more members in expert groupChandigarh: The state government has included three members in the expert group headed by former vice-chairman of Planning Commission Montek Singh Ahluwalia. Karan Gilhotra, chairman, PHD Chamber, and Pramod Bhasin, former CEO, Genpact and bureaucrat Alok Shekhar have been chosen as members. The expert group has been constituted to recommend medium-term and long-term action plan for reviving the state’s economy. TNSRoll back MSP value cuts: PreneetPatiala: Member of Parliament Preneet Kaur on Thursday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to intervene and ensure rollback of MSP value cuts imposed by the Centre while declaring specifications related to shrivelled grain and lustre loss. Preneet Kaur said the value cuts imposed by the Centre varied from Rs4.81 to Rs24.06 per quintal for shrivelled grain and Rs4.81 for lustre loss, which was unacceptable. TNSCops caught buying syringesJalandhar: Three policemen were caught buying syringes at Lakhan Kalan village in Kapurthala. The trio has been identified as constable Dyal Singh, constable Jagjeet Singh, posted at PAP, Jalandhar, and constable Germanjeet Singh Pattar, posted in Commissionerate, Jalandhar. A video of the three buying drugs has also gone viral. A case has been registered against the trio. TNSTwo positive patients declared negativeMuktsar: Health Department officials committed a blunder last evening by showing two Covid-19 patients as negative in their test reports. The fresh reports, which came today, showed them positive. This even created confusion among the local health officials. “Later in the day, we were told that it was some typing error,” said an official of the department. TNSMoga cops give Rs 5,100 to family of TikTok starsMoga: Officials of the Moga police today visited the house of TikTok stars Noorpreet Kaur (5) and her sister Jashanpreet Kaur (9) at Bhinder Kalan village in the district and asked their family to maintain social distancing from the fans who were coming to meet them. DSPs Sukhwinder Singh Saini and Ramandeep Singh Bhullar who visited Noor’s family with their team said the children had proven their artistic talent, which could be put to good use during the lockdown. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-government-advisory-for-petrol-pumps-78623
01-05-2020||---||Alarm over huge spurt in cases in Punjab||Chandigarh, April 30The situation seems to be spinning out of control in Punjab as the state reported 105 fresh cases today. A total of 82 of these cases are those who had recently entered the state either from Hazur Sahib or Kota. It is the highest number reported in a single day ever since the first case was reported on March 5.As per the state media bulletin, the total count has reached 480 now. The fresh cases include 34 from Ludhiana, 28 from Amritsar, 13 from SAS Nagar, seven from Tarn Taran, six from Kapurthala, three each from Muktsar, Gurdaspur, Jalandhar, two each from Sangrur and Ropar and one each from SBS Nagar, Ferozepur, Patiala and Moga.Ludhiana district witnessed the highest number of cases today. Of the total cases, 23 are pilgrims who returned from Hazur Sahib. A total of 41 pilgrims who returned from Nanded have tested positive in the district so far. The first batch was sent home and then called back and was quarantined.Amritsar district also witnessed the highest number of cases in a single day as 23 fresh cases were reported. With this, the positive patient count in the district has increased to 37 from 14.District officials said all new positive cases had returned from Hazur Sahib and were quarantined at different isolation centres. The district has so far received around 600 persons who were stranded at different places outside Punjab due to the lockdown.In Tarn Taran, with seven new positive cases today, the Covid count has doubled and reached 15. Sursingh village in the district has emerged as a major hotspot and has reported a total of seven cases so far.With three fresh cases, the total number of cases in Jalandhar has reached 89. The three persons include a 45-year-old resident of Bakkarpur village in Phillaur who returned from Nanded, a 30 year-old man from Qazi Mohalla and a 32-year-old man from Sant Nagar, a contact of the man who had previously tested positive from Sant Nagar.After a gap of 25 days, Ropar again witnessed two fresh cases. Both persons had returned from Nanded on April 26. They are admitted in the isolation ward of the local Civil Hospital.As per the Health Department, so far, samples of 21,205 suspected cases were sent for testing. Of them, 17,826 samples were found negative and reports of 3,439 were awaited.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/alarm-over-huge-spurt-in-cases-in-punjab-78618
01-05-2020||---||In Sangrur, samples taken at checkposts||Sangrur, April 30The deployment of Health Department teams at the entry points of Sangrur district has starting showing results as two persons were found Covid positive.Their samples were taken at checkposts before allowing them to enter the district.The number of positive cases has gone up to three in the last two days. A Dhuri resident was found positive last evening, while the reports of two Malerkotla residents have also come out positive. Three patients have recovered.To check the spread of Covid in Sangrur, the district administration has sealed all inter-state and inter-district borders.Thirteen checkposts have been installed. At the entry points, teams are taking samples of the people coming from containment zones and other districts. “A devotee, along with his family, was returning from Hazur Sahib in a private taxi and their samples were taken at the Bagrian check-post on the Nabha-Malerkotla road on April 27.A 50-year-old member of the family, who tested positive, was shifted to the Civil Hospital, Sangrur, while his wife’s report came out negative. But we asked all family members to quarantine themselves for 21 days,” said DC Ghanshyam Thori.Another 39-year-old resident was returning from Kaithal with his combine harvester. He too tested positive.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/in-sangrur-samples-taken-at-checkposts-78604
01-05-2020||Chandigarh||5 million views for Education Department's campaign song||The song ‘Hope Punjabi Di’, created for Education Department’s campaign ‘Ambassadors of Hope’, became an instant hit on Thursday, hours after being uploaded on Twitter.The song captures the essence of hope of Punjab and students’ spirit to fight Covid. Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla said within three hours, the video received 5 million views.Four days ago, Singla had launched ‘Ambassadors of Hope’, an online competition that would cover over 18 lakh students in the state. The first-of-its-kind competition invites students from all schools to share positive ideas in the time of the pandemic. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/5-million-views-for-education-departments-campaign-song-78603
01-05-2020||---||Work on Kandi dam project begins again||Chandigarh, April 30The state government on Wednesday resumed construction work on the prestigious Shahpur Kandi dam project after due assessment on the ground with respect to labour availability at the site and Covid-19 safety precautions.The work, which had been suspended due to the nationwide lockdown, resumed in the presence of A Venu Prasad, Principal Secretary, Water Resources Department, Punjab, who guided the resumption process on the directions of the Chief Minister.The national-level project, being constructed on the Ravi by the Punjab Government at an estimated cost of Rs2,700 crore, will reduce the outflow of the river water to Pakistan while benefiting both Punjab and J&K, once it is completed.On completion, the project will generate 206 MW of power, besides having the potential to irrigate 5,000 hectares in Punjab and 32,000 hectares in Jammu and Kashmir’s Samba and Kathua districts.The project will provide a balancing reservoir to ensure uniform water supply. It will also ensure optimum power benefits from the Ranjit Sagar Dam by using it as a peaking station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/work-on-kandi-dam-project-begins-again-78602
01-05-2020||New Delhi||Help those stranded abroad: Sunny Deol||Gurdaspur MP Sunny Deol has written to External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar, citing cases of persons of his constituency who have been stranded in other countries following the Covid-19 outbreak. He has sought a common strategy to bring them back.“These include students and tourists. Unforeseen overstay has led to a cash crunch for them,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/help-those-stranded-abroad-sunny-deol-78601
01-05-2020||New Delhi||2,000 Britons to return||The British government has announced that it will repatriate over 2,000 of its stranded citizens from Amritsar via seven more charter flights.With this, over 15,000 Britishers will be brought back from India via 59 charter flights, said an announcement by the British High Commission.The repatriation will begin from May 5 and will continue for seven consecutive days.Acting British High Commissioner to India Jan Thompson said only those bookings would be considered which had been made through the British government’s online booking portal. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-000-britons-to-return-78600
01-05-2020||Faridkot||As influx rises, locals oppose quarantine facilities in schools||The arrival of 121 pilgrims from Nanded Sahib, and 644 labourers from Rajasthan, Haryana and Madhya Pradesh in the district in the last 48 hours has put the district administration and the Health Department in a difficult situation. The administration has arranged quarantine facilities for these persons in educational institutions,  but this has evoked opposition from locals as  three of the pilgrims were found Covid-19 positive on Wednesday. Fearing infection, many residents of Partap Singh Nagar and Jaito Road in Kotkapura have opposed the quarantine facilities for the pilgrims and labourers. However, the authorities said locals need not worry, claiming that no Covid-19 patient was being kept in schools. The patients have been quarantined in the schools as a precautionary measure so that they don’t come into contact with their family members and other persons till they test negative for the virus, said Dr Rajinder Kumar, Civil Surgeon, Faridkot. “Putting an individual under quarantine at his/her residence is risky in the  absence of strict vigilance,” said a senior officer in Kotkapura. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/as-influx-rises-locals-oppose-quarantine-facilities-in-schools-78598
01-05-2020||Fazilka||Labourers from Rajasthan ‘untraced’||Panic spread in the “green zone” Fazilka as 112 labourers, who returned from Rajasthan on Wednesday, allegedly disappeared out of fear of being put under quarantine.When they reached here, no official was reportedly present to receive them, giving them a chance to flee.When contacted, DC Arvind Pal Singh Sandhu said the labourers were medically screened at the Punjab-Rajasthan border before entering the state. He claimed the labourers were contacted on Thursday and sent to a quarantine centre. When asked whether or not all 112 labourers had been put under quarantine, he didn’t give a clear reply. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/labourers-from-rajasthan-untraced-78597
01-05-2020||---||Officials violate curfew norms, organise party||Faridkot, April 30Gathering of many officials, including three district-level officers, at a retirement party of three revenue officials in the Zila Parishad office on Thursday evening caught the local administration by surprise. Officials violated the lockdown and social distancing restrictions with impunity and that too in a government office.Three revenue officials (kanungos) celebrated their retirement party by inviting many of their serving and retired colleagues and also some senior officers of the department. The venue was the Zila Parishad office in Faridkot. Once the district administration got a whiff of the celebration, SDM Paramdeep Singh Khaira rushed to the spot and objected strongly to the celebration of the party amid lockdown. Over 30 persons attended the party.“It is a violation of curfew and lockdown. We are serving show-cause notices to all those who participated in the retirement party,” said the SDM, adding that the participants had violated the social distancing rules put in place to curb the spread of coronavirus. “Public gatherings of more than five persons have been banned, except for members of families,” he said.Ranjit Singh, one of the retiring revenue officials, claimed all participants in the party strictly adhered to the social distancing guidelines and sported masks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/officials-violate-curfew-norms-organise-party-78596
01-05-2020||---||Arrange trains for labourers’ return home: Capt to Modi||Chandigarh, April 30Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Thursday directed all Deputy Commissioners to prepare data of migrant labourers stranded in Punjab, even as he urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to arrange special trains for their transportation.‘7 lakh stuck in Ludhiana’Ludhiana alone has more than seven lakh migrant labourers, while the whole of Punjab has more than 10 lakh of them. The movement of such a large number of people is possible only through trains, with proper screening at the time of their departure.—Capt Amarinder Singh, chief ministerHe also announced that one officer had been assigned for each district for coordinating the return of stranded migrants.During a video conference with DCs and SSPs, Capt Amarinder said he had written to PM Modi with regard to the transportation of the migrants. He said Ludhiana alone had more than seven lakh migrant labourers, with whole of Punjab having more than 10 lakh of them.About 70 per cent of migrant labourers hailed from Bihar, the Chief Minister said, adding the movement of such a large number of people was possible only through trains, with proper screening at the time of their departure.Citing the Union Home Ministry’s order on April 29, the CM said that given the large number of workers stuck due to the lockdown, the use of buses for their transportation would not work. “Estimates indicate that nearly one million workers will need to be transported to their home states,” he said in the letter to Modi.“The only feasible option is to arrange special trains, which the Railways may run from point to point, keeping in view the number of persons to be transported to a given destination,” Capt Amarinder said.In another development, the government today issued standard operating procedures for outward movement of stranded persons in Punjab. A spokesperson said as per the Centre’s instructions, the outward movement would start from May 5.In response to concerns expressed over the shortage of food packets in some districts in view of the extended lockdown, Capt Amarinder directed the Food Department to increase the quota of ration to be distributed among migrants and non-smart card holders. “Nobody should remain hungry,” he saidAmid concerns expressed by DCs on several Covid-infected persons coming from outside the state in recent days, Capt Amarinder ordered village-level quarantine in designated buildings.He also issued strict instructions for compulsory institutional quarantine for both positive and negative cases.In the past four days, 3,525 pilgrims from Nanded (Maharashtra) and 153 students from Kota (Rajasthan) returned to the state. Besides, 3,085 labourers returned to Fazilka from Rajasthan.Capt Amarinder also appealed to sarpanches and panchayats to step up surveillance in their villages to check the spread of the virus.He attributed the spread of the virus to three sources — NRIs, members of the Tablighi Jamaat and those who returned from Nanded. “Punjabis returning home are welcome, but they have to be put under quarantine,” the CM added.Finance Dept releases pensionChandigarh: The Finance Department has released Rs188.36 crore on account of various social security pensions to beneficiaries for the month of April. An official spokesperson said the amount would be credited through direct benefit transfer to 25.11 lakh beneficiaries, including elderly persons, women, destitute children and disabled, on May 1. TNs||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/arrange-trains-for-labourers-return-home-capt-to-modi-78595
01-05-2020||Parvesh Sharma---||Auction of common land angers Dalits||Tribune News Service Sangrur, April 30 At a time when the state government has extended curfew to prevent gatherings, the decision of the Panchayat Department to conduct auction of village common lands in all villages of the district has angered the Dalits, who are demanding that the government should renew the lease contract of the reserved land of last year rather than conducting fresh auctions.  “It’s really strange that when the government has been taking steps to prevent gatherings, the Sangrur Panchayat Department has been asking villagers to take part in the auction. It’s a conspiracy as the administration wants to give reserved land from the village common land to landlords through a dummy auction. We will not allow it at any cost,” said Mukesh Malaud, president of the Zameen Prapati Sangharash Committee.  The department has issued village-wise schedule for auction of common lands owned by panchayats. But since of this total common land, 33 per cent is reserved for Dalits, they have been demanding that the authorities should renew the annual lease of last year. The Dalits have also offered to pay the lease money in two instalments. They say they will pay the first instalment immediately while the second one will be paid after six months.  “The Dalits could not converge to oppose the dummy auction due to the lockdown and the administration wants to take advantage of this. The administration should not get played into the hands of upper caste people,” said Lakhvir Singh Longowal, secretary of the Krantikari Pendu Mazdoor Union.  In Sangrur district, the auction of reserve lands has been a bone of contention for the past many years. Bloody clashes between Dalits and upper caste men have taken place repeatedly in many villages.  Sangrur ADC (Development) Rajinder Batra said they had been conducting auctions as per the directions of the government. “Auctions are underway and they are being conducted with transparency. If anyone has a problem, he can contact my office anytime,” Batra said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/auction-of-common-land-angers-dalits-78594
01-05-2020||Muktsar||Liquor, drug trade on despite curfew||Liquor smugglers and drug peddlers have taken to a novel way of making money in Muktsar district.The Malout police on Sunday caught a man transporting 300 lt of liquor in a pick-up vehicle meant to deliver essential items. On Wednesday, two persons allegedly selling liquor by hiding bottles in plastic drums were arrested.Some alert residents of Kuraiwala village on Monday seized about 90 sedative pills (tramadol hydrochloride) buried under dry plants. Similar incidents have taken place in other districts as well. Some liquor bottles were found stored in an air cooler in Hoshiarpur district recently. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/liquor-drug-trade-on-despite-curfew-78593
01-05-2020||New Delhi||Apex court seeks CBI reply on parole plea by 1984 riot convict||The Supreme Court on Thursday served notice on the CBI on an interim bail plea of former Delhi Congress councillor Balwan Khokhar, who is serving a life term in a 1984 anti-Sikh riot case.Khokhar, who is lodged in Tihar Jail along with former Delhi Congress leader Sajjan Kumar following their conviction in December 2018, urged the apex court to grant him interim bail or parole for eight weeks in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.The Delhi High Court had upheld Khokhar’s life sentence and reversed Kumar’s acquittal ordered by the trial court in 2013.About 3,000 people were killed, most of them in Delhi, in the anti-Sikh riots that broke out following the assassination of then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi on October 31, 1984.This particular case related to the killings of five Sikhs at Raj Nagar Part-I in Palam Colony in southwest Delhi on November 1 and 2, 1984, and burning down of a gurdwara at Raj Nagar Part-II. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/apex-court-seeks-cbi-reply-on-parole-plea-by-1984-riot-convict-78592
01-05-2020||Rajmeet Singh---||Inquiry marked into tree felling at Mirzapur||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, April 30  The Forest Department has marked a probe into the large-scale felling of khair trees in Mirzapur forests during the lockdown. The state Vigilance team has been conducting surprise checks over the last few days to ascertain the veracity of complaints of illicit tree felling.  AIG, Punjab (Vigilance), Ashish Kapoor said the checking was done to ascertain whether the felling of 2,000 trees had been carried out as per the permits granted by the Forest Department.  State’s Principal Chief Conservator of Forests Jatindra Sharma said the Conservator of Forests (Shivalik) had been asked to probe the entire matter and submit a report at the earliest.  As per information, the Forest Department had issued permits for felling of 2,000 khair trees in Mirzapur on the basis of special permission granted by the Union Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change.  Guidelines state that the felling had to be completed by March 15 and logged wood had to be moved to the store by March 31.  But there are reports of the felling continuing till mid-April amid the lockdown when there were strict guidelines of only essential services being allowed.  The rules do not allow felling of trees with less than 2 ft diameter. But trees with less than 2 ft diameter have also been felled.  The Principal Chief Conservator of Forests said the fact that felling went beyond March 15 during the lockdown needed to be verified.  Divisional Forest Officer (DFO) Guraman Singh claimed that the felling had taken place before March 15. Due to the lockdown, the logged wood had been lying in the store of the contractor.  The Conservator of Forests (Shivalik) said though the probe report was awaited, an interim report revealed that 130 trees had been illegally axed. The damage reports had been submitted and the fine was realised from the contractor engaged in the felling of trees. A similar complaint had surfaced from Dulwan village. The DFO, however, claimed that in Dulwan, the felling had been done as per the permits issued.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/inquiry-marked-into-tree-felling-at-mirzapur-78591
