08-05-2020||Aparna Banerji||Chaos at quarantine centre in Jalandhar||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 8Unruly scenes were witnessed at the Meritorious School quarantine centre here on Friday after the inmates, who had returned from Nanded Sahib in Maharashtra last month, refused to move to the isolation ward at the civil hospital.  It took the authorities nearly seven hours to convince the inmates and they were finally shifted to the hospital at 9.30 pm.A video of the pilgrims went viral on social media, with the returnees saying, “Sare lokan ne eka kar leya – etthon koi vi nahi jauga bahar. Bhaanve negative hove bhaanve positive. Khali ambulance jaoogi.” (Everyone has decided that they will not leave the school, whether they test negative or positive. Only empty ambulance will go.)SMO Dr Raman Sharma, in charge of the quarantine facility at Meritorious School, said, “It was after exhaustive convincing and coaxing that the patients finally agreed to go to the civil hospital at 9.30 pm.”Asked the reason behind the chaos, Sharma said, “They had issues regarding delay in reports. The situation has been made clear to them.”   In the video, a returnee is heard saying on camera, “It’s been 10 days since we came here. After 10 days three people have been declared positive. Four days are remaining for our quarantine period to end, now they have declared some positive. Prashasan vi te doctor vi sadde naal dhakka karde hai (The doctors and administration are being unfair to us).”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/chaos-at-quarantine-centre-in-jalandhar-82231
08-05-2020||Karam Prakash||For every positive COVID-19 case, Patiala health department quarantined 172 people||Tribune News ServicePatiala, May 8Patiala has put the maximum efforts in stemming the spread of COVOD-19 by quarantining 172 people so far for every single positive COVID-19 case, which is the highest in the state.With this, Patiala has already achieved the tag of the best contact-tracing district in the state. The district health department had home quarantined 15,885 people as of May 6, stated the state health department. After Patiala, Ropar quarantined 104 people for every positive patient. Amritsar, which has the highest positive cases of COVID-19, quarantined only 435 people – just two people per positive patient.With this, Amritsar has the lowest number in quarantining people across the state. Amritsar is closely followed by Faridkot, where only three people had been home quarantined for every single patient.The officials at the Patiala Health department said the figures showed that they had put most efforts in contact tracing. The officials claimed that it was the effective contact tracing that made it possible to contain the spread in the district.“Despite an outbreak in Rajpura, we were able to break the chain. We try to trace every possible contact of the positive patient, including low-risk contacts,” said an official involved in contact tracing.Apart from this, health officials said the strategy of effective contact tracing left no loose end because even one contact of positive patient could lead to outbreak.Initially, department did face hurdles in contact tracing because the positive patient in several instances tried to hide their movements and travel history.In one such incident, a social worker in Patiala, who was tested positive for COVID-19, initially hid his movement to Zirakpur during the strict curfew to help his book-trader friend. But, on the insistence of the health department, the former had to give-in and revealed the name of his friend, who later tested positive for COVID-19. Reacting to this achievement, Patiala Civil Surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra, said: “It was the result of the collective efforts of our dedicated staff that include district epidemiologist, nodal officer, Senior Medical officers, ANMs and other staff who worked 24x7.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/for-every-positive-covid-19-case-patiala-health-department-quarantined-172-people-82229
08-05-2020||Sangrur||Dalit youths claim cops beat them up, poured petrol on private parts in Sangrur||Two Dalit youngsters were allegedly tortured in police custody at Sandaur police station in Sangrur district when they went to lodge a police complaint.Jagga Singh, former sarpanch of Kasba Bharal village, said after some unidentified people calling themselves policemen beat his nephews Siramjit Singh and Lakhvir Singh up and forcibly took away Rs 20,000, he and some other villagers took the two boys to file a complaint at the police station.   “On Wednesday four unidentified persons in a Bolero and the vehicle my nephews were in near Manki village. They said they were cops and demanded that the two accompany them to police station to question them in connection with some FIR. When Simranjit asked them for identity cards, they started beating him, snatched Rs 20,000 from Lakhvir and fled,” he said.At the police station, police officials allegedly took both youngsters inside but refused to allow the others in.Simranjit Singh claimed some drunken policemen tried to force him into admitting no such incident took place. When he refused, they tortured him all night, he claimed.Lakhvir was luckier, he said---the assault did not last as long for him.“The drunken cops poured in petrol in my private parts, crushed my hands under their shoes, hit my feet with sticks and kept me naked for many hours,” Simranjit said from at Malerkotla Civil Hospital, where he’s currently being treated for his injuries.They were kept at the police station until Thursday evening, when relatives threatened to protest, he said.Lakhvir had minor wounds and was released from the hospital after first aid.Police meanwhile said they had suspended two policemen--- ASI Sukhwinder Singh and PHG Kesar Singh---and transferred three others out of their currently postings.Malerkotla Superintendent of Police Manjit Singh Brar said they had instituted a departmental inquiry against the policemen. Police were also conducting preliminary investigations into the allegations of snatching.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dalit-youths-claim-cops-beat-them-up-poured-petrol-on-private-parts-in-sangrur-82211
08-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab to promote students of Classes 5, 8, 10 to next class||Punjab Government has announced it would promote students of Classes 5, 8 and 10 of Punjab School Education Board to the next class. Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh made announcement on Friday on both Twitter and Facebook. Students of Class 10 would be promoted on the basis of pre-board examinations, Capt Amarinder Singh said.“Have decided to promote students of Class V & VIII to next classes as well as to promote class X students to next class on the basis of pre-board results. For Class XII examinations, we will follow Government of India’s decision,” he said in a tweet.A press release issued later in the evening that the state government will go by the central government's decision for Class 11 as well.On Facebook, Amarinder Singh held an interaction to answer questions and concerns raised on social media platforms. The press release also said that the chief minister will hold such interactions every Friday to answer questions or issue clarifications with regard to COVID-19 and the subsequent lockdown called in the state to contain the spread of the virus.  The state government's announcement came hours after the Central Board of Secondary Education announced it would hold Class 12 examinations put off because of coronavirus pandemic between July 1 and 15.Coronavirus pandemic has disrupted school examinations across the country, including Punjab.Have decided to promote students of Class V & VIII to next classes as well as to promote class X students to next class on the basis of pre-board results. For Class XII examinations, we will follow Government of India's decision. pic.twitter.com/QD79FowBcR||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-to-promote-students-of-classes-5-8-10-to-next-class-82197
08-05-2020||---||Western Command Chief visits Amritsar sector||Chandigarh, May 8 General Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Western Command, Lt Gen RP Singh, on Friday, visited the forward areas of Amritsar, Tibri and Dera Baba Nanak sectors. He took stock of the operational preparedness and administrative issues in these areas.Lt Gen RP Singh was accompanied by the Vajra Corps Commander, Lt Gen Sanjeev Sharma. Lt Gen RP Singh also visited the Kasowal enclave on the Indo-Pak border and commended the Border Roads Organisation personnel for ensuring the vital connection across Ravi river for villagers and farmers of the area before the onset of monsoon.The Army Commander also reviewed preparations at military hospitals in Amritsar and Tibri to combat the COVID-19 pandemic.He expressed satisfaction on Civil-Military coordination in dealing with the pandemic and commended all frontline warriors for strengthening India’s fight against COVID-19.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/western-command-chief-visits-amritsar-sector-82195
08-05-2020||---||Capt Amarinder writes to PM for increasing MSP per quintal for paddy||Chandigarh, May 8Citing the challenges faced due to labour shortage and the need for ensuring food safety amid the COVID-19 crisis, Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh, on Friday, urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to consider an MSP of Rs 2,902 per quintal for paddy, along with Rs 100 per quintal as incentive bonus to check stubble burning.In a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh said the state had already written to the Ministry of Agriculture recommending a minimum support price (MSP) for paddy at Rs 2,902 per quintal, as calculated by Punjab Agriculture University (PAU), Ludhiana, against last year’s MSP of Rs 1,835 per quintal.“Given the need to ensure food safety in the time of the present pandemic, it is imperative that farmers may be given the appropriate price signal by announcing a remunerative MSP for paddy,” stressed Captain Amarinder Singh, seeking the Prime Minister’s personal consideration in this matter, as well as on the issue of incentive bonus.Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh noted that Punjab was successfully moving, in the service of the nation, towards meeting its target of wheat procurement, notwithstanding the challenges imposed by the lockdown and health safety concerns of social distancing.Post the wheat procurement, paddy transplantation in the state was scheduled to commence in mid-June and may require to be slightly advanced due to shortage of labour in the state, he observed.Noting that “it is unlikely that we will see much seasonal labour coming from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar for paddy transplantation due to COVID-19,” Captain Amarinder Singh expressed concern at the serious challenges this could pose for farming operations in the coming paddy season, besides leading to escalation in labour costs.   The Chief Minister further underlined the importance of providing farmers a non-burning bonus at Rs 100 per quintal to defray their expenses in handling of paddy straw, thus preventing the burning of paddy stubble.In this context, he also pointed to the Supreme Court directions, asking the Centre and the states to work out an incentive structure to overcome the problem of paddy stubble burning.“This monetary incentive deserves to be announced ex-ante, i.e. along with the MSP, to allow farmers to prepare for its management and for the state to work towards proper implementation,” stressed Captain Amarinder Singh, adding that this bonus would also help incentivise the desired behaviour and encourage farmers to move to better and ecologically sustainable farm practices.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/capt-amarinder-writes-to-pm-for-increasing-msp-per-quintal-for-paddy-82188
08-05-2020||---||Pakistan-linked ‘most wanted’ gangster Billa Mandiala arrested along with 6 others||Chandigarh, May 8The Punjab Police have arrested “most-wanted gangster” Baljinder Singh, alias Billa Mandiala. Another “notorious gangster”, Sukhjinder, and five other members of the ‘Billa gang’, have also been arrested. A large consignment of sophisticated weapons suspected to have been smuggled from Pakistan, as well as cash and drones, have also been seized.Mandiala allegedly had links with now reportedly deceased Pakistan-based KLF chief Harmeet Singh Happy as well as Germany-based ‘Bagga’ of the KZF.According to a statement issued on behalf of Punjab DGP Dinkar Gupta, the arrests were made in a joint operation by the OCCU team from Chandigarh; Counter-Intelligence Jalandhar unit; and Kapurthala police on Thursday.Dinkar GuptaPunjab DGPThis is one of the biggest caches of highly sophisticated weapons seized from a criminal gang.Those arrested were identified as Baljinder Singh, alias Billa Mandiala (resident of Mandiala, Gurdaspur); Sukhjinder Singh (Kamoke Beas, Amritsar); Mohit Sharma (Kapurthala); Lovepreet Singh; Mangal Singh; and Maninderjeet Singh, alias Happy; and (another) Lovepreet Singh, alias Lovely (Amarkot, Valtoha, Tarn Taran).Baljinder Singh was wanted in more than 18 criminal cases, including those of murder, attempt to murder and smuggling of weapons/drugs.All arrested suspects have been kept separately, as they are being tested for COVID-19.The seizures include two .30-bore drum machine guns, three pistols (SIG Sauer, made in Germany), two Glock pistols (made in Austria), two .30-bore pistols, one .32-bore pistol, one .315 bore rifle, 341 cartridges, two drum magazines, 14 pistol magazines, and Rs 3 lakh Indian currency and 100 Australian dollars.Terming it as “one of the biggest caches of highly sophisticated weapons from a criminal gang”, Gupta said the Sig Suaer pistols were being used by members of the US Secret Service, which protects the President.The DGP said most weapons were learnt to have come across the Indo-Pak border in multiple consignments. The police are also investigating the role of militants in the supply of illegal weapons.A spokesperson said a Toyota Fortuner, Etios Lava and Alto cars were also seized from the criminals, along with some fake documents.The police suspect part of a consignment of AK-74 rifles that was pushed into the Mamdot area of Ferozepur sector on September 24, 2019, was also meant for the Billa Mandiala gang.The DGP said Gurmeet Chohan, AIG OCCU, had received inputs that Billa Mandiala and his associates were taking shelter in Kapurthala area with a large consignment of arms. DSP OCCU Bikram Brar was assigned the task, supported by AIG Counter-Intelligence, Jalandhar, Harkamalpreet Singh Khakh, and Kapurthala SSP Satinder Singh.Police teams laid siege around the Dadwindi and Mothanwala area of Sultanpur Lodhi police station and made the arrests. A case has been registered under sections 384, 465, 467, 468, 471, 473, and 489 of the IPC, 13 and 18 of the UAPA, and Section 25 of the Arms Act at Sultanpur Lodhi police station.The police said Billa Mandiala had revealed that he was in contact with various Pakistan-based weapons and drugs smugglers, including Mirza and Ahmdeen, and had already received several consignments of weapons and drugs from them, mostly in the Ferozepur area.Mirza was allegedly working as a courier on the Indo-Pak border for operatives of the Khalistan Libration Force based in Pakistan and India in the recent past, and had pushed many weapon consignments into Indian territory. Billa Mandiala also revealed that he was in touch with gangster Gurpreet Singh Sekhon, who is currently lodged in Patiala jail.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pakistan-linked-most-wanted-gangster-billa-mandiala-arrested-along-with-6-others-82183
08-05-2020||Mohali||Coronavirus: Dead elderly man among two people who test positive in Mohali||An elderly man who died at a private hospital in Sector 26 was among two who tested positive from Mohali, officials said on Friday--- a development that takes the district's tally to 98 cases with three deaths.A 74-year-old man from Batlana, Zirakpur, died on Thursday evening.  Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said he was admitted to a private hospital two days ago after he complained of chest pain.Hospital authorities informed district authorities of his test results on Friday, the doctor said.His death has yet to be taken into account in the state's COVID-19 tally.  When it does, Mohali’s death toll from COVID-19 will rise to three.Mohali's other case was a 24-year-old woman from Nayagaon who also tested positive. The woman recently had a baby at Government Multi Speciality Hospital in Sector 16.Dr Manjeet Singh said district authorities will now test the woman’s newborn baby and other members of her family, as well as members of the elderly man’s family.The development takes the district’s COVID-19 tally to 98.Meanwhile, three people from Jawaharpur village were released from Banur’s Gian Sagar Hospital after they tested negative. They will not however return home just yet, and will instead be sent to a quarantine facility at Nirankari Bhawan in Dera Bassi for 14 days.Of Mohali’s 98 cases, 43 are active and are being treated at the Gian Sagar Hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/coronavirus-dead-elderly-man-among-two-people-who-test-positive-in-mohali-82174
08-05-2020||---||Punjab Cabinet mulls changes in excise policy, labour laws as state moves towards economic revival||Chandigarh, May 8The Punjab government is mulling changes in the excise policy and labour laws in the light of the impact of COVID-19 amid efforts to revive the state’s battered economy and industry.The issues came up for discussion before the Council of Ministers, which met here on Friday, under the chairmanship of Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh, who reiterated that the decision on contribution to the Chief Minister Covid Relief Fund should be voluntary for government employees, just as it had been for other categories.On the Excise Policy front, the Cabinet sought precise details of the COVID-19 pandemic and lockdown implications for the policy and its execution.The Excise Department has been asked to review the policy in this context and bring a detailed proposal before the Council of Ministers, which will meet again on Saturday to further discuss the issue.Terming the prevailing situation as extraordinary, the Cabinet felt that all possible options should be explored to put the excise industry back on its feet, especially given its importance to the state’s revenue model.Underlining the need for industry to retain labour and prevent migrant workers from leaving Punjab, Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh directed the Industry Minister to take all possible welfare measures to ensure that they were well taken care of.The Cabinet welcomed the opening of another 9,500 industrial units in the wake of the easing of the lockdown restrictions.Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh said it was a good sign that with the industry opening, 35 per cent of those who had registered for return to their home towns, had decided to stay back in the state for now.The Chief Minister also directed the department to aggressively pursue the development of the four industrial parks already announced by the state government in the budget for this fiscal.There was significant potential for attracting industry, particularly in the field of pharmaceuticals pesticides, with many countries shifting their operations out of China, the Cabinet noted.The Council of Ministers also agreed on staggering the paddy cultivation operations in view of the shortage of migrant labourers.Amid concerns over women with small children (under five years of age) deployed on the COVID frontline duties, Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh asked the Chief Secretary to discuss the matter with various departments and formulate necessary guidelines to ensure the protection of such women.Transfer policy for non-teaching school staff approvedMeanwhile, the Cabinet approved the transfer policy for non-teaching staff of the School Education Department, with the same set to be effective from academic session 2020-21 i.e., April 1, 2020.Under the policy, schools/offices have been categorised in five zones, and the transfers would be carried out only once a year in an objective manner through a merit-based software. The criteria for deciding the merit would be 95 points for length of service, 55 marks for special category employees and 90 marks for performance.A person working at a station will not be transferred unless he or she completes five years of service at a station.  In case such an employee has completed five years, he or she will be compulsorily transferred as per his/her choice and in case he or she does not give any choice, he/she can be transferred by the Department on its own.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cabinet-mulls-changes-in-excise-policy-labour-laws-as-state-moves-towards-economic-revival-82166
08-05-2020||Mohali||Abduction case: Ex-DGP Saini files for anticipatory bail; Punjab Police asked to produce records||A local court issued notice to Punjab Police on Friday asking them to submit complete records in a 29-year-old case of abduction of the son of a former IAS officer.The notice came while the court was hearing an application for anticipatory bail that former Punjab director general of police Sumedh Singh Sainifiled two days after he and seven other policemen were booked for the abduction, torture and stage-managed elimination of Balwant Singh Multani.Multani was the son of former IAS officer Darshan Singh Multani.The court will now hear Saini’s anticipatory bail application on Saturday.Saini and the others were booked under sections 364 (kidnapping or abduction in order to murder), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence), 344 (wrongful confinement), 330 (voluntarily causing hurt to exhort confession) and 120 (B) (criminal conspiracy) on the basis of a complaint by Balwant Multani’s brother Palwinder Singh Multani on Wednesday evening.Palwainder Singh Multani claims the cops abducted, tortured and killed his brother in police custody.The victim Balwant Singh Multani was accused of carrying out an attack on Saini when he was the Chandigarh Senior Superintendent of Police on December 11, 1991. He was booked along with Devinder Pal Singh Bhullar---a convict in the Delhi bomb blast case---and two others, but the police later claimed Balwant escaped from the custody of Qadian (Gurdaspur) police.The others booked along with Saini are DSP Baldev Singh, Sub-Inspectors Satbir Singh, Harsahai, Jagir Singh, Anoop Singh, and ASI Kuldeep Singh.Of the other suspects, Baldev Singh has long since retired from the police force, while Satbir Singh died after his retirement.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/abduction-case-ex-dgp-saini-files-for-anticipatory-bail-punjab-police-asked-to-produce-records-82160
08-05-2020||Ravneet Singh||Punjabi University professors await salaries; administrative officials remain unavailable||Tribune News ServicePatiala, May 8Punjabi University professors are in a frenzy awaiting salaries while senior administrative officers of the university remain unavailable.Apprehensive that their salaries might get credited after the state government announced summer vacations, professors of the university have decided to schedule an online protest over ‘mismanagement of the administration’.The university professors said salary for the month of April had not yet been credited, adding that they had not been able to reach the university administrative officials as well despite repeated attempts.Dr Pankaj Mohindru, faculty member, Department of Electronics and Communication Engineering, said he was in touch with 200 faculty members who had complained over the delay in salary.“We are in constant touch through WhatsApp groups and many are finding it hard to manage their daily expenditures without timely deposition of the salaries. The protest will be held in the coming week if the salaries are still not credited,” Mohindru said, adding that the state government should release appropriate financial grant to the university.Dr Baldeep Singh, from the Department of Basic and Applied Sciences said: “We are expecting that the university will be able to credit the salaries on Friday after receipt of grant from the government. If it is not so, we will launch a protest along with PUTA members.”Administrative officials, including Vice Chancellor Dr BS Ghuman, and Dean of Academics, Dr GS Batra, failed to respond to calls and messages after frequent attempts on Wednesday and Thursday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjabi-university-professors-await-salaries-administrative-officials-remain-unavailable-82157
08-05-2020||Bathinda||Dominos employees booked by Bathinda police for delivering pizzas amid curfew restrictions||Bathinda police have registered a case against two employees of the food-chain Dominos for violating curfew orders by illegally delivering pizzas in the city.Police said they got a tip-off that Dominos was delivering pizzas at residences.Acting on this, police conducted a raid and arrested the manager, Sanjay Kumar of Kamla Nehru Colony and supervising manager, Manish Baghel, resident of DD Mittal Tower.However, later they were released on bail.It was learned, that a few dhabas and eating joint owners had approached deputy commissioner, B Srinivasan, requesting permission for allowing the eating joints to provide home delivery in the city, but the DC refused them.The eating joint owners questioned that if they weren't allowed home delivery, then why was Dominos delivering.DC revealed that it was not in his knowledge, and that, he will get it checked. He said it was illegal as no permission was given to any food joint to operate or provide home delivery in the district.Following this, the police took action against Dominos employees.Both the employees were booked under sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to the life) 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to the life), sections 51, 52 of Disaster Management Act 2005 and section 2 of Epidemic Disease Act, 1897.It is worth mentioning, that food joint owners are demanding to be permitted to provide home delivery of food items. They claim that they are facing huge losses as work has been down for the last few days.They continued that they are bearing overhead expenses which include rent, staff salaries, power bills etc.Moreover, if work did not start soon, then labour would move back to their native place, so it would be difficult to rearrange everything when the food joints would be opened again later.Food joint owners are also raising the issue, that if community kitchen can be allowed to distribute food in the city, then why can’t food joints with proper hygiene kitchen be allowed to deliver food.Ashwani Malhotra, an owner of Rasoi Restaurant, said: “District administration should allow eating joints to do the home delivery of the food items as they have the proper hygienic kitchen and it would also help us pay our rent and salaries”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dominos-employees-booked-by-bathinda-police-for-delivering-pizzas-amid-curfew-restrictions-82153
08-05-2020||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Sikhs prepare meals for 300 Australians who returned from New Delhi; story in pictures||Over 300 Australians recently returned home after being stuck in India for two months during the coronavirus pandemic. Sikh volunteers are rushing to make meals to the families in Sydney from New Delhi on Friday morning. The families were forced into 14-day isolation at hotels around the city.  Volunteers at Guru Nanak's Free Kitchenette in Sydney will be cooking around the clock to provide meals for the travellers.  Lucky Singh—who founded the charity—had to take time off work to prepare food for the families. Guru Nanak's Free Kitchenette has operated in Sydney for eight years providing food for the homeless in the city, the elderly at nursing homes, international students with less support and women affected by domestic violence. During the pandemic, the charity has been providing food for frontline workers as well.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sikhs-prepare-meals-for-300-australians-who-returned-from-new-delhi-story-in-pictures-82144
08-05-2020||Jalandhar||ASI, aide arrested after kabaddi player shot dead in Kapurthala||An ASI and his associate were arrested after Kabaddi player Arvinderjit Singh was shot dead in Kapurthala on Thursday night. ASI Paramjit Singh and his associate Mangu have been arrested by the Kapurthala police. The ASI has been dismissed from service.The ASI had an altercation with six young men in a car at the Lakhan Ke Padde village at 10 pm on Thursday. Following this, the ASI fired at Arvinderjit Singh from his .32 bore licensed weapon. Singh received a bullet injury and died on the spot. The deceased's associate, Pardeep, was injured in the incident. Arvinderjit and the ASI's associate are residents of the Lakhan Ke Padde village. The ASI is resident of Bamuwal village in Kapurthala. An FIR under sections 302 and 307, 34 of the IPC and the Arms Act have been registered at the Subhanpur police station against the ASI and his associate.The weapon and the vehicle have been recovered by the police and further investigation is on, said police officials.SSP Kapurthala Satinder Singh said, "The two groups had an altercation over the parked car of the ASI near the village. After the altercation got heated, the ASI shot the Kabaddi player. Both the ASI and his associate have been arrested. Further investigation is on."The postmortem of the body of the deceased is being conducted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/asi-aide-arrested-after-kabaddi-player-shot-dead-in-kapurthala-82125
08-05-2020||---||Mig-29 aircraft crashes in Punjab’s Nawanshahr; pilot ejects safely||Chandigarh/HoshiarpurAn IAF MiG-29 fighter jet crashed at Chuhrpur village in Nawanshahr district on Friday.The pilot was able to bail out safely at the adjacent Rurki Khas village that falls in Hoshiarpur district.According to an IAF statement, the aircraft had got airborne from a base near Jalandhar at 10.45 am and developed a technical snag after the take-off. Saving the residential areas, the pilot manoeuvred the aircraft to the empty fields where it crashed as the pilot was unable to control it.The wheat fields caught fire after the crash, which was later controlled. Flames covered the debris of the crashed plane and small explosions were heard minutes after the crash.The pilot ejected safely but ended up with minor injuries.Seeing the aircraft crashing, the people of the village working in the fields ran towards the spot.The pilot was helped by the villagers and information was given to the police and the administration.The airbase was informed and soon a helicopter from the airbase rescued the pilot.A court of inquiry has been ordered to establish the exact cause of the mishap.MiG-29 is primarily an air defence and air superiority fighter. The IAF operates three squadrons of this Soviet-origin fighter that entered the IAF in the 1980s. Some of these are based at Adampur in Punjab and Jamnagar.The IAF has recently upgraded these aircraft to enhance their combat potential and give them a multi-role capability.The IAF has lost several MiG 29s in earlier crashes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mig-29-aircraft-crashes-in-punjabs-nawanshahr-pilot-ejects-safely-82115
08-05-2020||Chandigarh||5-year-old Tik Tok sensation teams up with Punjab CM to spread social distancing message||A 5-year-old Tik Tok sensation from Moga, Noorpreet Kaur (Noor), has made it to the popularity charts with her amusing one-liners and is helping the Punjab Government ensure social distancing amid the COVID-19 lockdown through her videos.Noor is the daughter of a daily wage earner from Bhinder Kalan village in Moga. In her latest video, she can be seen complaining to Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh about a group of boys proceeding to play cricket amid the lockdown, ignoring Noor’s warning to stay home. If a little kid can understand that the lockdown has been lifted for only for doing very important things & not for fun activities, surely we all can understand it too! Do not step out unless necessary! @nsui @IYC @INCIndia @PMOIndia @DainikBhaskar @aajtak @thetribunechd @ANI pic.twitter.com/4qiBtOIG21  In his reply, the Chief Minister is seen telling the boys to adhere to the lockdown guidelines.The social media team of the Chief Minister said the video has been widely appreciated. The Indian youth congress, while sharing the video on its social media platform stated: "If a little kid can understand that the lockdown has been lifted for only for doing very important things & not for fun activities, surely we all can understand it too!  Do not step out unless necessary.”Noor, who can be seen in the avatar of a young Sikh boy in the videos, had earlier teamed up with the Moga police to spread the message of social distancing. Noor’s father Satnam Singh works as a labourer at a brick-kiln, while her mother is a homemaker. She and her sister study at the village’s government primary school.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/5-year-old-tik-tok-sensation-teams-up-with-punjab-cm-to-spread-social-distancing-message-82113
08-05-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus: Punjab reports 87 new cases; death toll rises to 29||Punjab on Friday reported one COVID-19 death and 87 new infections, taking the state's death toll to 39 from 1,731 cases.Gurdaspur (24); SBS Nagar (18); Tarn Taran (11); Jalandhar (11); Amritsar (11); Kapurthala (5); Fatehgarh Sahib (4); Barnala (1); Mansa (1); and Bathinda (1) all reported new cases on Friday, Punjab's evening COVID bulletin showed. At least 43 of these cases were pilgrims who recently returned from Hazur Sahib in Maharashtra's Nanded and tested positive and four were migrant workers.Gurdaspur reported 24 new cases, 17 of which were pilgrims. Gurdaspur's tally is now up to 109. The district reported eight new cases later in the evening, although these have yet to be added to the official tally.Of SBS Nagar's 18 cases, 10 were pilgrims, four were migrant workers, and four others were new cases. Tarn Taran, Amritsar and Jalandhar each reported 11 cases. The bulletin showed that all 11 Tarn Taran's new cases and 10 of Amritsar's cases were pilgrims. Amritsar's eleventh case was a new influenza-like illness (ILI) case. There's no breakdown yet of Jalandhar's cases.Kapurthala reported five cases, all of them pilgrims who tested positive. Fathegarh Sahib reported four new cases, one of who was contact of an already diagnosed case.A labourer tested positive in Mansa. Bathinda also reported an ILI. One combine worker tested positive in Barnala. Punjab's coronavirus figures have shot up exponentially over the past 10 days---72 per cent of the state's cases have been recorded in just this month.  Six districts--- Amritsar (287), Jalandhar (158), Tarn Taran (157), Ludhiana (125), Gurdapsur (109) and SBS Nagar (103)---account for 54 per cent of Punjab's total COVID-19 cases.Punjab also revised its death toll to 29.More deaths Hoshiarpur reported that a 50-year-old man died on Friday, taking the district's COVID toll to four. An elderly man who died of coronavirus on Thursday was among two people who tested positive in Mohali on Friday, officials said.A 74-year-old man from Batlana, Zirakpur, died at a private hospital in Chandigarh's Sector 26 on Thursday evening. After his test results came back positive, hospital management informed Mohali district administration, Mohali Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh. A 24-year-old woman from Nayagaon who recently had a baby at Government Multi Speciality Hospital in Sector 16 also tested positive. Neither cases have been added to the state's official tally yet, but when they are, it would take Mohali's tally to 98 infections and three deaths.Gangster Jaggu Bhagwanpuria tests negative, shifted to Patiala jailGangster Jaggu Bhagwanpuria, who was admitted to the Government Rajindra Hospital, was shifted to the Patiala Central Jail on Thursday night after he tested negative for coronavirus. All jail officials—including the Jail Superintendent—have also tested negative for coronavirus. Inmates have also tested negative, said the Health Department.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/coronavirus-punjab-reports-87-new-cases-death-toll-rises-to-29-82107
08-05-2020||---||Amritsar administration plans alphabetical system for opening shops||Amritsar, May 7The district administration is yet to take a decision on giving relaxation in the curfew in the district. However, preparations for the same are under way. Shops have been marked with specific coding and would be opened accordingly on designated days of the week.Initially, the administration is marking the shops of essential goods, standalone shops and neighbourhood shops in the streets.On the directions of the administration, police personnel started identifying the shops and initiated the marking on Lawrence Road and some other localities on Thursday. The alphabetic codes some other localities on Thursday. The alphabetic codes are being given to the shops. There would be three codes A, B and C. Officials of the district administration claimed that the opening of some shops was under consideration, but no relaxation was announced yet.ADC Himanshu Aggarwal said, “We are marking ‘A’, ‘B’ and ‘C’ on the shops of essential goods in some localities, but there is has been made no announcement of curfew relaxation yet. Initially, we are marking the shops of essential goods and standalone shops in streets. It’s not decided yet that which shop would be opened. The Deputy Commissioner would announce it after making all the arrangements.”The district is in red zone with the highest number of Covid-19 patients. Several other districts in the state have given relaxation in the curfew and shops are allowed to function for some hours.The district administration officials claimed that they did not decide on the date of opening of the marked shops. After completing the coding of the shops, the administration would issue the orders which shops would be opened on which day of the week.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amritsar-administration-plans-alphabetical-system-for-opening-shops-82074
08-05-2020||Muktsar||Muktsar farmer faces heat for burning straw||The Lakhewali police booked a farmer for allegedly burning wheat straw in his fields at Madrassa village here on Wednesday. A case under Sections 188 and 270 of the IPC, and 51 of the Disaster Management Act has been registered against Gurpreet Singh. The accused is yet to be arrested. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/muktsar-farmer-faces-heat-for-burning-straw-81736
08-05-2020||Faridkot||Meal scheme bags to be used to combat shortage of gunny bags||In view of the fact that government and government-aided schools in the state get the bags containing rice and wheat under the Mid-Day Meal Scheme for over 20 lakh students, the PUNSUP approached the department to find a solution to the bag crisis.In a letter to all DEOs on Thursday, project director of the scheme Prabhcharan Singh has asked all schools to hand over the empty bags to the PUNSUP at the rate of Rs25 per bag.“Not only will this help in solving the problem of shortage of bags, but it will also help schools earn extra money,” said Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/meal-scheme-bags-to-be-used-to-combat-shortage-of-gunny-bags-81737
08-05-2020||muktsar||Man booked under SC Act||The City police have booked a resident of Gauripur village in Haryana’s Bhiwani district after Karanvir Indora, a member of the Punjab State SC Commission, complained, “In a TikTok video, Jogi Ghayal can be seen using unparliamentary language against the SC community.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/man-booked-under-sc-act-81738
08-05-2020||---||SGPC fumes over Gurbani distortion on Net, says will act||Amritsar, May 7 While there are constraints on individual and organisations in preparing, printing or distributing the ‘saroop’ of Guru Granth Sahib, there is no such restriction when it comes to creating a digital edition of the holy scripture. Consequently, a “distorted” version of Gurbani has been posted on various web portals and mobile applications, having several grammatical errors and misspelt verses which have changed their meaning.  The issue was raised by California-based Dr Gurinder Singh Grewal, former president of World Sikh News, urging the SGPC to take a lead in launching an authentic digital version of Gurbani on its official platform so that devotees could savour the essence of spirituality in its correct form.  Grewal brought to the notice of SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal about a service provider who offered ‘altered’ text of Guru Granth Sahib. To substantiate his claims, he also attached the screenshots of Gurbani verses that he had downloaded and underlined the errors it contained. “I had downloaded a copy of Guru Granth Sahib from a web application titled ‘Sri Guru Granth Sahib Ji, Living Guru of Sikhism’. Initially, I found it to be quite organised and easy to read, but later, I was shocked to find that several words from original script were replaced with Hindi letters. How can the original text of Gurbani be altered? We demand that the SGPC should upload the digital version of the holy scripture on its official website from where the precise version of Gurbani can be offered to download,” he said.  The SGPC expressed gratitude towards Grewal for highlighting the blunders on web portals and promised to work on it. SGPC chief Secretary Roop Singh said they would launch the digital format of Guru Granth Sahib on the official page of the committee soon. “It is a serious issue which will be addressed on priority. Soon, a sub-committee will be formed to work on the modalities and execute them,” he said. In a related incident, taking cognisance of the "largest" saroop of Guru Granth Sahib, Akal Takht issued a notice to the managing committee of a Malaysian gurdwara asking it to clarify its stance over indulging in this prohibited practice.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sgpc-fumes-over-gurbani-distortion-on-net-says-will-act-81739
08-05-2020||---||Amid curfew curbs, Punjab procures 100 LMT wheat||Chandigarh, May 7 With a bumper production of wheat crop in the state, Punjab has procured 100 lakh metric tonnes (LMT) despite challenges owing to curfew/lockdown amid Covid-19 crisis. Besides, pass system for farmers and arrangements put in place for procurement operations in over 4,000 purchase centres have led to the smooth and hassle-free procurement. Disclosing this here today, Additional Chief Secretary (Development) Viswajeet Khanna said nearly 78 per cent of total procurement operations had already been accomplished within 22 days after commencement. He said out of total estimated arrival of 135 LMT of wheat, the state mandis recorded arrival of 105.14 LMT so far, of which 104 LMT had been procured during ongoing rabi marketing season (RMS). Khanna stated that 13.71 lakh passes had been issued so far to the farmers through arhtiyas to ensure staggered movement of wheat in mandis. The ACS further pointed out that the current RMS was different from previous seasons. Averting crowd and congestion in the mandis was a major responsibility among other restrictions amid coronavirus and the state had achieved the desired goal in this regard, he claimed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amid-curfew-curbs-punjab-procures-100-lmt-wheat-81740
08-05-2020||Amritsar||Centre agrees to review e-way project: Shwait||Putting rest to all speculation about Amritsar’s status on the proposed multi-crore Delhi-Amritsar-Katra high-speed expressway, the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways has agreed to review the plan. This was revealed by Rajya Sabha member Shwait Malik here today.  “I held a  telephonic conversation with Nitin Gadkari. I urged him to put into practice the original alignment of the project linking Amritsar region. He has assured to review the plan taking into account the sentiments of Amritsar residents,” he said.  The project was aimed to promote religious tourism by connecting two major shrines—the Golden Temple in Amritsar and Mata Vaishno Devi at Katra in Jammu & Kashmir, apart from opening the golden gate for boosting economy of northern region. A controversy had erupted over the proposed 575-km-long Delhi-Katra expressway after reports of Amritsar being dropped from the final plan of the Rs60,000 crore project surfaced. According to the final plan, the expressway will be 60 km from Amritsar city. In the initial plan, the distance was 25 km. The land acquisition process for the project was started in February in parts of Malwa and Majha.  Malik said: “Congress had changed the route by diverting it through Kartarpur towards Gurdaspur-Katra, thereby defeating the sanctity of Bharat Mala Scheme under which the project was conceptualised.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/centre-agrees-to-review-e-way-project-shwait-81741
08-05-2020||---||Week later, 2 health officials test negative||Muktsar, May 7 Two employees of the health department, posted at the community health centre (CHC) at Doda village here who were tested Covid positive on April 30, were today tested negative. Dr HN Singh, Chief Medical Officer (CMO), Muktsar, said, “The samples of the two health workers were sent to the PGIMER, Chandigarh this time. They have now been tested negative. Earlier, their report had come from Faridkot.” He said, “We will now open the CHC as some other employees, whose samples were also taken, were tested negative today. The two health workers will not be discharged as of now. Their samples will be sent again for testing after 24 hours.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/week-later-2-health-officials-test-negative-81742
08-05-2020||---||Norms ‘flouted’, infected doctor shifted to SMO’s room||Sangrur, May 7 A day after Covid-19 patient Dr Sachin Garg, in his social media posts, alleged lack of facilities in the isolation ward of the civil hospital here, the panicked Health Department shifted him to the official room of the Senior Medical officer (SMO) on Thursday night in violation of norms.  As the SMO’s room is in the administrative block, the police have sealed all its entry points. As a result, the work of the clerical staff has come to a standstill. Dr Kirpal Singh, SMO, said: “Dr Garg was creating problems for the staff. When our repeated efforts to pacify him failed, he was shifted to my official room as it equipped with an AC and an attached bathroom. In the isolation ward, he had all facilities except for an AC.”  Leader of the Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema, meanwhile, has demanded an inquiry into the hospital’s working. Sangrur DC Ghanshayam Thori said the matter was in his knowledge. “Since the SMO’s room is inappropriate for a Covid-19 patient, we have given him three options — the medial facility in Ghabdan village, Government Rajindra Hospital in Patiala and DMC in Ludhiana,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/norms-flouted-infected-doctor-shifted-to-smos-room-81743
08-05-2020||Archit Watts||Muktsar gets isolation centres vacated||Tribune News ServiceMuktsar, May 7The district administration on Thursday started vacating quarantine centres, claiming that the state government’s new guidelines provide for only screening people returning from other states and not taking their samples for the Covid-19 test.Those entering the state and found asymptomatic during the screening will be sent home for the 21-day quarantine. Sandeep Kumar, Additional Deputy Commissioner (General), have confirmed that the district administration had started vacating the quarantine centres following the government’s new guidelines. “The returnees will have to give a self-declaration form that they and members of their families will remain under home quarantine for 21 days. Only those having any Covid-19 symptom will have to undergo the test. Besides, some random sampling will be conducted,” he told The Tribune. Another senior official said that in the self-declaration form, the returnees would have to state that if they did not follow the norms of home quarantine, they would be liable for legal action and become ineligible for the atta-dal scheme, free electricity and other services.“Village sarpanches and officials will supply them medicines and essentials items,” he said.Deputy Commissioner MK Aravind Kumar said, “We are sending back asymptomatic patients to their home after getting self-declaration forms from them. The ones, whose test results are awaited, will be kept in quarantine centres till their reports are received.” The government’s decision has come as a shocker for city residents. They say that on one hand, Covid-19 cases are increasing and, on the other, the state government has done away with institutional quarantine.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/muktsar-gets-isolation-centres-vacated-81744
08-05-2020||---||Virus source untraced, administration on toes in Patiala||Patiala, May 7Six new positive cases in the district have augmented the fear of community transmission, as the Health Department has not been able to ascertain the source of infection so far.Of the six cases reported on Wednesday, two were peons (mother and daughter) in the State Bank of India and had no contact history with any positive patient.Sources said health officials had got a tip-off, wherein the caller had prodded the officials to test the duo for the virus. After the two tested positive, the respective branches they were working in were sealed immediately. Besides this, samples of other staff members were taken. During a regular check-up for tuberculosis, a 19-year-old girl from Nabha who had stayed indoors all throughout the lockdown so far had also tested virus positive, said officials from the Health Department.A 14-year-old boy and a 36-year-old woman from Rajpura who have tested positive are contacts of a Covid patient.A mystery surrounding the death of 39-year-old Patiala resident, who is said to have died of Covid, has deepened, as the family members and others who came into contact with the deceased have tested negative. The Health Department has started aggressive contact-tracing of the positive patients. Patiala Civil Surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra said, “It takes time to find out the source of infection. We are working hard to trace the source.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/virus-source-untraced-administration-on-toes-in-patiala-81745
08-05-2020||---||2 days after positive report, gangster now tests negative||Patiala, May 7Noted gangster Jaggu Bhagwanpuria, who was tested positive for Covid-19 in Batala two days ago, has now tested negative, claimed district health authorities. The gangster is undergoing treatment at the prison ward of the Government Rajindra Hospital, Patiala.Civil Surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra, in a press release, said after initial doubts over his report, Jaggu Bhagwanpuria today tested negative.He was tested positive on May 2 in Batala. He was taken from Patiala Central Jail to Batala on production warrant April 30.After he tested positive, his sample was taken again and sent to GMC, Amritsar. This time, he was tested negative. His sample was also tested by a private lab, which too found him negative.In the meanwhile, citing security concerns, the prison ward at the Patiala hospital has been converted into an isolation facility.The hospital authorities said as the designated Isolation facility at Rajindra had some security issues, the gangster had to be lodged at the prison ward.The doctors confirmed that he was healthy and did not show any Covid-19 symptoms. A doctor, pleading anonymity, said, “Apart from the security deployed by the district police, the gangster is being treated as a normal patient. Doctors are continuously monitoring his health.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-days-after-positive-report-gangster-now-tests-negative-81746
08-05-2020|| ---||PSPCL to reopen bill collection centres||Chandigarh, May 7  Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Thursday ordered the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) to make all 515 cash collection centres operational from May 8 between 9 am and 2 pm across the state for consumers to deposit their bills while strictly adhering to health protocols. Approving a detailed strategy for resuming work by the PSPCL based on the recommendations of the task force constituted by the state government, Amarinder, who also holds the portfolio of power, also allowed meter readers to resume operations to ensure proper billing to consumers in order to reduce the number of billing complaints. All meter readers have also been asked to wear masks and maintain social distancing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pspcl-to-reopen-bill-collection-centres-81747
08-05-2020||Patiala||No increment, no duty: Health officials||Officials of the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP), a branch of the National Health Mission, Punjab, have announced to boycott the Covid duty from Friday.  They said the government had announced an increment to the IDSP branch for working 24x7. They had been looking after over 12 health programmes in the state along with Covid duty. But the government had withdrawn the increment decision due to which the IDSP branch had decided to boycott duty from Friday, the officials said. Dr Yuvraj Narang, nodal officer, said, “We are working at the frontline 24x7 to stem the spread of the pandemic. We collect samples and data of suspected patients in containment zones by risking our lives. However, the authorities are insensitive and they have stopped our increments.” Dr Swati, a microbiologist, said they had already informed the state government and the NRHM director to give them revised salary or else they would strike work. The Managing Director of the NHM, Punjab, could not be contacted despite repeated attempts. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-increment-no-duty-health-officials-81748
08-05-2020||Ruchika M Khanna||Halt exodus by extending aid to labour, say industrialists||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 7Industrialists, who stare at mounting losses in view of the Covid-19 lockdown, say the decision to send migrant labourers back home is wrong as industrial production has resumed in some parts of the state. They feel the money being spent to send them home could have been utilised to support the migrants for a month.Badish Jindal, president, Federation of Punjab Small Industries Association, said: “As the industrial production will take time to revive, the government could have employed labourers for agriculture production in June. For May, both industry and government could have joined hands to give subsistence allowance to labourers. We have written to Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, requesting him to stop sending migrants home.”SC Ralhan, a Ludhiana-based industrialist, said the government’s decision to send back migrants would cripple the industrial production and impact paddy sowing due to start in June.Next month, farmers will need labour for transplanting paddy. Almost 25 lakh acres of land is under paddy cultivation. Every year, 12.5 lakh to 13 lakh labourers are hired for the purpose. They are paid at the rate of Rs3,000 per acre.Of the 11.5 lakh labourers who have registered for Shramik special trains which is ferrying them home, 16,000 labourers have already returned.In all, 38 trains from Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Patiala, Mohali, Amritsar, Bathinda and Sirhind have been commissioned to take the labourers to their home states. Since May 5, 18 trains have been chugged off.“It is a dicey situation,” said Ravinder Dhir, a sports goods manufacturer in Jalandhar.“Ours is a labour-intensive industry, with most units being micro and small enterprises. If the labour returns home, at least 70 per cent of the units will shut down,” he added.Brijesh Upadhyay, general secretary, Bharatiya Majdoor Sangh, told The Tribune that as leaders of labourers, the union was seized of the perils of the migrants’ exodus.“Our cadre has set up help desks in villages and semi-urban areas, where migrant labour colonies are located. We cannot force labourers to stay back. All we can do is to counsel and advise them to stay put as situation will be back to normal in a few days. We are also advising industrialists to pay full wages and incentives to labourers,” he added.Worrying signs||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/halt-exodus-by-extending-aid-to-labour-say-industrialists-81749
08-05-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Amritsar MSME units face existential crisis||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 7The industrial sectors, including hospitality, textile, pharmaceutical and engineering, have recorded unprecedented job loss due to the lockdown.The pan-India shutting down of economy is having a catastrophic socio-economic impact as it is expected to wipe out considerable capital of the MSME (micro, small and medium enterprises) units, which will further lead to job loss and reduction in industrial output.APS Chatha, president, Amritsar Hotel and Restaurant Association, said global and national hospitality chains operating luxury properties in the holy city had already fired nearly 25 per cent staff and effected salary cuts between 50 and 70 per cent.In the unorganised sector, where a majority of the hotels fall, proprietors have conveyed to their staff that they would be re-employed only when hotels resume functioning.Job loss in the MSME units is immense where the proprietors are claiming their capital was being eroded with each passing day.Amarjit Singh Asal, a Left leader, said, “Construction and domestic workers have lost jobs. Thousands of workers earning their wages as per their daily output and on job work basis like weavers have lost their livelihood.”Johny Dhawan, who runs an embroidery unit, said about 5,000 people were employed in nearly 170 embroidery units, most of which saw a decline following import of high technology machines. He said there was nearly 50 per cent salary cut of employees in April.Warp knitting is a leading arm of the textile unit in the city. The total turnover of Punjab’s warp knitting industry is around Rs2,000 crore with Amritsar contributing a major share. Wrap knitting fabrics are used in a range of items including upholstery of cars, home textiles, travelling accessories and men’s and women’s wear.Ajay Mehra, president, Amritsar Warp Knitting Association, said: “Salaries for March were paid. For April, a decision was yet to be taken after talks with workers. He said the ration need of the workers and their families was being taken care of.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amritsar-msme-units-face-existential-crisis-81750
08-05-2020||Mandi Gobindgarh||‘We were looked after, but still want to return’||Industrialist Jatin Kumar’s debt is mounting, but he paid his 38 workers salaries for the last month. When on Tuesday, he asked them to return to work as the unit would be opening on Friday, 36 of them said they had registered for Shramik trains which would take them home.Mandi Gobingarh has about 350 steel rolling mills and employs around 35,000 workers. Among them, the percentage of daily wagers is around 40 to 50.Pritpal and Deep, labour contractors, say they spent sleepless nights in Mandi Gobindgarh thinking about their parents and family back home. “We were paid and received food here, but our heart wasn’t here. What if lockdown is imposed again? We don’t want to die away from our home. We want to be cremated in our village,” Pritpal said as he and Deep boarded the train for their villages in Uttar Pradesh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/we-were-looked-after-but-still-want-to-return-81751
08-05-2020||---||Capt writes to PM, seeks revenue grant for 3 months||Chandigarh, May 7Reiterating his demand for revenue grants to the states for three months to meet the shortfall in revenue and higher expenditure being incurred on relief and healthcare for Covid-19 containment and management, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Thursday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to clearly define the way forward for the country’s economic revival and an exit strategy from Lockdown 3.0.‘Define exit strategy’The exit strategy may not only lay down the parameters to contain the pandemic within safe limits, but should also define the path of economic revival. It should consider and focus on fiscal and economic empowerment ofthe states. — Capt Amarinder Singh, Chief MinisterIn a letter to the Prime Minister, Capt Amarinder said, “The exit strategy may not only lay down the parameters to contain the pandemic within safe limits, but should also define the path of economic revival. It should consider and focus on fiscal and economic empowerment of the states.”Besides raising the demand for revenue grants, the Chief Minister also called for a directive from the Centre to the 15th Finance Commission to review its report for the current year, as the situation had completely changed due to the pandemic.“The poor have been the worst affected with damage to all aspects of their socio-economic living. The threat of poverty, hunger and health deprivation are far more imminent now. If socio-economic living of the common man is not restored immediately, there could be serious psychological dismemberment of our society. The loss of jobs and livelihood has also severely impaired equity and civil liberties in our society,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/capt-writes-to-pm-seeks-revenue-grant-for-3-months-81752
08-05-2020||Rajmeet Singh---||Stuck abroad, distressed Punjabis await govt help||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, May 7 It was his dream to take his mother on a jaunt to Australia. When Bharat Verma, a Fatehgarh Sahib-based lawyer, left Punjab for Australia on March 12, he was thrilled to be with his mother Ranjita Verma.  Little did the 34 year-old realise that several weeks later, he would be nowhere to returning home with his 58 year-old diabetic mother. He was to fly back on April 3. It has been 56 days of ordeal on a foreign land, with no sign of evacuation in the near future.  Vijay Vidhone, a young Indian on permanent resident status from Melbourne, has given shelter to the lawyer and his mother. Amid the Covid-19 spread, the ban on international flights has left near 3,000 Punjabi travellers like Verma in the lurch, across the globe.  Many on tourist visas have exhausted their funds and are at the mercy of their hosts and friends. Those suffering from chronic diseases are struggling to arrange funds.  Though the Centre has started the exercise to bring back Indians stuck abroad from May 7, the External Affairs Ministry schedule in the first phase to run 64 flights to bring back Indians, including Punjabis, has just one flight from Dubai to Amritsar.  A Bassi Pathana youth stuck in California, Ravi Harjven Singh, is desperate to return home. With funds exhausted and no money to buy tickets, many like him are making frantic calls and sending emails to the office of the Consulate General of India in California to bail them out. In touch with the office of the Consulate General of India, Melbourne, Verma, in a phone interview, said, “The Indian Embassy in Australia has asked Indians to get themselves registered. I have been told to stay put, as the Indian government has not released any flight schedule. Whenever it is released, those with medical emergencies and women will be preferred. Around 500 Indians are stuck in Australia.”  Three youths, including Malkiat Singh, who are in South Africa, have appealed for evacuation. “Every single day, we wake up and ask for updates, but we are constantly being told to hold on,” Malkiat said.  Back home, the Punjab Government authorities have received near 20,000 requests for evacuation. “We have been facilitating movement of NRIs from the Amritsar airport to their respective countries. For those coming from abroad, we have to depend on the Centre for instructions,” said an official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/stuck-abroad-distressed-punjabis-await-govt-help-81753
08-05-2020||Fazilka||1 booked for sand mining||Kulwant Singh, a resident of Churiwala Chisti, has been booked for illegal sand mining and his tractor trailer has also been impounded by the police at Suresh Wala Senia village here. The incident came to light when the police conducted a raid near a railway crossing in the village on a tip-off. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/1-booked-for-sand-mining-81754
08-05-2020||Chandigarh||27 law institutes start admission||160 more arrive from RajasthanAbohar: In all, 160 more labourers returned to the state from Rajasthan on Thursday. A team of the Health Department screened them at Gumjal village along the Abohar-Sriganganagar highway. Last week, 2,582 labourers were ferried from Jaisalmer to Abohar, while hundreds of others returned on foot. Abohar SDM Jaspal Singh Brar said the returnees would be sent to their home towns as per the guidelines. OCAbohar admn distributes rationAbohar: The Abohar administration on Thursday distributed ration among newspaper hawkers, rickshaw-pullers, and sanitation and sewerage workers at Government Senior Secondary School here. Earlier, the kits were distributed among e-rickshaw pullers and tempo drivers. State Congress chief Sunil Jakhar’s nephew Sandeep Jakhar said all needy would be provided with free ration kits. TNSInfected ASHA workers to get aidJalandhar: Five ASHA workers, who have tested positive for Covid-19, will be given an incentive of Rs10,000 each. Responding to the demands by ASHA workers, the government has also decided to extend Rs50 lakh health insurance cover to all workers on Covid duty. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/27-law-institutes-start-admission-81756
08-05-2020||---||43 fresh cases, Amritsar count 276||Chandigarh, May 7With 118 fresh Covid-19 cases coming to the fore today, the state count has reached 1,644. The death toll has risen to 28 as a patient lost his life to the deadly virus in Hoshiarpur.As per the media bulletin, Amritsar topped the chart with 46 new cases, followed by Tarn Taran 43, Jalandhar 12, Patiala and Gurdaspur six, Bathinda two and Sangrur, Ludhiana and Fatehgarh Sahib one each.With 12 new positive patients, Jalandhar district’s tally reached 148. The new cases included contacts of a patient, who died yesterday. Four people are from Qazi Mohalla, four Rasta Mohalla and three from Qila Mohalla. The samples of 90 staff members of Guru Nanak Mission Hospital were taken after one of their colleagues was tested positive yesterday. Doctors said so far none of them had tested positive.In Hoshiarpur, a 55-year-old man from Harkhowal village died during treatment at Government Medical College and Hospital, Amritsar, on Wednesday. The victim's Covid-19 test report was found positive on Thursday. With this, the number of positive patients in the district has gone up to 90 and deaths three. The victim had come to the civil hospital for treatment on May 3 in a critical condition. He had renal failure and jaundice. He was referred to the Amritsar hospital.Among the two new patients in Bathinda, one is a cop who, had gone to Kota in Rajasthan to bring back stranded Punjabi students. The other had travelled to Jaisalmer in Rajasthan.The reports of 76 persons were received on Wednesday, of which two tested positive. With these two patients, the total count in the district reached 39.As per the health department, so far samples of 34,701 suspected cases were sent for testing. Of these, 28,933 samples were found negative and reports of 4,124 were awaited.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/43-fresh-cases-amritsar-count-276-81761
08-05-2020||Balbir Singh Sidhu||Despite assurance, Hazur Sahib pilgrims not tested in Maharashtra: Punjab Health Minister Balbir Sidhu||Health and Family Welfare Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu has just completed his statewide tour to review the health facilities in view of spike in Covid-19 cases. In an interview with The Tribune correspondent Vishav Bharti, he claimed that the pilgrims who returned from Hazur Sahib in Nanded were not tested by the Maharashtra Government. The excerpts:In the past three days, you have visited various health facilities in Majha and Doaba regions. What is your assessment of the situation?My department is responsible for three Ts: Tracking, testing and treatment. Quarantining suspected patients is taken care of by the district administration and the sample processing by the medical education. I haven’t received a single compliant of shortage of safety equipment or medicines from any place.It’s been two months since the first Covid-19 case was reported in Punjab. How well the department fared in dealing with the situation?Our staff is at the forefront of the battle against the infectious disease. Despite limited resources, we have not let the state down, although there are some issues with testing. The companies involved in making testing kits have monopolised the business. So we don’t have many options.Till a week ago we had just 400 cases, now we have breached the 1,500-mark. Does the government regret the decision of bringing the pilgrims back from Nanded?What other option did we have? They are our people. We could not have left them stranded there.Do you accept that there was lack of coordination among various departments?First, we were told that there were just 3,000 pilgrims in Nanded. Later, we found that the number was over 4,100. I had personally spoken to the Health Minister of Maharashtra. We were assured that testing of all the patients was done and there was no positive case. We later came to know that only thermal screening was done. Despite that, we did our best and were able to keep all patients in quarantine facilities.The Opposition has alleged that the evacuation plan was botched up. What is your response?The Akalis should first tell what their contribution to the state is in this hour of crisis. Harsimrat Kaur Badal is the only Union Minister from Punjab. What efforts did she make in bringing the pilgrims back from Maharashtra? We, on the other hand, are bringing our people back from across the country and abroad as well. Now, we are paying even for the return journey of migrant workers. The Centre, instead of helping, has held up our share of GST.Don’t you think Covid-19 breakout has exposed the crumbling healthcare infrastructure of the state?Why only us? The entire world stands exposed. When it comes to healthcare, we look up to developed nations like the US and the UK. Look, where they stand now? But the one thing we have learnt from this breakout is that we need to strengthen our healthcare infrastructure.The state government had given six months’ extension to doctors who were to retire on March 31. Does the government plan to give them further extension?We have no plan to give them another extension. Beyond a certain age, the doctors too are at risk. So we will try to make fresh recruitments.What is the roadmap of bringing Punjab out of this crisis?The Health Department is gearing up for the bigger challenge in the future with adequate infrastructure and manpower. As far as the economic and social activity is concerned, the process for normalisation has already started.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/despite-assurance-hazur-sahib-pilgrims-not-tested-in-maharashtra-punjab-health-minister-balbir-sidhu-81764
08-05-2020||Saurabh Malik||Abduction: Supreme Court had quashed FIR eight years ago||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 7The past has caught up with Sumedh Singh Saini, once again. The FIR registered by the Punjab Police against its former DGP comes eight years after the Supreme Court on “technical grounds” quashed an earlier FIR registered by the CBI in the 1991 abduction case.The FIR was then registered on the Punjab and Haryana HC directions, before the state and Saini went into an appeal. The SC, at the time, made it clear recourse to fresh proceedings could be taken to, if permissible in law — a fact mentioned in the FIR now registered.In August 1991, Saini was the Chandigarh SSP when his cavalcade was attacked, leaving him injured and three policemen dead. Saini and his team then allegedly picked up suspects. Among those booked by the Chandigarh Police was Davinder Singh Bhullar.As he was not available, UT Police allegedly took his uncle and subsequently his father into custody. In the meantime, an Additional Sessions Judge acquitted him and at least two others.The UT challenged the orders and the matter was placed before a Division Bench. The HC noticed that some accused had been declared proclaimed offenders. Expressing dissatisfaction with the police efforts, the HC asked the CBI to track down the POs.Meanwhile, a former IAS officer approached the court alleging elimination of his son Balwant Singh Multani. Bhullar also moved court alleging torture and elimination of his father and uncle, as he was an accused in the blast case.Bhullar sought permission to hand over evidence regarding alleged elimination of Multani, Navneet Singh and Manjit Singh. Bhullar alleged his father Balwant Singh Bhullar and maternal uncle Manjit Singh were abducted by the Chandigarh Police, when Multani was picked up.Indicting Saini for his alleged involvement in the torture of Multani and Balwant Singh Bhullar in connection with the attack on him, the CBI registered the case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/abduction-supreme-court-had-quashed-fir-eight-years-ago-81802
08-05-2020||Chandigarh||2 held in Amritsar, had links with slain Hizb commander||The Punjab Police has traced inter-state links of slain Hizbul Mujahideen commander Riyaz Naikoo with the arrest of two accomplices of his close associate Hilal Ahmed Wagay from Amritsar on Wednesday. Punjab DGP Dinkar Gupta identified them as Bikram Singh alias Vicky and Maninder Singh alias Mani.Also Read: Months of surveillance & mason’s arrest did it Wagay was arrested by the Punjab Police on April 25 while he was in Amritsar to collect cash on Naikoo’s bidding.“The police seized 1kg heroin and Rs 32 lakh from the duo’s possession, pointing to Pakistan-sponsored conspiracy to smuggle narcotics and weapons into the state,” the DGP said.Bikram Singh, he said, came on a Scooty to deliver Rs 29 lakh in cash to Hilal Ahmed on the instructions of his cousins. “Bikram and Maninder, along with their cousins Ranjit Singh, Iqbal Singh Shera and Sarwan Singh, would smuggle drugs and weapons,” he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-held-in-amritsar-had-links-with-slain-hizb-commander-81806
08-05-2020||---||Ex-DGP booked in 29-yr-old case||Chandigarh/ Dharamsala, May 7The Punjab Police on Wednesday evening booked former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini and six other police officers in a 29-year-old case of alleged abduction, torture and stage-managed elimination of Balwant Singh Multani, son of former IAS officer Darshan Singh Multani. Hours later, the ex-DGP was denied entry into Himachal Pradesh due to lack of valid pass.NO INTERFERENCE: CAPTCM Capt Amarinder Singh rejected ex-DGP’s allegation of political motivation. There was no question of political interference, he said, asserting the law would take its own course. A police spokesperson said the case was filed purely on the basis of a fresh application by victim’s brother.The FIR was lodged against Saini under Sections 364 (abduction in order to murder), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence), 344 (wrongful confinement), 330 (causing hurt), 219 (making report contrary to law) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) at the Mataur police station in Mohali on a complaint filed by Palwinder Singh Multani, brother of the alleged victim.The others booked include former DSP Baldev Singh Saini, Inspector Satvir Singh, SIs Har Sahai Sharma, Jagir Singh and Anoop Singh and ASI Kuldip Singh.Balwant, the victim, was accused of carrying out an attack on Saini when he was the Chandigarh SSP on December 11, 1991. He, along with Devinder Pal Singh Bhullar, convict in the Delhi bomb blast case, and two others, was booked but the police later claimed Balwant escaped from the custody of Qadian (Gurdaspur) police.DGP Dinkar Gupta and Mohali SSP Kuldeep Chahal were not available for comment, while the ex-DGP told a news portal the case was a conspiracy by the current political regime in Punjab.In his complaint, Palvinder said his father fought for justice till his death in 2014. In 2015, a former cop, Gurmeet Singh Pinky, claimed Balwant, JE with CITCO, Chandigarh, was tortured and eliminated.He claimed the cops wanted to know Bhullar’s whereabouts and his brother was allegedly beaten up and tortured, leading to his death in police custody.It was, however, officially claimed he escaped from police custody in Qadian, he said.Meanwhile, Saini and two others tried to enter Himachal from Swarghat area of Bilaspur district around 4 am today, but were not allowed in. Bilaspur SP Divakar Sharma said Saini was denied entry as he did not have a valid pass. Saini rang up the Naina Devi DSP as well as him requesting passage to Charkhari village in Karsog subdivision of Mandi, where he had a house, the SP added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ex-dgp-booked-in-29-yr-old-case-81594
08-05-2020||Chandigarh||Vacation in Punjab colleges, varsities from May 15||Punjab today declared summer vacation in government colleges and universities from May 15 to June 15.Punjab Minister for Higher Education and Languages Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa said as per the information received from the universities and colleges, about 80 per cent of the syllabus of the current semester/class had been completed. He said as per the guidelines of the Lakhanpal Committee and UGC, university and college exams could be conducted from July 1. It was also agreed at a meeting withVCs that the next academic session would start in September. — TNSThe Punjab Government has decided to declare summer vacation in Government Colleges and Universities of the state from May 15 to June 15.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/vacation-in-punjab-colleges-varsities-from-may-15-81663
