15-05-2020||Chandigarh||COVID-19: Over 500 patients discharged from hospitals in Punjab; total cases reach 1,932, death toll 32||In a significant achievement by Punjab in its anti-corona fight, more than 500 COVID-19 patients were discharged from different hospitals in the state on Friday following their recovery, said officials.Most of the cured and discharged patients were pilgrims who had returned from Takht Hazur Sahib at Nanded in Maharashtra last month, a health official said.According to data, a total 508 patients were discharged from hospitals with maximum in Gurdaspur (107), followed by Tarn Taran (81), Jalandhar (79), Amritsar (65) and Sangrur (51).As per the data provided by state authorities, patients were also discharged from several other districts including Bathinda, Fatehgarh Sahib, Ludhiana, Mohali, SBS Nagar, Muktsar and Moga.A Punjab health official said the patients have been discharged following the Centre’s revised discharge guidelines, which says people infected with coronavirus, with very mild or mild and pre-symptomatic cases can be discharged after 10 days of symptom onset and with no fever for three days.As per the Centre’s new guidelines, no test for COVID-19 is required before discharge in such cases.The state had witnessed a spike in the number of cases after 1,225, out of around 4,200 Nanded pilgrims tested positive for coronavirus.Meanwhile, thirteen more persons contracted infection in the state, as per the state’s health bulletin on Friday.Six fresh coronavirus cases were reported in Faridkot, three in Fazilka and one each in Ludhiana, Bathinda, Rupnagar and Fatehgarh Sahib, as per the bulletin.According to the medical bulletin, 18 Railway Protection Force personnel in Ludhiana tested positive for the infection on Friday. As they belonged to Delhi, this figure was not added in Punjab COVID-19 tally, as per the bulletin.Similarly, the cases of 16 RPF personnel, belonging to Delhi, who had earlier tested positive in Ludhiana, have also been removed from the state’s COVID tally.With the removal of 16 RPF cases and addition of 13 new cases on Friday, the total COVID-19 in the state now stood at 1,932.Amritsar continued to top the COVID-19 tally in the state with 297 coronavirus cases, followed by 205 in Jalandhar, 158 in Tarn Taran, 136 in Ludhiana, 122 in Gurdaspur, 103 in SBS Nagar, 102 in Mohali, 100 in Patiala,  92 in Hoshiarpur, 88 in Sangrur, 65 in Muktsar, 59 each in Moga and Rupnagar, 56 in Fatehgarh Sahib, 52 in Faridkot, 44 in Ferozepur, 41 in Fazilka, 41 in Bathinda, 32 in Mansa, 29 in Pathankot, 27 in Kapurthala and 21 in Barnala, as per bulletin.Of the total cases, 32 patients have died, as per the bulletin.One patient is critical and is on ventilator support, the bulletin said.A total of 49,301 samples have been taken so far in the state of which, 44,319 samples tested negative while reports of 3,050 samples are awaited.  PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-19-over-500-patients-discharged-from-hospitals-in-punjab-total-cases-reach-1-932-death-toll-32-85278
15-05-2020||New Delhi||NHRC notices to Pb, UP over reports of woman pulling suitcase with child sleeping half hung on it||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has sent notices to the Punjab and Uttar Pradesh governments over reports of a migrant woman pulling a suitcase with her child sleeping half hung on it on the Agra highway during the ongoing COVID-induced lockdown.The rights panel in a statement, on Friday, observed that it is aware of the unprecedented situation and that the Central and state governments were working sincerely to address every issue coming up during the lockdown.“But it is strange that the pain of the child and the family could be seen and felt by many enroute, except local authorities,” the National Human Rights Commission of India (NHRC) said.Had the local authorities been vigilant, some relief could have immediately been provided to the aggrieved family and others facing similar hardships, it said.“The incident amounts to violation of human rights and requires intervention by the NHRC,” the rights panel said.The NHRC said, accordingly, it had issued notices to the Chief Secretaries of Punjab and Uttar Pradesh and the district magistrate of Agra, seeking a detailed report within four weeks, including action taken against officials responsible, and relief and assistance provided to the victim family.The commission observed that “several news reports about miseries of people have come to its notice during the lockdown, forcing it to intervene in order to sensitise central and the state authorities to deal with the situation with an approach of respect to human rights of the public at large, particularly the vulnerable sections of society”.However, media reports suggested continuing sufferings of people, particularly migrant labourers, whose long journeys were not coming to a halt, it said.Referring to another reported incident of the public authorities’ apathy, wherein a woman migrant labourer had delivered her baby on a road and continued her journey within two hours after that while on way to Madhya Pradesh from Maharashtra, the NHRC said “such incidents only indicate towards carelessness and inappropriate approach of local public authorities who do not bother to come forward to see the reality on the ground.” PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nhrc-notices-to-pb-up-over-reports-of-woman-pulling-suitcase-with-child-sleeping-half-hung-on-it-85272
15-05-2020||---||Former US Vice-President Biden for relocating Afghan Sikhs, Hindus||New Delhi, May 15US Presidential candidate and former Vice-President Joe Biden has expressed concern over the targeting of Sikhs and Hindus in Afghanistan, especially after the attack on Gurdwara Har Rai Sahib, and suggested they will be given refugee status in America if he was elected President.“If I am elected President, my administration will renew our commitment to refugees….I will raise the annual global refugee admissions cap to 1,25,000,’’ he declared in a statement issued on a day when a US panel, frequently in the cross-hairs of the Ministry of External Affairs for its observations on Kashmir and Islamophobia in the Indian media, also made common cause on the Sikh issue.The influential Sam Brownback, head of the US Commission on International Religious Freedom (USCIRF), described the attacks on the Sikhs in Afghanistan as a “terrible tragedy’’ for a “wonderful, peaceful religious group’’ that has been virtually decimated in Afghanistan with just a thousand left.Brownback, a Donald Trump ally, was more guarded on the issue of resettling the Sikh of Afghanistan and said he had heard talks about re-settling them in US, Canada, India or Pakistan. “We’ve been inquiring, as others have, of possible places for the remaining Sikhs in Afghanistan to go to be able to be safe. I don’t have anything publicly that I could say,’’ he added.Biden recalled when, in the mid-1990s, the Taliban sought to make Sikhs and Hindus wear yellow to identify them as non-Muslims. The recent attack against Afghanistan’s Sikh community demonstrates once again the dangerous conditions for religious minorities, he said, while accusing Trump of ending America’s refugee policy of welcoming people fleeing violence and persecution.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/former-us-vice-president-biden-for-relocating-afghan-sikhs-hindus-85271
15-05-2020||Parvesh Sharma||51 defeats Covid-19 in Sangrur, active case tally comes down to 35||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, May 15Successful treatment of 51 positive COVID-19 cases has brought the tally of active cases to 35 from 86 cases in Sangrur on Friday.While sending the cured patients home on Friday, the staff of various COVID care centres, including Ghabdan and Civil Hospital, gave them saplings as a token of love.Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said most of these 51 cases were devotees who had returned from Gurdwara Hazoor Sahib, Nanded, in government buses.Of the total 51 cured patients, 16 were residents of Sherpur health block, 10 of Kaurhian, seven of Fatehgarh Panjgrian, six of Sangrur and the remaining were from Longowal, Amargarh and Bhawanigarh blocks, he added.Thori said though it was a big number in the fight against COVID-19 for Sangrur, the district residents would have to follow the directions of the Health Department to prevent the spread of the virus.The DC said the people returning in the district from containment zones should voluntarily inform the administration on its control room number 01672-232304 and sampling would be conducted immediately.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/51-defeats-covid-19-in-sangrur-active-case-tally-comes-down-to-35-85260
15-05-2020||---||Capt Amarinder terms Centre’s agriculture package a ‘jumla’||Chandigarh, May 15Trashing the announcements made by Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman for the agriculture sector as nothing but a pack of “jumlas”, Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Friday said the so-called economic package offered no immediate relief to the distressed farmers, who were battling the stress of handling two major crops one after the other in extremely tough conditions.With all the three tranches of the much-awaited economic package announced so far turning out to be a major disappointment for the targeted sections of society, it was clear that the Centre had failed to come to the rescue of the people who were struggling with the unprecedented Covid crisis and the resultant lockdown, said the Chief Minister.The farmers need urgent interventions, and not so-called reform measures that have been long in the making and were not needed to be pushed through in haste at this critical juncture, said Captain Amarinder Singh, expressing serious concern over the lack of anything substantial in the announcements for the farmers.The Chief Minister said as one of the most affected states, agriculturally, Punjab needed support for the farmers during the wheat harvesting/procurement, which the Centre failed to deliver.Despite repeated pleas, the Central government did not provide incentive bonus to the farmers for staggered procurement, he pointed.The CM further said despite the Centre’s total lack of support, the farmers of Punjab pushed the limits of their courage and battled against all ends to once again provide the nation with a bumper wheat crop – a special necessity in this hour of crisis.The state agencies worked day and night to ensure smooth and seamless procurement, without help from the Centre, he added.Now that the paddy nursery transplantation had already commenced in the state, ahead of schedule to cope with the strict Covid protocols and labour shortage, the Chief Minister said once again the Central government had shown no indication of helping out.As part of the agriculture sector package, the Finance Minister should have announced an increase in paddy MSP, along with incentive bonus to check stubble burning, as sought by the state government, instead of coming out with long-term plans which would have no immediate impact on the lives of the farmers or those working in the allied sectors, he said.Referring to the announcements made in the earlier tranches too, including those for migrant labourers, the Chief Minister said even those offered no immediate relief.Two months of free rations, which in any case most of the state governments are already providing, is not going to stop the large-scale exodus of migrants from industrial hubs and cities, said Captain Amarinder Singh.  In the absence of any clear incentives that could encourage the migrants to stay back, industrial and economic revival of the country will not happen even after the lockdown is lifted, he asserted.The Chief Minister urged the Centre to focus, at present, on addressing the urgent needs of various sections, especially those most affected by the Covid lockdown, and leave the long-term reforms to a more suitable time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/capt-amarinder-terms-centres-agriculture-package-a-jumla-85259
15-05-2020||New Delhi||Increasing e-Nam footprint: With 38 new ‘mandis’ on board, Centre achieves target of 1,000 on online trading portal||With 38 additional ‘mandis’ integrated with the e-NAM platform, the Centre on Friday achieved the milestone of integrating 1,000 ‘mandis’ across 18 states and three union territories on the online trading portal, it said.The 38 new mandis include Madhya Pradesh (19), Telangana (10), Maharashtra (4) and one each in Gujarat, Haryana, Punjab, Kerala and Jammu and Kashmir. With these the total number of ‘mandis’ on the online portal, enabling farmers to sell without visiting regulated ‘mandis’, across the country is now 1,000.With today’s addition, 37 ‘mandis’ in Punjab and 81 in Haryana are with e-NAM, a single window service for all APMC related information and services, including commodity arrivals, quality and prices, provision to respond to trade offers and electronic payment settlement directly into farmers’ accounts.However, the reach so far has been limited to mostly non-perishable produce. Interstate transactions also remain an issue.  Sandip Das from ICRI (Indian Council for Research in International Economic Relations) says when interstate trade is facilitated across all ‘mandis’ through e-NAM platform, farmers will get benefit of the price discovery mechanism.“Traders and buyers would have to be provided with single license to conduct trade across ‘mandis’ in a state. With so many ‘mandis’ coming on board, the government should ensure seamless trading of agricultural commodities across states,” he adds.Aiming to create a unified national market for agricultural commodities to promote uniformity in marketing by streamlining procedures, removing information asymmetry between buyers and sellers and promoting real time price discovery based on actual demand and supply, e-NAM remains the key focus of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s efforts to strengthen the sector amid the COVID-19 crisis, say officials.Launched on April 14, 2016, in the COVID-19 scenario the platform is being used to transform trading of all farm-related commodities, including seeds, fertilisers and agro-chemical plant protection inputs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/increasing-e-nam-footprint-with-38-new-mandis-on-board-centre-achieves-target-of-1-000-on-online-trading-portal-85240
15-05-2020||Chandigarh||CM Amarinder launches 'askcaptain' campaign, invites Punjabis to send in questions for live chat||Continuing his online interaction, Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh has launched a unique online initiative “#AskCaptain“ to directly connect and communicate with the people of Punjab.He wants to discuss the issues that matter most to the people, especially around the lockdown & preparedness around COVID-19, during his live session on Saturday this week.The live session would comprise announcements around Lockdown 4.0 as well.The Chief Minister has invited people to send in their questions or queries on any of his social media profiles and share their question with the hashtag #AskCaptain in the end, the spokesperson disclosed.Everyone is required to share their name and village/city along with the question, the spokesperson added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cm-amarinder-launches-askcaptain-campaign-invites-punjabis-to-send-in-questions-for-live-chat-85239
15-05-2020||Phagwara||Attacked with rod, 70-year-old man killed in Punjab, wife injured||An elderly man was killed and his wife injured when some unidentified men stormed into their home and attacked them with a rod, a police official said on Friday.Sadar SHO Amarjit Singh identified the deceased as Kashmir Singh, 70, a resident of Guru Nanak Nagar along the Mehtan-Mehli Phagwara bypass road.The assailants attacked the old man with a rod, hitting him on his head on Thursday night, and he died on the spot. His wife Supita, 60, suffered minor injuries, the SHO said.The motive behind the killing was not known, he said.The body has been sent to the civil hospital for a post-mortem examination.A case under relevant IPC sections, including 302 (punishment for murder) was registered against the  assailants, who numbered "three to four", added the SHO. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/attacked-with-rod-70-year-old-man-killed-in-punjab-wife-injured-85192
15-05-2020||Phagwara||Cops provide aid to Ladakh girl||Centre’s package gimmick: Industry bodyChandigarh: Pawan Dewan, chairman of the Punjab Large Industrial Development Board, called the Central government’s economic package merely an attempt to garner applause. He said the whole country was hoping to get some relief from the government, but this did not happen. The economic package had failed to provide help to micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs). The government had chosen only 45 lakh MSMEs of around 6 crore units across the country, he added. TNSPAU employees donate Rs72.56 lakhChandigarh: Extending a helping hand to the state government for its efforts against the pandemic and mitigating the hardships being faced by the poor and needy, the staff of Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana, have donated Rs 72.56 lakh towards the CM Relief Fund Covid-19. An official said PAU VC Dr Baldev Singh Dhillon handed over the cheque to the Food and Civil Supplies Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu. TNS3rd special train ferries 1,521 to BiharBathinda: About 1,521 natives of Bihar, who were stranded in Bathinda, made their homeward journey via third special Shramik Express train on Thursday. People expressed their gratitude towards the district administration and the state government for facilitating their return in a hassle-free manner. However, the police had a hard time in ensuring that the social distancing norms were followed. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cops-provide-aid-to-ladakh-girl-85112
15-05-2020||Sanjeev Singh Bariana||Johnnie Walker Blue Label made in Khadur, Ludhiana!||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 14Just imagine that the expensive Johnnie Walker Blue Label bottle that you picked from a liquor vend was, in fact, cheap whiskey produced at a ‘bhatti’ in a Ludhiana village! The bottle, costing more than Rs 11,000, could very well be filled with cheap spirit sold for Rs 250.The Jodhan police station in Ludhiana has been asked once again by the state bureau of investigation to look for clues to unravel the illegal operation of adulteration and packaging of major international brands. These include Chivas Regal, Glenlivet, Johnnie Walker and Grey Goose.The case was reported on February 3 this year at Jodhan. DSP (Dakha) GS Bains said: “I received the file on Thursday from the bureau office. We will proceed towards arresting the accused very soon.”The illegal bottling, labelling and packaging site at Khadur village allegedly had the backing of an influential liquor baron. The police had booked two workers, Amit Sharma Parmar of Ludhiana and Harpreet Singh of Khadur village. Both are said to be absconding.Ankush Kumar and Rakesh, who were packing the bottles during the raid, were arrested but could not provide any information on how the operation — the sale of high-end adulterated bottles — was run.Bains said what caught the police attention “was the professional manner in which the bottle packaging was being carried out to make the products look genuine. The unit had caps and corks, holograms and stickers”.The FIR recorded 50 boxes of adulterated liquor, including Chivas Regal (20), 100 Pipers (21), Black Label (3) and Johnnie Walker Gold Label (1). Also found were 134 cases of empty bottles of top brands. The liquor being filled into the fake whiskey bottles was a cheap local brand called ‘999’, costing Rs 250 per bottle.Citing the unearthing of an illegal liquor manufacturing unit at an abandoned cold storage near Rajpura on Thursday, an official of the Excise Department said: “The police need to catch the real faces behind the fake liquor business in the state”. The Tribune is in possession of a video showing, in great detail, the liquor adulteration unit in Ludhiana’s Khadur village. The details of the raid had remained under wraps for the past 3 months.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/johnnie-walker-blue-label-made-in-khadur-ludhiana-85025
15-05-2020||Muktsar||Gurdas Badal, father of Punjab Finance Minister Manpreet Badal, dies at 88||Former MP Gurdas Singh Badal (88), father of Punjab Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal, passed away around midnight following a cardiac arrest. He had been unwell for a while and was admitted to a hospital in Mohali.He was the younger brother of former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal.Gurdas Badal unsuccessfully contested the Assembly election from Lambi against Parkash Badal in 2012. However, the personal relationship between the two brothers, ‘Pash’ (Parkash) and ‘Dass’ (Gurdas), remained intact, and they would meet often.Before their political separation, people referred to them as ‘Pash te Dass di jodi’, as Gurdas used to perform the role of an election manager for his elder brother.Gurdas's wife Harmandir Kaur had passed away on March 19 this year at the family’s farmhouse in Badal village here. He is survived by son Manpreet and a daughter.He had won the Lok Sabha election from Fazilka in 1971. Before that, he served as member of the legislative council (MLC) from March 1967 to April 1969.Keeping in view the current Covid-19 pandemic, Manpreet Badal has on social media appealed to all to refrain from attending the funeral ceremony, which would be held at Badal village.It is with great sorrow that I inform about the demise of my father S.Gurdas Singh Badal. He passed away last night at Fortis Hospital, Mohali.He was 90. His health had started deteriorating after my mother’s death in March, & he was on life support system for past few days.  Keeping in view the current pandemic, we will like to request all friends and well wishers to refrain from attending the funeral ceremony which will be held in our ancestral village.  Deeply saddened to learn of the passing away of S. Gurdas Singh Badal. Join my colleague Manpreet Badal and the family in this moment of grief. May the Almighty grant liberation to the departed soul. Rest in peace! pic.twitter.com/xmC11EOv9z  We are very sorry to hear about the passing away of Gurdas Singh Badal ji. Our thoughts and prayers are with Manpreet Singh Badal ji and family. May his soul rest in peace. pic.twitter.com/HecTdKVRUW  Deeply saddened to know about the demise of S. Gurdas Singh Badal ji. My heartfelt condolences to entire Badal family in this time of grief. I pray to Almighty to grant peace to the departed soul and give strength to the family to bear this loss. @msbadal  I feel saddened on the passing away of S Gurdas Singh ji Badal. This is a big personal loss for my mentor & leader S Parkash Singh ji Badal, who has lost his most dear younger brother. My heartfelt condolences to S Sukhbir S Badal, S Manpreet S Badal and whole Badal family. RIP. pic.twitter.com/utjqBwXM7T||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/gurdas-badal-father-of-punjab-finance-minister-manpreet-badal-dies-at-88-85111
15-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Minister Tript Bajwa denies threatening Channi over Chief Secretary row||Amid the chorus to remove Chief Secretary Karan Avtar Singh, the Punjab Congress leadership remained in firefighting mode even as the row over Minister Tript Rajinder Bajwa allegedly threatening his Cabinet colleague Charanjit Singh Channi for pursuing the matter against the bureaucrat deepened.Finance Minister Manpreet Badal along with Channi and Sukhjinder Randhawa have been vocal in seeking the removal of the Chief Secretary over his alleged misbehaviour during a recent meeting on excise policy. To bury the hatchet between the Chief Secretary and the warring ministers, Bajwa is learnt to have approached Channi on Chief Minister’s behalf. Clarifying his position, Bajwa told the media that he had gone to Channi’s house, but never threatened him. “Still, if Channi has any issue, I am ready to clarify my position before Capt Amarinder and PPCC chief Sunil Jakhar,” he said.He, however, said he stood by the ministers’ decision to abstain from any meeting attended by the Chief Secretary. “I have full respect for Dalit leaders. Whatever decision the Cabinet takes regarding the Chief Secretary, I am with them,” said Bajwa. Hours after Bajwa’s media briefing, Channi said, “Bajwa ji came to my residence and asked not to pursue the matter against the Chief Secretary as the IAS lobby would target me by reopening an old case. I said let them register the case.” He said he was forced to give his statement after Bajwa issued a statement, otherwise it was a party matter and he had already brought it to the notice of the Chief Minister and the PPCC chief. Dalit MLAs from other parties have come in his support over the issue. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-minister-tript-bajwa-denies-threatening-channi-over-chief-secretary-row-84844
15-05-2020||---||Probe liquor sale amid curbs in Punjab: Congress leaders||Chandigarh, May 14Senior Congress leaders have demanded a probe by the CBI or a sitting judge of the High Court into the rampant illegal sale of liquor during the lockdown period since March 22.Neither the excise department conducted an audit of the stock of liquor vends nor were the vends sealed immediately after the lockdown was announced, said former PPCC president Shamsher Singh Dullo.Bid to cover up ‘loot’, alleges SADThe SAD alleged for the first time in history, Punjab saw the home delivery of liquor even as the delivery of milk was stopped. “This was meant to give a legal cover to illegitimate sale of liquor during the lockdown,” said senior SAD leader Daljit Singh Cheema. He alleged the Congress leaders were conspiring to make Chief Secretary Karan Avtar Singh “a scapegoat to cover their wrongdoings”.“It was a serious matter. Be it Congress or other party leaders who indulged in rampant smuggling and illegal distribution of liquor, the Chief Minister should order a probe into the entire matter to unmask the culprits,” said Dullo, adding that those behind illegal distilleries busted at Phagwara and Rajpura should be brought to book. Ludhiana MP Ravneet Singh Bittu said those causing loss to the state exchequer should be exposedDaring the Chief Secretary and excise officials to name the politicians, be it from Congress or other parties, involved in any wrongdoing, Cooperation Minister Sukhjinder Randhawa said he had been raising the issue of illegal sale of liquor during the lockdown period. “Those involved in illegal smuggling from distilleries should be exposed. I had told the excise commissioner that liquor was being smuggled from a distillery without paying the excise duty,” he said.The ministers said the hue and cry was raised by them during a meeting on the excise policy was because of the smuggling of liquor from distilleries and its open sale during the lockdown period.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/probe-liquor-sale-amid-curbs-in-punjab-congress-leaders-84845
15-05-2020||Saurabh Malik---||HC relief for Gujarati woman stuck in Punjab||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, May 14 When Mehta Kiran Mihirbhai came to Gurdaspur from Gujarat seeking anticipatory bail in a rape case, there was no way she could have realised that the lockdown would leave her stranded in Punjab. Her pre-arrest bail was rejected by Gurdaspur Additional Sessions Judge on March 20, but the lockdown was imposed before she could move the High Court against the order. Almost two months later, the Punjab and Haryana High Court came to her rescue. Taking up her petition filed through counsel Harsh Chopra, Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan today granted interim anticipatory bail after directing her to join investigation in the matter. “The petitioner is presently stuck in Gurdaspur district, without any money. She needs to be reunited with her family in Gujarat,” Chopra had earlier contended in the bail plea. As the petition against the state government and other respondents came up for hearing through videoconferencing, Chopra told Justice Sangwan’s Bench that the petitioner was seeking anticipatory bail in FIR registered on October 9, 2018, for rape, kidnapping and other offences at Ghuman police station in Batala district. Chopra submitted the complainant had stated that her daughter was enticed away by accused Maninder Singh in conspiracy with other accused Paramjit Kaur and Jasbir Kaur before being taken to Gujarat. There were no allegations against the petitioner, except that they met the petitioner after Maninder Singh took the complainant’s daughter to Gujarat, where the petitioner allegedly maltreated the victim.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hc-relief-for-gujarati-woman-stuck-in-punjab-84846
15-05-2020||Patiala||Illegal distillery busted in Rajpura, sarpanch booked||Senior Congress leaders in Rajpura are in a spot following the registration of an FIR against a party sarpanch for “illegal manufacturing of liquor and its branding from a cold store”.  The FIR was registered after the excise and police teams raided the cold store, from where material used in manufacturing and packing illegal liquor had been recovered.  According to the police, at 10 pm, Patiala excise officials found an illegal liquor manufacturing unit operating in an abandoned cold store near Rajpura. The SAD has sought a probe into the issue. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/illegal-distillery-busted-in-rajpura-sarpanch-booked-84847
15-05-2020||---||18 more RPF jawans test positive for Covid-19 in Ludhiana||Chandigarh, May 14In all, 18 more jawans of the Railway Protection Force (RPF) tested positive for Covid-19 in Ludhiana on Thursday. Earlier, 16 had contracted the virus.Now, of the 79 jawans in the battalion, 34 are Covid-positive and in isolation. The rest have been placed under quarantine.Story HighlightsThe Delhi-based battalion was deployed in Ludhiana for the smooth flow of trains as migrants in huge number are being sent back home.These cases were reported after the media bulletin was released. As per the bulletin, 11 more cases were reported on Thursday, taking the total count in the state to 1,935.Of the 11 cases, seven cases were reported from Jalandhar, three from Ludhiana and one from Patiala.Besides, 23 patients were discharged. With this, the total number of patients who have recovered from the virus has reached 223.Of the seven new cases in Jalandhar, two are medical professionals — a 48-year-old doctor of Virdi Colony and a 29-year-old nurse from Shankar Garden. Both of them are contacts of a private doctor, who has tested positive for Covid-19.The third case is of a 28-year-old man from Baba Ishar Singh Nagar. The remaining four cases in Jalandhar were reported from Qazi Mohalla. One of them is a 27-year-old woman; the age of the other three is more than 50 years.A new case was also reported from Ropar on Thursday. A 33-year-old resident of the district’s Mahain village tested positive. He returned from Himachal Pradesh recently, following which he was home quarantined.With this, the total number of Covid-19 patients in the district has reached 58.Ropar DC Sonali Giri said of the 1,235 samples collected in the district so far, 860 were found negative while the reports of 309 were awaited.Two residents of the district’s Chatamali village had recovered last month.As per the Health Department, samples of 47,048 suspected cases have been sent for testing so far. Of them, 42,425 samples were found negative and reports of 3,048 are awaited.Meanwhile, of the 23 patients, two were from Sangrur. As a farewell gift, doctors and staff members gave them saplings.One of them, a 72-year-old man, tested positive after he returned from Hazur Sahib, Nanded. The other person, aged 34 years, returned from Kaithal with a combine harvester.“The two men were admitted to the Covid care centre in Ghabdan on May 5. They were discharged after they tested negative twice,” DC Ghanshyam Thori said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/18-more-rpf-jawans-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-ludhiana-84848
15-05-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana cottage industries set to reopen||Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Thursday allowed small cottage industries in non-containment mixed use areas of Ludhiana to immediately resume operations in order to support the opening of bigger industries that are dependent on the small ones for components etc. The resumption of operations in these small units, which normally have labour living on or in the vicinity of the premises, will be subject to requirements of access control and strict compliance with Covid SOPs, the CM said. Capt Amarinder said repeated requests had been received from industry associations to allow opening of industries in mixed land use with access control in non-containment zone of Ludhiana district, subject to adherence of all Covid guidelines.  Ludhiana is an industrial city having about 95,000 MSMEs, offering employment to over 10 lakh skilled and non-skilled workers. “Because of the lockdown, they are jobless and are facing hardships,” the CM said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ludhiana-cottage-industries-set-to-reopen-84849
15-05-2020||---||Migrants protest in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, May 14Hundreds of migrants protested against the state government here on Thursday for allegedly not making arrangements to send them to their home state Bihar.They said they had lost jobs because of the lockdown and, as a result, it was difficult to make ends meet here.Some migrants blamed the police for beating them up. One of the workers Arun said, “We were protesting peacefully, but the police lathicharged us.”Another worker Moseen, whose foot was injured in the lathicharge, said: “We appeal to the state government to send us to Bihar soon.”The police, however, denied the allegation. “The police did not lathicharge the protesters. We are investigating the matter to know who misguided the migrants to protest,” said Inspector Varunjit Singh, SHO, Moti Nagar police station.On Wednesday, migrants protested outside the DC office here. They demanded the administration must make arrangements to send them back home.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/migrants-protest-in-ludhiana-84850
15-05-2020||Jalandhar||27 Dubai returnees quarantined in Jalandhar||As many as 27 persons from Dubai landed in Jalandhar today. Of them, 11 have been kept at a private hotel and 15 others who could not afford to pay for their stay have been kept at the Radha Soami Dera in Goraya.While a list of 26 hotels and a paid institutional centre had initially been released for the returnees in Jalandhar, with workers unable to pay for their stay, alternative arrangements are being made now.Of the total 27, one returnee having a kidney disease was referred to the Civil Hospital, while a pregnant woman was shifted to the quarantine centre at NIT, Jalandhar.All returnees from Dubai were brought to meritorious schools at 4.30 am today. They were screened and checked and found asymptomatic. Barring two, none of them have health complications. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/27-dubai-returnees-quarantined-in-jalandhar-84851
15-05-2020||---||Punjab private schools allowed to charge tuition fee||Chandigarh, May 14The state government has allowed private schools, which are imparting online education, to charge only tuition fee for the lockdown period, while admission fee, uniform or any other charges will not be charged.Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla said the school managements should also refrain from increasing the fee or any other charges during the 2020-21 session.Singla said economic activity had reduced due to the countrywide lockdown, hence there is a dire need to provide relief to the parents. “Only those schools which are conducting online classes will be eligible for charging only tuition fee,” he said, adding that the government had tried to strike a balance by allowing private schools to charge tuition fee so that they could meet their monthly expenses and pay salaries to their staff.He also directed that no school could expel any student, if he failed to pay the tuition fee in time. He also instructed that schools could neither stop nor reduce the salaries of teachers and other employees. Besides, school managements have been instructed that they could not shunt out its employee on the pretext of the lockdown.Shops to remain open till 6 pmChandigarh: Revising the timings for opening of shops, the government has directed that shops shall remain open from 7 am to 6 pm. The new timings will come into effect on Friday. Earlier, the shops were allowed to open between 7 am and 3 pm. The DCs have been asked to immediately issue orders regarding the revised timings. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-private-schools-allowed-to-charge-tuition-fee-84852
15-05-2020||---||Northern Railways ferries 18 LMT grain amid lockdown||Moga, May 14The Northern Railways has transported 18 LMT of foodgrain, including wheat and rice, and potatoes on 762 goods trains between March 22 and May 12. The trains were hired by the Food Corporation of India (FCI) to transport food items to states where there is a deficit.Claiming that the Indian Railways was playing a pivotal role in ensuring supply of essential commodities during the lockdown, the Divisional Railway Manager (DRM) of Ferozepur, Rajesh Aggarwal, said the Railways was making all-out efforts to ensure that agro products such as foodgrain was picked up on time to ensure uninterrupted supply across the country.The loading, transportation and unloading of the essential commodities was in progress in full swing during the lockdown period, he said.He said the demand for transportation of products had increased during the lockdown.Despite the shortage of trucks and labour, the divisional railway teams were working round the clock. In one rake, at least 84 wagons were loaded against the normal capacity of 42 wagons, saving both labour cost and time, Aggarwal added.During the loading operations, protocols such as maintaining social distancing, wearing of masks, gloves, using sanitisers, besides disinfecting the wagons were followed as per the guidelines, the DRM said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/northern-railways-ferries-18-lmt-grain-amid-lockdown-84853
15-05-2020||---||1,376 kg heroin seized in 3 years: STF||Chandigarh, May 14The Special Task Force (STF) has claimed that strictness in Punjab has forced the peddlers to change the smuggling routes.STF chief Harpreet Singh Sidhu said 180 foreign nationals had been arrested in 147 cases registered over three years. Of them, 61 were arrested in 2017, 81 in 2018, 37 in 2019 and one this year. He said the arrests indicated that Delhi had become a major centre from where foreign nationals had been supplying drugs to Punjab.The STF chief said owing to enhanced vigil, the smugglers exploited new sea, air and land routes many of which were under the garb of legal trade and commerce, he said.In the last three years since April 2017, a total of 114 criminal cases have been registered against 148 police personnel and departmental inquiries initiated against 61. Besides, 47 police personnel have so far been dismissed and 17 suspended. Sidhu said it was the policy of the state government to take strict action against all such anti-social elements.Sidhu said the police forfeited properties worth Rs 18.46 crore in 2017, Rs 11.37 crore in 2018, Rs 37.69 crore in 2019 and Rs 1.68 crore till March 31, 2020. Apart from this, 58 cases are pending with competent authority for confirmation of property worth approximately Rs 20.5 crore.He said since the inception of STF in April 2017, law enforcement agencies had recovered 1,376 kg of heroin, 1,515 kg of opium, 1,24,728 kg of poppy husk, 6,053 kg of ganja and 2,74,33,119 pills/capsules along with crores of rupees of drug money . He stated that the recovery of 464 kg of heroin in 2019 was the highest as compared to the last five years.High conviction rate||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/1-376-kg-heroin-seized-in-3-years-stf-84854
15-05-2020||Jalandhar||Sabha seeks probe into activist’s death||The Jamhoori Adhikar Sabha today demanded an investigation into the death of its member Manpreet Mangat, whose body was found along the Rahon-Machiwara road on May 10. The sabha accused the police of botching up the probe, alleging that important facts were ignored. Jasvir Deep, state committee member of the sabha, said he had visited the spot where Mangat’s body was found. “The police have registered a case of accident, but the marks at the spot where the body was found suggest something else.” “Mangat had helped in exposing sand mining and liquor mafia. The police should probe the matter from this angle too. Also, the body had deep cuts on the head,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sabha-seeks-probe-into-activists-death-84855
15-05-2020||Ferozepur||7.7 kg narcotic recovered in Ferozepur||Sleuths of the 29th Battalion of the BSF and Counter Intelligence wing of the Punjab Police today recovered 7.70-kg heroin worth Rs39 crore during a joint search operation carried out near border outpost DT Mall along the Indo-Pakistan border here.  BSF officials said following inputs, a joint search operation was carried out during which the recovery was made.  Earlier, on March 31, 4.2-kg heroin worth Rs22 crore was recovered by CIA, Moga, and the BSF. On the same day, the BSF had seized three packets of heroin in the Abohar sector and another 1.48-kg heroin from Behram Shersingh Wala village in Guruharsahai. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/7-7-kg-narcotic-recovered-in-ferozepur-84856
15-05-2020||---||100 years on, 20 acres of land reclaimed||Moga, May 14The Rural Development and Panchayat Department on Thursday removed encroachments from 20 acres panchayat land at Kishanpura village in Dharamkot sub-division of Moga district.Block Development and Panchayat Officer (BDPO) Sukhwinder Singh Sidhu said some families had illegally occupied the panchayat land for the past about 100 years.He said the department on the request of the village panchayat took up the matter with the district magistrate, who appointed a magistrate and also asked the local police to assist and reclaim the land.Government officials in the presence of a magistrate took possession of the controversial land and handed it over to the village panchayat.The illegal occupants claimed that they were in possession of the land for years, but could not produce any documents.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/100-years-on-20-acres-of-land-reclaimed-84857
15-05-2020||ga||Opt for direct paddy sowing from June 1: Punjab Agriculture Dept to growers||To meet the challenge of paucity of labour, the Agriculture Department and farm experts have advised farmers to modify happy seeders, zero till drills and other drill machines to sow paddy directly from June 1 onwards.The government has asked the farmers to begin direct seeding of paddy from June 1 and transplantation of paddy seedlings from June 10 onwards.Kahan Singh Pannu, Secretary, Agriculture, said two lakh machines used for sowing of wheat in the state could be modified and used to directly sow paddy.He said the department had conducted experiments to modify the wheat sowing machines to sow paddy directly and were successful. “It costs Rs 1,500 to Rs 2,000 per unit to make them compatible for direct paddy sowing,” he said.Dr Jaswinder Singh, a senior agro-scientist with the Agriculture Department, who is also working as a Plant Protection Officer in Moga district, said the basic objective behind modifying the wheat sowing machines was to reduce the seed distribution from 40 kg of wheat per acre toing to 8-9 kg of paddy, and to save the labour cost.Some farmers were purchasing new machines, which costs between Rs70,000 and Rs1 lakh per unit, for direct sowing of paddy. The state government was giving a subsidy of 40 per cent on such machines, but for small and marginal farmers, it is still costly. “It’s better that the cooperative societies purchase the machines for the benefit of a larger group of farmers,” Dr Pannu said.PAU, Ludhiana, in collaboration with the state Agriculture Department is developing a machine for direct seeding of rice, for which 175 units involved in manufacturing agricultural implements have been roped in.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/opt-for-direct-paddy-sowing-from-june-1-punjab-agriculture-dept-to-growers-84858
15-05-2020||Bathinda||Punjab farm activists protest, want sowing advanced||Members of the BKU (Lakhowal) submitted a memorandum of demands to the Bathinda Deputy Commissioner. Among the demands included uninterrupted power supply to tubewells in fields during paddy cultivation season.The farm union leaders also demanded that paddy cultivation must start from June 1 onwards and 10 hours of uninterrupted electricity supply every day from May 15 onwards.Union’s president Dara Singh said, “Apart from Bathinda city, representatives of the union staged protests and submitted memorandum of demands to the SDMs of Rampura Phul, Maur and Talwandi Sabo blocks.”Ramkaran Singh Rama, state general secretary of the union, said, “We demand that the state government must change the date of paddy cultivation from June 10 to June 1 on priority. It must also allow sowing of PUSA-44 paddy type. Besides this, MGNREGA workers should be deployed for paddy cultivation. The government must also announce MSP of basmati paddy, maize, pulses and vegetables, among others, and rates must be fixed as per the recommendations of the Swaminathan committee report.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-farm-activists-protest-want-sowing-advanced-84859
15-05-2020||Ravi Dhaliwal||‘Sarbat Da Bhala’ on the forefront||Tribune News ServiceGurdaspur, May 14A social organisation, Sarbat Da Bhala, which has offices across the nation, Nepal and the UAE, seems to be running a parallel government, with even ministers and bureaucrats approaching it for help.Surinder Pal Singh Oberoi, managing trustee, Sarbat-Da-Bhala, is a busy man juggling his immense resources here, there and everywhere. His aim is to ensure nobody sleeps on an empty stomach. Deputy commissioners regularly call him up asking for ration kits. SSPs seek sanitisers and masks, while civil surgeons approach him for ventilators.On Oberoi’s table, there is a paper on which Gall’s eponymous law has been highlighted with a red pen. It states: “A complex system designed from scratch never works and cannot be made to work. You have to start over, beginning with a simple working system.”That is the reason why volunteers keep things simple. This, in turn, allows their organisation to work like a well-oiled machine. Its efficacy lies in the fact that every man is assigned a particular duty and he has to stick to it. Whatever the compulsions, there is no overlapping and hence no confusion.In March when he was in Dubai, Oberoi saw the disease coming sooner than the so called experts. Subsequently, he rushed to India and took charge.An amount of Rs20 crore has been earmarked till August 31 for distribution of ration, ventilators and allied medical equipment. “If the virus does not vanish by then, the same amount will be sanctioned for every three months. This will go on till the devil gets out of the way. Costs do not matter, human lives do,” he said.The group, with its modus-operandi bordering on the professional, has the potential to put many MNCs to shame. It works with clock-work precision, 24 hours a day, and there is no space or time for lassitude of any form.Before 9 am, lists get ready mentioning about work needs to be done and when, the names of volunteers who will be assigned the task of packing ration in cloth kits, people who have to ensure ventilators reach their respective destinations and district-level office-bearers who will be given the duty to make certain masks and sanitisers reach the offices of SSPs.As many as 16,000 Personal Protective Kits (PPE) have already been distributed and more are on their way. A total of eight ventilators have been installed in medical colleges and hospitals across Punjab and 20 more are in the pipeline. “With the entire human race at risk, the least we can do is to ensure every gram of rice and every gram of flour reach their destination,” said a volunteer.Yards away, sitting in his office, Oberoi receives another call. This time it is a SSP from Majha asking for more sanitisers. “You will get these before 10 am tomorrow,” Oberoi tells the SSP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sarbat-da-bhala-on-the-forefront-84843
