20-05-2020||Parvesh Sharma||Sangrur police start raids to arrest singer Sidhu Moosewala, others||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, May 20In more trouble for Punjabi singer Sidhu Moosewala and suspended cops, Sangrur police have started conducting raids to arrest them.“Since after the addition of Sections 25, 30 of the Arms Act in the FIR registered against Moosewala and others, now it is a non–bailable offence. We have formed special teams and started raids to arrest the accused,” said Gurmeet Singh, SP, Punjab Bureau of Investigation.On the directions of Patiala IG Jatinder Singh Aulakh last week, Sangrur and Barnala SSPs had deputed SP-rank officers for an investigation into the matter.“Our seniors are supervising the investigations and no one would be spared for violation of law,” said the SP.On May 4, after a video showing the singer shooting at a firing range in Badbar went viral on the social media, the Dhanauala police, on the directions of Punjab DGP Dinkar Gupta, had registered a case under Section 188 of the IPC and Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act against Moosewala and five policemen. These included Sub-inspector Balkar Singh, Head Constables Gagandeep Singh and Gurjinder Singh, Constables Jasvir Singh, Harwinder Singh and three others, Karam Singh Lehal, Inder Singh Grewal and Jang Sher Singh.But within 24 hours, another FIR was also registered against all under the same sections at Dhuri Sadar police station on May 5 after another video showing Moosewala firing from his private pistol at Laddai Kothi shooting range surfaced.On May 17, police had added Sections 25 and 30 of the Arms Act to both FIRs registered against Moosewala and others.“Investigations are underway and we are conducting thorough investigations,” said Sandeep Goel, SSP, Barnala.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sangrur-police-start-raids-to-arrest-singer-sidhu-moosewala-others-87500
20-05-2020||Patiala||Amid corona time, a private school in Patiala insists for fees; disregards official orders||Despite repeated warnings by the education minister, a prominent private school in the district is asking its students to deposit the tuition fee and other charges. Not giving any lax, the school has been insisting for the fees for entire academic session in one go.Disregarding the government orders, British Co-Ed High School, through an email, has already asked to deposit the annual fees at the earliest.In the email sent to parents, school administration has asked them to deposit Rs 88,900 before May 21 for Class 11.Along with the Rs 58,000 tuition fee, the school has also demanded to deposit Rs 11,800 annual fee, 16,500 admission fee, Rs 600 calendar fee, Rs 1,000 library fee and Rs 1,000 for the annual trip.Interestingly, wards of the majority of the top district bureaucrats study in the same school.However, opposing the move, the parents said that despite repeated directions by the education minister the school was forcing them to deposit the fees.A parent of a Class XI student, on the condition of anonymity, said, “This is the situation in the hometown of the chief minister. Due to the lockdown, we are already in financial crisis. Insensitively, the school is asking us to deposit around 1 lakh in one go.”The parents are demanding that school should ask to deposit the fees only on quarterly basis.  When contacted, an officer of the school administration said that she was not authorised to make any comments on the issue.The school executive principal, Kiren Harika, could not be contacted despite repeated attempts. Will take action only on complaint: District Education Officer District Education Officer (DEO), Harinder Kaur, said that the department could take action against the school only if there was any written complaint.She said, “How can I take action sans complaint? Distressed parents should write complaint to me or else to the education minister.” The DEO further said that the department had already issued instructions not to collect fee during the lockdown.“A school can ask to deposit only tuition fees if they are conducting online classes.” she added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amid-corona-time-a-private-school-in-patiala%C2%A0insists-for-fees-disregards-official-orders-87495
20-05-2020||---||Punjab brings private hospitals with over 50 beds into Covid battle ambit||Chandigarh, May 20Intensifying its frontline battle against Covid, the Punjab government on Wednesday notified an ordinance to bring private clinical establishments into the ambit of its fight against the pandemic.The notification, under sub section (3) of section 1 of the Punjab Clinical Establishments (Registration & Regulation) Ordinance, 2020, brings all clinical establishments having capacity of more than 50 beds under the provisions of the said ordinance, a press release said.This is in line with the decision taken by the Council of Ministers at its meeting on April 10.A spokesperson of the Chief Minister’s Office said the Ordinance would provide a mechanism for registration and regulation of clinical establishments in a professional manner, to ensure compliance of minimum standards of facilities and services, as well as transparency in the functioning of these establishments for fair and proper delivery of health services to the common man.To implement the provisions of the Ordinance, a Punjab State Council for Clinical Establishments will be set up under the chairmanship of Administrative Secretary, Health & Family Welfare with Director, Health & Family Welfare as Member Secretary.Members will include Director, Health Service (Family Welfare); Director, Health Service (Social Insurance), along with Directors of various recognised systems of medicine of the State Government, including but not limited to the Director Ayurveda, Head of Homeopathic Department; President of Punjab Medical Council; President of Punjab Dental Council; Registrar of Punjab Nurses Registration Council; and Registrar Punjab State Pharmacy Council.Other members of the Council will include one representative each is elected by the executive of the Board of Ayurvedic and Unani Systems of Medicine, one representative from State Branch of Indian Medical Association, one from field of paramedical systems to be nominated by the state government, two representatives from amongst the state level consumer groups or reputed Non-Government Organisations working in the field of healthcare, to be nominated by the state government, and one Law Officer to be nominated by the state government as its Members.As per the Ordinance, the Punjab State Council for Clinical Establishments has been mandated to maintain the Punjab State Master Register, besides sending monthly returns for updating the National Register and representing Punjab in the National Council, as required by the Central Government or National Council established under Clinical Establishments (Registration and Regulation) Act, 2010.In addition, a State Registration Authority has also been constituted, with Director, Health & Family Welfare as Chairperson, along with a Deputy Director, Health & Family Welfare, Law Officer, to be nominated by the state government, and Nodal Officer of Director Health & Family Welfare as Members, for registration of clinical establishments with 100 or more beds.Similarly, District Registration Authority in every district would consist of the concerned Civil Surgeon as Chairperson while District Family Welfare Officer, one representative of the District Attorney and District Nodal Officer of the respective district as its Members to discharge functions namely; registration of all clinical establishments of the respective district, except the clinical establishments having 100 or more beds.The Ordinance also provides for Punjab State Appellate Authority headed by the Administrative Secretary, Health & Family Welfare as Chairperson besides Director Health Services (Family Welfare) and one Law Officer to be nominated by the state government as Members. The Appellate Authority has been mandated to hear appeals against the orders of State Registration Authority and District Registration Authority and perform such other functions, as may be determined by the state government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-brings-private-hospitals-with-over-50-beds-into-covid-battle-ambit-87488
20-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab govt sets up facilitation centre at IGI airport for smooth return of NRIs/Punjabis from other nations||The Punjab Government has set up a facilitation centre at the Indira Gandhi International Airport (IGIA), New Delhi, to help Punjabis coming back on the special flights from abroad to return to their respective districts in the state where they will have remain in institutional quarantine.Disclosing this on Wednesday, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh said transport facility has been arranged at the centre to ensure the comfortable return of stranded Punjabis and NRIs to their home districts, where they will be required to stay in quarantine for 14 days and will also be tested for Covid.Those found negative would be sent home for another two weeks of self-quarantine while those who test positive will be shifted to isolation centres for treatment.With 20,000 stranded Punjabis and NRIs expected to return home under the Vande Bharat Mission, many of them by flights arriving in New Delhi, the facilitation centre would ensure seamless coordination, without chaos or confusion, said the chief minister.Coordinators have also been appointed in various countries to ensure the safe return of those who had registered for return to their native place in Punjab, on the lines of the nodal officers appointed by his government to facilitate the to and fro movement of migrants via the special Shramik Trains, he added.Elaborate arrangements have been made to quarantine these people in hotels in the concerned districts, and free quarantine facility would be given to those students or immigrants who cannot afford the cost of hotels, Punjab NRIs Affairs Minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi said.Rahul Bhandari, Secretary, NRIs Affairs, said the facilitation centre at IGIA is working 24 hours a day. While one flight arrived in Amritsar from USA yesterday, several more are expected to bring Punjabis/NRIs at New Delhi and Amritsar next week.The facilitation centre is coordinating with the state transport department to enable smooth and timely services for taking the returnees back to their home districts in Punjab, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-govt-sets-up-facilitation-centre-at-igi-airport-for-smooth-return-of-nris-punjabis-from-other-nations-87480
20-05-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus:  Intra-state bus service resumes in Punjab||Public bus services resumed in Punjab on Wednesday almost two months after their suspension in the wake of the COVID-19 outbreak.Buses of the state-owned Punjab Roadways and Pepsu Road Transport Corporation (PRTC) plied on select routes in non-containment zones within the state, officials said.Punjab Transport Minister Razia Sultana had on May 18 announced resumption of point-to-point bus services between major cities and district headquarters from May 20 with 50 per cent occupancy.The state government has said inter-state bus services will not resume till May 31.The central government has allowed buses to be plied in the fourth phase of the countrywide lockdown (from May 18 to May 31) to combat the spread of the novel coronavirus.Before the start of operations, all buses were sanitised. Passengers had to undergo temperature screening at bus stands before being allowed to board  buses, officials said.Social distancing norms were followed and it was ensured that passengers wore masks and their hands sanitised, they said.There was no rush of passengers at most bus stands in the morning hours, but many people expressed relief at the resumption of bus services.“I remained stuck for the past two months at Batala because of curfew restrictions. Now I am going back to my home at Balachaur,” said Sunny Sharma, one of the passengers at Batala.Another passenger at Patiala bus stand said he could not move out of the city for the past two months and now he was returning to Ludhiana.At a few places, including Jalandhar and Amritsar, passengers came to bus stands as early as 5 am and complained of not getting buses despite waiting for long. Many passengers complained that they were made to wait till the bus had 50 per cent occupancy and started running.At Hoshiarpur bus stand, Punjab Roadways duty inspector Madan Lal said the bus services on five routes—Hoshiarpur to Mohali, Jalandhar, Ludhiana; Tanda-Batala; and Mukerian-Pathankot-Gurdaspur—were resumed.Officials said the buses will not stop midway.At Amritsar, the bus services resumed on three routes—Amritsar to Dera Baba Nanak, Amritsar to Pathankot, and Amritsar to Jalandhar.At Patiala, the PRTC plied its buses on 10 routes which included Patiala, Samana, Patran, Nabha, Malerkotla and Jalandhar. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/coronavirus-%C2%A0intra-state-bus-service-resumes-in-punjab-87440
20-05-2020||Ludhiana||Vegetable seller killed in Ludhiana||A 35-year-old vegetable seller was allegedly stabbed to death by three unidentified men in Chander Nagar here on Wednesday, police said.Ramu, a native of Uttar Pradesh, was stopped by three assailants when he was going to the market to buy vegetables on a bicycle in the morning, they said.Attackers demanded money from him, police said, adding they stabbed him to death upon his refusal to pay.Station House Officer, Haibowal police station, Mohan Lal said they are trying to get the footage of the CCTV cameras installed in the area to identify the attackers. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/vegetable-seller-killed-in-ludhiana-87424
20-05-2020||---||Punjab Cong MLAs keen to see CM; Amarinder invites them for lunch||Chandigarh, May 20Amid efforts by a section of the MLAs led by a cabinet minister to press upon the party leadership to call a meeting of the Congress Legislature Party (CLP), Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh is learnt to have invited the group for lunch at his Siswan farmhouse near here on Wednesday.Ever since the outbreak of Covid-19, it would be for the first time that the MLAs would be face to face with the Chief Minister. The ministers and MLAs had been sulking since March-end when the Chief Minister started talking to the MLAs and party leaders through video-conferencing.Sources said the MLAs would be giving their point of view to the Chief Minister, expressing their concerns about the issues related to the government.The MLAs have been demanding probe in to the revenue losses by the excise department in the past three years and removal of the Chief Secretary over his alleged comments with the ministers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cong-mlas-keen-to-see-cm-amarinder-invites-them-for-lunch-87407
20-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab reports three fresh coronavirus cases in 24 hours||Punjab reported only three coronavirus cases on Wedesday, the state's health bulletin showed---the lowest number of cases this month.Gurdaspur, Amritsar and Jalandhar reported new cases, Punjab's daily COVID bulletin said. Amritsar's new positive case had a travel history to Maharashtra.The other two infections were local transmissions---contacts of already diagnosed cases. Amritsar's tally now stands at 308, Jalandhar's at 210, and Gurdaspur's at 125.  The development takes the number of cases in the state to 2,005. The district-wise breakup of the state’s COVID-19 cases is as follows: Amritsar (308), Jalandhar (210), Ludhiana (169), Tarn Taran (155), Gurdaspur (125), SBS Nagar (105), Patiala (103), SAS Nagar (102), Hoshairpur (95), Sangrur (88), Muktsar (65), Faridkot (61), Ropar (60), Moga (59), Fatehgarh Sahib (56), Ferozepur (44), Fazilka (44), Bathinda (41), Mansa (32), Pathankot (29), Kapurthala (33), and Barnala (21).Punjab also reported another death on Wednesday, although this has yet to be added to the state tally officially. A 69-year-old woman died of coronavirus in Jalandhar. This, when added to the state tally, would take the district's COVID-19 fatalities to six.Although the latest tally did not count Wednesday's death, it did take into account the person who died of COVID-19 in Pathankot on Tuesday.The state's death toll has now been officially revised to 38.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-reports-three-fresh-coronavirus-cases-in-24-hours-87403
20-05-2020||Ravi Dhaliwal||‘Covid may change way education is imparted’||Tribune News ServiceGurdaspur, May 19For weeks, Principal Archana Bahl tried to comprehend why her life had gone into a tailspin. She finally concluded that unintended and unforeseen side-effects of modern life have backfired on modernity itself. Before she inadvertently got locked down within the four walls of her house, Bahl used to remain busy with her duties as a Principal of Gurdaspur Public School.The paradox could not have been too glaring to be missed. These days she does not go to school, stays at home, refrains from doing household chores, but nevertheless remains busier than ever. She does not even get to know when her bustling day slips into the stillness of the night.Archana opines the virus has given birth to too many ‘experts’ who hold an opinion on everything related to it. In jest, she recounts Gibson’s eponymous law which states that “for every PhD there is an equal and opposite PhD.”She believes that the time has come for humanity to quickly rediscover its existential fragility within the complicated global system.“Modern society has become a risky one in the sense that it is increasingly occupied with debating, preventing and managing risks that it itself has produced. How and why the virus made its way from the natural habitats, including rain forests, should be understood at length by scientists and accordingly reforms made.But these very reforms should be put into operation only after the reasoning behind the existing state of affairs is understood,” she maintains. It is not only online classes, a concept she says was bound to kick in corona or no corona, that keeps her busy, but her duties with the Inner Wheel Club too take up a lot of time.“A coin always has two sides. Such teaching methods have advantages and disadvantages. Online learning has been shown to increase retention of information, and take less time, meaning the changes coronavirus have caused might be here to stay. However, some of my colleagues believe that the unplanned and rapid move to online learning – with no training, insufficient bandwidth, and little preparation – will result in a poor user experience. Others say that a new hybrid model of education will emerge having significant benefits. As for me, technology-driven education has come to stay,” she says.As she is winding up, a TV channel screams that Oxford University has come close to developing a vaccine. “Vaccines are not money spinners. They are given a few times in one’s life so they are never blockbusters. But this one is surely going to be different. The entire human race is waiting to embrace it.”"A coin always has two sides. Such teaching methods have advantages and disadvantages. Online learning has been shown to increase retention of information, and take less time, meaning the changes coronavirus have caused may be here to stay. However, some of my colleagues believe that the unplanned and rapid move to online learning – with no training, insufficient bandwidth, and little preparation – will result in a poor user experience. Others say that a new hybrid model of education will emerge having significant benefits. As for me, technology-driven education has come to stay." Archana Bahl, Principal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-may-change-way-education-is-imparted-87335
20-05-2020||Chandigarh||Release dues, demand Rice millers||Guest faculty to get maternity leaveChandigarh: The state government has decided to grant maternity leave to guest faculty working in government colleges, fulfilling their long-pending demand. Higher Education Minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa announced this here on Tuesday. The decision would benefit more than 1,000 lecturers working in government colleges of the state. "Now, the guest faculty lecturers will be entitled to maximum of 180 days of maternity leave as per the Maternity Benefit Act, 1961," he said. TNSSweets shop owner turns veggie traderBathinda: After the sale of sweets went down amid the outbreak of Covid, a local sweet shop owner has now resorted to selling vegetables and fruit to cover his losses. Bobby, owner of Amantran Sweets, said: “I have been running my sweets shop for the past 10-12 years, it is only now due to the Covid-19 crisis that my business has taken a hit. Since the demand for sweets has gone down drastically, I decided to sell vegetables and fruit, as I have to sustain my family, pay salaries of my employees, and take care of rent also.” TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/release-dues-demand-rice-millers-87091
20-05-2020||Vijay C Roy & Shivani Bhakoo||54% units make muted start in Punjab||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, May 19Industrial units in Punjab made a muted start as the government eased lockdown conditions. Although over 54 per cent of the 2.59 lakh units in the state resumed production today, the operating capacity remained in the range of 30-40 per cent.According to industrialists, lack of orders, labour shortage and social-distancing norms were the main stumbling blocks in commencing production at full steam.“The current capacity utilisation of the plants is less than 40 per cent. It will take time to get things normal. We have to re-strategise the production because of social-distancing norms,” said SC Ralhan, president of the Ludhiana Hand Tools Association.According to the industries and commerce department data, around 1.41 lakh units are operational in the state.In Ludhiana, 46,909 units are operational out of total 95,202 registered units. Around 16,500 units resumed operations in Jalandhar, 13,300 in Amritsar and 11,624 in Mohali.Many industrialists said though their units/factories had opened, production was yet to start.Harmeet Singh Riat, who deals in sewing machine parts, said they had opened their factory premises so that the remaining labourers did not leave. “There is hardly any production. We have started visiting factories, but that does not mean that operations are in full swing.”National president of the All-India Trade Forum Badish Jindal said, “Over 52 per cent units might have opened, but there is no production, no orders, no labour and no raw material.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/54-units-make-muted-start-in-punjab-87100
20-05-2020||Aman Sood||Illegal liquor hub is Rajpura’s new tag||Tribune News ServicePatiala, May 19After gaining notoriety for illegal mining and gambling, Rajpura has now emerged as a hub of illegal liquor production and smuggling, with regular supplies to Haryana and Himachal Pradesh.After the shocking discovery of adulteration of major liquor brands in a Ludhiana village, a similar illegal manufacture and smuggling operation has come to light in this small town in Patiala district, but on a much larger and organised scale.Dozens of such illegal units are believed to have mushroomed in Rajpura and in Ghanaur.Most of the liquor produced here is sold in other states for hefty profits, while some authorised vends also sell adulterated branded liquor within the state to pocket huge margins. A common refrain is that political patronage ensures that the operation runs smoothly.Over 50 road and village exits allow easy supply and smuggling of liquor from Punjab into Haryana and from there to various other states in the country. “Once you enter any village towards the border, there are many roads leading to Haryana,” says a liquor contractor.“The brand that we will sell for Rs 6,000 per case is procured by the mafia for a paltry amount from any illegal unit and supplied for less than Rs 5,000. From labels to the liquid in the bottle, everything is illegal,” claims a contractor.“After paying bribes for every vehicle, the cost of liquor jumps to somewhere around Rs 1,500 per carton. But still the risk is worth taking and the profits are huge,” says an insider.“It is surprising that no action has been taken against any excise officer for losses worth crores to the state exchequer,” says Ghanaur MLA Madan Lal Jalalpur, putting the onus on the excise officials and the police personnel attached with the department. Inquiries reveal that some police personnel continue to be deputed with the excise wing for years on end.To allegations of political backing, Jalalpura claims that he has never patronised illegal liquor trade. ETO Upkar Singh, when contacted, said regular checks were conducted and nakas laid to ensure that the illegal supply was foiled. “We have limited resources and take the help of local police.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/illegal-liquor-hub-is-rajpuras-new-tag-87109
20-05-2020||Karam Prakash||Hit by Rs 50-cr loss, PRTC seeks relief from government||Tribune News ServicePatiala, May 19After incurring losses of over Rs 50 crore during the lockdown, the Pepsu Road Transport Corporation (PRTC) is set to ply more than 200 buses on 80 notified routes across the state from Wednesday.The PRTC, which faced an average per day loss of Rs 85 lakh in the past two months, will be aiming to come back on track financially, as soon as possible.Significantly, the buses will run with 50 per cent capacity and only after prior booking through an agent or at the ticket counter. Moreover, buses will ferry passengers only between the originating and terminating point with no stoppage on the way.PRTC MD Jaskiran Singh said they would be running buses on notified routes only. However, the service would be expanded if there is a rush of passengers.The PRTC is said to have been hit hard owing to the lockdown. The state-run transport corporation has already exhausted its funds because it has been paying salaries and pensions to its employees for the past two months now. He said they had already demanded financial help from the government to overcome losses incurred due to Covid-19.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hit-by-rs-50-cr-loss-prtc-seeks-relief-from-government-87059
20-05-2020||Chandigarh||No fine on house tax dues till June 30||In face of hardships being faced by the common man due to Covid lockdown, the Local Government Department has decided to extend the deadline to pay the outstanding house tax or property tax without penalty till June 30. The time limit of one-time settlement policy for the recovery of arrears of water and sewerage charges in the Urban Local Bodies has also been extended up to June 30. As per the new policy, persons, who failed to deposit the house tax or property tax may deposit the principal amount in lump-sum with 10 per cent rebate till June 30. Local Bodies Minister Brahm Mohindra said residents who failed to deposit house tax or property tax by June 30 should deposit principal amount along with penalty at the rate of 10 % thereafter within the period of the next three months. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-fine-on-house-tax-dues-till-june-30-87060
20-05-2020||Chandigarh||Don’t let guard down: Punjab CM to cops||With a large set of relaxations coming into force on Tuesday, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh has directed the police to ensure strict compliance with Covid-19 safety protocols, including social distancing and wearing of masks. He directed the police to continue working hard to maintain the high level of adherence to protocols and restrictions that had helped the state keep the spread of the pandemic under check. “There is no room for complacency. We cannot let the sacrifices made by the people of Punjab go waste,” the CM said. All SSPs and Commissioners of Police have been asked to ensure that people venturing out should be wearing masks. They have been directed to enforce social distancing not only at shops, offices, banks and liquor vends, but also in vehicles and public and private buses. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dont-let-guard-down-punjab-cm-to-cops-87061
20-05-2020||---||Deported from US, 167 illegal immigrants reach Amritsar||Amritsar, May 19The US has deported 167 illegal Indian immigrants through a special flight that landed at the airport here around 4 pm on Tuesday.On their arrival, they were shifted to a high-security area where medical teams screened each one of them. They had reports of rapid diagnostic test (Covid-19) conducted before boarding the plane in the US.As the protocol demands, all will be placed under the 14-day quarantine in their home districts.Ajnala SDM Deepak Bhatia said, “The medical examination of the returnees is underway. So far, no suspected case of Covid-19 has surfaced.”Of the 167 illegal immigrants, 79 are from Haryana, 67 from Punjab, eight from Gujarat, three each from Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra, two each from Kerala and Telangana, and one each from Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Goa.The SDM said, “Of the 67 returnees from Punjab, five each belong to Amritsar and Tarn Taran. Besides, 21 others will stay in Amritsar temporarily before they will be sent to their native states. We are working on the modalities in this connection.”Sources say the United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) has arrested 1,793 illegal Indian immigrants.Most of them sneaked in to Texas, San Francisco, New York, Chicago, Washington and Atlanta illegally through Mexico border illegally and sought asylum on the pretext of “atrocities and persecution” in India. They were, however, nabbed and lodged in 95 detention centres in New York, Atlanta and San Francisco.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/deported-from-us-167-illegal-immigrants-reach-amritsar-87062
20-05-2020||Harshraj Singh||Wrong info leads to migrant rush at Ludhiana bus stand||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, May 19With the hope of getting bus to their home states, hundreds of migrants reached Ludhiana bus stand from various parts of the district. However, they were asked to go back as the bus service is currently available to only those who have got approval from the administration.The migrants were seen sitting outside the bus stand on Tuesday as they were not allowed to enter the premises. They demanded that direct bus service should be started to their respective home states at the earliest.“My friends and I came from Tajpur Road to board a bus to UP. Somebody told us that direct buses are going to UP. Thus we reached the bus stand today after vacating our room. My friends and I were not allowed to the enter bus stand as we had not taken prior permission. We urge the government to start a direct bus service to our home state. We don’t have enough money to stay here as there is no work. That’s why I want to go to UP,” said Sewa Ram, a migrant worker.Rajan, who worked in Machhiwara, said: “I have to go to Bihar. We are not being allowed to enter the bus stand. My landlord was demanding rent of the room. Now, I have left the room too.”Station Superintendent at the bus stand Kuljit Singh Sodhi said, “Routine bus service has not been resumed yet. The migrants, who have applied online to go back to their home states, are being sent by special buses.”Rights panel takes note of protestLudhiana: The Punjab State Human Rights Commission has taken suo motu cognisance of a report by The Tribune regarding the protest by migrants here on May 14 against the government’s alleged failure to make arrangements to send them to Bihar. Some migrants had accused the police of beating them up. The commission sought a report on the matter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/wrong-info-leads-to-migrant-rush-at-ludhiana-bus-stand-87063
20-05-2020||Chandigarh||EO suspended for clearing projects ‘illegally’||The Local Government Department has suspended Zirakpur civic body’s Executive Officer (EO) Manvir Singh Gill in connection with issuing completion certificates “illegally” to several residential-cum-commercial projects. Additional Chief Secretary (Local Government) Sanjay Kumar issued the suspension order on Tuesday. Gill has been suspended on the basis of an interim report submitted by the Chief Vigilance Officer (CVO). Local Government Minister Brahm Mohindra had asked the CVO to probe the misuse of powers by Gill in issuing completion certificates “illegally”. Sources in the department say the EO did not have the authority to issue completion certificates. He allegedly issued certificates to major projects spread over five acres. One of the projects is developed over 21 acres. “Five cases have been traced. We suspect that 12 certificates were issued. These are missing from the record,” an official said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/eo-suspended-for-clearing-projects-illegally-87064
20-05-2020||---||State leads with 78 per cent recovery rate: Punjab Health Minister||Chandigarh, May 19Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said of the 4,218 Nanded returnees, 1,252 turned out to be Covid positive. All of them had been cured and sent back to their homes. A majority of cases in the state were from outside.He said Punjab became the leading state to battle coronavirus by achieving 78 per cent recovery rate.All Nanded returnees curedHealth Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said of the 4,218 Nanded returnees, 1,252 turned out to be Covid positive. All of them had been cured and sent back to their homes. He said 1.57 crore people had been screened by Health Department teams in April.He said 1.57 crore persons had been screened by Health Department teams in April. Out of this, 9,593 were found to have symptoms and referred for further sampling. He said there had been 2,002 cases in the state so far and 55,634 persons had been tested of which 50,070 were found negative. He said of 2,002 Covid patients, 1,642 were cured which was among the highest recovery rates in the country.Sidhu said ‘risk stratified random sampling’ needed to be done (frequent travellers, frontline workers, people with co-morbidity and those living in densely populated areas) across the state and focus should be on high-risk areas and individuals to further prevent the spread of the disease. Instructions have been issued to civil surgeons in this regard.Revealing about the facts of containment zone, he said the state government had defined only the containment zone and not red, orange or green zones. He said the period of containment would be of minimum 14 days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/state-leads-with-78-per-cent-recovery-rate-punjab-health-minister-87065
20-05-2020||Sangrur||Patients discharged without treatment: Sangrur villagers||The discharging of asymptomatic Covid-19 patients from isolation centres after directions by the government has caused panic in many villages. The Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), Ugrahan, has started indefinite protests across the state while discharged patients claim they are following all directions and have put themselves under quarantine in their homes. In Sangrur district, the authorities have detected total 91 positive patients of which 90 have been discharged and majority are asymptomatic while only one is under treatment. BKU Ugrahan’s Sangrur president Amrik Singh alleged the administration had discharged the patients without proper treatment. Sangrur Civil Surgeon Dr Raj Kumar said all asymptomatic patients had been discharged as per the revised policy. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/patients-discharged-without-treatment-sangrur-villagers-87066
20-05-2020||Ludhiana||4 staffers +ve, Ludhiana docs allege gear of poor quality||After four Class IV employees of the local Civil Hospital tested Covid positive, the entire staff of the hospital went on a strike today, alleging that the N-95 masks provided to them were of poor quality.Earlier, the doctors had gone on strike over substandard PPE kits, but they had called it off after an assurance by the Civil Surgeon that they would be provided better quality gear. Dr Rohit Rampal said they had never refrained from performing their duty, but they wanted the department to ensure their safety. “The masks provided to us are of poor quality and it is possible that the four employees have got infected because of the substandard masks,” said Dr Rampal.SAD demands probeChandigarh: The SAD has asked the Chief Minister to hold a high-level inquiry into the purchase of substandard PPE kits and N-95 masks. Senior SAD leader Daljit Singh Cheema said the government should not allow the lives of its frontline warriors to be endangered at any cost. TNSThe Class IV employees complained that they were working on meagre salaries, had no health insurance and even the protective gear provided to them was of low quality. “For a long time, we have been requesting the authorities for a pay hike, but to no avail. The government should think about our safety,” Dr Rampal said.Civil Surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said the protective gear provided to the staff was supplied by the government. He directed the officials to return the substandard masks immediately and assured the staff that they would be given better quality masks. The staff later called off the strike. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/4-staffers-ve-ludhiana-docs-allege-gear-of-poor-quality-87067
20-05-2020||Hoshiarpur||12  booked for online posts against MoS||The police have filed two FIRs against 12 persons, including several leaders the Aam Aadmi Party, on the complaint of Union Minister of State Som Parkash. The minister accused the leaders of posting photographs and videos on the social media alleging that he had gone missing during the Covid crisis.  Som Parkash alleged AAP leaders Sandeep Saini, Jaspal Chechi, Ajayab Singh, Subhash Chandra, Khushi Ram, Mani Gogia, Tarun Gupta, etc, had gathered at Kanak Mandi Chowk and held a protest alleging that he had gone missing. The minister said the accusation had hurt his sentiments. The police have registered cases under Section 54 of the Disaster Management Act and Section 188 of the IPC against the accused. Meanwhile, AAP leader Sandeep Saini said the cases had made it clear that the BJP and Congress were hand in glove in Punjab and the cases filed against AAP leaders had no basis. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/12-booked-for-online-posts-against-mos-87068
20-05-2020||Ravi Dhaliwal||SPS Oberoi rescues 14 accused of murder in UAE||Tribune News ServiceGurdaspur, May 19Dubai-based businessman and philanthropist Surinder Pal Singh Oberoi rescued 14 youths, who were facing a murder charge in Sharjah (UAE).Of the 14 youths, 11 are from Punjab, one from Haryana and two from Pakistan. Nine out of the 11 boys landed in Chennai last night by an Emirates flight and were immediately quarantined at the military hospital. Another will be arriving in the next few days. The other two have flown to Pakistan from Dubai.The boys were convicted of murdering two of their Punjabi colleagues, Asif Ali of Jalandhar and Varinder Pal Singh of Kapurthala on December 31, 2015, following a fight over controlling territories in the illicit bootlegging business in Sharjah.Oberoi reportedly paid Rs 67 lakh as blood money to the families of the deceased. Earlier in 2010, Oberoi had paid a whopping 1.4 million US dollars to rescue 17 Punjabi youths, who were convicted of murder of a Pakistani youth and were facing the gallows in the UAE.“In the present case, the boys had done to death two of their ‘business associates’. All of them were into the bootlegging business. The UAE police arrested them a day later. I attended 26 hearings in Sharjah, where the trial was on and a compromise was reached between the accused and the family of the deceased on 24 October, 2018. The compromise can be done only after one pays blood money. In this case I paid Rs 67 lakh,” he said.The youths were identified as Tony Masih, Hardeep Singh, Navneet Kumar, Rohit and Happy, all of Gurdaspur; Harpreet Singh and Ajay Kumar of Nawashahr; Gian Chand of Hoshiarpu; Kulwinder Singh and Buta Singh of Kapurthala; Paramjit Singh of Jalandhar; and Dilbagh Singh of Haryana.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sps-oberoi-rescues-14-accused-of-murder-in-uae-87069
20-05-2020||Jalandhar||CBI probe sought into scribe’s murder||Expressing apprehension that mining mafia could be behind the murder of journalist Sunpreet Mangat, former Akali MP Prem Singh Chandumajra today demanded CBI probe into the case.  “Since he belonged to Rahon and had sources in the belt, he was well aware of the nexus. Even when the Punjab CM pointed out there was illegal mining going on in the area, it was Mangat who exposed the racket,” he said. The MP said: “The Punjab Police was not doing enough to hunt those behind the attack, especially when the postmortem report has revealed that there were 14 deep cuts on his body and it was not an accident as was initially being claimed.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cbi-probe-sought-into-scribes-murder-87070
20-05-2020||Balwant Garg||Finally, uniform fee structure in private medical institutions||Tribune News ServiceFaridkot, May 19In a relief to thousands of medical aspirants in the state, the Department of Medical Education and Research on Tuesday announced a uniform fee structure for all private medical and dental colleges.Ending disparity in the fee structure for postgraduate degree and diploma courses (MD, MS, Diploma and MDS) in private medical and dental colleges in the state, which include two minority colleges and two private medical universities, the department today issued a corrigendum, announcing that all private medical colleges would charge Rs 6.5 lakh per year for MD/MS (clinical) courses and Rs 2.6 lakh for MD/MS (basic) courses. The fee structure will be implemented from the current academic year.Rs 6.5L/YEAR for MD/MS (clinical)n All private colleges will charge Rs6.5 lakh p.a. for MD/MS (clinical) courses and Rs2.6 lakh for MD/MS (basic) courses. For MDS (PG course in dental science), the department has fixed Rs5.58 lakh fee per yearFor MDS (postgraduation course in dental science), it has fixed Rs 5.58 lakh per year fee in all private dental colleges of the state.While three government medical colleges in the state charge Rs 1.25 lakh annual fee for MD/MS course, the fee in DMC and CMC, Ludhiana, was fixed at Rs 6.5 lakh.However, Adesh Medical College, Bathinda, had fixed this fee at Rs 14.90 lakh per annum. Even the SGPC-owned Sri Guru Ram Das Medical College at Amritsar had fixed the fee at Rs 9.5 lakh per annum with a 10 per cent increase in fee every year and 15 per cent registration fee on the combined fee of three years, making it about Rs 36 lakh for the three-year postgraduation clinical courses for the current academic session.So far, Adesh and Sri Guru Ram Das colleges were deciding their own fee structure. However, in all other private and government medical colleges, the fee was fixed by the state government.With this amendment, the medical aspirants are hopeful of a uniform fee structure for MBBS and BDS course in all private medical colleges this year. Two days back, The Tribune had highlighted the dilemma the students were facing in the absence of announcement of a new fee structure.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/finally-uniform-fee-structure-in-private-medical-institutions-87071
20-05-2020||Tribune Reporters||Another illicit liquor unit sealed in Patiala||Patiala, May 19The police on Tuesday raided an illegal liquor manufacturing unit at a house in Ghanaur’s Pabri village and sealed it.The police arrested house owner Darshan Singh and seized 20 drums of ENA (ethanol neutral alcohol) and a few empty ones. A case has been registered at the Kheri Gandian police station.Patiala SSP Mandeep Singh Sidhu said the accused would be interrogated to know who all bought liquor from him.Dashan Singh is a former panchayat samiti member and member of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD)Last week, an illegal distillery-cum-liquor-bottling plant in Ghanaur was busted. Khanpur Khurd Congress sarpanch Amrik Singh and Dipesh Kumar of Rajpura, among others, were booked in this connection. The distillery, which was being run in a cold store, was operational even during the lockdown. The distillery was using ethyl alcohol, which is used to manufacture sanitiser.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/another-illicit-liquor-unit-sealed-in-patiala-87072
20-05-2020||Mohali||Anticipatory bail for four ex-cops in abduction case||Four retired cops of the Chandigarh Police, who were booked in a 29-year-old case of alleged abduction and disappearance of Balwant Singh Multani, a CITCO employee in 1991, had been granted anticipatory bail by a court in Mohali today.The ex-cops — Har Sahai Sharma, Jagir Singh, Anoop Singh and Kuldip Singh —had been named in an FIR registered against them at the Mataur Police station by victim’s brother Palwinder Singh Multani. All the cops had retired as inspector. RELIEF WITH RIDER They have been directed not to leave the country and surrender their passports with the policeThe court directed the IO to make the accused join the probe by maintaining social distancing and taking other precautionsAdditional District and Sessions Judge Monika Goyal, while granting anticipatory bail to the four former policemen, ordered that they must join investigation by appearing before the investigating officer within 7 days from today. The court orders further restricted them not to leave the country and also directed to surrender their passports with the police. The court also directed the IO to join the accused/applicant in investigation by maintaining social distancing and following all the precautions.Former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini had also been granted anticipatory bail by the court after being booked in the same case. The other two cops then Sub-Inspector Satvir Singh and DSP Baldev Singh have passed away. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/anticipatory-bail-for-four-ex-cops-in-abduction-case-87073
20-05-2020||---||Bajwa: Mafia still thriving in state||Chandigarh, May 19 Rajya Sabha MP Partap Bajwa has sought a reply from Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Excise Department’s claim of no losses in 2019-20, except during lockdown. In a series of tweets, tagging the Chief Minister, Bajwa said, “In one year, the Excise Department missed its revenue targets by Rs 286 crore and Rs 927 crore in two years. Even by the best estimates, the department would not have achieved its target of Rs 6,201 crore for 2019-20.” Drawing the attention of the CM towards the arrest of kingpin of illicit liquor distribution from Rajpura, the MP said there was enough proof of growing liquor mafia network in the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bajwa-mafia-still-thriving-in-state-87074
20-05-2020||Fatehgarh Sahib||4 held for booze theft||The district police claimed to have busted a gang of thieves and arrested four persons for stealing liquor from the godown of a wine contractor. DSP Raminder Singh Kahlon said a special team succeeded in nabbing one Gursewak Singh, a  resident of Sirhind, and recovered 32 boxes of english wine and Rs76,000  from him. During interrogation, two more persons, identified as  Baljinder Singh and Rakesh Kumar, both residents of Sirhind, were named. He said one more person, identified as Gurpreet Singh, a resident  of Ludhiana, had been arrested. Name of four more persons had surfaced  and raids were being conducted to nab them. A total of 36 boxes of whisky and Rs76,000 was recovered from the accused.  10 FIRs in Muktsar  Muktsar: After CM Capt Amarinder Singh directed the police to crackdown on all kinds of liquor smuggling, bootlegging and illicit distillation of liquor, the district police have registered 10 cases under the Excise Act and seized a huge quantity of liquor in the last two days. A police officer said a number of illegal distilleries and hooch have been destroyed, but the accused managed to flee.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/4-held-for-booze-theft-87075
20-05-2020||Phagwara||Three killed  in road accident||Three members of a family were killed when their scooter collided with a tanker on the Shahkot-Malsian NH today.  The deceased have been identified as Bindar, her daughter Anju (20) and son Gurnur (2), all from  Nakodar’s Miran Pur village.   The police have arrested tanker driver Bikarm Singh, a resident of Gurdaspur’s Bishaniwal village. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/three-killed-in-road-accident-87076
20-05-2020||Chandigarh||Cong MLAs take up CS issue with Jakhar||A day after three Cabinet ministers attended a meeting convened by Chief Secretary Karan Avtar Singh, a number of Congress MLAs met at the residence of a minister to press upon the party leadership on calling a CLP meet.They questioned the move of the three ministers in attending the meeting when a unanimous decision had been taken to abstain from any meeting attended by the Chief Secretary. Last week, the ministers had staged a walkout during a meeting on excise policy after the Chief Secretary allegedly misbehaved with them.At least 10 MLAs, including Amrinder Singh Raja Warring, Pargat Singh and Sangat Singh Gilzian, also learnt to have talked to PPCC chief Sunil Jakhar on the issue. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cong-mlas-take-up-cs-issue-with-jakhar-87079
20-05-2020||---||22 fresh cases, count 2,002 in Punjab||Chandigarh, May 19With one more person succumbing to Covid-19 in Pathankot today, the number of casualties due to the virus has reached 38 in the state.Apart from that, 22 new cases were reported following which the state count of Covid patients has reached 2,002. As per the state media bulletin, Ludhiana topped the chart with 19 fresh cases, followed by two in Patiala and one in Gurdaspur. Story HighlightsOf the new patients in Ludhiana, six are undertrials at Borstal jail, two accused arrested recently by the police, two civil hospital employees, two Railway Protection Force personnel, one contact of a positive patient, four flu corner patients and five having no direct contact with any positive patient.Besides, a 27-year-old man from Salem Tabri, who was found dead at his house on May 16, was tested positive. He was buried today. Two cops, an ASI and a constable, have been asked to quarantine themselves in addition to the family members of the deceased, who was an addict and died due to overdose. In addition, a two-year-old girl, who underwent a surgery at the DMC, has also tested positive.In Rajpura town of Patiala district, two more persons were tested positive. Both patients had recently returned from Mumbai by a taxi. They have been admitted to the isolation ward of Government Rajindra Hospital. Besides, 95 patients were cured and discharged from the government quarantine facilities. Of them, 39 are from Fazilka, 11 Pathankot, nine Mansa, seven each from Tarn Taran and Sangrur, six each from Jalandhar and Faridkot. The total number of cured patients has reached 1,642 in the state. As per the Health Department, so far samples of 55,634 suspected cases were sent for testing. Of these, 50,070 were found negative and reports of 3,562 were awaited.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/22-fresh-cases-count-2-002-in-punjab-87082
