26-05-2020||Phagwara||Web portal owner booked for spreading fake news in Kapurthala||A web portal owner was booked for allegedly spreading fake news regarding COVID-19 cases in Kapurthala district, police said on Tuesday.The website allegedly published fake news that some officials of a private university were found positive for the novel coronavirus, they said.A case under relevant sections of the Disaster Management Act and the Indian Penal Code was registered against Vinod Kumar on the complaint lodged by the university, police said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/web-portal-owner-booked-for-spreading-fake-news-in-kapurthala-90236
26-05-2020||New Delhi||Centre to develop Punjab, Haryana as fish export hub||The central government is planning expand prawn farming in Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan and west Uttar Pradesh as it plans to turn India into a major hub for exporting fish.Union Minister for Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying Giriraj Singh said that the central government was considering a proposal to introduce prawns and fish that are typically found in the sea to the saline waters of India’s northern states that are usually considered the country’s foodgrain bowl.  “So far, south India was a major export hub for fishes. Now we are planning to make north India as an export hub. This includes almost 2.25 lakh hectares in Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh where there is saline water,” he said at a conference regarding new scheme Pradhan Mantri Matsya Sampada Yojana (PMMSY).“We will promote prawns and other species that can be exported. After we got (positive) results from assessments we took it up with State governments,” Singh said.The PMMSY scheme aims at enhancing India’s fish production to 220 lakh metric tons by 2024-25 from 137.58 lakh metric tons in 2018-19 at an average annual growth rate of about 9 per cent.It will be “economic revolution through blue revolution” Singh said adding that the country exported fish valued Rs 46,589 crore during the 2018-19 fiscal.Exports from India are expected to decline due to Covid-19 lockdown by around 5-10 per cent in 2019-20 due to demand compression. The US, Middle East, UK and China are main export destinations for fish.Asserting that there was a huge potential to increase exports in the coming years, the minister said the government also planned to promote export of seaweed and ornamental fish.Singh said the ambitious scheme will result in doubling export earnings to Rs 1,00,000 crore and generate about 55 lakh direct and indirect employment opportunities in fisheries sector over a period of next five years.The scheme envisages an estimated investment of Rs 20,050 crore comprising central share of Rs 9,407 crore, state share of Rs 4,880 crore and beneficiaries’ contribution of Rs 5,763 crore. The thrust will be given towards enhancement of fish production and productivity, quality, sustainability, technology infusion, post-harvest infrastructure, modernisation and strengthening of value chain, standards and traceability in fisheries sector from ‘catch to consumer’, establishing a robust fisheries management framework, fishers’ welfare, enhancement of fisheries export competitiveness.  The sector recorded an Average Annual Growth Rate of 10.88 per cent during 2014-15 to 2018-19, 7.53 per cent average annual growth in fish production and 9.71 per cent average annual growth in export earnings, with 18 per cent share in agricultural exportsThe Gross Value Added (GVA) of Fisheries sector in the national economy during 2018-19 stood at Rs 2,12,915 crore which constituted 1.24 per cent of the total National GVA and 7.28 per cent share of Agricultural GVA, official figures show.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/centre-to-develop-punjab-haryana-as-fish-export-hub-90226
26-05-2020||---||Congress MP Partap Bajwa appointed Rajya Sabha panel chief||New Delhi, May 26Punjab Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa (Congress) was on Tuesday appointed Chairman of the Committee on Subordinate Legislation.Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu appointed Bajwa to succeed T Subbirami Reddy (Congress), who retired from the House recently.This committee oversees formulation of rules and regulations by the government under delegated powers and their laying on the table of the House within stipulated time by the government, public sector and autonomous bodies and other such institutions financially supported by the Central Government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-mp-partap-bajwa-appointed-rajya-sabha-panel-chief-90224
26-05-2020||Chandigarh||Hisar hottest at 48 degrees Celsius as heatwave intensifies in Haryana, Punjab||A severe heatwave swept Haryana, Punjab and their joint capital, Chandigarh, on Tuesday, with Hisar being the hottest place in the region at 48 degrees Celsius.Hisar in Haryana recorded its hottest day of the current summer so far, with the maximum temperature settling five notches above normal limits, the Meteorological Department here said.Blistering heat also swept Narnaul at 46 degrees Celsius, five notches above normal limits.Among other places in Haryana, Ambala sizzled at 44.2 degrees Celsius, up five notches, while Karnal sweltered under intense heat at 44 degrees Celsius, five notches above normal limits.Sweltering heat also swept Patiala in Punjab which recorded a high of 44.7 degrees Celsius, up four notches.Amritsar and Ludhiana also recorded above normal maximums of 43.7 degrees Celsius and 44.1 degrees Celsius, respectively.Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, also experienced a hot day at 43.1 degrees Celsius, four notches above normal limits.According to the MeT department forecast, the heat wave conditions will continue to prevail for the next two days in Punjab and Haryana. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hisar-hottest-at-48-degrees-celsius-as-heatwave-intensifies-in-haryana-punjab-90222
26-05-2020||Jalandhar||Punjab reports 25 new cases, state tally now 2,106||Punjab reported 25 new cases of coronavirus, taking the state's COVID-19 infection tally to 2,106.Jalandhar (10), Pathankot (5), Hoshiarpur  (4), Amritsar (2), Ludhiana (2), Faridkot (1), and SBS Nagar (1) reported new cases, Punjab's COVID bulletin showed.All 10 cases of Jalandhar's were contacts of already diagnosed cases. Four of Tuesday's cases were people who worked in the civil hospital---two nurses and two Class 4 employees.  Sources said the health workers who tested positive had been given duties in three wards at the hospital---the emergency and tuberculosis ward and flu corner--- causing health authorities to worry about the spread of the virus.Sources said the health workers were symptomatic.Cases in Pathankot and Hoshiarpur were also contacts of already diagnosed cases.Cases reported from Amritsar, Faridkot and SBS Nagar were new cases. Amritsar's cases were self reported, the bulletin said.Ludhiana's cases were people with a travel history to West Bengal. The state's COVID-19 break is as follows: Amritsar (331), Jalandhar (230), Ludhiana (175), Tarn Taran (154), Gurdaspur (132), Patiala (108), Hoshiarpur (110), SBS Nagar (106), SAS Nagar (103), Sangrur (89), Muktsar (66), Faridkot (62), Ropar (60), Moga (59), Fatehgarh Sahib (57), Ferozepur (46), Pathankot (44), Fazilka (42), Bathinda (42), Kapurthala (36), Mansa (32) and Barnala (22). Eight districts---Amritsar, Jalandhar, Ludhiana, Tarn Taran, Gurdaspur, Patiala, Hoshiarpur, SBS Nagar, SAS Nagar---that have over 100 cases account for 68 per cent of Punjab's cases. Over 91 per cent of Punjab's 2,106 cases cases have recovered. Punjab now has 148 active cases. The state's death toll stands at 40.Amritsar (6), Jalandhar (5), Ludhiana   (7), Gurdaspur (3), Hoshiarpur (5), Kapurthala (3), Pathankot (2), Patiala (2), SBS Nagar (1) SAS Nagar (3), Ropar (1), Ferozepur  (1) and Barnala (1)  make up for Punjab’s death count.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-reports-25-new-cases-state-tally-now-2-106-90186
26-05-2020||Bengaluru||Punjab, Haryana seem to have crossed the peak in coronavirus cases, says public health expert||Kerala, Punjab and Haryana seem to have crossed the peak in coronavirus cases, says a prominent public health specialist, who expects India to keep Covid-19 deaths at less than 8,000 in the country with strict enforcement of standard protocols and hospitals on high alert.India should not be seen as one entity when it comes to tackling Covid-19, because the population size across states and districts varies, health systems vary and level of literacy varies across and within states, said Professor GVS Murthy, Director of Indian Institute of Public Health, Hyderabad.Therefore, it will be more appropriate to talk about state-level and district-level peaks, he said.As against total cases per million population which increased in India from 17.6 cases per million on April 25 to 99.9 per million on May 25, in Maharashtra it rose from 61.9/million in April to 383/million on May 25, Professor Murthy noted.In Tamil Nadu it increased from 23.4 per million on April 25 to 199.3 per million on May 25, and in Gujarat from 48.1 per million in April to 219 per million on May 25. Delhi has shown the steepest increase in the country from 140 per million on April 25 to 690 per million on May 25."These States (Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat and Delhi) seem to be nearing the peak while those like Kerala, Punjab and Haryana seem to have crossed the peak," Prof Murthy told PTI in an interview."Since six states (Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Delhi, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh) contribute 70 per cent cases in the country, unless these states peak, the country peak cannot be reached.From the present trends, this can happen as early as early June to as late as the middle of July, he said|.On his assessment about "eventual" COVID-19 deaths in India, Professor Murthy said evidence from some models shows that nearly 80,000-100,000 deaths have been avoided due to the lockdown.He said data show that the daily increase in deaths across the country has been two deaths per million population over the last week.Most governments, Prof Murthy noted, have ramped up their health systems to prevent deaths by providing appropriate care."Efforts have also been made for early identification of severe respiratory illness and influenza-like illness. These are positive indicators that the country will be able to keep mortality on the lower side.""If standard protocols are meticulously followed and hospital facilities remain on high alert, direct COVID-19 deaths should be kept to less than 7,500-8,000 in the present pandemic. That would translate to four to five deaths per million population," he said.On India moving to 10th place in the world in terms of the number of cases, he said this statistic is misleading as the country’s population is much higher than most of the nations in Europe put together."Therefore, one must use a comparable population denominator like cases or deaths per million population (called case rate or death rate). When we do this, the total case rate per million population in India is 101 compared to 6,050 in Spain, 5,098 in the US, 3,825 in the UK and 3,801 in Italy," Professor Murthy pointed out.Similarly, death rate per million population in India is three per million compared to 615 in Spain, 542 each in the UK and Italy, 435 in France and 300 in the US, he said, adding that most countries in South and South East Asia have similar rates as India.Asked if he thought the COVID-19-induced lockdown should be completely lifted from June 1, Murthy said once steps have been taken to lift it in whatever measure, the same direction should be followed by easing it in a staggered manner.Clusters of cases have to be identified on a daily basis and containment measures have to be in place for such clusters. This has to be a dynamic process and reviewed based on new cases occurring in a large number."Public gatherings should not be permitted for the next couple of months. This includes cinema houses, religious or social events. If such activities have to be opened up, sophisticated sanitisation measures like ultraviolet disinfection tunnels should be set up and all people should pass through the same," he said.Public transport will need to be made available, he said, adding, measures like short distance buses rather than long distance ones will reduce the duration of contact and may be preferred. "Metros can be made operational with adequate sanitation procedures." PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-haryana-seem-to-have-crossed-the-peak-in-coronavirus-cases-says-public-health-expert-90159
26-05-2020||Aparna Banerji||Hours after arrest, MLA Sukhpal Khaira released||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 26 Hours after his arrest for violating the Covid-19 lockdown norms, Bholath MLA Sukhpal Singh Khaira was released from the police station.While the police maintained that Khaira and his supporters were released on bail, the MLA claimed that he refused to sign on the bail bond.“I refused to sign the bail bond even though the police was asking me to do so,” Khaira told The Tribune. “Some of them who accompanied me have signed some papers but I didn’t sign any bail bond. I am now heading back to my village,” he added.Rashpal Singh, SHO of police station number 4, said, “Everyone has been released after signing a bail bond.”Khaira was detained by the Jalandhar police while he was at the Desh Bhagat Yadhgaar Hall to hold a candle march in support of kabaddi player Arvinderjit Singh Pehalwan in Jalandhar on Monday. The march was being held to “demand justice for Arvinder Pehalwan killed by police”.An FIR was filed against 30 people under Section 188 of the IPC and 31(2) of Disaster Management Act and 3(2) of Epidemic Disease Act for organising candle march without prior permission. Messages had also been sent out on WhatsApp seeking support for the march.Deputy Commissioner of Police Gurmeet Singh said the MLA or any other person had neither applied for any permission nor they were allowed to hold such a gathering.His detention comes hours after he held a press conference at Jalandhar demanding a CBI enquiry into “politician-drug-liquor mafia nexus damaging the youth of Punjab”.He sought enquiry into revelations made by a recent ‘chitta’ peddler arrested at Kapurthala, alleging that he was close to a senior Congress leader.During the press conference, Khaira also alleged that the murder of kabaddi player Arvinder Pehalwan was also connected to the illegal liquor sale mafia.Earlier in the day, he also sent across messages stating, “I’m surprised that despite assuring Jalandhar administration that we’ll maintain proper social distancing norms, the government is hell bent not to allow peaceful candle light march at Desh Bhagat Yadgaar hall at 5 pm. This amounts to gagging our voice to speak against police brutality. I request you to please be present at 5 pm to highlight the dictatorial attitude of the police.”Khaira earlier said, “I was holding a peaceful march along with 15 to 20 of my supporters within norms. We have been brought to the police station number 4.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hours-after-arrest-mla-sukhpal-khaira-released-90156
26-05-2020||Bathinda||BJP Punjab secretary arrested for pelting inter-faith couple’s house with stones||BJP Punjab secretary Sukhpal Singh Sra was arrested by police on Tuesday after he allegedly pelted stones at an inter-faith couple's house in Bathinda.A Muslim man and a Hindu girl had recently married and they were staying at a house in Jogi Nagar. Irked over the inter-faith union, the BJP leader and his supporters, along with the woman's parents, termed the marriage as 'Love Jihad' and pelted stones at the couple's house.The woman lodged a complaint with police, after which Sra was arrested. Sra was earlier involved in a religious conversion controversy after he associated with the VHP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjp-punjab-secretary-arrested-for-pelting-inter-faith-couples-house-with-stones-90146
26-05-2020||Chandigarh||Balbir Singh Sr cremated with state honours||Hockey legend and three-time Olympics gold medallist Balbir Singh Sr was cremated with full state honours by the Punjab Police at the Sector 25 electric crematorium here today.The cremation was attended by Punjab Sports Minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi, former hockey Olympian Pargat Singh, former Punjab minister Parminder Singh Dhindsa, Chandigarh Sports Secretary KK Yadav, UT Director (Sports) Tejdeep Singh Saini, Hockey Chandigarh President Chander Shekhar and Secretary Anil Vohra among others.‘Was Punjab’s pride, nation’s treasure’Punjab Sports Minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi announced that the state government would forward Balbir’s name for the Bharat Ratna and name the Mohali hockey stadium after the legendary figure. “On behalf of the state government, the Punjab Sports Department will name our Mohali-based international hockey stadium after Balbir Singh Sr. Our government will also recommend his name for the Bharat Ratna. He was not only Punjab’s pride but also a great treasure of the nation. The countrymen will remember him always for his immense contribution to hockey,” said Sodhi.The 96-year-old had been battling several age-related problems for over two weeks and breathed his last at a private hospital in Mohali. He was on ventilator support since May 12 and had tested negative for Covid-19.Balbir Sr, largely considered as the second best in the sport only after Dhyan Chand, was living with his daughter Sushbir Bhomia and grandson Kabir Singh Bhomia at his Sector 36 residence in Chandigarh. The centre forward was the only Indian among 16 legends chosen by the International Olympic Committee across modern Olympics history. His record for scoring the most goals by an individual in the men’s hockey final of the Olympics stands unbeaten till date — Balbir Sr had scored five of India’s goals in the 6-1 victory over the Netherlands in the gold medal match of the 1952 Helsinki Games. He was conferred with the Padma Shri in 1957 and had managed India’s World Cup-winning team in 1975. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/balbir-singh-sr-cremated-with-state-honours-89903
26-05-2020||Chandigarh||Hockey stick & love for nation — two things he never parted with||For a legend as tall as Balbir Singh Sr, memories of his career were part and parcel of his everyday life. There was not a single day when he would not reminisce the good old times of his golden years as a hockey player and would love to talk about it whenever he had a chance.“You are very young, I could make you sit on the same sofa for three days and talk about my achievements and what all my team has done,” Balbir was quoted as having said to a reporter during an interview on his 91st birthday in 2015.A favourite of the media fraternity in the city, the hockey veteran never failed to amaze them with his sharp memory. He used to share numerous moments of his life — starting from his young school days to the journey of grabbing three Olympics gold medals. The cheery legend never did part with two things until the end of his garlanded journey — the hockey stick and his love for the nation. The other fascinating thing about him that everyone was fond of was his admiration for his team. “I am nothing without my team and country,” Balbir used to reiterate frequently. His love for the country largely descended from his father (Dalip Singh Dosanjh), who was a freedom fighter.On an odd day, he would not hesitate in criticising the authorities for losing the memorabilia he had handed over to the Sports Authority of India (SAI) in 1985 for a museum.That included his captain’s blazer from the Melbourne Olympics, 36 medals and over 100 rare photographs.Striker who wanted to be a goalkeeper“I wanted to be a goalkeeper. But as destiny wanted, I got an amazing coach who forced me to play as a striker. I was poor in studies and my father decided to send me to Lahore. But the problem with my academics remained,” he had revealed during an interview. Perhaps, he was the only hockey player whose well-wishers approached the then Indian High Commissioner in London, VK Krishna Menon, after he was not selected for the 39-member probables squad during the 1950s.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hockey-stick-love-for-nation-%E2%80%94-two-things-he-never-parted-with-89920
26-05-2020||Chandigarh||Indian sports has lost a gem, I a good friend, says Milkha||“I’ve personally lost a good friend, the gem of Indian sports,” said legendary sprinter Milkha Singh after hearing of the death of three-time Olympics gold medallist Balbir Singh Sr this morning.“It’s very sad. We joined the Punjab Sports Department together in 1960 and even my wife (Nirmal Milkha Singh) had worked under him,” Milkha said. “As far as my memory goes, we were part of the Indian contingent during the 1956 Melbourne, 1960 Rome and 1964 Tokyo Olympic Games. Apart from these major events, we were part of the Indian contingent in many Asian Games and other international tournaments.”However, Balbir was not part of the team in the 1960 and 1964 Olympics, though he may have travelled there on his own.“Balbir was one of the finest hockey players of India after Major Dhyan Chand,” Milkha said. “His contribution cannot be forgotten in decades to come. It’s so disheartening that his death came when the world is under a lockdown. He deserved a huge farewell. I just wish everyone in this country pays a tribute to the departed soul.”Balbir Singh Sr and Milkha Singh, two of the greatest sportspersons of India, enjoyed such popularity during their heyday that it is said they did not require an appointment to meet Jawaharlal Nehru, the then Indian Prime Minister. “It is true. We could meet him at a short notice. He loved hockey,” Balbir had once said.Hockey Chandigarh pays tributes to the legendMeanwhile, Hockey Chandigarh secretary Anil Vohra expressed grief on the death of the hockey icon. “He was the lifetime president of Rock Rovers Hockey Club, one of the oldest clubs in Indian hockey. He will remain in our memories and his achievements will be an example to live up to for the coming generations,” said Vohra.The UT Sports Department and the Panjab University Sports Department also paid tributes to Balbir Singh Sr.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/indian-sports-has-lost-a-gem-i-a-good-friend-says-milkha-89921
26-05-2020||Sanjiv Kumar Bakshi||Returning migrant labourers narrate their tales of sorrows||Hoshiarpur, May 25Migrant labourers enroute to Bihar on Hoshiarpur’s first Shramik Express had their own stories of pain. If some were returning home for the reason of shops remaining shut, others because they had no work as all construction activities have stopped. Some children had to leave their studies to return home along with their families.Santosh Kumar, a labourer, said he had come to the state as he was hopeful of getting work during the harvesting of the sugarcane crop. He said he had been stuck here for the past two months without work.Satinder Tiwari said he had come to support medical expenses of a seriously-ill relative. Now that the state has started trains for migrants, he too wants to return home, he said, adding that he had no work and nothing to eat.A student Kumar, returning to Gopal Ganj, said as all his family members were returning home, he too was going along with them, discontinuing his education. He says if the family returns in future, he will come back and resume studies.Looking distressed, Manoj Kumar Yadav, who came to the station to catch a train for Muzaffarpur, said he had been living here for the past 20 years and ran a small shop. “Due to the continuous lockdown, my business came to a standstill. Some payments were stuck but I didn’t get those. I had no money to survive so I decided to leave for home,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/returning-migrant-labourers-narrate-their-tales-of-sorrows-89883
26-05-2020||Our Correspondent||7-year-old dies in freak mishap while playing||Talwara, May 25A 7-year-old Class III student died after being strangled with the ribbon of an identity card with which she was playing at Rally village falling under Hajipur block.The Hajipur police have registered a case under Section 174 of the CrPC. The school identity card became the cause of death. Jasmeet Kaur was playing at her home. She climbed onto the bed and tried wearing the ribbon of her school identity card around her neck. The i-card was hanging on the wall. Meanwhile, its ribbon got stuck in her neck and she died. The girl was alone at home. Jasmeet was staying at her maternal grandmother’s house. Her father Balwinder Singh lives in Pathankot with his family. He is a carpenter there. His wife is the only child of her parents. Her grandmother wished to keep their daughter with her as she lived alone. So, she was staying with her at Rally village.At the time of the incident, girl’s grandmother Kanta had gone to feed the animals in the cattle shed. During this time, she did not take Jasmeet with her as it was quite hot outside. When she arrived back home, she found Jasmeet hanging from the peg. The girl was taken off the peg and a doctor was called, but by then she had died.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/7-year-old-dies-in-freak-mishap-while-playing-89873
26-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab eases rules for domestic travellers, allows home quarantine for 14 days||All domestic travellers entering Punjab from other states by plane, train or road, and found asymptomatic or negative will have to remain under home quarantine for 14 days. Earlier, institutional quarantine was mandatory for all domestic travellers.However, all international travellers will be sent for institutional quarantine for at least seven days.As per the new guidelines issued by the Punjab Government, all international travellers arriving to the state by air, sea or land will submit a self-declaration form containing their personal and health details. Those found to be symptomatic during the screening shall be taken to a health facility for testing. If they are found positive, they would be kept in Covid care centres.Asymptomatic passengers and those found negative will be taken into institutional quarantine. They will be tested on the fifth day. If they test positive, they shall be shifted to a government isolation facility. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-eases-rules-for-domestic-travellers-allows-home-quarantine-for-14-days-89981
26-05-2020||Saurabh Malik||Their graduation degrees under cloud, 58 lawyers may be barred from practice||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 25In what could be an indicator of a scam, the Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana has stumbled upon 58 graduation degrees submitted by lawyers for enrolment that appear to be non-genuine.Likely to face FIROrders to send show-cause notices and restrain the lawyers from practice for the time being have already been issued. The degrees were submitted by the lawyers from to the Bar Council’s enrolment committee between 2017 and 2020 and the reports received from the universities concerned indicate the documents were not issued by them.Available information suggests the Bar Council is in the process of sending notices. Enrolment committee chairman Lekh Raj Sharma said, “Documents with every application for enrolment are sent as a matter of routine for verification to the educational institutes.” Bar Council chairman Karanjit Singh said as he was out of station, he would look into the matter tomorrow.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/their-graduation-degrees-under-cloud-58-lawyers-may-be-barred-from-practice-89995
26-05-2020||Sangrur||Unemployed teachers protest||Demanding recruitment in Punjab Education Department, members of ETT and TET pass union burnt effigies of the state government in various districts on Monday. They have announced to restart their indefinite agitation in the coming days.“We had lifted our indefinite protest from Sangrur in March. But under the name of coronavirus, the government has stopped all recruitments,” said Mani Sangrur, state committee member of the union.The union is demanding recruitment to fill 12,000 vacant posts of teacher, withdrawal of all plans to privatise the education sector and allowance to all unemployed youngsters of the state.“We will intensify our agitation in the coming days if the Punjab government fails to fulfill our demands,” Mani added. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/unemployed-teachers-protest-89858
26-05-2020||Chandigarh||Clean up ponds by June 10, says Tript Bajwa||Rural Development and Panchayat Minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa has directed officials of the department and the Panchayats to expedite the campaign to clean village ponds in the state so that this work could be completed by June 10.Bajwa said under the campaign, launched on May 11, water from 3,848 ponds out of 12,451 ponds had been cleared and work was underway to draw water from 4,500 ponds, which would be completed in the next two to three days. Silt had also been removed from 297 ponds and the work was underway in 1,304 ponds. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/clean-up-ponds-by-june-10-says-tript-bajwa-89859
26-05-2020||Jalandhar||Khaira, aides detained for ‘violating’ curbs||The police today detained 30 people, including MLA Sukhpal Singh Khaira, for allegedly violating lockdown guidelines.An FIR has also been filed against them for organising a candle march without permission. Khaira was detained while he was at the Desh Bhagat Yaadgar Hall to hold the march “demanding justice for Arvinder, who was killed by policemen”.Kabaddi player Arvinderjit Singh was shot in Kapurthala on May 7. Khaira alleged that the murder was connected to illegal liquor sale mafia.Meanwhile, the MLA was released after a few hours. He said, “Some of my supporters signed some papers, but I didn’t sign any bail bond. I am heading back to my village.” However, station number 4 SHO Rashpal Singh said, “Everyone was released after they signed the bail bond.” —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/khaira-aides-detained-for-violating-curbs-89855
26-05-2020||Ropar||Let CBI probe scribe’s murder, demands ex-MP||Former Anandpur Sahib MP and senior Akali Dal leader Prem Singh Chandumajra on Monday demanded a CBI investigation into the killing of Sanpreet Singh, a former journalist.Sanpreet, a native of Rahon, was found dead on the Rahon-Machiwara road on May 11 in Nawanshahr. Later, the Crive Investigation Agency (CIA) of Nawanshahr arrested six youths for the crime and claimed it was a case of robbery.Chandumajra submitted a memorandum to the SBS Nagar DC and said the police’s attempt to close the case as that of being a simple robbery was a cover-up to protect the real culprits. He alleged that illegal sand mining was going on with impunity under the political patronage of Congress leaders. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/let-cbi-probe-scribes-murder-demands-ex-mp-89856
26-05-2020||Chandigarh||45 police officers transferred in Punjab||The Punjab Government on Monday issued the transfer and posting orders of 45 police officers in the state. A spokesperson said Gurpreet Singh Gill was transferred and posted as DIG, Law and Order, Punjab; S Boopathi was posted as AIG, Special Branch 1, Intelligence, Punjab, Chandigarh; and Kanwaldeep Singh was posted as AIG, Special Branch 3, Intelligence, Punjab, Chandigarh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/45-police-officers-transferred-in-punjab-89854
26-05-2020||---||Hemkund Sahib yatra deferred||Amritsar, May 25Amid the Covid-19 outbreak in the country, the pilgrimage to Sri Hemkund Sahib in Uttarakhand has been suspended for an indefinite period. The Hemkund Sahib Trust had announced to open the doors of the shrine on June 1.Besides the lockdown, another issue is that the 4-km ‘astha path’ leading to the shrine is covered with a thick layer of snow. Trust vice-chairperson Narinder Pal Singh Bindra said the reopening of the shrine had been postponed and fresh dates would be announced only after reviewing the situation.“Nothing can be decided till normalcy is restored. Work was to start on clearing the track, but it could not happen as the lockdown was announced. The fresh schedule will be decided only after the directions of the government. Moreover, it will take at least one month to make arrangements and clear the snow-clad passage to the shrine,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hemkund-sahib-yatra-deferred-89848
26-05-2020||Our Correspondent||Woman burns husband to death in Fazilka||Fazilka, May 25A woman allegedly burnt his husband to death in Chak Saidoke village of Jalalabad subdivision in Fazilka district.In a statement recorded at Amir Khas police station, Gurwinder Singh stated that his brother Gursewak Singh often used to have verbal spats with his wife Khushmanpreet Kaur, alias Veerpal Kaur, over petty domestic disputes.He alleged that Khushmanpreet Kaur put oil on her husband on Friday in a bid to burn him alive. Gursewak Singh sustained 75 per cent burns and was admitted to a hospital where he succumbed to his injuries on Sunday evening.On the other hand, Khushmanpreet Kaur said her husband was lighting a lamp in the house when he caught the fire, resulting in burn injuries.Amir Khas police station SHO Gursewak Singh said the accused has been booked under Section 302 of the IPC and was yet to be arrested. Family members and villagers staged a protest on the Jalalabad-Muktsar road today at 11 am and demanded immediate arrest of the accused woman.The villagers alleged the accused was allowed to flee due to the callous attitude of police officials. They said they would gherao the office of the DSP, Jalalabad, on Tuesday if the accused was not arrested by then. The family members have refused to cremate the body.Man booked for ‘killing’ wifeAbohar: The police have booked a man for allegedly killing his 25-yr-old woman in Gaddandob village, 21 km from here, on Friday. Gurmeet Kaur of Moga said her daughter Harsimrat Kaur was married with Jaswant Singh, a farmer in Gaddandob village, about six years ago. The couple has a son. "On Friday, Harsimrat informed me that her husband was torturing her. When I reached the village, Harsimrat was strangled to death and Jaswant had fled," Gurmeet alleged. A murder case has been registered. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/woman-burns-husband-to-death-in-fazilka-89861
26-05-2020||---||SAD condemns party worker’s murder in Batala||Chandigarh, May 25Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Monday condemned the murder of Akali worker Manjot Singh and an assault on two other youth, including an NRI, saying political killings continued unabated in Punjab even during the lockdown.In a statement issued here, the SAD president said Batala district continued to remain the vortex of political killings. Earlier too, the district had witnessed Dhilwan sarpanch Dalbir Singh’s murder in a shootout. He said like in the earlier case, the Batala police had failed to move quickly and arrest the accused, even though they had been identified.Sukhbir demanded immediate arrest of those associated with Manjot’s murder.He also asked Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to rein in Congressmen who were taking law into their own hands to settle political scores. He assured free legal aid to the aggrieved family, besides offering his heartfelt condolences.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-condemns-party-workers-murder-in-batala-89862
26-05-2020||---||Heat wave in Bathinda, cotton farmers worried||Bathinda, May 25The temperature in Bathinda was on par with Jaisalmer, Rajasthan, as the mercury touched 45 degrees Celsius.Farmers are worried as the heat wave is detrimental for crops, especially cotton. They say the germination of cotton seeds could be hampered in the intense heat wave if it continued for four to five days.Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ekta-Ugrahan) state secretary Shinghara Singh Mann said, “The situation will worsen as temperature will increase in the coming days. The state government should compensate the farmers.”As per the forecast by the regional Met station, the temperature is set touch 47 degrees Celsius on Wednesday. Weather experts say the mercury will soar further.Patiala recorded a high of 43.6 degrees Celsius, up by five degrees. Amritsar and Ludhiana too recorded above-normal maximums of 42.8 degrees Celsius and 43.1 degrees Celsius, respectively.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/heat-wave-in-bathinda-cotton-farmers-worried-89863
26-05-2020||Our Correspondent||Bid to add rotten wheat to fresh produce foiled||Abohar, May 25The police foiled an attempt to adulterate hundreds of quintals of wheat by mixing rotten foodgrain with fresh arrivals. Wahabwala police station officials said a patrolling team led by ASI Lakhwinder Singh raided a house owned by Ranjit Ram in Sherewala village on Saturday evening.A team of the Food Safety Department inspected the house and took pictures of weighing machines and fresh plastic bags that carried Punjab Government markings besides stacks that were being mixed before filling wheat in white-coloured bags. Ranjit Ram, along with Sunil Kumar, managed to flee from the spot.Sources said videos of attempt to mix rotten wheat with fresh arrivals went viral on social media on Friday. Questions were raised about the availability of government bags with the accused. A case was registered under Sections 420, 269, 272, 273 and 120B of the IPC.Two men booked||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bid-to-add-rotten-wheat-to-fresh-produce-foiled-89864
26-05-2020||---||5 flights land at Amritsar airport, as many take off||Amritsar, May 25Naman Kumar, a student of Lovely Professional University (LPU), was happy to fly back to his native place Patna as the domestic flights resumed on Monday after a gap of two months.A majority of the flyers at Sri Guru Ram Dass Jee International Airport here were students, stranded here ever since the lockdown was imposed.Naman was among 39 passengers who boarded the flight to Patna. In another flight to Delhi, 31 passengers flew back. Three more flights took off from here.Two flights arrived from Jaipur and Delhi with 16 and 25 passengers, respectively. In the evening, three more flights landed — two from Delhi and one from Patna.Two flights from Mumbai were cancelled due to operational reasons.The airport authorities introduced touch-free procedure right from the arrival of passengers to boarding the flight. The passengers did not come in contact with any airport employee. There were required to web check-in and instal Aarogya Setu app.Manoj Chansoria, airport director, said: “Domestic flights resumed in calibrated manner. The touch-free approach has been adopted to mitigate the spread of Covid. Distance markers have been drawn at the entrance to the airport and inside.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/5-flights-land-at-amritsar-airport-as-many-take-off-89860
26-05-2020||Rajmeet Singh||Stand-off continues, ministers say Cabinet to decide on Chief Secretary||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 25The stand-off between Cabinet ministers and Chief Secretary Karan Avtar Singh will be taken up in a meeting of the Council of Ministers, expected to be convened in a few days.‘Can't take call alone’I was asked about the way forward on the Chief Secretary issue. Since the Cabinet has taken a unanimous decision on the officer, I alone cannot take a call. It is up to the Cabinet to take up the matter again. — Manpreet Badal, Finance ministerFinance Minister Manpreet Badal, who along with Technical Education Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, met Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh here on Monday, said, “Since the Cabinet has unanimously resolved to abstain from any meeting attended by the Chief Secretary, only the Cabinet can take a call on the way forward on the matter and not an individual minister.”The Chief Minister had hosted a lunch for the two ministers at his Siswan farmhouse. When the two ministers met the Chief Minister over lunch, Sports Minister Rana Gurmeet Sodhi and Anandpur Sahib MP Manish Tewari were also there.“The lunch was part of the efforts for rapprochement between the top bureaucrat and the ministers. Since Manpreet and Channi have stuck to their stand and left it to the Council of Ministers, the ball is now in Chief Minister’s court,” a Cabinet minister said.Manpreet, who on Sunday night returned to Chandigarh from his native village after attending the “bhog” ceremony of his father, said: “Apart from discussing the state of expenditure, capital finance and lockdown-related issues, I was asked about the way forward on the Chief Secretary matter. Since the Cabinet had taken a unanimous decision on the officer, I alone cannot take a call. It is up to the Cabinet to take up the matter again.”He further said he had requested the Chief Minister not to call the Chief Secretary at the luncheon, as it would have been embarrassing for him in the face of the Cabinet decision to abstain from any meeting attended by the top bureaucrat.Channi, who did not respond to calls, is learnt to have told the Chief Minister that the matter should be again placed in the Cabinet.It was Manpreet, along with Channi and Sukhjinder Randhawa, who had abruptly ended a meeting with the Chief Secretary after his alleged disrespect towards the ministers during a meeting on excise before the Cabinet resolved to abstain from any meeting attended by the top bureaucrat. The CM is learnt to be backing the Chief Secretary, who, he said, was set to retire in two months.Five days ago, Cabinet minister Randhawa along with PPCC chief Sunil Jakhar, Gidderbaha MLA Amrinder Singh Raja Warring and Urmur MLA Sangat Singh Gilzian had met the Chief Minister over lunch seeking removal of the Chief Secretary. After the lunch, Randhawa had said, “We told the Chief Minister about the Chief Secretary’s behaviour. He asked us for some time. The ball is now in the CM’s court.”Three ministers, OP Soni, Balbir Singh Sidhu and Bharat Bhushan Ashu recently attended a meeting of the Chief Minister on through videoconferencing, also attended by the Chief Secretary.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/stand-off-continues-ministers-say-cabinet-to-decide-on-chief-secretary-89849
26-05-2020||Jalandhar||Comrade Naunihal passes away at 84||Comrade Naunihal Singh, last of the three men considered three pillars of the Desh Bhagat Yaadgar Committee, has passed away. He breathed his last at 9 am on Sunday at the Yol Cantonment in Dharmsala. He was 84. He is survived by daughter Kirat, son-in-law Major General Kulwant Singh Nijjhar, son Karan, daughter-in-law Roop and his grand-children.He had donated his body to the Punjab Institute of Medical Sciences in Jalandhar for scientific research. However, due to the Covid lockdown, none of the Himachal Pradesh hospitals claimed his body and it was cremated at Chaminda Devi Shamshan Ghat last evening.With Naunihal Singh, an era of ideologues committed to the cause of liberty and Ghadar has also ended. Baba Bhagat Singh Bilga and Comrade Gandharva Sen Kochar, who died in 2018, were the other two pillars. He was the eldest surviving member of the yaadgar committee. He had been the cashier and general secretary of the committee. Be it the concept of starting the historic Mela Ghadri Babeyan Da, call for the martyrdom status of those who died during the Kooka Lehar or the Komgatamaru incidents, or speaking up against the dilution of Jallianwala Bagh as a mere tourist spot, Naunihaal Singh, a steadfast leftist, was the foremost proponent of these movements. He is also credited with shaping the Desh Bhagat Yaadgar Hall as a literary and cultural hub. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/comrade-naunihal-passes-away-at-84-89850
26-05-2020||Ruchika M Khanna||133-acre pharma park to come up in Fatehgarh Sahib||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 25After struggling to stop the pharma industry shift to neighbouring tax-exempt hill states, Punjab is finally recognising the sector’s potential. A pharma park, with focus on bulk drug manufacturers, is coming up in Fatehgarh Sahib.As the Centre is focusing on promoting bulk drug manufacturing here to reduce the country’s dependence on China for Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients (API) and Key Starting Materials (KSM), Punjab has taken the initiative by acquiring 133 acres to set up the pharma park.The spread of the Covid pandemic has led to an ever-increasing need for manufacturing APIs in India, more so because 80 per cent of APIs used in the formulations of list of essential medicines are sourced from China.“The Punjab Small Industries and Export Corporation (PSIEC) has acquired land in Wazirabad village of Fatehgarh Sahib district. We will develop the land and soon allot it to pharma companies. The PSIEC has already decided the rates at which allotment is to be made (Rs39.5 lakh per acre) and on developing the site, which is connected to the highway and to a rail head,” Vini Mahajan, Additional Chief Secretary (Industries) told The Tribune.Punjab has sought the Centre’s approval to turn the pharma park into a mega pharma park under the new Central government scheme.The pharma park, though approved almost four years ago, is yet to see the light of the day, even as a major chunk of the pharma industry (more than 650 units) is clustered in Baddi, Barotiwala and Nalagarh. Punjab Government officials feel they could get a major chunk of investment from these companies, besides more than 200 pharma units in Punjab, as it is preparing a plan for a state-of-the-art common effluent treatment plant in its pharma park.Jagdeep Singh, president, Punjab Drug Manufacturers Association, said Punjab had a number of bulk drug manufacturers, making both APIs and KSMs, but they moved to tax-exempt states to avail benefits. “If Punjab immediately offers land and eases the regulatory mechanism, it stands a good chance of becoming a hub for API and KSM.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/133-acre-pharma-park-to-come-up-in-fatehgarh-sahib-89851
26-05-2020||Parvesh Sharma||Eid festivities missing, greetings go online||Tribune News ServiceMalerkotla, May 25The usual fervour around Eid-ul-Fitr was missing on Monday as residents of the Muslim-majority Malerkotla town preferred to gather in small numbers to exchanged greetings in view of the Covid pandemic.Idgah and mosque remained closed, while residents offered namaz in small groups in streets maintaining social distancing, praying for the end of the pandemic. The youth greeted their loved ones on WhatsApp, Facebook and Twitter.Shakeel Khan, a senior citizen who was buying fruits near Sirhandi gate here, said: “It’s for the first time that I have not distributed sweets and met my friends on Eid.”Markets were deserted. Shopkeepers said sales were yet to pick up post lockdown. “It will take time to attain the pre-lockdown level of sales,” one of them said.“Many wanted to buy clothes, fruits and other items, but couldn’t because they are short of money,” said Abdul, a local resident.Iqbal Mohammad Fauji, former president of the Nagar Council, was content that people followed the Covid guidelines on Eid. “Malerkotla residents have once again proved that they are willing to sacrifice anything to save the country. All followed the guidelines of the state government to defeat Covid,” he said.Ertiqaul Hasan, Mufti Azam Punjab, told The Tribune that not only Malerkotla, but Muslims across the country were standing by the state government to defeat the virus.“Though its unprecedented situation for all Muslims as there is no celebration of Eid, but all are feeling proud as they have supported their government to arrest the spread of Covid,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/eid-festivities-missing-greetings-go-online-89852
26-05-2020||Saurabh Malik||Can’t increase plot area by extending roof: High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 25In a significant judgment that will change the way house owners carry out expansions of floors above the ground level, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear that the overhanging projection such as balconies and rooms cannot be constructed beyond the plot size.Justice Anil Kshetarpal also made it clear that a developer cannot claim exclusive rights over a common use passage described as a street in a sale deed. The judgment comes at a time when balconies, structural canopies and other projections hanging over roads has become common.The judge ruled that a purchaser or an owner does not have the right to extend the projection on the first floor beyond the area purchased by him and that also over a public street. Besides, a developer who has carved out a market and kept a passage for common use before describing it as a street in a sale deed cannot subsequently claim that the area was for his exclusive use.The matter came to the HC’s notice after two regular second appeals were filed by the buyer and the developer. The Bench was told that developer Ram Saroop, who carved out a market on a piece of land, claimed he had kept a private passage and the buyer had no right to construct a projection covering half its width.The Bench was also told that buyer Rajinder Kumar after purchasing a single-storey shop constructed the first floor with a two-and-a-half-ft projection above the open space claimed by the builder to be a private street.Justice Kshetarpal ruled: “Once a co-owner of a piece of land/plot decides to develop the same into a residential or commercial area, certain space has to be left for common utility. Once some area has been earmarked for common utility, the owner cannot claim any exclusive right over the area so reserved or earmarked for common utility.”Justice Kshetarpal added the buyer, Rajinder Kumar, too was not having the right to construct the first floor in a manner that it encroached upon two-and-a-half-ft area overhanging above the street. “In the absence of a specific right or custom or usage, the plaintiff-buyer cannot, as a matter of right, claim that he has entitlement to extend the area of the plot on first and the second floor by extending the roof,” the judge ruled.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cant-increase-plot-area-by-extending-roof-high-court-89853
26-05-2020||---||21 more test +ve, active cases 128 in Punjab||Chandigarh, May 25With 21 fresh cases reported today, the total number of Covid cases in the state has reached 2,081. As per the government bulletin, 10 cases were reported from Amritsar, six from Jalandhar and one each from Tarn Taran, Kapurthala, SAS Nagar and Sangrur.In Amritsar, the total count of patients has reached 329. The patients include an Afghanistan-returned man, a woman who had come back from Aligarh, five contacts of earlier positive cases and a person arrested by the police in a criminal case. Of the 10, three have no travel history or contact with a positive case.Apart from the bulletin, the local administration has reported six additional cases. These include four family members of an earlier positive case. As per the administration, the total count is 335.In Patiala, a 20-year-old pregnant woman tested positive today. The woman, who lives in Rajpura, has been shifted to the isolation ward of Government Rajindra Hospital.The Health Department said she had returned from New Delhi on May 19. During her regular check-up for pregnancy, she was screened for Covid. Patiala Civil Surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra said rapid response teams had been pressed into service to trace all contacts of the woman.As per the Health Department, so far, samples of 66,142 suspected cases were sent for testing. Of them, 60,114 samples were found negative and reports of 3,968 were awaited. So far, 1,913 persons have been discharged after treatment. Now, 128 active cases are left in the state.Train cancelled, migrants protestFatehgarh Sahib: Hundreds of migrant workers from Bihar gathered at the grounds of Khalsa School, Mandi Gobindgarh, early Monday morning. However, they turned violent as they came to know that the Shramik train meant to ferry them home had been cancelled. They reportedly tried to block the GT Road but the timely intervention of Amloh SDM Anand Sagar Sharma and DSP Sukhwinder Singh saved the situation from taking an ugly turn. Later, in the evening, the migrants were taken to Ambala Cantt in nine buses to board a train to Bihar. They alleged that they were told that a Shramik train would leave from Mohali and they had gathered to be taken to Mohali via buses. They said on Friday also, approximately 400 migrants were taken to Mohali in buses. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/21-more-test-ve-active-cases-128-in-punjab-89857
26-05-2020||Aman Sood||Olympian’s wish to see donated medals again remains unfulfilled||Tribune News ServicePatiala, May 25“I might not see my blazer and medals again but I am still happy. I was able to don them during my playing days. I wish I am able to see them again in my lifetime. I had worked really hard in the field to earn them,” legendry hockey Olympian Balbir Singh Senior had told The Tribune almost three years ago.However, with the death of the hockey icon on Monday, his wish remained unfulfilled. While police probe still continues to locate the hockey legend’s blazer, the search has stretched a little too far.In 2018, almost 20 years after the precious memorabilia was donated by the legendary Olympian to the Sports Authority of India (SAI)-run Netaji Subhas National Institute of Sports, the items were reported missing. The Patiala police had registered an FIR pertaining to the theft, with NIS officials acknowledging that the “blazer of the hockey star may have been missing/stolen”.Other than his Olympic medals and the Padma Shri award, his Melbourne Olympics blazer (when he was the captain), 36 medals, including Tokyo Asiad (1958) silver, and over 100 rare pictures were donated by the former hockey legend, never to be seen again.The role of certain SAI staffers is still under probe, even as an insider claimed some senior officials had tried to save the erring staff “as evident from no probe being conducted” for many years. It took them years to lodge a formal complaint and another year for the cops to register a FIR. “I will not be surprised if the stolen items come in the international market and are up for sale in an auction,” a former NIS official stated. The 96-year-old Olympian had donated his medals and blazer to the then SAI secretary in 1985 for display at a proposed sports museum in Delhi. Later, enquiries before the start of the London Olympics in 2012 revealed that SAI had no clue where these were.Amarinder offers condolencesChief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Monday expressed profound grief over the demise of hockey legend Balbir Singh Senior. In a condolence message, the Chief Minister recalled the immense contribution of Balbir Singh towards the promotion of sports, especially hockey. Meanwhile, the SGPC also mourned the death of Balbir Singh Senior.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/olympians-wish-to-see-donated-medals-again-remains-unfulfilled-89846
26-05-2020||---||Raw material for liqour smuggled to Assam for 8 years, say officials||Patiala, May 25It has come to light that distillers in Punjab smuggled extra neutral alcohol (ENA), which is the key ingredient in manufacturing spurious liquor, to as far as Gujarat and Assam. And this continued for more than eight years. Assam officials had, in 2017, pointed this out in a letter to the Punjab Excise and Taxation Department.The matter assumes significance today because it was unearthed recently that Punjab distilleries, under the garb of making sanitisers, manufactured liquor and sold it illegally.The Excise Department has assured that an investigation will be launched to ascertain how the distillers managed to route the ENA to other states and probe the role of its officials.A police probe into illegal liquor brands manufactured at illegal distilleries has brought out that the accused would make any brand of liquor by diluting the ENA, which costs Rs55 a litre and has 72.5 per cent alcohol content. They would dilute it to 40 per cent alcohol and add artificial flavour and colour, and then misused labels to sell the liquor.“The interrogation of the recently arrested accused has pointed to a nexus between smugglers, and excise and distillery officials. In some cases, the ENA was stolen from trucks and, in others, distillery officials turned a blind eye in spite of knowing that the ENA was being diluted while the pure ENA was being smuggled,” a senior police official said.In 2017, the Assam Excise Department had unearthed a smuggling racket allegedly involving Punjab-based companies that diverted the ENA meant for pharmaceutical use. Instead, the ENA was used to manufacture liquor.“The distillery concerned was issued a show-cause notice and filed for a hearing with the Excise and Taxation Commissioner, but no action was taken against excise officials and smuggling continued for more than eight years,” an excise official said.In June 2017, a month after the scam, the Assam excise authorities had shot off the letter to its Punjab counterpart, seeking details of the rectified alcohol issued by a supplier in Patiala to two firms in Assam since 2008.“We recently transferred all officials deployed at distilleries. Now, we are on course-correction and we will identify the black sheep in the department that allowed the ENA to be smuggled,” said Principal Secretary (Excise and Taxation) A Venu Prasad.Why Sutlej polluted with ‘lahan’: BajwaChandigarh: Rajya Sabha member Partap Singh Bajwa has drawn attention of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder towards reports of the Excise Department dumping 1.3 lakh litres of ‘lahan’ into the Sutlej in Ferozepur. “It was wrong on the part of the state to damage the environment by dumping ‘lahan’ into the river. The state should have adopted another method to dump it,” he said, reminding the CM about the discharge of molasses by a sugar factory in Kiri Afgana. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/raw-material-for-liqour-smuggled-to-assam-for-8-years-say-officials-89847
