31-05-2020||---||Punjab to open markets, barber, liquor shops, spas from Monday subject to SOP||Chandigarh, May 31In line with the Central Government’s guidelines for Unlock 1.0, Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Sunday ordered formulation of clearly defined SOPs/guidelines for opening up of hotels /hospitality services, shopping malls, places of worship, and restaurants for in-dinning, from June 8, 2020, while announcing immediate opening up of shops, including liquor and barber shops, beauty parlours, spas, etc., from Monday in the non-containment zones.He has directed the Health and Transport Departments to come out with detailed SOPs for permitted activities and movement in this phase of the lockdown, beginning June 1 till June 30, for the areas outside containment zones.In the containment zones, however, only essential activities shall be allowed and there shall be a strict perimeter control. Such zones will be demarcated by the district authorities after taking into consideration the guidelines of the Union Ministry of Health & Family Welfare.The district authorities would also identify buffer zones outside containment zones wherein restrictions as considered necessary, may be put in place.As per the directives of the Chief Minister, effective June 1, shops in main bazars will be open between 7 am and 7 pm, and liquor vends can remain open from 8 am to 8 pm.The DCs have been authorised to exercise their discretion in staggering the timings to avoid crowding, in main bazaars, market complexes and rehri markets.Subject to compliance with SOPs to be issued by the Health Department, barber shops, hair-cut salons, beauty parlours and Spas are also allowed to open up from tomorrow.The Chief Minister, however, made it clear that strict compliance would have to be ensured to all SOPs, as well as health and safety protocols, including wearing of masks and social distancing.E-commerce is now permitted in Punjab for all goods, including non-essential, as per the latest guidelines issued on the directives of the Chief Minister late on Sunday evening.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-to-open-markets-barber-liquor-shops-spas-from-monday-subject-to-sop-92518
31-05-2020||---||Punjab issues guidelines for lockdown 5.0, from June 1 to June 30||Chandigarh, May 31Following the Centre’s guidelines on lockdown 5.0, Punjab, in detailed guidelines, issued on Sunday said there would be no restriction on inter-state movement of persons by train, road or rail.But it would be subject to the inward passengers following SOP of the health department and get self-generated e-pass through Punjab COVA app.Effective from June 1 to June 30, the guidelines for inter-state movement of passenger vehicles would be permitted against self-generated e-pass.Also read: As Lockdown 4.0 ends, states come with varied guidelines to ease more curbsPunjab to open markets, barber, liquor shops, spas from Monday subject to SOPBefore allowing opening of religious places, malls and restaurants from June 8, Punjab would take an on-ground assessment and issue standard operating procedure (SOP) for opening of these places outside the containment zones.Experts have advised the state authorities against the opening of the hospitality industry and malls at this juncture, when fear of community spread is looming large over the state.The movement of individuals, for all non-essential activities in Punjab, would remain restricted during the night curfew from 9 pm to 5 am, revising the previous timings of 7 pm to 7 am. However, all type of shops would be allowed to remain open from 7 am to 7 pm and liquor vends from 8 am to 8 pm.Regarding the Centre’s decision to lift the restriction on permission/e-permit required for inter-state movement of persons and goods, state authorities said the protocol on screening of those entering the state by train, road or air would remain in place as those entering the state had led to spike in cases in recent past.Besides, the government and private offices would be allowed to open as per the required strength without any restriction, subject to  compliance of social distancing and wearing of masks at all times.However, restrictions on persons allowed at marriage related gatherings or funeral would remain in force.Prohibited activities(i) Cinema halls, gymnasiums, swimming pools, entertainment parks, theatres, bars, auditoriums, assembly hall; and similar places.(ii) Social, political, sports, entertainment, academic, cultural, religious functions and other large congregations. (iii) Spitting in public places (iv) Consumption of liquor, pan, gutka, tobacco, etc., in public places is prohibited. However, there will be no restriction on their sale.Restricted activities(i) Marriage related gatherings — Number of guests not to exceed 50. (ii) Funeral/last rites — Number of persons not to exceed 20.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-issues-guidelines-for-lockdown-5-0-from-june-1-to-june-30-92510
31-05-2020||---||Punjab police bust paddy seed ‘scam’; Ludhiana firm owner arrested||Chandigarh, May 31The Punjab Police on Sunday busted an alleged paddy seed scam with the arrest of the owner of a private firm, found selling spurious seeds to farmers at exorbitant rates, under the guise of some newly developed varieties of seeds which have still not been certified by the Central Seed notified Committee for commercial marketing.The private firm has been identified as Ludhiana-based Brar Seeds, owned by Harwinder Singh alias Kaka Brar, who has been arrested by the Special Investigation Team (SIT) of Ludhiana Police, DGP Dinkar Gupta disclosed. The licence of the store, located opposite PAU gate no.1 Ludhiana, has been cancelled, and the premises have been sealed.Son of Hardial Singh, 56-year-old Kaka Brar is being questioned, and investigations are expected to lead more arrests in the case, said the DGP.The case was registered at PS Division No. 5, Ludhiana City, after Chief Agriculture Officer Ludhiana Narinder Singh Benipal checked the Brar Seeds store and found reasons to suspect misdeeds.Giving details, Ludhiana Commissioner of Police Rakesh Aggarwal said the SIT was formed under a senior officer of the rank of Deputy Commissioner of Police, Ludhiana to investigate the case. The Chief Agriculture Officer was included in the team as technical expert.During extensive raids carried out by SIT, a huge stock of seeds was seized from the Brar Seed Store, and samples were sent to the Agriculture Department laboratory for analysis. The analysis revealed some of the seeds to be spurious, said Aggarwal.Initial investigations show that Brar was using the names (PR 128 and PR 129) of the new paddy varieties developed by the Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) to cheat the farmers by selling spurious seeds branded as such.Incidentally, PAU is yet to commercially produce the seeds, which have not been supplied to any private company.Following the arrest and seizure of the spurious seeds, the District Administration, accompanied by police and agriculture department officials, carried out extensive checking of shops selling seeds in Ludhiana, and also took samples of the seeds being sold. These samples have been sent for laboratory checks.The District Police has also issued helpline numbers 9115601160, 9115601161, for farmers to complain about any over-charging by seed shops, and any suspicion regarding the quality of seeds and fertilisers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-police-bust-paddy-seed-scam-ludhiana-firm-owner-arrested-92504
31-05-2020||Chandigarh||COVID-19: 30 fresh cases reported; state count rises to 2,263||With another death due to COVID-19 in Pathankot, the total number of casualties in the state has reached 45.Apart from that, one person in Ludhiana is critical and is on ventilator support system and two are on oxygen support.As per the district health officials, the latest victim is a 50-year-old man. He hailed from Mirpur colony, Pathankot. He came to the Pathankot civil hospital with some respiratory problems. “He was also a diabetic. Since he was carrying symptoms of COVID-19, we took his samples and asked him to home quarantine himself. His test turned out to be positive,” said Pathankot  Senior Medical Officer Dr Bhupinder Singh.Apart from that, 30 fresh cases were reported today and state’s count has now reached 2,263.As per the media bulletin, among districts, 9 cases were reported from Ludhiana, 8 from Ropar, four each from Jalandhar and Hoshiarpur, three from Amritsar and one each from Moga and Barnala.In Ludhiana, 9 more were tested positive. Seven are the family members of the COVID positive patient who died yesterday at DMCH while two are under-trials.A 53-year-old-patient from Chowni Mohalla lost his life yesterday at DMCH.He was shifted from Deep Hospital in a serious condition with high fever and urinary tract infection. He was diabetic from last 4-5 years. Samples of 9 of the family members were taken out of which 7 have tested positive and all are admitted at MCH, Vardhman.In addition to this, two more tested positive for COVID-19 today and both of them are under trials.  One 34-year-old is from Ludhiana and was booked for attempt-to-murder.Other one is 18-year-old and is from Gurdaspur and he was also booked for murder. Both of them were in Borstal jail which is a COVID special quarantine jail for the entire state. In Jalandhar, four new cases were reported. Of these the three cases include a mother (38-year-old) and son (15-year-old) – Dalla village residents—contacts of a man who had previously tested positive.The third person is a 24-year-old resident of Boparai village in Jalandhar. Besides that a 51-year-old man – contact of a Lajpat Nagar industrialist who previously tested positive—and a 47-year-old BSF personnel tested positive.The BSF man who had returned from Delhi – where he had been in 14-day quarantine – tested positive after he was tested at the flu corner on his return to Jalandhar. In Amritsar three new cases were reported today. The district health authorities said two of the new positive cases are residents of Mehta village who had returned from UK recently.While one other patient with influenza like illness from Park Avenue area had self reported. Meanwhile the health department has reported three recoveries today with which the total count of cured patients has reached 310. The district presently has 75 active cases.After remaining corona-free for 10 days, Fazilka reported two fresh cases.The health department source said one person returned from Sonepat in Haryana some four days ago has been tested Covid positive. He was home quarantined at his residence in local Badal colony.He has been rushed to isolation centre set up in Jalalabad civil hospital. The police have cordoned off the area around the residence of the affected person.Another person stated to be from security force has been kept in isolation centre as per force’s protocol. He had also come from Haryana.Total tested samples 87,852Positive cases: 2,263Cured: 1,987Deaths: 45                                    Cases                         Confirmed Deaths       Amritsar                        377                                     7 Jalandhar                      245                                     7 Ludhiana                       193                                     9 Tarn Taran                    157 Gurdaspur                    137                                     3      Hoshiarpur                   120                                      5 Patiala                           118                                     2 SAS Nagar                     111                                     3 SBS Nagar                    102                                       1 Sangrur                          96 Ropar                            70                                         1 Muktsar                       66 Faridkot                        62 Moga                            62 Pathankot                   60                               2 Fatehgarh Sahib          58 Bathinda                    47 Ferozepur                    46                               1       Fazilka                     44  Kapurthala                   36                               3 Mansa                           32 Barnala                         24                               1      Total                    2263                                   45||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-19-30-fresh-cases-reported-state-count-rises-to-2-263-92494
31-05-2020||GS Paul||Ahead of Bluestar anniversary, police fortify Golden Temple||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 31With “Ghallughara week” dedicated to 36th anniversary of Operation Bluestar commencing on Monday, call it Covid-19 threat or avoiding the commotion in and around the Golden Temple complex the police are prepping well in advance.In a wake of Covid lockdown, the Akal Takht officiating Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh is yet to take a final call on the programme, yet his ‘parallel’ counterpart Bhai Dhyan Singh Mand has declared to conduct prayers at the Akal Takht and deliver ‘public address’. Another separatist organisation, Dal Khalsa and allied organisations too have announced to conduct genocide remembrance parade a day prior in Amritsar.Taking into account the history of clashes between the SGPC and the pro-Khalistan groups on June 6, the police were discouraging the devotees to approach towards shrine complex. “We apprehend that some ‘garamkhiali’ Sikh activists could gather inside the shrine well in advance. Moreover, Covid-19 guidelines too demand to avoid gathering, that’s why we have taken security measures,” said a cop preferring anonymity.The police have tightened security in and around the Golden Temple. While 144 of 1973 CrPC has been imposed, carrying any kind of weapon, including the ‘kirpan’ has been banned, till further orders.SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal said the decision of holding June 6 programme would be taken keeping in view the government’s guidelines of lockdown-5 or lockdown-1 relaxations.“We are yet to take a decision before giving a public call for June 6 programme. Under prevailing adverse circumstances, the bhog of akhand paths could be initiated in the Golden Temple complex to mark the occasion symbolically, devoid of sangat from outside on June 6. Due to Covid threat, Giani Harpreet Singh had already directed the sangat to avoid gathering during gurpurbs earlier,” he said.Damdami Taksal head Harnam Singh Khalsa said in the wake of coronavirus threat, this time the day will be observed would be held symbolically. “From June 1 to 4, katha kirtan would be held at gurdwara in Chowk Mehta and on June 6, bhog of Akhand Path would be initiated. I appeal to devotees to stay in the homes and perform ardas for the peace of Shaheed,” he said.On the other hand, the controversial 2015 Sarbat Khalsa organiser Jarnail Singh Sakhira claimed that police have started raiding the places of Sikh activists.“Jathedar Mand supported by handful of activists will reach Akal Takht, conduct prayers and deliver public address on June 6, as the precedence goes. But we will follow the social distancing and other safety norms,” he said. Dal Khalsa spokesperson Kanwar Pal Singh said, “Keeping physical distancing norm in mind only the prominent members of our party and other likeminded parties would take part in the parade on June 5,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ahead-of-bluestar-anniversary-police-fortify-golden-temple-92485
31-05-2020||Pathankot||Always ready to help needy, says Pathankot’s differently-abled man who earns praise from PM||A 37-year-old differently-abled man, who was praised by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his radio programme ‘Mann Ki Baat’, on Sunday said he always tried to help the needy.Raju, a beggar, earned praise from Prime Minister Modi for distributing 3,000 masks and providing ration to 100 distressed families during the lockdown period.He said he was happy to learn that Modi showered praise on him.“I always try to help needy people,” Raju, who resides near Dhangu road here, said.Raju, who uses a hand-powered tricycle, collected Rs 75,000 by begging and spent the entire amount on distributing masks and ration to the poor during the lockdown period.“I do not have family and home. I spent all of the money collected through begging during lockdown,” Raju, who is suffering from polio, said.Once he spent Rs 15,000 from his own pocket on the repair of a portion of a road over a drain here.“Despite complaints, the administration paid no heed but he did,” said Dinesh Beri, a shopkeeper at Dhangu road.A number of accidents used to take place because of the broken road, he said.Raju said he also provided financial assistance for wedding of women belonging to poor families. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/always-ready-to-help-needy-says-pathankots-differently-abled-man-who-earns-praise-from-pm-92472
31-05-2020||---||Punjab CM clears appointments of eight next of kin of martyrs||Chandigarh, May 31Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh has cleared the appointments of eight Next of Kin (NoK) of martyrs in recognition of their gallantry actions.Disclosing this on Sunday, a spokesperson of the Chief Minister’s Office said the appointments were recommended by a high-powered committee headed by Chief Secretary Karan Avtar Singh.The state government has appointed Amritbir Singh as Tehsildar in the Revenue Department for the supreme sacrifice made by his father, Inspector Raghbir Singh, who belonged to Sathiala village (Amritsar) and had joined the CRPF in 1991. He was an outstanding sportsperson and had won medals in athletics at the national level. He attained martyrdom on April 24, 2017, while fighting the Naxalites in the Sukma district of Chhattisgarh.Tanveer Kaur has also been appointed as Tehsildar in the Revenue Department. Her husband, Major Ravi Inder Singh Sandhu, joined NDA Khadakwasla in 2003 and was commissioned in the Corps of Signals in 2007. The officer had also done two stints in counter-insurgency in J&K. He laid down his life while serving in the UN Mission in South Sudan and was awarded “Dag Hammarskjold Medal” by the United Nations for courage and sacrifice in the line of duty.Other appointees include Akwinder Kaur as Naib Tehsildar, Astha Garg as Excise and Taxation Officer, Malkeet Kaur as library restorer, Tanveer Kaur as Tehsildar, Amandeep as a clerk in the Defence Services Welfare Department, Gurpal Singh as Junior Engineer (Electrical) in PWD, Radha Rani as Inspector in Cooperative Societies and Amritbir Singh as Tehsildar.Aastha Garg has been appointed Excise and Taxation Officer. Her husband, Flt Lt Mohit Garg, belonged to Samana (Patiala), and after completing his education from PPS Nabha, he joined NDA Khadakwasla in 2009 and was commissioned as a pilot in the Indian Air Force in 2014. The officer died when the AN 32 aircraft, which he was flying, crashed in a high-altitude area of Arunachal Pradesh.Constable (GD) Mukhtiar Singh belonged to Fattuwala village in Ferozepur district and had joined the BSF in 2000. He attained martyrdom on July 15, 2018, while fighting valiantly the Naxalites in Pakhanjure sub-division in Chhattisgarh. For the sacrifice made by him, his wife, Malkeet Kaur, has been appointed as library restorer in the Education Department.Gurpal Singh, brother of martyr Rifleman Sukhwinder Singh, has been given the appointment of Junior Engineer (Electrical) in the PWD. Rifleman Sukhwinder Singh was born in Fatehpur village in Hoshiarpur district and joined the 18 JAK Rifles in 2017. He was martyred on December 16, 2019, while fighting at the Line of Control in Sunderbani area of Jammu & Kashmir.Radha Rani, sister of Gdr Sanjay Kumar, has been appointed as Inspector in Registrar, Co-operative Societies. Sanjay Kumar belonged to Rajwal village in Hoshiarpur district and joined the 5 GRENADIERS on October 10, 2012. He died on April 9, 2019, while he was carrying out a field-firing exercise with live ammunition.Gnr Lekh Raj was born in 1990 in Shajrana village in Ferozepur district. He joined the 332 Medium Regt in 2011. He attained martyrdom on Aug 7, 2018, while he was on patrolling duty on the Line of Actual Control in Arunachal Pradesh. The martyr’s brother, Amandeep, has appointed clerk in the Department of Defence Services Welfare, Punjab.Martyr Naik Manwinder Singh hailed from Ghonewal village (Amritsar) and was enrolled in the 3 PUNJAB in 2008. He attained martyrdom on November 18, 2019, when he was on operational duty in a high-altitude area in Siachen Glacier. For his supreme sacrifice, his wife, Akwinder Kaur, has been appointed as Naib Tehsildar in the Revenue Department.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-clears-appointments-of-eight-next-of-kin-of-martyrs-92468
31-05-2020||---||Second evacuation flight lands in Mohali||Mohali, May 31The second evacuation flight, under the Vande Bharat Mission of the Union Government to evacuate stranded Indian nationals abroad, carrying 144 passengers from Kiev (Ukraine) via New Delhi landed at the Mohali International Airport here early Sunday morning. Out of 144 passengers, 34 belong to Punjab, two belong to Chandigarh, 54 to Himachal Pradesh, 53 to Haryana and one to Rajasthan.Mohali DC Girish Dayalan said that nobody was found symptomatic after screening. Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said that no passenger was suffering from fever, cough, cold etc.Dayalan added that the passengers hailing from the district would not be sent home as of now and would be kept in quarantine at the various government facilities at hotels for 14 days as a precautionary measure.Dayalan said that district administration had made arrangements and sent the passengers belonging to the other districts and the states to their respective districts and states where they would undergo quarantine period.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/second-evacuation-flight-lands-in-mohali-92437
31-05-2020||Chandigarh||18 Mohali institutes alumni pass out from NDA sans parade, parents||The Passing out Parade at the tri-service National Defence Academy (NDA), Kharakvasla on Saturday, saw as many as 18 alumni of Maharaja Ranjit Singh Armed Forces Preparatory Institute (AFPI), Mohali making the final step through its portals before joining their respective service academies for pre-commission training.They were part of the 138th NDA Course that completed its three-year rigorous training in the journey of a cadet towards becoming an officer. While the passing out parade is a grand affair, with parents and siblings of cadets as well as military and civilian dignitaries invited to the event, this time it was a low-key affair due to prevailing conditions of COVID-19.Instead of the customary outdoor parade in the revered Khetarpal Drill Square, a solemn ceremony was held in Habibulah Hall, the NDAs main auditorium. Only cadets of the passing out course and some members of the faculty attended the event, which was presided over by the Commandant, Lt Gen Asit Mistry.The passing out parade at the Indian Military Academy, Dehradun, scheduled to be held next week, will also see a similar setting.A total of 335 cadets graduated from the NDA which includes 226 Army cadets, 44 Naval cadets and 65 Air Force cadets. In addition, there were 20 cadets from friendly foreign countries including Bhutan, Tajikistan, Maldives, Vietnam, Tanzania, Mauritius, Afghanistan, Kyrgyzstan, Sri Lanka, Myanmar, Turkmenistan, Fiji, Uzbekistan, Sudan, Mongolia and Bangladesh.In the normal course the cadets would have been given some leave on completion of their training to go home, but this year that has not been possible. They will be proceeding directly to their respective service academies and will possibly their due leave only when conditions permit. The AFPI alumni passing out on May 30 were from the 5th AFPI Course 2016 – 17. Several of them held senior appointments in the passing out course including Academy Cadet Adjutant Loveneet Singh, Battalion Cadet Captain Rajdeep Singh and Squadron Cadet Captain Arunav Laroiya. Loveneet Singh was awarded the Commandants Medal for Dedication to Duty and Arunav Laroiya was awarded the Commandants Medal for Exceptional Leadership.Loveneet’s father, Rupinder Singh, is a farmer who belongs to Jalalabad and Arunav’s father is an assistant general manager (IT) from Patiala. Both of Rajdeep’s parents are teachers, and they belong to village Nangli in Punjab.The 8th AFPI Course has completed its training in the Institute in April this year and selected candidates were scheduled to join NDA in July, but the commencement of the next NDA course is likely to be delayed as it has not been possible to complete all SSB interviews so far. As of now 17 cadets of this course have already qualified to join the next NDA course. Currently, the 9th and 10th courses are undergoing training at AFPI. This training is being conducted in the form of online classes for the time being.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/18-mohali-institutes-alumni-pass-out-from-nda-sans-parade-parents-92418
31-05-2020||Karam Prakash||Patiala sees only two local coronavirus cases in two weeks||Tribune News ServicePatiala, May 31Despite relaxation in curfew, Patiala district reported only two positive cases that had a local source of infection over the last two weeks.In some relief to the city residents, Patiala health department informed that of the 17 total cases since May 14, there were only two cases that had a local source of infection. The rest have been related to interstate travel, said the department.District epidemiologist Dr Sumeet Singh informed that the situation was becoming better in the district as no major spike was witnessed in the last two weeks. He said, “We have only two cases with local source of infection. However, we have to be extra vigilant about interstate and inter-district travelers. If people follow the guidelines, the situation will remain under control.” It is pertinent to mention that an ASHA worker, who had a local source, tested positive for the virus. However, all her high risk contacts tested negative. The second patient who had a local source of infection was a pregnant woman.Meantime, Patiala Civil Surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra said that they were trying to cover all the possible sources of infection from out of the district, including labourers, interstate travelers, foreign travelers and high risk communities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/patiala-sees-only-two-local-coronavirus-cases-in-two-weeks-92405
31-05-2020||Yavatmal (Maharashtra)||81-year-old Sikh man feeds 2 million on remote Maharashtra highway||Since the past over two months of lockdown, thousands of bus, trucks, tempos and other vehicles passing near Karanji on National Highway-7 make it a point to halt at a ramshackle tin shed with plastic sheets, beside the dry and dusty road.This is the only spot on a stretch of around 450 kms where a decent meal is available - free of cost - courtesy the services of Baba Karnail Singh Khaira, who is revered as Khaira Babaji in the region.“This is a remote, tribal region. Behind us for nearly 150-km, and ahead for nearly 300 km, there’s not a single dhaba or restaurant... So most people prefer to halt at ‘Guru ka langar’ and avail of our round-the-clock services,” Khaira Babaji told IANS.A simple ochre-colour board indicates ‘Gurudwara Sahib’, and ‘Dera Kar Seva Gurudwara Langar Sahib’, this tiny ‘Guru ka langar’ is linked with the historic Gurudwara Bhagod Sahib, Wai, located around 11 km away in a forested area, visited mostly by Sikhs.It was the spot where the 10th Sikh Guru, Guru Gobind Singh had stayed in 1705, while en route to Nanded, some 250 km away, where he was assassinated on October 7, 1708. Nearly 125 years later, it bloomed as the world-famous ‘Gurudwara Takht Hazuri Sahib Sachkhand’ (Nanded), one of the Five Takhts in Sikhism.“Since the Gurudwara Bhagod Sahib is away from the main road, in 1988 (32 years ago), this free ‘langar’ came up here as its branch. I was assigned to manage it with the blessings and guidance of Nanded Gurudwara Sahib’s Baba Narinder Singhji and Baba Balwinder Singhji,” said Khaira Baba.A regular ‘langar’ for years, it was only from the March 24 lockdown that it became a saviour for thousands of hungry people including stranded migrants, travellers, truckers and villagers.“We had hordes of people coming daily and we kept continuously cooking food for them... We welcomed all with smiles and folded hands, irrespective of caste, religion... My regular team of 17 ‘sevaks’, including 11 cooks and other helpers were overworked, but ensured a non-stop supply of fresh, piping hot food,” Khaira Baba said.Luckily, his youngest brother Baba Gurbax Singh Khaira, 67, settled in New Jersey, USA, has pitched in with huge donations from the local (USA) Sikh community and Pandharkawada philanthropists like Pawanjit Kapoor, Salim Jetani or Kishore Tiwari, to keep the ‘Guru ka langar’ fires burning during lockdown.The services include breakfast of tea with hard bread or biscuits, and all meals are plain rice with tuvar dal, aloo-vadi and aloo vanga, and providing soap and borewell water for bathing to the weary visitors.Based on the number of disposable plates in which the crowds were served, Khaira Baba was himself astounded to learn that more than 15 lakh people were fed in the past 10 weeks, plus more than five lakhs took away parcels from the ‘langar’, and still counting.Another unique aspect here is feeding chapati-jaggery daily to around 250 dogs, plus cats, stray cattle and other mute animals in the vicinity grappling with a hunger crisis in lockdown.“I was born in Meerut (Uttar Pradesh), but left home at the age of 11 to answer ‘a mysterious call for service to humankind’, as a kid, I helped build a bridge on River Godavari here...,” he said, offering a peek into his background.Later, he lived in the Middle-East countries for around four years and spent another five years in Germany and other European countries organising funds for Gurudwara ‘langars’ and other services.“Though illiterate, I speak fluent English, Hindi, Punjabi, Arabic, Dutch and German, besides of course, Marathi,” Khaira Baba smiled with a tinge of pride.When asked what motivates him to sit in the blazing sun with barely anybody to even talk with, Khaira Baba points at the sky and says: “It’s the ‘marzi’ (will) of Wahe Guru... We are only his instruments in the service to humanity. See, three vehicles are donated by devotees to this ‘langar’...but my only belongings on earth are the three sets of clothes, I live and sleep here, eat the same food served to the people,” he said softly.The ‘Guru ka langar’ has kept two donation boxes outside in which people offer as per their desire and capacity, but it is never counted and the money is again ploughed back into the ‘langar’.Saturday was a big day when Khaira Baba personally served ‘sherbet’ to all the people as part of the month-long ceremonies to mark the 414th anniversary of martyrdom of Guru Arjan Dev, the Fifth Sikh Guru, on May 30, 1606.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/81-year-old-sikh-man-feeds-2-million-on-remote-maharashtra-highway-92396
31-05-2020||Indervir Grewal||When India ruled world hockey||The world of Indian hockey is a world of legends. Starved of success and glory for decades, the Indian hockey fan cannot help looking back into the past to get that feeling of pride and joy. In Balbir Singh Senior, India lost one of its biggest sports legends. But even in death, Balbir Senior reminded the country of Indian hockey’s proudest era.The recent retelling of Balbir Senior’s hat-trick of Olympics gold medals took the Indian fan back to that time when the country was unbeatable in hockey.Eight-time Olympics gold medallists, India last won the title in 1980. Seven of the gold medals came from 1928 to 1964, including six in a row.A star risesIf it was Dhyan Chand who was the epitome of India’s dominance before Independence, Balbir Senior became the face of Independent India’s initial successes at the world stage. In the 1948 London Olympics, Balbir Senior scored two goals in the final against Great Britain to help India win its first gold as an independent nation.At the 1952 Helsinki Olympics, Balbir Senior was probably at his peak. He scored three goals in India’s 3-1 semifinal win over Great Britain, before scoring a record five goals against the Netherlands in the 6-1 win in the final. He still holds the record for most goals by an individual in an Olympics final.Four years later in Melbourne, Balbir Senior captained India to a “golden hat-trick”. It was not India’s first hat-trick of titles. India had won three straight titles from 1928 to 1936. And for his role in India’s first Olympics success, Dhyan Chand is considered the father of Indian hockey.But with the 1956 triumph, Balbir Senior secured his legacy as independent India’s original golden boy. His goal-scoring statistics still leave everyone in awe. If it was Dhyan Chand’s wizardry — it is said that such was his control over the ball that the opponents suspected that he had a magnet in his stick — that captured the nation’s imagination, Balbir Senior became famous for his goal-scoring ability. It is said when Balbir Senior got the ball in the striking circle, there was only one outcome.The many greatsHowever, Balbir Senior was not the only star of his time. KD Singh ‘Babu’ was considered as the next Dhyan Chand. It is said KD Singh could dribble past whole defences and make the most accurate of passes, all while being in full stride. KD Singh, who won gold at the 1948 and 1952 Olympics, is as great a legend as Balbir Senior.These players belonged to an era that seems so distant now that it is not possible to imagine them just as players. Whenever there is talk about India’s former greats, it is accompanied by a sense of idolisation.Very few, if any, are alive who would have seen Dhyan Chand or Balbir Senior or KD Singh play at their peak. Fewer would remember what they saw. What is remembered is their statistics. All three of them were multiple Olympics medal winners and also prolific goal-scorers. That was one of the reasons why they stood out from the rest.But it is not that they were the only multiple medallists. Udham Singh (gold in 1952, 1956, 1964 and silver in 1960) and Leslie Claudius (gold in 1948-56 and silver in 1960) were four-time Olympics medallists. They are the only two Indian players to win four Olympics medals.In fact, Udham Singh was also considered a great goal-scorer. Claudius, captain in 1960, was one of the best mid-fielders. It is said that he considered himself to be a utility player, a jack of all trades. Incidentally, the same is said of Udham Singh. Then there was Randhir Singh Gentle who also won the triple in 1948, 1952 and 1956. Gentle even captained the team when Balbir Senior was absent due to an injury during the 1956 Games. But he will be remembered most as the scorer of the winning goal against Pakistan in the 1956 final. Among others who won two gold after Independence were Keshav Dutt (1948, 1952) Haripal Kaushik (1956, 1964) Grahanandan Singh (1948, 1952).None of these players, though, could capture the imagination of the Indian fan as Dhyan Chand or Balbir Senior or KD Singh did. But even if many of the names have been forgotten over time, most of these great names played their part in inspiring generations of hockey players.GamechangersThe modern game of hockey was brought to India by the British. Initially hockey became popular in major cities such as Bombay, Calcutta, Madras and Lahore, and around Army cantonments. “It was a very popular game in the British army because of its team-building characteristics,” said Colonel (retd.) Balbir Singh, part of the team that won bronze at the 1968 Olympics.“Initially, the army played a big role in spreading the game to the villages. Hockey also became a way to recruit people into the army,” added Col Balbir, one of the many Balbirs who followed Balbir Senior into the Indian team.When India won their first Olympics gold medal in 1928, the sport caught the nation’s fancy. Two more gold medals in a row gave the people a reason to feel proud and great. The hat-trick made Dhyan Chand a household name. But it was probably the next three consecutive gold medals that helped ingrain the game into the country’s DNA.Nation’s prideThe time after Independence and Partition was filled with uncertainty. But when the Indian team won three gold medals from 1948 to 1956, it became a symbol of Independent India’s bright future. “As our National Anthem was being played and the Tricolour was going up, I felt that I too was flying with the flag,” Balbir Senior had later recalled of the 1948 victory.By the time India won their seventh gold medal in 1964, hockey was “running in the blood” of the nation. And India had new idols like Charanjit Singh and Prithipal Singh, who both won gold in 1964. Prithipal, who also won silver in 1960 and bronze in 1968, became the most popular face of the new lot. Prithipal was known as the ‘king of the short corner’, and it is said that such was the power in his shot that facing him in a penalty corner situation was like facing death.To the current generation of players and fans, though, Dhyan Chand, Balbir Senior, KD Singh, Leslie Claudius or Udham Singh are probably just names that represent great achievements and unbelievable records. Hockey has travelled so far that it would be impossible for the current generation to even relate to the game or the achievements of the golden era. However, the role those hockey greats played in the journey of game in India — building up the confidence of a nation that had just emerged from the shackles of colonialism — can never be forgotten.Hall of FameUdham Singh and Leslie Claudius share the record for most medals in hockey in the Olympics — 3 gold and 1 silver each. Balbir Singh Sr, R Francis and Randhir Singh Gentle won 3 gold each, a feat Dhyan Chand and Richard Allen had achieved before Independence. Haripal Kaushik, Keshav Dutt and KD Singh were among players who won 2 gold each. Prithipal Singh won 3 medals, one of each hueLearning from the legends“Hockey was so popular in some states that it felt like the sport ran in people’s blood,” said RS Bal, who played for the Indian Navy for almost 10 years in the 1960s and 1970s.“As children we did not get to see the India players, but we heard and read about the gold medals and about the greats such as Balbir Senior, Leslie Claudius, Prithipal Singh. Even though we never saw them play, they were inspirational to so many of us,” added Bal, who grew up in a small village in Amritsar district.Then there were those who got to meet their idols. Ajit Pal Singh, captain of the 1975 World Cup-winning team, remembers watching Udham Singh train at the village grounds in Sansarpur. “To watch an Olympics gold medallist train was a big source of inspiration,” said Ajit Pal Singh.And for people like Ajit Pal Singh and Col Balbir, observing the greats was the primary source of learning. “There was no specialised coaching, no academies,” Col Balbir said. “Everyone came to play in the village grounds. The retired players used to teach us. We used to learn by watching the senior players train, and usually there was an India player visiting on leave,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/when-india-ruled-world-hockey-92386
31-05-2020||Our Correspondent||NRI couple found murdered in Phagwara||Phagwara, May 30A Canada-based NRI couple was reportedly found murdered with sharp weapons at their residence in Onkar Nagar here late this evening.Senior Superintendent of the Police (SSP) Satinder Singh confirmed the incident and said a police team led by SHO (City) Onkar Singh Brar rushed to the spot.The SSP said the deceased couple had been identified as Kirpal Singh Minhas (67) and his wife Davinder Kaur (65). The couple came to Phagwara from Canada in November 2019 for a few months and had been stuck in the town due to the lockdown. They were planning to return back.The SHO (City) said though the room of the deceased was seemed to be ransacked, nothing was found missing.He said one of their tenants, Jassi Dholi, was found missing. The police have registered a case under Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and sent the bodies for autopsy in the local Civil Hospital. The SSP said the police were looking for the absconding tenant.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nri-couple-found-murdered-in-phagwara-92179
31-05-2020||Abohar||ASHA workers demand increment||6 tractor-trailers seized for violationsFazilka: The police impounded six sand-laden tractor-trailers from Fattuwala village of Fazilka district. On getting a tip-off, the police team raided a site near a drain in the village and impounded the illegally operating tractor-trailers. However, no one has been arrested yet. Some unidentified persons have been booked under Section 379 of the IPC and Section 21 of the Mining Act. OC67 in soup for flouting isolation normsMuktsar: Acting on the administration orders, the PSPCL has discontinued the power supply to the residences of five persons for allegedly violating quarantine norms. In all, 62 persons have been served show-cause notices. Sandeep Kumar, ADC (General), Muktsar, said, “Those found violating the quarantine norms included 38 persons of Gidderbaha subdivision, 16 Malout and 13 Muktsar.” TNSBank guard’s gun stolen, 3 bookedBarnala: Thieves made an unsuccessful attempt to take away cash from Khudi Kalan SBI branch and decamped with the security guard’s gun. The staff got to know about the theft in the morning and informed the police. “The guard’s gun was lying inside the bank and the thieves stole it after they failed to open the safe,” said Mohan Singh, bank manager. ASI Gurpal Singh said they had registered a case against three persons after analysing the CCTV footage. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/asha-workers-demand-increment-92264
31-05-2020||---||Will raise loan, won’t let farmers suffer: CM Capt Amarinder Singh||Chandigarh, May 30The political storm over the issue of free power to farmers intensified with the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) threatening to launch a statewide morcha on the issue, even as Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Saturday categorically rejected reports of withdrawal of free power to farmers.The Chief Minister said his government was ready to forgo the portion of “fiscal deficit enhancement” offered by the Centre, but would not compromise on farmers’ interest at any cost.“The Centre’s suggestion on replacement of free power to farmers with the direct benefit transfer (DBT) is totally unacceptable and a direct attack on the federal structure of the nation,” said the Chief Minister, adding that he would take up the issue with the Centre for trying to impose an anti-farmer condition on the cash-strapped state in the guise of extending fiscal support amid the Covid-19 pandemic.Claiming his government would take loans to bridge the fiscal deficit, he said the Centre could not dictate the terms of a sovereign loan being taken by a state government.Sharpening his attack on the Akalis, he said SAD chief Sukhbir Badal was trying to pin the blame for the Central government’s misdemeanours on the state government.“Union Minister and Akali leader Harsimrat Kaur Badal should resign for failing to ask the party’s alliance partner — BJP — to withdraw the offer of ‘fiscal deficit enhancement’ on the condition of withdrawing free power. The Centre has failed to come to the rescue of the state in the wake of the unprecedented crisis and lockdown,” he said.Rural Development Minister Tript Rajinder Bajwa said no decision to withdraw free power to farmers had been taken in the Cabinet meeting.However, the SAD dismissed the statement of the CM that the Council of Ministers had never contemplated any move to scrap the free power facility, terming it false, mischievous and deliberately misleading.The SAD core committee, which met under the chairmanship of Sukhbir Singh Badal, said, “Earlier during the Akali-BJP regime also, the then Union Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee had put pressure on the state government in this regard, but CM Parkash Singh Badal had stood his ground. The then FM Manpreet Badal was expelled from the SAD on the issue.”A resolution passed at the emergency meeting of the core committee declared, “If the Congress government remains stubborn and tries to force the decision on farmers through a backdoor under the pretext of cash subsidy to farmers, the SAD will not remain a mute witness to it”.Meanwhile, Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee president Sunil Jakhar termed the open letter written by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the completion of a year of the NDA government to the people of the country as a nasty joke.He said people across the country and all state governments were seeking financial help from the Union Government, but the PM remained unaware of the reality. “Due to the continuous lockdown for two and a half months, it has become difficult for every section of society to manage their daily needs. The state governments are also in a severe economic crisis as their sources of income are nose-diving,” Jakhar added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/will-raise-loan-wont-let-farmers-suffer-cm-capt-amarinder-singh-92250
31-05-2020||---||Farmers: Crack whip on spurious seed dealers||Jalandhar, May 30Farmers from across the region, who had mistakenly purchased spurious varieties of paddy sold by unauthorised dealers in the state, on Saturday demanded action against the accused and compensation from the government for the losses suffered by them.In all, 20 farmers of the district gathered at Jamsher village near here on Satuday and shared their problems. While some farmers said they purchased PR-128 and PR-129 varieties of paddy from Ludhiana, others said they got it from seed stores based in Lambra and Shahkot.Gurminder Singh, a farmer from Sikanderpur village of Adampur, said, “We sow paddy on 20-22 acres. For some portion, we had bought a sack of 30-kg paddy seed of new variety thinking it to be high-yielding. We paid Rs2,500 to the seed company based in Ludhiana. When we had sown these seeds, only 40 per cent of them germinated. Most of them turned yellow and did not survive. Now, we realise that we have been looted and the actual varieties of seeds were to be sold only through the Krishi Vigyan Kendras, that too for Rs70 per kg on a trial basis.”All farmers quoted different rates on which they purchased the seeds, some of whom even said they had paid Rs200 per kg.Cong MLAs lash out at HarsimratLashing out at Union Minister Harsimrat Badal, Congress MLAs Darshan Singh Brar, Barindermeet Singh Pahra and Davinder Singh Ghubaya on Saturday alleged Harsimrat was seeking an inquiry from the Central agency into the alleged seed scam, but she had forgotten that she used her influence to close the ED probe into a high-profile drug peddling case during the tenure of the SAD-BJP government in the state. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-crack-whip-on-spurious-seed-dealers-92251
31-05-2020||Bathinda||Expedite infra projects, Manpreet tells officials||Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal today directed district officials to expedite developmental works in the city. Presiding over a meeting, Manpreet said Government Rajindra College was a prestigious educational institution and the state government would extend every possible help to improve its infrastructure. He asked Deputy Commissioner B Srinivasan to take necessary action in this regard. Directing Education Department officials to prepare an estimate for the renovation of Government School at Mall Road, the Finance Minister said 10 schools had been equipped with modern facilities at a cost of Rs17.12 crore in Bathinda. He said the government planned to provide world-class education facilities in the state. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/expedite-infra-projects-manpreet-tells-officials-92252
31-05-2020||---||Web portal for job-seekers||Chandigarh, May 30 The government has decided to run Ghar Ghar Rozgar and Karobar Mission through digital means. Employment Generation and Skill Development and Training Minister Charanjit Singh Channi said with opening up of economy, there was a need for generate jobs, develop skills and provide training to take a more proactive approach for facilitating employment for the benefit of both employers and prospective employees. Keeping this in view, the government has decided to provide online services through the District Bureau of Employment and Enterprise at the district level. The bureau has created an online web link for registration of educated/semi-educated unemployed youth looking for jobs. Similarly, a link has also been created for registration of the employers who are looking to hire employees. He said the job-seekers could register and create their profile to apply for government as well as private jobs at www.pgrkam.com.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/web-portal-for-job-seekers-92253
31-05-2020||Sangrur||3 more get interim bail, Moosewala untraced||Three more persons were granted interim bail today in the Arms Act case registered at Dhuri Sadar police station on May 5. However, Punjabi singer Sidhu Moosewala remains on the run. “A local court today granted interim bail to Inderveer, Gagandeep and Karam Sukhbir Singh and fixed June 12 as the next date of hearing,” said advocate Gurtej Singh Grewal, Karam’s counsel.  On May 27, the court granted interim bail to Constables Harwinder Singh and Jasveer Singh, Head Constable Gurjinder Singh, ASI Balkar Singh and shooting player Jungsher Singh, directing them to join the probe.  “Only Moosewala is on the run. Our teams are conducting raids to nab him,” said Gurmeet Singh, SP, Punjab Bureauof Investigation. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/3-more-get-interim-bail-moosewala-untraced-92254
31-05-2020||Aman Sood---||Dept cracks down on pigeon fanciers for killing falcons||Tribune News Service Patiala, May 30 Following a spate of killings of falcons by pigeon fanciers, the Wildlife Department has launched a crackdown to put an end to this menace. On the basis of recent posts on social media, the department has identified some culprits and FIRs have been registered. Department officials confirm that they are likely to register at least 24 FIRs once they complete their initial probe. Pigeon fanciers target raptors as these hunt and kill domesticated birds. The department has already registered four cases and probes are on in another six more incidents. Pigeon fanciers use hooks, guns and even attach iron claws on pigeons to kill or cause injuries to falcons. “We spend lakhs to train our birds, which are our livelihood. Sometimes when a bird tries to prey on our pigeons, we have to use harsh methods,” said a pigeon fancier in Patiala. Kuldip Kumar Lomis, Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (Wildlife), said: “We recently received some complaints and immediately initiated a crackdown on the menace. We have formed multiple teams for a detailed probe. We have asked the officials to prepare a statewide inventory of pigeon fanciers and associated clubs. The officials have already inspected over 100 pigeon fanciers in four days.” The department has initiated legal action for posting disturbing videos showing killing of raptors on social media against Nirmal Singh alias Billa, Gurpreet Singh of Sandoha village (Bathinda), Guri Dhanoa of Gharuan (Mohali), and Gurpreet Singh of Lohara village (Ludhiana).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dept-cracks-down-on-pigeon-fanciers-for-killing-falcons-92255
31-05-2020||Amritsar||Stray dogs maul 2-yr-old to death in Amritsar||A two-year-old boy was reportedly mauled to death by stray dogs at Varpal village here on Friday. The victim, Gursanjhdeep Singh, was the only child of his parents.Sources said the child was playing with his toys when he ventured out of the house. Since the street was deserted, stray dogs dragged him to the fields and mauled him to death.Balbir Singh, a relative of the deceased, said he was returning from fields when he saw stray dogs with blood all over their mouth. He said when he reached home, he found the child missing. He said they then ran towards the fields and found the boy lying badly mauled.Amarjit Singh, grandfather of the deceased, said Gursanjhdeep died on the spot. He was cremated today.Locals said stray dogs had been attacking their cattle for the past some time, but the authorities have failed to take appropriate measures despite repeated complaints. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/stray-dogs-maul-2-yr-old-to-death-in-amritsar-92256
31-05-2020||---||Centre empanels Dinkar Gupta as Director General||Chandigarh, May 30The Appointments Committee of the Union Cabinet has approved the empanelment of DGP Dinkar Gupta as the Director General/DGE. This makes him eligible to head Central intelligence agencies, paramilitary forces and investigation agencies like the CBI and NIA.According to a government spokesperson, Gupta is one of the 11 officers from the 1987 batch of the IPS — which originally had over 100 officers all over the country — to be empanelled by the government to hold DGP-level as well as DGP-equivalent-level posts at the Centre. He is the only IPS officer from north India (Punjab, Haryana, HP, J&K, UP, Uttarakhand and Rajasthan) to be chosen for this post.The only other serving IPS officer of the Punjab cadre, who has been empanelled as a DGP to hold such posts at the Centre, is Samant Goel, R&AW chief.Gupta is presently posted as the DGP of Punjab since February 7, 2019. Before being posted as head of the 80,000-plus police force of the state, Gupta was also posted as the DGP, Intelligence, Punjab, which involved the direct supervision of the Punjab State Intelligence Wing, State Anti-Terrorist Squad and Organised Crime Control Unit. If offered a post at the Centre, it will be up to Gupta to accept or decline the offer, the spokesperson said.An experienced and distinguished officer, Gupta did an eight-year stint on Central deputation with the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) from June 2004 to July 2012, where he held many sensitive assignments, including the head of the Dignitary Protection Division of the MHA.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/centre-empanels-dinkar-gupta-as-director-general-92257
31-05-2020||---||Punjab to follow Centre’s guidelines on lockdown 5.0||Chandigarh, May 30Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Saturday announced a four-week extension in the lockdown till June 30 with more relaxations, subject to guidelines of the Union Government.Though experts have advised against the opening of the hospitality industry and malls, the CM said the state would take into account the Centre’s guidelines for lockdown 5.0. The CM announced his decision after an on-ground assessment of the Covid situation through a videoconference with health experts and Cabinet ministers Bharat Bhushan Ashu, Balbir Singh Sidhu and Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa. 6K fined in a dayLater, Capt Amarinder, during his weekly Facebook live session, said the threat of Covid was not over yet and if necessary, he would continue to take tough measures to save lives of Punjabis. He said 36,820 people had been fined for not wearing masks and 4,032 for spitting in public between May 17 and 28. As many as 6,061 persons had been fined for not wearing masks in the last 24 hours, he said, adding that 503 FIRs had been registered in this period for violation of rules.Making it clear that the extension of the lockdown in Punjab would be conditional to strict adherence to Covid safety protocols, including physical distancing and wearing of masks, the CM also ordered distribution of free masks to the poor. He directed Ashu to ensure immediate steps for the distribution of masks as part of ration kits to the needy and poor.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-to-follow-centres-guidelines-on-lockdown-5-0-92259
31-05-2020||Sangrur||4 Sangrur jail officials suspended||Two  days after two prisoners escaped from the district jail, the authorities have suspended four jail officials for negligence  and repatriated two employees of PESCO.  As per information, the suspended officials include Assistant Jail Superintendent Hari Singh, head wardens Jarnail Singh, Paramjit Singh  and Joginder Singh. Despite repeated attempts, Jail Superintendent  Balwinder Singh could not be contacted. On Thursday, the jail authorities had taken Gurdarshan Singh, a murder convict,    and Sandeep Singh, a convict in an attempt to murder case, to the    fields within   the prison complex.   However, both managed to escape. When the jail authorities came to know about the incident, they informed the police. After getting the information, the police registered a case against the two convicts. The escape has raised questions about the efficiency of the jail staff and police as the prison is located in front of Sangrur police lines. Confirming the suspension, IG (Jails) RK Arora said further investigation was going on. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/4-sangrur-jail-officials-suspended-92260
