01-06-2021||---||Evolve social media checks with consensus||The Indian government’s current bid to enforce a new regulatory framework over social media companies has ignited the inevitable debate on the need to have a balance between regulating platforms to avoid their instrumentalisation by bad actors against the larger public good and allowing the public to benefit freely from the services offered by these companies while upholding the privacy of the users and other democratic rights.India is one of the biggest markets for social media companies. In India, users of Twitter (about 186 million), Facebook (around 346 million), WhatsApp (about 390 million) and YouTube (approximately 425 million) are more than the population of some of the prominent countries where these social media companies are popular. In that case, what happens in India holds significance not just for the country, but the global operations of these social media giants as it creates an institutional precedent. In specific terms, as per the new digital rules under the existing Information Technology Act, the social media platforms will have to take down content flagged by the authorities within 36 hours and they have to set up domestic mechanisms to address complaints. The social media platforms have also been asked to inform the federal government about the status of compliance. The new rules in India take away the immunity for content posted by third-party users on these platforms if they don’t remove the post on being notified by the authorities.The experience of the past decade, which has witnessed stupendous growth of social media companies and content in both developed as well as developing world, has reinforced the need for content moderation. The August 2017 event in Myanmar is a case in point. At least 6,700 Rohingya, including an estimated 730 children under the age of five, were killed in military violence, according to Medecins Sans Frontieres (Doctors Without Borders). A contributing factor seemed to be the hate speech against Rohingya facilitated by the social media platforms of the military. In 2018, a fact-finding mission set up by the Geneva-based UN Human Rights Council found that in Myanmar, “Facebook has been a useful instrument for those seeking to spread hate, in a context where for most users, Facebook is the Internet.” The 440-page report compiled after 15 months of examination, gave detailed examples of how the Rohingya community was demonised and recorded many cases “where individuals, usually human rights defenders or journalists, become the target of an online hate campaign that incites or threatens violence”.In recent years, social media giants have been more sensitive to the public outcry over the misuse of these platforms. This is reflected in the establishment of internal mechanisms to flag hate speech and in some cases, taking down individual accounts for repeated misuse. Facebook has set up an independent board to evaluate its own decisions regarding action against bad actors. The change in the US political context is particularly important as these companies have their headquarters there. The ruling Democratic Party in the US is seen to be more sensitive to the argument that unfiltered social media messaging is exacerbating social and racial tensions and had reportedly called for revoking Section 230. The US laws had been used as a point of reference by these companies for global operations. For instance, Section 230 of the Communications Decency Act, 1996, of the US Congress grants them immunity from liabilities related to third-party-hosted content while allowing them flexibility to moderate content.In addition to Twitter, as per India’s current digital rules, social media intermediaries such as WhatsApp with large user bases have been asked to enable tracing of the originator of information on their platform when asked by the authorities. WhatsApp has countered this and noted that tweaking end-to-end encryption would make their users vulnerable and will violate their privacy. This, it reportedly argues, will place “public and private players, placing journalists, civil rights activists and political activists at risk of retaliation”. In its defence, the government has argued that “India is not the only country seeking a regulatory mechanism to access limited data from end-to-end encrypted instant messaging platforms such as WhatsApp.”National security is one of the reasons that had been cited for gaining access. Interestingly, the national security argument has not worked in the US when Apple was asked by the authorities to cooperate. In an infamous case in 2015, the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) recovered an i-Phone used by assassin Syed Rizwan Farook, who along with his wife, had killed 14 people in San Bernardino county in California. Apple refused to help the FBI in unlocking Farook’s i-Phone as it considered the act as an infringement of its own privacy policy. Ultimately, the FBI was able to unlock the phone through a third party.Within India, hate speech, particularly against the minorities, peddled through social media platforms, has led to physical attacks. Misogyny, caste slurs and online bullying through social media posts had been quite common. In the past, the companies were slow in reacting and they definitely need to be more aware of the granular nuances of the social context in which they are operating, rather than merely using a point of reference of the US. Reacting to the new rules, Twitter has reportedly accused the government of “dangerous overreach that is inconsistent with open, democratic principles” and alleged that it has been forced to ‘withhold’ (block tweets in India) portions of ‘legitimate free speech’ on its platform over fears around the safety of its employees and threats of financial penalties. The whole issue of executing new digital rules has become controversial because of the recent raids on Twitter and the reported Opposition charge that the recent raids on Twitter’s offices were illegal and politically driven to “give cover fire” to the ruling party that has been accused of sharing an allegedly fake ‘toolkit’.To sum up, India’s own post-Independence journey illustrates that national security, respecting individual privacy, preventing social discord and checking misuse by the ruling party are all legitimate issues that should be on the table to address with rigour before formulating a comprehensive, objective and transparent regulatory framework for social media companies. In this exercise, the ruling party needs to involve the Opposition as well as varied domestic stakeholders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/evolve-social-media-checks-with-consensus-261290
01-06-2021||---||Redefine powers to end Centre-state tussle||The war of words between the NDA government and states ruled by the Opposition parties over the former’s alleged ‘overreach’ into the jurisdiction of the states, especially in areas of security and investigation, has become a constant feature.The latest incident of attrition is the ‘recall’ of the West Bengal Chief Secretary to the Centre, consequent to the alleged discourtesy shown to the Prime Minister by West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on May 28.It may look bizarre that the Chief Secretary, who was given a three-month extension by the Central government in public interest for supervising pandemic management on a recommendation by the CM, was asked to report to New Delhi onthe day of his retirement (May 31). It may also appear quixotic that a bureaucrat is being punished as the state political leader, who inflicted a crushing electoral defeat on the BJP on May 2, cannot be administratively ‘punished’.This constant Centre-state battle as we saw recently in West Bengal, Tamil Nadu and Kerala, where Central agencies followed the BJP leadership during poll campaigns by undertaking searches and reopening old criminal cases, has confused the public, which is the worst sufferer by way of uncertain delivery of services by the government during the pandemic.The original distribution of powers between the Union and the states is mentioned in Schedule 7 of our Constitution. It is more or less similar to Schedule 7 of the Government of India Act of 1935. It will be interesting to go over the debates of August 29, 1949, to study how this list was evolved that day.In 1887, Viceroy Dufferin defined the Centre-state relationship in the areas of security, policing, intelligence and crime by placing more responsibility on the British state police and through British “Residents” in princely states. He wanted to combine “Intelligence” and “Crime” as he did not want an impression that the government was “spying” on Indians like the “Third Section” of the imperial Tsarist Russia. In other words, he wanted to camouflage political intelligence within crime intelligence. Hence, only a small office was created at the Central level to coordinate activities which was known as the “Central Criminal Intelligence Department”.While drafting our Schedule 7, the name was slightly changed as the “Central Bureau of Intelligence and Investigation”. The person who persistently questioned Dr BR Ambedkar on this was Naziruddin Ahmad from West Bengal who moved 40 amendments to the draft.Every item mentioned in the Central, State and Concurrent list was debated and voted. Ahmad reminded the Assembly that the original draft had named it as “Central Intelligence Bureau”. The redrafted designation as “Central Bureau of Intelligence and Investigation” was unacceptable as investigation of crime was a provincial subject and “we have already conceded that”.“If we now allow the Central Government also to investigate, the result would be that for a single crime, there must be two parallel investigations, one by the Union Government and the other by the state government. The result of this would be that there will be a clash and nobody will know whose charge-sheet or final report will be acceptable,” he added.What he prophesied in 1949 seems to have come true under the present BJP government: “I find there is no limit to the hunger of the Central Government to take more and more powers to themselves and the more they eat, the greater is the hunger for taking more powers”.Faced with this opposition, Dr Ambedkar clarified: “The point of the matter is, the word ‘investigation’ here does not permit and will not permit the making of an investigation into a crime because that matter under the Criminal Procedure Code is left exclusively to a police officer. Police is exclusively a State subject; it has no place in the Union List. The word ‘investigation’ therefore is intended to cover general inquiry for the purpose of finding out what is going on. This investigation is not investigation preparatory to the filing of a charge against an offender which only a police officer under the Criminal Procedure Code can do”.In other words, he supported Viceroy Dufferin’s policy of camouflaging political intelligence with a façade of criminal intelligence. That was the reason why the Director Intelligence Bureau (DIB) used to chair a crime conference at least till 1976 when I used to attend regularly. In later years, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) started holding national crime conferences.It is significant that the Central Government avoided having any Central Police with investigating powers till 1946 when it passed the Special Police Establishment (SPE) Act to deal with wartime corruption in Central government. In 1963, the SPE was renamed as CBI, with no separate law to govern its working. Under Section 6, the consent of the state government was mandatory before the CBI undertook any investigation in their jurisdiction. This is based on Schedule 7.The present trend of using the National Investigating Agency (NIA) or Enforcement Directorate (ED) to carry out parallel investigations in the states without state concurrence thus goes against the “basic structure” of our Constitution as given in Schedule 7. The Centre cannot carry out any “investigation” under the Criminal Procedure Code.Nowadays, the ED appears behind every politically important crime investigation in Opposition-ruled states, the latest being the “money laundering” case against former Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh, which is being investigated by the CBI under the orders of the Bombay High Court. The ED has now become a self-styled “super anti-corruption” body with the Central Government when no such arrangement exists in our Constitution.On August 21, 2020, Law Street India published an excellent paper on how the ED is arbitrarily exceeding its charter, especially when it does not have police powers under the 1861 Police Act. A 2018 Delhi High Court judgment was referred to a higher bench to examine whether the ED has the CrPC powers of police under the Money Laundering Act. This is not yet settled.There is, therefore, urgent necessity for the states concerned to move the apex court to issue clear guidelines to the Centre and the states as enshrined in the Constitution.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/redefine-powers-to-end-centre-state-tussle-261291
01-06-2021||---||Fuss over academic ‘standard’||We are all broken and wounded. There is hardly any family that has not been affected in some way or other by the pandemic. Yet, the academic bureaucracy with its characteristic insensitivity is obsessed with the ‘academic standard’; and students and teachers, despite the psychic and existential trauma they are passing through, are instructed to retain the ‘quality’ of education. Before we acquire the moral/pedagogic courage to laugh at this ‘standard’, let us explore what it actually means in the everyday practice of a student or a teacher.Any alert insider from our ‘top’ colleges/universities would concede that this obsession with ‘standard’ means essentially three things: the act of bombarding students with a ceaseless flow of assignments, creating a notion of ‘productivity’ by putting enormous pressure on them to ‘perform’, and above all, the one-dimensional emphasis on grading and hierarchising. As there is no other imagination of meaningful and emancipatory education, and the academic bureaucracy seeks to reduce a college/university into a soulless machine, even the pandemic has failed to move our principals and vice-chancellors. And teachers as mere cogs are required to follow the guidelines issued by these techno-managers. The irony is that even after such mental agony, death and pain, these institutions will publish their annual reports and showcase their ‘success stories’: the number of gold medallists, the webinars organised, the lectures delivered, and the papers published.As a teacher, I feel we should question this fetish of ‘standard’. My first critique is that every year it is killing the spirit of young minds. One can learn and unlearn only when one is a seeker with a deconditioned, dialogic and relaxed mind. However, this spirit of studentship is destroyed as a student is transformed into a machine—a machine that ceaselessly produces or manufactures seminar papers, assignments and book reviews; or a machine that reproduces bookish answers in the exams. One term paper leads to another; and there seems to be no end to exams. Hence, even at this time of the pandemic, where is the time to reflect on the meaning of existence when death is statistics, and news is nothing but yet another tale of human bodies floating in the ‘sacred’ river? A student has lost her mother; or she is somehow surviving in a hospital with oxygen support. But then, she must submit a 5,000-word seminar paper, and the university asks her to follow the deadline strictly. Let friends, loved ones and people around suffer and die. But the ‘standard’ must be retained; and, to take a simple illustration from my own discipline, students must master the technique of making a presentation on French postmodern thinkers. I call it absurd. This kills sensitivity and reflexivity.My second critique is that even, under normal circumstances, this sort of academic productivity kills originality, authentic expression, and unique and independent analysis. In fact, it would not be wrong to say that the root of plagiarism lies in this practice. Even when technically one’s bibliography and references are in order, and the software certifies it as a ‘non-plagiarised’ document, one is not necessarily original and authentic. The reason is that students have been reduced to consumers; their professors keep asking them to consume all sorts of bookish knowledge. It doesn’t matter even if this consumed knowledge is trendy, fashionable and sanctified by Euro-American scholars. The fact is that seldom are our students and teachers encouraged to think and redefine the world in their own ways. Hence, I find no reason to celebrate when our sociology ‘toppers’— almost like parrots —are repeating the scriptures written by Levi-Strauss, Michel Foucault and Judith Butler. Plagiarism is plagiarism, no matter whether you are borrowing from guide books, or you are smartly quoting the fancy thinkers without any authentic reflection on your part. It is sad that even our teaching is not free from plagiarism. This has become abundantly clear at the time of the pandemic. As a sociology professor, I often ask myself: Should I continue to teach Emile Durkheim’s notion of the ‘social’ when ‘distancing’ is the new normal? Or should I continue to teach what MN Srinivas saw in Indian villages in his time—particularly, at this moment when the journey of migrant workers, the spectre of joblessness, and the new form of stigmatisation or untouchability have altered the social landscape of our villages?I am not saying that we should only cry and take anti-depressant drugs; nor am I saying that our colleges and universities should stop teaching history and accountancy, biology and management, or Plato and Aristotle. I admit that even online classes, despite their limitations, have a role to play. However, it ought to be realised that ‘academic standard’ has no meaning if it exists as merely a measurable index—the number of papers teachers have published in journals with high ‘impact factor’, or the international fellowships students have availed. In fact, the only standard that matters is whether as learners we are sensitive and empathic (not restless competitors), and compassionate and dialogic (not egoists intoxicated with degrees and certificates). Believe it, our ‘top-ranking’ universities will not be able to serve humanity if knowledge is dissociated from ethics, ‘skills’ from social responsibility, and science from spirituality. What do we do with ‘specialists’ without conscience, books without life-affirming vibrations, and ‘toppers’ without empathy? This is like echoing with TS Eliot: ‘Where is the wisdom we have lost in knowledge?/Where is the knowledge we have lost in information?’Should our academic bureaucrats think of it?||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/fuss-over-academic-standard-261292
