02-06-2021||---||Chink in BJP’s armour, yet Oppn disunited in UP||The Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls, due in February 2022, will be the closest to a curtain-raiser we will get for the national battle of 2024. At a time when the last round of Assembly elections has shown that regional forces do hold sway in their bases, it is important for the BJP to win the heart of what is called the heartland, extending from the Hindi belt to western India, from where the party wins most of its Lok Sabha seats.Of immediate concern is the pall of gloom and despair that hangs over Uttar Pradesh, where Covid had spread to the countryside and bodies floating down the Ganges or buried on the banks without last rites epitomise the terrible times. The Yogi Adityanath regime rules not through political dialogue, but through the police and the bureaucracy, and even ruling party politicians are not heard. BJP MLA Rajkumar Aggarwal failed to get an FIR registered against a private hospital, a month after his son died of Covid there. In his May 8 letter, Minister of State (Labour and Employment) Santosh Gangwar, eight-term MP from Bareilly, complained to the CM about Covid mismanagement and said officers were not answering calls.The BJP and RSS are worried. Yet there is a belief that once the second wave of Covid has passed, Yogi Adityanath would still have time to pitch the elections on a familiar ground — Hindutva. The BJP believes they would have the manpower and IT cells in each of the state’s 403 Assembly seats to steer the debate back to Ram Mandir, love jihad, Muslims and the stock themes in the larger argument that the BJP alone must reign in the ‘Hindu First’ era.The challenge would be to make the election about health, hunger and joblessness, but what exactly is the Opposition in UP now? In the recent panchayat elections, the Samajwadi Party sprung a surprise by doing better than the BJP, thereby creating a buzz about the Assembly polls actually being a fight. Yet, if we examine data from the last few elections in the state, there is a long distance for any Opposition to travel. In the 2017 Assembly polls, the BJP’s vote share touched 40% and that of the SP and BSP was around 22% each (they fought separately). For the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the two parties formed an alliance that got around 37% of the votes while the BJP touched a dizzying 49.6%.It was upside down, strategists believe, as the grand alliance model would work better in the Assembly polls. Now, from all public posturing, it is not to be. Ties between the SP and BSP have soured and over the past year, at the district level, many BSP workers have shifted to the SP. Besides, there has always been speculation that the BJP has tied the hands of BSP chief Mayawati with the threat of corruption cases (she would not want to end up like former Bihar CM Lalu Prasad Yadav) besides holding out a possibility of a presidential position, should she act in ways that benefit the national party. Mayawati herself has said that she would rather give up politics than tie up with the BJP, but she has tied up with them in the past. She may never win a majority on her own, but in state polls, can be assured of some seats where voters of the dominant Dalit sub-caste, the Jatavs/Chamars create a solid bloc.The BJP has in recent polls been able to get support from a section of non-Jatav Dalits, besides most of the upper castes and non-Yadav OBCs. That is a formidable social base on paper but the April panchayat polls did signal erosion. Traditionally, the SP has Yadav and Muslim support, so it would have to build a larger social base and become a symbol of anti-incumbency to win against what will surely be better funded BJP election machinery. What Akhilesh Yadav has going for him is the perception that the SP would be giving the main fight to the BJP. They also have an alliance with the RLD led by Jayant Chaudhary that has support among the Jats of western UP.There is speculation over whether the Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad would consider a loose arrangement with the emerging Opposition. The Bhim Army did posit a decent performance in the panchayat polls in Muzaffarnagar and Saharanpur and claims to have won seats in central and east UP as well. They say they are gearing up for the Assembly polls and it would be interesting to see if UP has space for another Dalit-led party.The Congress is actually the party that at an individual level produced volunteers helping Covid-hit families in cities with oxygen supply, but they have no real structure on the ground in UP. They would possibly perform in the manner in which they recently did in Bengal, fight in a few old bastions and get anything from zero to single digits. In the last state polls, Akhilesh Yadav had tied up with the Congress but is unlikely to do so again, especially after the Congress under-performed as part of an alliance with the RJD in state polls in neighbouring Bihar last year.The only logic to even start a conversation with the Congress could be an attempt to win over the Brahmins. Uttar Pradesh is a state with the peculiarity of having upper castes make up 20 per cent of the population and half of them are Brahmins. Varanasi, the PM’s seat and a city with a huge Brahmin population, has been devastated by Covid. Pandit Chhannulal Mishra, a great singer of the Benares gharana of Hindustani classical music, lost both his wife and a daughter to Covid (he was the proposer of Narendra Modi’s name for the seat in 2014). Pandit Rajan Mishra of the famous Rajan-Sajan duo of the Benares gharana also died due to Covid in a Delhi hospital. There is great unrest, sorrow and an almost philosophic gloom among the residents of Kashi.Uttar Pradesh is home to the largest number of Brahmins in India and besides numbers, those at the top of the caste scale, create atmospherics. Currently, some are speaking of a Kalyug (age of darkness, misery, quarrel and hypocrisy). Even if a small number shifts from the BJP, it can change the chemistry. It’s early days, but some hazy outlines are emerging.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/chink-in-bjps-armour-yet-oppn-disunited-in-up-261855
02-06-2021||---||Build healthcare system from bottom up||Few people talk of the cost of Covid-19 to those people who have survived the disease, who did not have to be hospitalised and took only basic medicines. Even though a mild version of the disease that requires no hospitalisation, cures itself in two weeks, and its management advice is given free of cost by government doctors, forces an expenditure of at least Rs 10,000 on an individual.This includes various blood tests and medicines. For a family of four, where everyone is likely to get it once one person does, this translates into an expenditure of Rs 40,000. This is the take-home salary of a college lecturer, a junior journalist, an office assistant, a senior shop assistant, a small trader and so on. It is many times the monthly earning of those who work as handymen, house help etc. When clubbed with the loss of income, this is enough to drive an emerging middle class in India back into poverty.As per the Central Government’s figures, there have been 2.6 crore recoveries so far across the country of those infected by Covid-19. If 80 per cent of these people recovered at home and each spent Rs 10,000, at a minimum, it amounts to Rs 19,700 crore of expenditure.According to a research reported by Pew Research Centre, US, before the pandemic, India’s poor, i.e. those with income less than $2 a day, were projected to be about 59 million. India’s middle-income group — those with income of $10-20 per day — was expected to reach 99 million. The pandemic has changed all that. Now, India’s poor are expected to reach 134 million — which is double of what was projected earlier. And India’s middle-income group is estimated to be 66 million or two-third of what was projected.This heavy cost which is being borne by the people of India is primarily because of a lack of primary healthcare in India. To be sure, there is a loss of income because of jobs lost and businesses shut down. That is unavoidable in a country facing one of its worst internal enemies in history. But more importantly, the absence of primary healthcare forces a completely avoidable cost on everyone.The sad and sorry thing here is that those who become severely ill have a greater chance of finding support from the government, from charity organisations. But those who are merely ill and then recover are left to fend for themselves; they have to bear extreme costs and face consequent demoralisation.All this could have been avoided if only our country had focused on creating a robust system of primary healthcare, allowed a dignified life to the general practitioner, and not abandoned the system of the family doctor.Many years ago, when we were researching the causes of farmers’ suicide, we discovered that almost 40 per cent of the suicides had happened because the farmer had been pushed to the brink by the costs of chronic disease in the family. In the absence of any healthcare — please notice, here it was not the absence of quality healthcare, it was the absolute and total absence of any healthcare. In these circumstances, the farmer felt abandoned, lost earnings and savings to quacks and chemists in distant district towns.The reasons for the absence of basic healthcare, we discovered, were quite banal. They had nothing to do with shortage of funds. The policymakers of India were completely and desperately in awe of doing something heroic. The search for heroic interventions made them blind to the unheroic, banal, everyday strategies that were needed by the public at large. We talked to many people — ministers, MLAs, experts in the Yojana Aayog (Planning Commission), secretaries to various governments who were responsible for creating policy and implementing them — and discovered the extent of this seduction with the big and grandiose.Unfortunately, there is nothing heroic or grand about primary healthcare. As a result, the policymakers preferred to concentrate on building physical infrastructure for grand hospitals and setting up tertiary care institutions and research centres. Even today, the number of such facilities may be too small in India for them to make any significant impact on the people at large. But that is where ribbons can be cut and inaugurations held.The gap left in primary healthcare by the high-profile ideas of India’s policymakers was inevitably being filled by private doctors. Their numbers till now have been too small to fully satisfy the needs of the people. Most of them come out of fly-by-night private medical colleges. Yet, most of them actually make a heroic effort to earn their living by providing basic healthcare to those who reach out to them.Ironically, the public health establishment actively disliked these basic healthcare providers. They talked of something called ‘moral hazard’ and refused to involve the private doctors in any scheme floated by them.Our researches showed that there was no basis for distrusting the private doctors. The outcomes to patient care in the public sector were no better and no worse as compared to the private sector.But long-held shibboleths have a way of persisting. So, this belief that only public healthcare providers can be trusted remains. So wary has the public health establishment been of the private sector that for many years, the Rashtriya Swasthya Bima Yojana, the precursor to Ayushman Bharat, was administered by the Ministry of Labour rather than by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. Such policy positions are completely unrelated to the ground reality.Primary healthcare requires large numbers of practitioners and little capital investment; it requires a social relationship between the practitioner and the patient. The government is not strong in any of this and has no capacity to build it now.Secondary and tertiary care facilities, on the other hand, require high investment, a certain commitment to research and results in the long term. These are things which the government can do best.So, what does it actually do? It cuts out the private healthcare provider from all government schemes and promotes the private sector for providing secondary and tertiary care! Basically, it stands all commonsense on its head.To take care of the ‘moral hazard’ in the case of the providers of private primary healthcare, the government should develop protocols that are used for everyday illnesses and tie the private primary healthcare doctor to these protocols. Building standard protocols for medical care is something which many senior doctors from some of the best medical colleges in India have talked of repeatedly in the past.Once protocols are created, they become the basis for the interaction between the health seeker and the health provider, and leave little room for extortion by anyone. Such protocols are already in place in Maharashtra since 2013. They played a major role in ensuring that patients were not fleeced and got quality healthcare in private facilities at government expense.What is needed in India today is a system of healthcare that is developed from bottom upwards, a system based on the general practitioner, who is based in and committed to a locality and is made to follow government-specified protocols for treating patients.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/build-healthcare-system-from-bottom-up-261852
02-06-2021||---||Caught in the middle||The bureaucracy once again finds itself in political crosshairs as a controversy has erupted over the unexpected transfer order issued by the Central government to the outgoing Chief Secretary of West Bengal, Alapan Bandyopadhyay. The officer was to retire on May 31, but the Union government had approved a three-month extension in service, just days before PM Modi visited the state for a survey of the cyclone-related damage last week. The Department of Personnel and Training, which handles matters relating to the civil services, gave no reason for its peremptory order to Bandyopadhyay to report to it on May 31 in Delhi. The department did not go through the procedure for the deputation of civil servants belonging to a state cadre to the Centre. There should have been a formal request to the state government for his deputation and the rules provide for the state to refuse. Only then may the Centre exercise its authority to insist on the implementation of its request. Despite his seniority, the West Bengal Chief Secretary has been treated as a mere pawn in the political and personal tussle between Modi and the West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee.There is a growing perception that the role and status of a civil servant have diminished under the Modi government.Over the past several years, a sizeable number of civil servants in state cadres have refrained from seeking appointments in the Central government, preferring to stay in service at the state level. This is in sharp contrast to earlier years when postings at the Centre were much sought after. This may be due to a growing perception that the role and status of a professional civil servant have diminished under the Modi government.The role of the civil service has been a controversial issue from the early years of our republic. In 1969, Indira Gandhi had called for a ‘committed civil service’. But the Constitution and service rules conceived a merit-based civil service, recruited through national competitive examinations and required to undergo professional training and advance through an evaluation process conducted within the respective service, that is, through the judgement of the senior echelons, as reflected in the Annual Confidential Reports (ACR). The political masters play no role in this evaluation process. Even the 360-degree evaluation process adopted for the All India Services in 2016 does not provide for a politician’s role, say, a minister, in assessing the quality of an officer.The All India Services and other Central services are constitutionally protected as they are committed to uphold the Constitution. This has not prevented political interference in the functioning of the bureaucracy and the latter, too, has been complicit in this, but there have been, and continue to be, honourable exceptions. Political masters hold the power of appointment and transfer, and this has been used to bend the bureaucracy to political will. This is both at the Central and state levels. The growing politicisation of the bureaucracy is likely to continue under a political dispensation that appears to value loyalty and ideological affinity in its bureaucrats more than professional skills and experience. I have pointed out earlier that the role of the professional in government today is to validate a political preference rather than tender the best possible advice based on knowledge and experience. The governance gaps that have become so obvious in the mishandling of the second wave of the pandemic can be traced to this unfortunate predilection.Despite dissatisfaction with the performance of the bureaucracy, whether among politicians or the general public, one has to accept that it is indispensable to the governance of a modern state. What are some of the modest ways in which an efficient and responsive, merit-based civil service may be nurtured?One, recruitment rules must go back to limiting entry to the age group 21-24 and allowing repeated attempts only within this age limit. Currently, 32 years is the upper age limit in the general category and 35 years in the reserved category. The proper training of a civil servant and moulding his attitudes and skills to the requirements of present-day governance makes it important to ‘catch them young’. Recruiting persons much beyond this age limit brings in people who are already set in their ideas and temperament and find it hard to change their attitudes.Two, post-retirement assignments should not be through political patronage and discretionary decisions of government. Let these positions, for example, appointments to statutory commissions, regulatory authorities and similar bodies, both at the Central and state levels, be an open recruitment process, inviting applications from all potentially qualified persons in accordance with well laid down criteria and selection through a body that has eminent non-government domain experts. Retired civil servants need not be excluded from applying but must compete with the rest. This removes the pressure on top civil servants to align themselves to political preferences of the government in office in anticipation of a well-paid post-retirement assignment and thus be inhibited in upholding public interest.Three, change the system of rewards and penalties related to performance. The current system imposes penalties for acts of commission, no matter how minor. Acts of omission, which may lead to significant losses to the public exchequer or undermining of people’s welfare, mostly go unpunished. Rather than take decisions which may entail some risks, a civil servant may consider it more prudent to keep a file in orbit or to deflect decision-making to the senior or even political level. Even current rules will not punish a civil servant for taking a decision in good faith which turned out to be a mistake. No one can avoid making any mistakes and this must be acknowledged and accepted as part of a learning process. These are modest reforms, but they will help in reorienting our civil service in serving the country better. It is an unmatched pool of talent and experience which ought to be better used.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/caught-in-the-middle-261851
