03-06-2021||---||Draw lessons from Covid to improve jail healthcare||LAST month, the Bombay High Court questioned the Maharashtra Government on the staff vacancies of doctor in the state’s 47 prisons. Almost one-third of the sanctioned posts are lying vacant in these prisons. Stating that there are only 32 doctors for more than 30,000 prisoners, the Bench hearing the matter stated, “We are not asking you to increase the sanctioned strength, at least fill the sanctioned posts. Once you have sanctioned, is it not your duty to fill the posts?”This comes at a time when the country is reeling from the deadly second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. Prisons continue to be one of the vulnerable spaces for the spread of the virus. Yet, little has changed since last year when Covid-positive cases were reported from prisons.It was already very late last year, when concrete measures were rolled out to control its spread inside prisons. Data compiled by the Commonwealth Human Rights Initiative (CHRI) shows that between May and December 2020, more than 18,000 prisoners and prison staff had tested positive, while 17 persons lost their lives. Healthcare systems inside prisons, that were inadequate to deal with the needs of inmates and authorities, had suddenly found themselves forced to deal with the pandemic.This trend continues in the second wave of the pandemic. In 2021, there have already been more than 4,000 positive cases and 18 deaths, both of prisoners and jail staff.The issues of inadequate medical infrastructure, heightened concerns about staff vacancies and increasing workload in prisons has remained largely absent from public visibility. International rights bodies have emphasised the need for governments to prioritise prisons and take steps to curb the spread of the virus.The World Health Organisation (WHO), in a joint statement with the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC), the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR) and the United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS, drew international attention to the “heightened vulnerability of prisoners” and urged the authorities to take all appropriate public health measures in respect of this vulnerable population.Terming physical distancing and self-isolation as practically impossible inside prisons, United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights Michelle Bachelet, too, had pressed the governments to find ways to release prisoners, especially those more vulnerable to the infection.As per the National Crime Records Bureau data in its annual report, Prison Statistics India, as in December 2019, there were only 1,962 medical staffers catering to the day-to-day medical needs of 4.78 lakh prisoners. In the same period, on an average, only Rs 5 per day was being spent on the healthcare needs of a prisoner.Various other underlying issues that reflect the overall grim state of healthcare inside prisons include:n Lack of specialised doctors visiting prisonsn Lack of medical escorts for transportation of inmates to hospitals outside jail premisesn Challenges with regard to procurement of medicinesn High rate of persons suffering from tuberculosis, HIV/AIDS, hepatitis C and skin allergies.n High rate of death by suicide inside prisons also points to inadequate access to mental counseling and treatment. In 2019, the rate of death by suicide stood at 24.24 per lakh prison population, which was more than double than in the general population.Healthcare management and medical infrastructure are crucial aspects of prison management due to the unique nature of the system of confinement: large numbers of people in close contact with each other in restricted spaces, often leading to overcrowding. As a result, prisons are bound to face constant health issues and recurring medical requirements.Access to adequate and quality healthcare is a basic right which becomes even more crucial in spaces of confinement. It cannot be denied to any person. As observed by the Institute of Criminal Policy Research (ICPR), “a sentence to imprisonment is a sentence of deprivation of liberty, not a damage to health.”In the ongoing pandemic, prisoners are cut off from the outside world at a time when improved public health communication and the attention and care of and by loved ones are crucial. They face severe curbs, including temporary suspension of physical mulaqaat (meetings) and delays in their trials.The pandemic has created hindrance in the court work, with focus laid on hearing of urgent matters. This has resulted in a significant increase in the pendency of cases. According to the National Judicial Data Grid, between 2019 and 2020, the backlog of cases has increased by 18.2 per cent in district courts, 20.4 per cent in high courts, and 10.35 per cent in the Supreme Court. With an increase in the period of detention pending trial, it is bound to impact the undertrial prison population — that accounts for almost 70 per cent of the total prison population in India.The pandemic presents an opportunity for prisons to meet the gaps in prisoners’ access to medical care. The governments should treat health as a top priority for all citizens, including those behind bars. Prison healthcare should be an integral part of the public healthcare system in India, both in letter and spirit.Public healthcare received a meagre 1.8 per cent of the GDP in 2020-21. The National Health Policy of 2017 recommends that the expenditure on health should be increased to 2.5 per cent of the GDP by 2025. The pandemic also resulted in an increased burden on the already under-resourced prison system, both financially and in terms of human resources. It is only when the overall healthcare systems are improved in the country through adequate funding, will things start improving inside the prisons.To start with, the focus must be on filling medical vacancies in prisons, with at least one doctor per 300 inmates as per the Model Prison Manual 2016. Prison overcrowding is one of the key issues contributing to poor health standards and hygiene. It must be kept in check. Both men and women inmates should enjoy equal access to prison hospitals, proper diet and timely referral to outside and specialist hospitals. Prison departments and state health departments must collaborate to ensure regular visits by psychologists, psychiatrists, dentists, gynaecologists and other medical specialists.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/draw-lessons-from-covid-to-improve-jail-healthcare-262392
03-06-2021||---||Despairing India needs a JP for this century||IT’s the eighth year of a charismatic Prime Minister. The economy is in a shambles, with low growth, high unemployment and rising inflation. Doubts are giving way to disillusionment, disappointment to anger. The imperious political dispensation treats popular protests with disdain.No, I am not depicting Narendra Modi’s India. This fragment, nearly half a century old, is from Indira Gandhi’s India. The date June 5, 1974, was a turning point in the history of the Bihar movement. Jayaprakash Narayan or JP gave a call for ‘Sampoorna Kranti’ or total revolution at a massive rally in Patna that day. Sampoorna Kranti became the rallying cry of the Bihar movement. Slogans like “Sampoorna kranti ab naara hai, bhavi itihaas hamara hai” reverberated during that famous challenge to Indira that led to the Emergency and, finally, the ballot revolution of 1977.Does that lapsed ideological lingo of a bygone era hold some relevance for us today? I think it does. That is why the Samyukt Kisan Morcha’s decision to observe June 5 this year as Sampoorna Kranti Diwas holds a deep historic significance.In my previous birth as a student of public opinion, attitude and behaviour, one thing never ceased to surprise me: the optimism of the Indian public. No matter how horrid the reality on the ground, a question about expectations of the future always got an overwhelming positive response. The analyst in me found this intriguing. The political animal in me found this frustrating.Looking back, I think this naïve optimism may have been the oxygen that kept democracy alive despite all odds.That optimism is under threat today. Take three recent examples. Mahesh Vyas of the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy reports that the share of households that expected a rise in their income over the next one year had come down to just five per cent in April this year, compared to 30 per cent in 2019, when the economy was already in a bad shape. On the same day, FICCI’s Business Confidence Survey — no good indicator of popular mood — reported a nosedive in its index of business confidence. More to the point, Yashwant Deshmukh — no critic of Modi government — writes that the CVoter poll found 80 per cent Indians in a state of despondency, saying they do not think anything is on the right path.Hope is the most scarce commodity in today’s India. Loss of hope is an indicator of the loss of faith in the Modi government. But this is also a challenge to the Opposition and democratic system. India desperately needs hope.This is not a challenge of crafting a positive political communication. This is not about coining a smart political slogan, or a new ‘jumla’. Indians have been through that. They believed in “achhe din” and have seen the reality. They still yearn for hope, but one that is believable, that maps on to the ground, that shows a path and offers a vehicle.This is what ideologies do. An ideology provides a frame to understand the present, diagnose what is wrong with it and identify seeds of change. It offers a utopia, an imaginary future destination that we must strive for. And it traces a path from the present to that imagined future with the help of agents of change and their strategies.It is not fashionable to use this word in the 21st century, after the collapse of political systems that foregrounded their ideologies. But let us not delude ourselves: those who call themselves non-ideological are also purveyors of an ideology, the ideology of status quo. We don’t need that. India needs a forward-looking ideology that provides a frame for instituting hope.This cannot be done by any of the existing ideologies. We have lived for far too long in the 21st century with the carcasses of ideologies of the 19th century. They were already outdated by the second half of the 20th century; they make no sense in the 21st. This applies as much to the ideologies of the Right as it does to the Left. These ideologies received from the past force square pegs of a new reality into pre-fabricated round holes. They fail to incorporate new ideas, new issues, new energies.Instead of integrating various ideas, we turn to patchwork ideologies like Gandhian Socialism or hyphenation like Ambedkarite-Feminism or absurd labels like Left-Liberal. No wonder these ideologies or their combination do not generate the kind of hope that India needs today.This is where JP’s call for a total revolution comes in. By the time he gave this call in 1974, he had been through the entire spectrum of ideologies of his time. Beginning as a naïve nationalist in his childhood, he converted to Marxism-Leninism in his youth and was an ardent champion of the USSR. Disillusionment with communism in his 40s led him first towards democratic socialism and then towards Gandhi and Vinoba Bhave. Through the 60s, he advocated a communitarian ideology. His call for a total revolution was not one more stage in his intellectual journey; it was the summation of the entire journey and an attempt to integrate all the ideologies of the 20th century for our purpose.JP was ahead of his times. Thus, the idea remained necessarily sketchy. He did not go beyond saying that total revolution entails a radical refiguring both of the system as well as the human being, that it meant a revolution in the political, economic, social, cultural as well as spiritual spheres. He insisted that a revolutionary transformation must be non-violent and cannot happen overnight.Standing on his shoulders, we can do much better. We can incorporate ideologies that JP’s wide spectrum did not encompass: Phule-Ambedkarite legacy, feminism, environmentalism. We can attend to issues that he did not quite grasp: caste, gender, ecology, information order.We can discard many of the superstitions of the ideologies of the 19th century: the idea of a vanguard of history, and universal models of revolutionary transformation and one-stroke revolution.Instead of deducing the picture of a good society from a universal utopia, we can anchor a new ideology in the values of the Indian Constitution. We can revolutionise the idea of revolution.Creating such an ideology is one of the biggest challenges of our times. This is not just a challenge for political leaders and workers; this is a challenge for all social activists, intellectuals, academics and artists. Let this June 5 be the starting point of this difficult but necessary journey.Views are personal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/despairing-india-needs-a-jp-for-this-century-262393
03-06-2021||---||Just what the doctor ordered||The pandemic has exposed, and deepened, existing fault lines between modern and traditional systems of medicine. The tussle is well exemplified in the public spat between the Indian Medical Association (IMA) and Ramdev, founder of Patanjali Ayurved. Ramdev is harping on the fact that modern medicine has no ‘cure’ to offer for Covid-19 and that available vaccines are not capable of fully preventing infection. He rubbishes the modern system as a conspiracy of pharmaceutical companies and hospitals to fleece people. On the other hand, the IMA has accused him of peddling pseudoscience and promoting vaccine hesitancy. The utterances from the two sides give an impression that the fight is about the merits and demerits of allopathic and ayurvedic systems. The focus on the so-called supremacy of different systems of knowledge is superficial and misleading. It should instead be on evidence or lack of it and about yardsticks to measure the evidence acceptable to all.The use of natural products for the treatment of human ailments has been prevalent in societies all over the world for ages. In this long timeline, modern medicine is a new entrant. Several blockbuster drugs that changed the face of medicine in the last century originated from natural sources. They got inducted as modern drugs after going through a long process — identification of active ingredients, pre-clinical studies, understanding the mechanism of action, study of side-effects and large clinical testing. Till the middle of the 20th century, hypertension had no specific treatment except a low-salt diet. Kaviraj Gananath Sen and Kartick Chandra Bose from Kolkata had reported in 1931 that an alkaloid extracted from sarpagandha could treat hypertension. After this, Dr Salimuzzaman Siddiqui in Delhi’s Tibbia College isolated five crystalline alkaloids from the herb and tested them on frogs and cats. Building upon this, Dr Rutom Jal Vakil, a Bombay cardiologist, conducted a small study on hypertension patients and published his findings in the British Medical Journal in 1949. The paper took the medical world by storm and changed the face of hypertension management globally.Contrast the experience of sarpagandha with that of another wonder herb brahmi in the 1990s. The Central Drug Research Institute (CDRI) of the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR), developed a memory enhancer using baccopa monnieri extracted from brahmi. The technology was transferred to a Chennai firm that marketed it as Memory Plus. The drug was launched by Prime Minister PV Narasimha Rao and endorsed by his successor IK Gujral who said he was using it himself. A few years down the line, the CDRI found that Memory Plus had very low availability of the active compound and its effect was no better than grass growing in backyards. The licence of the company was revoked.These examples show that everything mentioned in ancient texts cannot be marketed as drugs in modern times till evidence is generated about their efficacy and safety based on well-accepted criteria. This is what is problematic for some proponents of the traditional systems and their supporters. A recent example is B Anandaiah of Krishnapatnam in Andhra Pradesh who has been doling out to thousands of people a ‘magic cure’ for Covid-19 which he claims to have prepared from locally available herbs. This week the state government got the concoction tested and found that it had no side effects, though its efficacy on Covid-19 still remains unknown. Yet, he had been allowed to continue with the distribution of his concoction. Similar is the case of Coronil launched by Patanjali and endorsed by Health Minister Harsh Vardhan and other ministers. It was first marketed as a cure for Covid-19 and later was downgraded to an ‘immunity booster.’ In all such cases, evidence is either lacking or is dodgy.The likes of Ramdev and Anandaiah want their concoctions and potions to be labelled as ‘scientific’ but without going through the rigours of science. Ramdev has realised that wider acceptance of his medical products would need the label of theirs being ‘scientifically proven.’ Patanjali now has a ‘drug discovery and development division’ which publishes research papers in scientific journals. The effort is to somehow produce evidence to substantiate the tall claims Ramdev makes. The papers published till now cover certain analytical methods and animal models and not about the efficacy of ayurvedic drugs. Many of them are published in journals considered predatory and not mainstream. It is such research papers that Ramdev uses to create a façade of doing science, masking the fact that none of them are based on clinical studies and randomised clinical trials. If truly interested in generating evidence for his claims of cure for everything ranging from backache to cancer, he would do well to collaborate with leading institutes and hospitals to conduct detailed studies and publish in reputed journals.Science evolves based on evidence. It is not dogmatic like ancient texts. This explains constant revision in the guidance on the administration of plasma therapy, HCQ and Ivermectin during the pandemic. It is a sign of strength and not a weakness of this knowledge system. At the same time, there are loopholes in the system which some researchers and drug companies use to circumvent laid down procedures in order to push their products without sufficient evidence. Unscrupulous people can fudge data and fool medical journals. The use of irrational combinations and antibiotics is rampant. Regulatory systems are grappling with such challenges, creating room for course correction. In a country like India with layered health systems and cultural beliefs, it would be unwise to completely reject traditional systems in favour of modern medicine. All systems should be allowed to exist based on evidence of efficacy and safety of individual drugs and formulations. We need to develop a necessary regulatory mechanism, teaching standards, licensing system and marketing norms that apply to all systems uniformly. Evidence-based medicine is the way to go, be it allopathic, ayurvedic or other systems.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/just-what-the-doctor-ordered-262394
