04-06-2021||Did PM Modi think through the matter before issuing the controversial transfer order of Alapan Bandyopadhyay||I would have done the same||I am inclined to judge him harshly in this instance. He has obviously been overtaken by personal pique and a vague motive of instant revenge. This is what a PM of a huge democracy needs to eschew, even if it militates against his basic nature. Faced by much bigger problems — Covid, the shortage of vaccines and now Cyclone Yaas, he should have avoided this new confrontation.Modi made an aerial survey of the cyclone-affected districts of Bengal. He had intimated Mamata of his tour but had not invited her to join him in his aircraft. That would have been a gracious gesture, but then, he had just been humbled at the hustings by her and that had not gone down well with him.Mamata, accompanied by her Chief Secretary, had made her own aerial survey on the same morning of Modi's arrival. She had been asked to attend a meeting to discuss the cyclone’s havoc with the PM at 2.30 pm. She made her survey plans so as to arrive in time but her aircraft had to defer to the PM’s aircraft as per security protocols. She should have been forewarned about this possibility earlier and rescheduled her survey timings accordingly, but she did not. Mamata is a fighter we know. But she would be well advised to avoid such fights. In her position, she should pick her fights tactically.Protocol demands that the CM and the CS should be present to receive the PM when he lands in his aircraft anywhere in the state. Mamata faltered on that count. The CS should have advised her but does not seem to have done so.Not protocol, but tact and wisdom demanded that the PM should not include his party men in one-to-one discussions with the CM of a state who belongs to an opposition party, in particular, and if I may be excused, even his own party Suvendu Adhikari, the leader of the opposition — a red rag to Mamata’s bull — was included in the discussion. Incidentally, the Governor, who is also a serial tormentor of the CM, was also present but the CM could not legitimately object to him being there because Governors are also supposed to accompany the PM during a state visit.Mamata appears to have taken unkindly to Adhikari’s presence and exited the meeting after handing over a memorandum about the cyclone to the PM. The CS naturally left along with his boss to whom he reports daily. I would have done similarly in his place. IAS and IPS officers have been programmed to follow the orders, and even wishes sometimes, of the CM of the state they have been allotted.Modi’s design in including Adhikari in the discussions is not clear. He knew that Mamata would react in the only manner she is known to react when confronted by a ‘fait accompli’ like this one. Either he wanted to provoke her or he intended by forcing her to share the honours with her ‘bete noire’ to humble her for humbling him at the hustings.Only four days before the meeting, on May 24, the Modi government had granted its concurrence to the CS’s extension in service for three months. And on May 28, obviously dictating an order from the very room where the cyclone meeting was being held, Modi transferred the CS to Delhi to report there on May 31.It was obvious that the transfer was ordered as a punishment in order to take revenge because he felt slighted by the Bengal CM — or is it revenge for having lost the Assembly elections to her so convincingly?The transfer order, in all respects, is illegal. It cannot be sustained in any court of law. Bandyopadhyay is an officer of an All-India Service, governed by the AIS rules. None of the ingredients of the rules were followed in the case of his transfer. There have to be consultations between the Central and state governments and the officer’s consent obtained. None of these requirements preceded this transfer. The officer was to retire in normal course on May 31. He had been given an extension of three months to perform the role of the Chief Secretary of Bengal and not for any role in the Centre.Modi has a history of ruthlessness in Gujarat. He brooks no dissent from officers. When the then DGP of Gujarat and the police allowed a minister to sit in his control room to direct police operations during the 2002 riots, he displayed impotence against a political authority who would not stop at anything to assert himself. I can see this tendency in the present matter. Being told that the rules will not sustain his order transferring the officer to Delhi, he has resorted to the Disaster Management Act to settle scores!But with whom does he need to settle scores? Mamata or the innocent member of an elite service conceived by the ‘Iron Man’, Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, also hailing from Gujarat, as an institution which is permanent and will assure continuity in administration, even when one elected party replaces another at the helm? Bandyopadhyay served the CPM government as loyally as he later served the TMC. That is what we were taught to do at our academies.What does Modi want IAS and IPS officers allotted to different states to do? Does he want them to disregard the orders of their respective governments? Is the Centre going to rule the states from Delhi? Would he have allowed that in Gujarat when he was the CM there? Most of all, does he want a federal form of government or not? These are questions he must ask himself before venting his spleen on service officers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/i-would-have-done-the-same-262958
04-06-2021||---||Fiscal stimulus is the need of the hour||THE second wave of Covid-19 that is devastating the country has resulted in a call once again, as had happened during the first wave last year, for a fiscal stimulus. We may recall that the overall size of the stimulus, fiscal and monetary, that the Indian system had provided last year was one of the lowest among the major economies.But there is a difference this time. Typically, at a time of crisis, the call for higher government spending and the central bank (RBI) creating more liquidity is made by Left-leaning economists and commentators. What is different this time is that the leadership of the corporate sector, which has a conservative mindset and seldom publicly falls out of line with the declared official viewpoint, has also come out openly and forthrightly in favour of loosening of government purse strings.Uday Kotak, a leading banker and the president of the association of corporate sector biggies, CII, has come out in favour of upping government spending. He has said that the government should consider another fiscal package to support those who are not well off as also the small and medium businesses.Specifically, he has suggested that this could take the form of direct transfers (the government distributing cash and food), the staple of Left-wing commentators. Plus, the government could support small businesses by offering another package of collateral free loans under the Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme (ECLGS) as it did last year — specifically upping last year’s package ofRs 3 lakh crore to Rs 5 lakh crore.And sure enough, within days of this public appeal, the government has come out with a proposal to allow small businesses to borrow an additional 30 per cent of their credit limit, over and above the 20 per cent that had been allowed last year.Why has this happened? As Kotak puts it, this is because the second wave has turned out to be very, very damaging and shaken the country. The surest sign that the economy is in dire straits is that the radical and conservative sections of opinion appear to ask for the same kind of action and in a way bury their ideological differences temporarily.But of course, the government has gone so far and no further. Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman has said in response to the demand for a larger and more comprehensive stimulus that the economy will have to first use what is already there on the platter. The Union Budget unveiled in February was designed keeping in mind the need for a stimulus in the context of the first wave and this is only the second month (when she made her comment) of the current fiscal year. The economy first needs to use all that has been provided in the budget itself. Besides, many of the schemes announced under the Atmanirbhar Bharat package are still being used, meaning presumably that there is still heft left in them. The ECLGS still has money in it.A final call is yet to be taken on the impact of the second wave on the economy. The logic seems to be that once that becomes clear, then further action can be taken. Specifically, on healthcare and whether the Health Ministry’s budget needs to be enhanced, the Finance Minister’s sense is that people should start spending what they have been given in the new financial year and if they need more, it will be made available.What is the reality on the ground? The Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy’s (CMIE) regular surveys have indicated that even before the economy and its proxy, the employment level, could recover from the fall that had taken place last year in April-May, it was hit by the second wave. This has taken the unemployment rate to an incredible 14.7 per cent in this May. Not everybody who lost his job last year has got it back and some of those who have got their jobs back have secured poorer quality jobs. The number of salaried jobs on offer is still falling. Around 55 per cent of those CMIE interviewed said they were earning less (nominal income) than last year. If to that you add the effect of inflation, more than 97 per cent of the population is poorer today in terms of income than a year ago.What should we do now to organise a recovery? CMIE chief Mahesh Vyas is pessimistic. The households cannot give a push as they have lost incomes and become more indebted. The small percentage of the rich who have a surplus are putting their money into the stock market, not in creating capacity. Enterprises, whose capacity utilisation stands at 66 per cent, are not investing to create fresh capacity. So the buck has stopped, in a way, with the government. It is the government which can create the stimulus by raising its own expenditure, or the central bank through the financial sector can provide financial accommodation to small and medium units so that they can raise their working capital expenditure which will cause incomes to rise down the line and raise consumption expenditure and restimulate the economy.As we have seen earlier, the government’s position can be described as taking half a step forward. If it has to begin right at the bottom, then it has to go in extensively for direct transfer. This will stimulate consumption expenditure and along with working capital expenditure incurred by small businesses enabled by greater financial accommodation, life will be reinjected into the economy and greater economic activity will occur bottom upwards.This is happening partially with benefit transfers and expansion of ECLGS but the disturbing thought is that some of the poorest and most deserving are getting left out. The migrant worker does not have a ration card to use at his place of work and many poor and illiterate people do not have Jan Dhan accounts or even Aadhaar cards. The best way to give them some food and cash would be, as suggested by a leftist economist, to do so and put a mark on their fingers as done when you cast your vote. But that is too revolutionary.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/fiscal-stimulus-is-the-need-of-the-hour-262968
04-06-2021||---||State should own responsibility, not pass the buck||THE Indian State has not been the strongest and there are several reasons for feeble State capacity — paucity of funds and manpower, pork-barrel politics and multiple objectives without the wherewithal to achieve them. But during a crisis, every time the State has been pulled by the bootstraps, it has delivered when the promise was faint. The technical cadre, bureaucracy, the states and municipalities often rose to the occasion.What we have seen in New Delhi amid the second wave of Covid-19 is not just a collapse of a rickety system, but everyone running around like headless chicken. No longer do people look to the State, which has clearly betrayed the trust in failing to plan ahead during this pandemic. And perhaps more so because no plan was being made adequately, it left everyone to his own devices. Planning not only involves thinking in advance, but it also exponentially improves response. Right from the Napoleonic Wars of the early 19th century, emergency response has been based on a triage. This should have been followed by a priority scheme by which only the most serious cases are taken into the ICU and the rest handled either with oxygen or general beds or home quarantine. When triage is established and serious cases are taken in and monitored, panic is booted out of the window.Mumbai’s pandemic management shows what could be done with triage, foolproof coverage, a centralised bed allotment( including that of the private hospitals), predetermined rates of treatment even for private hospitals rather than ‘first come, first served’ and laissez-faire. With that ecosystem, Indian jugaad, which is anti-management in essence, is elbowed out and predictability introduced into the system. Hospital admission is no longer based on your contact and influence, but on the severity of infection.How did India lose sight of these approaches when Municipal Corporation Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal had already done it in Mumbai, Kerala had handled the problem with aplomb, and Tamil Nadu with competence? The ability to plan for ensuring efficiency somehow was missing in most places. All data put out was way off reality and there was underreporting by design. When the State starts encouraging data fudging, it starts believing in it. Eventually, the State was the victim of its own yarn-spinning. Complacency is inevitable when you are looking at wrong data points. The National Centre for Disease Control as well as many bio-statisticians believe that the Indian Covid figures are underreported by 20-30 times. This pandemic thrives off complacency.The second issue was the unwillingness to hear anything unpleasant: advice which points out different implications for decision-making. Actually, a strong point made by a functionary was likely to draw instant punishment. Sane voices fell silent in the process. They were told in no uncertain terms what was to be done and their job entailed only detailing, which often meant acceptable English without contradiction. Instructions were coming so fast and furious that many orders were incomprehensible, if not contradictory. The initiative just vanished and so did the urge and obligation of the civil servants, doctors and scientific establishment to tell the whole truth. The system didn’t reward that, nor expected anything other than compliance. The survival instincts of these people is so strong that if tiger’s milk is required, something will be produced as tiger’s milk. That happened and what slowly diminished was independent thinking, honest advice and sticking one’s neck out if something was blatantly wrong. Four years back, I was told by an amicable Cabinet minister that under the Constitution, bureaucracy is only supposed to do whatever is ordered by the political executive. I humbly asked for the source and tried to disabuse him, but I sensed the thickening cloud on the horizon. The only surprise is that it rained much quicker than expected.Thirdly, advice came not from accountable sources, but somewhere from the twilight zone of loyalty. As former Health Secretary K Sujatha Rao says, “the multiple prices of vaccines and delegation to the states, when the Government of India always bore the responsibility earlier as per the Constitution, could not have been the advice from civil servants.” A steamrolled civil service cannot perk up to discharge command function because its spine is broken.When style becomes the content and triumphalism is the style, everyone learns in the system to work on the low-hanging fruit. Everything revolves around publicity and visibility, not problem sensing and problem solving. If the top brass says that the threat is gone, the system lowers its guard as the leadership style demands it so frequently that it has become a default response. If prioritisation is not indicated from the top, no one will take the trouble of being a contrarian to be punished finally. In the result, the system doesn’t have many who can argue and differ. They are there to take received wisdom. In essence, no system remains and a compliant bunch occupies positions of power.Such kind of State abdication has its own ‘toolkit’ to face the downside. First evade, then shift blame to the states, then to the bureaucracy — its favourite punching bag. At the heart of this is the absence of any attempt to pull the sclerotic State out of the morass. But it puts the regime and its leaders in defensible position when the litmus test is deniability. But the State weakens many times more and the State capacity just withers away in the name of national glory and power.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/state-should-own-responsibility-not-pass-the-buck-262982
