05-06-2021||---||Engage military to expedite vaccination drive||The Indian military has played a significant role in mitigating the effects of Covid’s second wave among the civilian population in cities like Delhi, Lucknow, Pune, Patiala and Jaisalmer and far-flung areas such as Ranikhet and Pithoragarh, where military-run Covid care centres for the general public have been set up or expanded during the past month. This was done to supplement the earlier decision of providing beds for Covid-affected civilians in military hospitals, in case these were available.The question that now arises is whether the military-civilian cooperative model of Covid care centres should be extended to the next logical step. This step includes the setting up of mobile vaccination centres and the conduct of vaccination camps, especially in small towns and rural areas, thus filling the gaps in our vaccination plan and bolstering the country’s capacity for achieving ‘herd immunity through vaccination’ by the end of the year.It is a fact that whenever there is a disaster in the country, the government and the people look to its military, the ‘last bastion’ as it is called, to step in and provide assistance to deal with the situation expeditiously. The fact that the military is mandated, as its ‘secondary role’, to assist Central and state agencies to deal with national emergencies like the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, facilitates an early and effective response.During the first wave last year, such assistance for civilians was limited to setting up quarantine centres for people being repatriated from abroad as also a Covid care centre in Delhi, in concert with other agencies, for those who tested positive with the disease.However, considering the large number of people who were infected in the second wave this year, especially those in the severe category — requiring hospitalisation, oxygen and ventilators — the massive scale of the problem has dictated a wide range of additional roles for the military. They include transportation of oxygen plants and other emergency resources by Air Force aircraft and Naval ships as also assistance for setting up additional Covid care centres for civilians in many parts of the country.Nonetheless, there is a contrarian view among some people, including military veterans, that the involvement of the military in such a role would have adverse effects on the quality of medical care available to serving personnel and their families, who are equally affected by the ravages of the pandemic. Further, they fear, it would divert attention from the military’s primary role of war-fighting at a time when tension over PLA intrusions still remains in eastern Ladakh.These arguments are countered by those who support military assistance. They say that the unprecedented scale of the health emergency dictates a more substantive role for the military, which is capable of making a real difference, especially since it would not have any adverse effect on our operational capabilities.In this backdrop, the question that arises in the context of the nation’s quest for defeating the virus, by achieving ‘herd immunity’ through an accelerated vaccination programme, is whether the military can contribute towards this end, keeping its organisational strengths and vast outreach in view. The military also has extensive medical human resources at its command, especially medical staff, including nurses, nursing assistants and technical personnel, who can carry out this task efficiently. Also, more importantly, the military has an enviable ethos and record of ‘getting the job done’ even in the most complicated of circumstances.Undoubtedly, if so tasked — and the vaccines provided — the military is capable of speedily and efficiently vaccinating people in the remotest of geographical areas. It can also take on the challenge of vaccinating specified categories of people in towns and cities, e.g. teachers and students, in a speedy and efficient manner.The only pre-requisites for such a venture are the assured availability of vaccines from Central or state resources and the assistance of the state governments concerned, which should cooperate and coordinate with the military by providing appropriate venues and local health staff for the vaccination centres. Local administrative authorities must also take care of publicity for the campaign, more so to counter vaccine hesitancy.Needless to emphasise, the military cannot be seen to be serving any political agenda and, thus, if a decision is taken to seek the assistance of the military in implementing the vaccination programme, it becomes incumbent on the government of the day to ensure that the tasking and distribution of resources is done impartially, without controversy. Further, once so tasked, the military must be provided the resources, especially the vaccines, to ensure that the programme is implemented speedily with military efficiency and vigour.To that extent, the military should be given this role only if the vaccines are available in the required numbers. Rest assured, once given a clear task and resources, the military will never let the people down.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/engage-military-to-expedite-vaccination-drive-263494
05-06-2021||---||Reforms needed to meet environment goals||ThIS year’s World Environment Day is unique in many ways. We are in the midst of an unprecedented Covid-19 pandemic that has paralysed every country on our planet. It is one of the rarest events in the human history where people’s lives and livelihoods have been crippled in such a manner.It was just two years ago, on May 21, 2019, that the Anthropogenic Working Group on Anthropocene Epoch finally accepted that human activities have irreversibly changed the face of the earth. Hence, the Covid-19 pandemic since early 2020 has shown the serious health calamity as a manifestation of the simmering global environmental crisis.This Environment Day comes after 50 years of the historic Founex (Switzerland) global meeting of experts on June 4-12, 1971, that prepared the groundwork for the first UN Conference on the Human Environment (UNCHE) held during June 5-16, 1972, in Stockholm.Since the 1960s, the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) has been the central enterprise for the protection of global environment. Therefore, it is high time that the UN system recalibrates itself for the vagaries of scientific assessments and the political realities of the future. It may require a new environmental pathway to rejuvenate the founding values and restore faith in international environmental governance.We are now a year away from the 50th anniversary of the 1972 Stockholm Conference. This will be yet another defining moment for a futuristic vision to address the perennial “predicament of mankind”, the need to “devise effective responses” for the “world problematique” (The Limits to Growth, 1972).In turn, it calls for an honest assessment of what we have attained in the past 50 years of regulatory processes, use of innovative tools and techniques, and environmental statecraft.Have these brought about a change in human mindsets? How do we jettison human greed and define our needs? What might be the new ideas, approaches, processes, regulatory tools and institutional structures to effectively address the “world problematique” that continues to haunt us after 50 years?It enjoins upon us to ponder over the reckless destruction of wild spaces, endangering of plant and animal species, poisoning of land, atmosphere, water resources and the oceans (now predicted to contain more plastic than fish by 2050), melting of the polar ice caps and unsettling of our essential ecological processes.In 2020, a report of the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), The Protected Planet, estimated that though “at least 22.5 million square km (16.64%) of land and inland water ecosystems, and 28.1 million square km (7.74%) of coastal waters and the ocean, are within protected areas”, yet a third of key biodiversity areas lack any coverage, and only less than 8 per cent of land is both protected and connected.That, in turn, calls for a new human prism for the care, maintenance and trusteeship of the planet. The Indian Prime Minister did speak on this in a virtual address to the G-20 Riyadh Summit on November 21, 2020. As a corollary, it is high time India steps forward to own up and push for the “revival of the UN Trusteeship Council with a new mandate”.It is now an appropriate occasion to reflect upon the course traversed in the past 50 years and to look ahead in an effort to seek answers for a better common environmental future. What lies in store for us in the next three quarters of the 21st century? How can we manage our profligate lifestyles, resource-heavy extraction-based production processes and wasteful patterns of consumption in a way as to not endanger the survival of life on earth in general and the future of humankind in particular?It appears, in the words of Jorge E Viñuales of University of Cambridge, that: “The scale and urgency of the unfolding environmental crisis has made the critique of this hierarchy (economy over environmental protection) more powerful.”This calls for serious prognoses to make sense of the concerted global environmental law-making and institution-building processes as well as the global conferencing technique followed by the UNGA (1972, 1992, 2002, 2012 and the coming 2022 event), application and efficacy of the basic legal underpinnings of international law to address global environmental challenges, actual working of the giant treaty-making enterprise, and the quest for a robust global environmental-governance architecture.The 50th anniversary of the 1972 Stockholm Conference in 2022 calls for an honest introspection on what we have attained during the past five decades. A contribution in this regard is Our Earth Matters, which comprises seminal ideas and proposals from 23 outstanding scholars.Our Earth Matters seeks to sensitise the global audience, fire the imagination of scholars and decision-makers to re-examine the current global approaches to these problems and explore the future trajectory with new ideas, tools, techniques, processes, ecological frameworks and ideas.Among the problematic situations, state sovereignty remains a major stumbling block for effective environmental conservation and sustainable development. The modern environmental movement makes states responsible for adapting regulations and securing compliance. Existing multilateral treaties may serve as an organisational principle for the planetary management of natural resources. There are also direct and indirect impacts of armed conflicts on the natural environment.It calls for the states to integrate legal protections for the environment into their armed forces’ doctrines, and humanitarian expertise to help those coping with the environmental consequences of conflicts. “We all have our part to play as we face this existential threat,” Peter Maurer, President of the ICRC Geneva, said.There is an urgent need to look ahead for the future international environmental governance structures and reforms that will be necessary to meet current and future challenges.It has become clear that the changes in attitudes and social structures called for at the 1972 UNCHE have not taken place and that now time is running out to make the necessary, far-reaching changes. “Together, we face humanity’s greatest challenge. Together we must fix it. The need for international action remains even more acute,” Anna Sundström, Secretary General, Olof Palme International Centre, said.As predicted by Nicholas A Robinson of Pace University, New York; “More than just air pollution and the loss of natural resources, future policies must cope with threats from cyber wars, nuclear war, genetic mutations, and artificial intelligence.” Therefore, international governance is proposed to deal with the practical challenges of repairing environmental conflict.The recalibration of our future pathway could include, apart from a new planet-people-centric environmental approach, an ecological framework, a revival of the UNTC with a mandate for global environment, an upgrade of the UNEP into a full UN specialised agency, and courts and tribunals as the new environmental sentinels.We need to act before it is too late for the people and the planet.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/reforms-needed-to-meet-environment-goals-263493
05-06-2021||The third Covid wave is imminent and as a nation we do not know what it holds for us||Pre-modern to anti-modern||Political rallies and religious congregations are the real super-spreaders and this tamasha cannot be allowed to destroy the health and wealth of the nation yet again. The first lockdown, which was the severest in the world, was all about unleashing the police on the unsuspecting citizenry — mostly the migrant labour, the poorest of the poor, some of whom died on the railway tracks trying to dodge the police. It, obviously, was a grand success because we were doing what we were most accustomed to: the medieval use of brute force to achieve a complex objective. A year later, governments across the country realised that tackling Covid was not about cops wielding the lathi at those venturing out of their homes. It was about hospital beds, Intensive Care Units, oxygen supply, ventilators and caregivers. It was about being modern and scientific in thinking and action; in respecting those who are ready to sacrifice their lives to care for others in a non-transactional relationship based on science and evidence-based methodologies.Yet, we are taking a U-turn as a society. While the government promoted nationwide plate-clanging as a sign of appreciation for caregivers last year, now the government's favourite men in saffron robes are attacking those very doctors who lost so much — including their lives — during this one year. The BJP and the Sangh Parivar had richly harvested the anxieties of a largely pre-modern, rural society to come to power, propping up religious and often regressive totems in the process. But now, these totems have come alive and are forcing the pre-modern society to be anti-modern.During these devastating times of Covid, we seem to be embarking on a dangerous journey from being pious and foolish to being outright anti-science. From our first Prime Minister famously posing for a photograph doing the difficult shirshasana to his daughter’s controversial yoga guru, there has been no dearth of official patronage for this ancient Indian practice. But pride in ancient India is no substitute for ICU beds or piped oxygen supply or cutting-edge research for Covid cure. The Union government is the greatest disseminator of information and can overwhelm all other independent news outlets put together in terms of its official authority. So, when a person endorsed by the government attacks science, a weak rejoinder is not enough to regain the government’s credibility. The person ought to be prosecuted or at least be proscribed from making unscientific claims.Rural and even large parts of urban India being pre-modern is not a choice but the burden of our colonial history — of being kept on a starvation diet by an alien government for a couple of centuries. Ours is a slow march to modernity while struggling to find ourselves among clashing identities and crippling indignities. It would take a long time for an average Indian to shrug off the weight of shibboleths, pseudo-science and quackeries. A semi-literate mind obviously cannot distinguish between the real potential of ayurveda, siddha or unani traditions and the blind belief in empty claims of charlatans. One system of medicine need not be identified with a particular religion or ideology or a political entity, it only needs to stand the test of contemporary science, just like Rajendra Chola’s or Shah Jahan’s buildings.Many in the Sangh Parivar believe that India became vulnerable to foreign conquests because Indians were not organised with a unity of purpose and identity. Well, it is easier to believe that India was weakened when we lost our scientific temper, replacing science with superstition, astronomy with astrology, mobility with servility and invention with exclusion. Yet, we have come a long way, becoming not just self-sufficient but creating huge export capacities in vaccine production. We simply cannot afford to be dragged down by people with commercial interests, such as Ramdev, to dictate unscientific prescriptions.Hopefully, the governments in Delhi, Mumbai and elsewhere have learnt their lessons in improving the health infrastructure, but there needs to be a complete change in how we hold our rulers to account. There can no longer be corpse-laden rivers flowing from the Himalayan foothills into the sea. Chief ministers cannot be seen dropping their masks in public while welcoming turncoats from other parties. It will soon be election time in Punjab, Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh and Goa. Political rallies and religious congregations are the real super-spreaders that have accentuated the second wave and these tamashas cannot be allowed to destroy the health and wealth of the nation yet again.Politics and religion have been totally dispensable to those gasping for oxygen in the ICUs, or those searching for a hospital bed or an oxygen cylinder. As the lockdowns are eased and vaccination gains momentum, let the governments remember the lessons of April-May 2021. The age of grand rallies is over; voters no longer get impressed by the number of paid attendees and they do not make up their mind straining their ears in a sea of humanity. This is the new age of dissemination of ideas through the media — old and new. Voters have the luxury of sitting at home, reading, watching and listening to news and views and coming to a conclusion. I know faithful who now choose between a local preacher and one in Chicago. Let priests and politicians not fool us about succour for the soul — what we need is succour for the body, which may not withstand another wave and lockdown.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/pre-modern-to-anti-modern-263492
