06-06-2021||You can take a Punjabi out of Punjab||Freda, Baba and my roots||“The Huts”, our rustic home on the outskirts of Lahore, was not just a symbolic name. Three kutcha thatched-roof village huts, with mud-plastered walls, no electricity or running water, sheltered my eclectic family. My parents Baba and Freda; my elder brother Ranga; my beloved grandmother Bhaboji and her adopted son Binder; two shepherd dogs, Pug and Snug; and a friendly buffalo, Miss Chambeli Clarabelle Cutty, tethered nearby for milk. I was, in my mother’s words, “welcomed home with garlands and a tikka on his forehead” at the door of a hut.Our rural home was a landmark in Lahore. It reflected my parents’ lack of money, but equally, their solidarity with India’s poor. It was a gathering spot, an adda, where freedom fighters, leftists and communists made their plans. They were watched, harassed, and sometimes beaten up by the police. After Independence, many of them became famous politicians: President of India Giani Zail Singh; Prime Minister Inder Kumar Gujral; “Lion of Kashmir” Sheikh Abdullah; Communist leader Harkishan Singh Surjeet. Writer and historian Khushwant Singh wasn’t an agitator but a sympathiser. Some were creative people who became famous: artist Satish Gujral, actor Balraj Sahni, Poet Laureate of Pakistan Hafeez Jalandhari. All loved the Punjabi atmosphere of Lahore.The Tribune, Punjab’s biggest newspaper, was also based in Lahore. My parents had sharply divided opinions about it. The paper put my mother’s historic satyagraha on its front page: “Mrs Freda Bedi left for Dera Baba Nanak where she will offer satyagraha on 21st February.” It reported her being jailed by the British as a big story too. In 1943, The Tribune sent her to cover the horrors of the Bengal famine, where over 20 lakh people were starving to death. After that, it commissioned her to write a regular column on women’s issues, ‘From a Woman’s Window’, the first of its kind in India. So my mother was fond of the paper.My father viewed The Tribune rather differently. The newspaper was nationalist in spirit, but he felt it was not outspoken enough. He spotted a chink in the paper’s armour. It didn’t print on Mondays, as Sundays were holidays. So, in a small room on a small hand press, Baba started a radically nationalistic newspaper called Monday Morning. But taking on the Goliath of Punjab was gruelling work for idealists with no money. My mother pitched in dutifully. Journalist Jag Pravesh Chander, later the head of Delhi’s government, came to help out. Actor Balraj Sahni tried to join in too, but my father dissuaded him. “My dear Balraj, look here,” he admonished him, “if this were a literary magazine, I would say gladly come. Running a political weekly without funds is a dog’s job, and we are dogs. We are out to be whipped by our own choice. You are an artist.” Balraj left after a few months, but he was among the first to welcome me when I began my career in Bollywood. In the end, Monday Morning had to close down for lack of money. “Journalism in India,” my mother lamented in a letter to a friend, “is a tragic struggle against advertisers and news agents who sit on bills and never pay up”.My family members were forced to abandon their beloved huts in Lahore during the horrors of Partition in 1947. But it led to a new life for my parents in Kashmir. Freda looked after the refugees of the war that raged between India and Pakistan. Baba, as an adviser to Sheikh Abdullah, helped write a “revolutionary” new Kashmir Constitution that gave land to the tillers. After moving to Delhi in 1953, my parents’ lives moved on from revolutions to religions. I’ve chronicled their amazing transformations in my autobiography. My mother became the top Buddhist nun in the world. As a 16th generation descendant of Guru Baba Nanak, my father revered him, even wrote books on him. But he went on to become a new-age philosopher in Italy. Throughout all those tumultuous years, he never lost his Punjabi sense of humour. “Dekhi jaoo” was his impish response to every problem.We wore the badge of being Punjabi with great pride in our family. I learnt my Punjabi through my dadi Bhaboji, Mata Phool Kaur. She was an eternal presence in my life until she passed away in Delhi when I was 13. She made me tell her the world news every day in Punjabi as she was partially blind and bedridden. It was her way of teaching me the language, and reminding me of my roots. Those roots remained deep inside me even when I moved to America in the late 1970s.I was living in Hollywood when the barbaric killings of Sikhs took place in Delhi in 1984. I was outraged and horrified. What also distressed me was the breakdown of goodwill between Sikhs and Hindus in California. The bitterness was being stoked by separatists and had to be reversed. The killings couldn’t be allowed to become a Hindu-Sikh conflict. Both communities had lived in harmony for more than 500 years. I started the S.H.A.R.E (Sikh Hindu Allied Relief Exchange) Peace initiative and sent contributions for the relief of victims to the Punjab Chief Minister’s Relief Fund. Thankfully, both communities are at peace again around the world.Over the years, I’ve seen that whatever our religions, whatever our political beliefs, our roots are an enduring bond between all Punjabis. I’ll always be one at heart. I’m even married to a Punjabi sherni. And, like my mother, I’m finally writing for The Tribune.(With extracts from the writer’s autobiography Stories I Must Tell: The Emotional Life of an Actor)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/freda-baba-and-my-roots-264004
06-06-2021||India is ranked 139th out of 149 countries surveyed for this year’s World Happiness Report. The luckless Afghanistan is the unhappiest||Commend, don’t penalise, Naomi||The loss of loved ones, the fear of dying, the loss of financial security, the loss of certainty... Bodies on the railway tracks, the terrible scenes at cremation grounds, the swollen bodies on the Ganga... Fear and uncertainty prey on the mind. Even our Prime Minister chokes with emotion when talking about the terrible fate his countrymen are enduring.A study conducted last year, a few months into the pandemic, found that 43 per cent Indians were suffering from depression. The pandemic may have skewed the numbers; conversely, experts believe that mental disorders are vastly underreported in India due to the stigma they carry.Even in the best of times, people are depressed. There is no immunity from depression — there never was. Naomi Osaka, the fabulously rich tennis star who seems to have everything, has suffered “long bouts of depression” since 2018. Sachin Tendulkar says he battled “anxiety” for half his career. Virat Kohli was so low a few years ago that he had “end of the world” thoughts. Don Bradman, following “the strain of cricket and travel”, reached a state in which he was “organically sound” but “run down” — some sort of mental condition.Osaka withdrew from the French Open after being fined $15,000 for skipping the mandatory press conference after her first-round win. She had previously announced her intention to stay away from the media — “I’ve watched many clips of athletes breaking down after a loss in the press room... I believe that whole situation is kicking a person while they’re down,” she had posted on social media.To subject a sportsperson to tough inquisition, right after a physically and mentally draining match, seems cruel; it seems necessary, too, for sports writers wish to infuse their writing with insight and detail about a hero’s battles. Rafael Nadal said he understood Osaka, but “for me, without the press, without the people who normally are travelling, who are writing the news and achievements that we are having around the world, probably we will not be the athletes that we are today”. “We are not gonna have the recognition that we have around the world, and we will not be that popular, no?” Nadal said.With popularity, the sport grows; more fans, more success, more sporting mythology, more hero worship, more money. But the passion of fans can be a curse; hero worship has a harsh flip side: Osaka traces her current mental state to the night she won the biggest prize of her career — a win over her idol, Serena Williams, in the final of the US Open in 2018. Only 20, she was booed because the crowd had wanted to see Serena win — Serena’s anger at a point being docked (stolen, she said) heightened the highly “patriotic” crowd’s passion. Boos rained and Osaka silently cried, trying to hide her tears by pulling down her cap.Osaka doesn’t want any more of the inquisition; she had declared that she’d be willing to pay the financial penalty for skipping her media duties: “I hope the considerable amount that I get fined for this will go towards a mental health charity.”Whichever way you look at her, Osaka has been unimpeachable. She’s known for doing the right thing, as when she wore masks bearing names of dead Black persons, six men and a 12-year-old boy, at last year’s US Open in solidarity with the Black Lives Matter campaign. She speaks with intelligence and, often, idiosyncrasy and humour, when asked questions about her life and her thoughts. Daughter of a Black Haitian man and a Japanese woman, Osaka knows what it feels to be an outsider — in both Japan and USA. She has spoken against a rise in attacks against Asian-origin people in the Covid era. She has said an athlete must not be apolitical: “I hate when random people say athletes shouldn’t get involved with politics and just entertain.”Empowered by social media, she speaks directly to the fans, cutting out the intermediaries.You can trust that when she speaks on serious issues, she’s given them a great deal of thought — her views on sometimes-predatory methods of questioning by journalists must be given consideration, as also her views on depression, a scourge that is becoming more virulent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/commend-dont-penalise-naomi-264026
06-06-2021||It was in April 1972||Memorable moments with Cariappa||Accompanying the GOC, we received the former Army Chief, who retired from active military service in 1953, at the Guwahati airport. Tall, lean and handsome, he was immaculately dressed in a morning suit, with a felt hat. Shaking hands with him sent a wave of warmth and blessings.General Cariappa, affectionately known as Kipper, a name given by a British officer’s wife, was visiting Guwahati and Shillong as president of the Ex-Servicemen League. He addressed a rally and took stock of the problems faced by ex-servicemen and their families. Some were living a retired life in remote and inaccessible areas of the North-East, and there were those whose financial condition was miserable. He took notes personally and after a quick working lunch, we drove to Shillong.At a dinner party organised in his honour, he amused us with anecdotes. As a young officer in the British army, he was frequently posted from one regiment to another, then took over as the CO of 1/7 Rajput; as the western Army commander, he planned and executed operations in Jammu and Kashmir in 1947-48, saving Poonch and also Kargil and Leh as he bulldozed his way in moving forces to Ladakh across the Zojila.As he rubbed shoulders with Defence Minister Baldev Singh and Pandit Nehru, the appointment of C-in-C was changed to COAS (Chief of Army Staff) and the new appointments of Chiefs of Air and Naval Staff created.A man of principles, he ensured inclusivity in recruitment and kept the Indian Army apolitical; he did not accept soldiers from the disbanded INA even though he introduced their salutation, ‘Jai Hind’. During the 1965 war, when his son, who was in the Air Force, was taken prisoner, he refused the offer made by Pakistan’s President Ayub Khan to release him, saying his son should be treated like the rest.Visiting the Military Hospital, he spent some light moments with the wounded soldiers who were convalescing after the Bangladesh war, bringing much cheer. Sharing his war experiences in Burma, he spoke about the beauty of Khasi and Jaintia hills and the bravery of tribes of all ‘seven sisters’. Besides many motivating superlatives, he emphasised on personal hygiene and took out a small bundle of a leaflet-like paper soap; handy and disposable. He also presented us an Indian version of Scotch whisky, the newly brewed Peter Scot.The following day, he called on the Governor, BK Nehru, an equally distinguished man. Later, he met the Chief Minister, Williamson A Sangma, a tribal leader who had organised a civic reception for him where the music king of North-East, Bhupen Hazarika, sang ‘Rikksha chaloae ami dui bhai (we two brothers pull a rickshaw)’.General Cariappa, on taking over the reins of Indian Army in 1949, instituted the day as Army Day and was given the honorary rank of Field Marshal on January 15, 1986. He breathed his last in 1993, leaving behind a unique legacy of leadership — discipline, character and selfless service to the nation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/memorable-moments-with-cariappa-264041
06-06-2021||One of my best friends has been in a hospital ICU all this week. How does one discover who one’s best friend is? Sometimes they need to land up in hospital for you to realise that even though you may have met in your adult years —when it is cooler to be busy and distant rather than enthusiastic about each other — you are quite madly in love with this person. The physical reaction in your body tells you that you are no longer okay after finding out that your friend is seriously ill.||Despite everything, this is a time to refresh relationships||I’m one of those gifted people who has lots of friends. Sometimes I joke that I don’t make friends. Friends make me. My friend, S, however, is the exception. When I first began to read her online, I was fascinated by her candid demeanor. She seemed so sure of herself. So confident and casual about being seen by strangers online. I wanted her to know me, even as I regarded my own self as awkward and tongue-tied.It took a while for the ice to break between us. When we finally met, I was equally fascinated to discover how private and shy S seems to be in real life. And how voluble I was in her company because I felt I already knew her. I had been reading her. I trusted her instantly.We are often reminded to not get taken in by the personas people project on social media. Yet the same online platforms that some use to hide their true selves are the location for many others to not only reveal themselves fearlessly, but also discover nascent parts of themselves that they hadn’t had a chance to express in their non-virtual life.Some of us disclose ourselves in cryptic ways. There are others who can see through our words to get a glimpse through the window to our inner self. Something like that happened between S and me. It happened between S and many others too, who like me, sought her friendship for themselves.I have met S’s husband a few times before but had never spoken to him on the phone. Now he is the only way I can get news of her as she recovers from severe infection brought on by Covid-19. And her devoted army of friends, well-wishers and admirers have become her husband’s support system. I text him twice a day and on days when I skip the routine, he sends me information voluntarily. I transmit the scant news we have to her network of friends. I think about what she would want me to do and carry on with it.As we continue to live through the cruel whirlwind of the second wave of the pandemic, we find ourselves stranded in an unfamiliar, halfway terrain. The national health crisis has left no family untouched by death and disease, but we also feel compelled to get on with each day as if nothing untoward is happening. Most of us are emotionally exhausted, yet we tell ourselves that now is the time to keep oneself together. We can feel our feelings later.At a time when we want to reach out to each other for support, we are trapped by lockdown and our own personal crises closer to home. Despite everything, this is also a time when our relationships are refreshed, when our collective crisis has reminded us of the preciousness of what connects us to each other.My friend, S, is a smartphone queen and a communications expert, but she has not responded to any messages from her hospital bed for most of last week. I continue to text her and share updates, hoping to make her laugh when she feels stronger and adjusts her spectacles to check her messages. This morning, I texted her to inform her that I was going to write about her. Because how can I write about anything when it is her on my mind all the time? I imagine she gave me permission.What does one do with love one cannot express to one’s beloved? One scatters it all over, so it lands like sparkle and makes everything shiny and beautiful for one immortal moment.— The writer is a filmmaker & author.natasha.badhwar@gmail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/despite-everything-this-is-a-time-to-refresh-relationships-264067
