07-06-2021||---||US weighing options for military bases in Pak||There has been ample speculation of late about Pentagon exploring Pakistan as an option for its air bases to prevent Afghanistan to be used as a base for anti-US terrorism and ensure that Afghanistan doesn’t slide into a civil war after US troop withdrawal (September 11, 2021). Pakistan’s Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi, who often manages to attract limelight for his provocative remarks, said that “Pakistan will not be providing military bases to the US for counter-terrorism operations in Afghanistan”. The Afghan Taliban, on the other hand, warned the Afghan neighbours to not allow the US to operate bases on their territory and said, “We urge neighbouring countries not to allow anyone to do so… If such a step is taken again, it will be a great historic mistake and disgrace” and the Taliban would “not remain silent in the face of such heinous and provocative acts”. Pakistan has denied offering air bases to the US (till now), while Pakistan’s foreign office confirmed that the essential framework of cooperation in terms of Air Lines of Communication (ALOC) and Ground Lines of Communication (GLOC) signed with the US in 2001, for air and ground support to the US will remain.Undoubtedly, Pakistan has compelling strategic motives to improve its strained ties with Washington and is hopeful of doing so under the Biden administration. Moeed Yusuf, Pakistan’s newly appointed National Security Adviser, who has spent a significant amount of time in US think tanks and security policy circles and has earned the confidence of the country’s establishment in the last few months, has the revival of Pak-US ties at the top of his agenda. Imran Khan, after coming to power in 2018, has repeatedly regretted Pakistan’s decision to be a US frontline state in the war on terror. Domestically, there has been tremendous anger on Pakistan fighting America’s war. On the other hand, during the last two decades, Pakistan’s relationship with China has grown significantly and Pakistan assuredly prizes Beijing’s support on crucial fronts: military build-up, $60 billion economic investment, and above all, China’s diplomatic assistance in supporting Pakistan’s Kashmir agenda against India. There have been a few reports of stressful delays in the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) projects and China’s recent refusal to restructure $3 billion in liabilities, but strategically, China and Pakistan remain mutually committed. Despite its deep strategic alliance with China, domestic disapproval, and the Afghan Taliban’s ‘gentle warning’ against providing any military support to the US, the Pakistan military might be willing to go the extra mile to revive its strategic partnership with America owing to the following factors.Pakistan’s economic crisis needs the International Monetary Fund (IMF) support despite Imran Khan rejoicing the provisional estimates of a 3.94 per cent GDP growth rate during the current fiscal year 2021. Imran Khan's government has been facing serious economics challenges with a low growth rate, inflated debt and high inflation. In 2019, Pakistan entered a $6 billion loan agreement with the IMF which came with tough conditionalities. The IMF has been emphasising implementing the circular debt management plan and remains insistent on tax and energy reforms. Washington’s support to sustain disbursement of the $6 billion loan is crucial for Pakistan. Pakistan has been on the grey list of the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) since June 2018 and the deadline for the final decision has been extended multiple times due to the Covid crisis. The review meetings of the FATF are scheduled for the second week of June and Pakistan is keen to exit the grey list. Pakistan is hopeful that resetting bilateral ties with the US will ease the situation. There are little indications of an alteration in Pakistan's Afghan policy and the Afghan leadership continues to express its anguish over Pakistan’s dual role which has not allowed Kabul to settle down. However, the fact remains that instability in Afghanistan after US withdrawal will intensify Pakistan’s problems and a probable influx of Afghan refugees into Pakistan is a serious concern in Islamabad. Instability in Afghanistan would also embolden the Tehrik-i-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) which re-emerged last year and seems to have grown in its operational strength.A report released by the UN monitoring team in 2020 indicated that the TTP members are active in Kunar and Nangarhar (Afghanistan). In the past, the US alliance has brought significant military dividends for Pakistan. Islamabad received lavish American financial and military assistance amounting to approximately $33 billion between 2002-17. According to the CRS Report for Congress (2007), the arms deliveries to Pakistan from the US alone in the period of 1999-2006 amounted to $4.6 billion at an average of $575 million per annum. The total value of US arms transfer agreements with Pakistan in 1999-2002 was estimated at $2.8 billion with Pakistan, ranking number ten among the list of recipients. However, there has been a steady decline in US aid after Osama bin Laden’s killing in 2011, which convinced a majority of Americans that Islamabad was not sincere in its counter-terrorism efforts.The US is weighing its options for military bases for surveillance, reconnaissance, ‘limited’ counter-terrorism operations and support to the Afghan Security Forces. The US has four potential options: 1) Pakistan is the most logical option and the framework of cooperation is already in place; 2) The US has been in talks with the Central Asian Republics regarding the air bases but there is little clarity; 3) US bases in the Gulf, including the base in Qatar, which might not be feasible as it would take close to six to eight hours for drones to fly to Afghanistan; and 4) Aircraft carriers in the Arabian sea, which would come with the rider of requiring frequent mid-air refuelling. It remains to be seen to what extent Pakistan would go to support the American counter-terrorism operations in Afghanistan. It has managed its relationship quite skillfully in the past with the US and China at the same time. Many questions remain unanswered: Will Pakistan work with the US overtly or will it find an indirect support mechanism for the American drone operations? It is interesting to recall that in 2011, the Shamsi air base where US drones were based, was under the control of the UAE, which handed it over to the US. Will Pakistan once again manage to reset its ties with the US without discomfiting the Chinese? While the answers will unfold shortly as the US withdrawal from Afghanistan proceeds, New Delhi needs to watch these developments carefully to formulate its future strategy in the region.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/us-weighing-options-for-military-bases-in-pak-264547
07-06-2021||---||Turkey’s loss could be India’s gain at UNGA||The stage is set to realise the full potential of India’s current role at the United Nations — in the 76th General Assembly which opens in September, as a prominent member of the main UN bodies, and most of all, in the Security Council, where the country began its two-year elected term on January 1.Voting will be held today in New York to elect a successor to the current President of the UN General Assembly (PGA), Volkan Bozkir. The Turkish diplomat-politician has been needling India even before he assumed office as the PGA, when he was only President-elect of the “chief deliberative, policymaking and representative organ of the UN”. On one of his consultative global travels preparatory to taking office as the PGA last year, Bozkir described himself as “brother of Pakistan”.A week ago, Bozkir said Pakistan was “duty bound” to raise Kashmir strongly at the UN and that Islamabad’s position was permitted by the UN charter and Security Council resolutions. His actions have been violative of the “basic rights and obligations of UN staff” laid out in the Staff Rules of the world body. Pakistan has been goading the PGA to facilitate a General Assembly debate on Kashmir, but Bozkir has been unable to oblige Islamabad because there is no enthusiasm at the UN for any such action.Winds in the General Assembly Hall in the run-up to the voting favour the Foreign Minister of Maldives, Abdulla Shahid, who is expected to sail through as Bozkir’s replacement. To win, Shahid needs a simple majority of 97 votes if all the 193 UN members are present and voting on the agenda item of electing the next PGA. The grapevine in Turtle Bay, seat of the UN headquarters, is predicting between 120 and 130 votes for the top diplomat from the Maldives.In the unlikely event that Shahid loses, the alternative will be Zalmai Rassoul, the former Foreign Minister of Afghanistan. India has declared its support for the Maldives and will be voting for Shahid. But a victory for Afghanistan’s candidate will not in any way be disadvantageous for New Delhi, which has strong and friendly relations with Kabul. Whoever is the next PGA, as seen from New Delhi, he will be a huge improvement over the Turkish incumbent, who will hand over the reins of the General Assembly to his successor in mid-September.Once that happens, India’s Permanent Representative to the UN, TS Tirumurti and the two Deputy Permanent Representatives (DPRs) in New York, K Nagaraj Naidu and R Ravindra, can stop looking over their shoulders and devote themselves fully to India’s destiny at the UN, instead of putting out small fires lit by the Turks. The problem with countries of the size of Turkey, Egypt, Mexico and Nigeria in international organisations is that they think they are equal to India.They are frustrated when they find that they cannot win elections in the General Assembly or other UN bodies like India does with very impressive margins. Their jealousy turns personal when their Permanent Representatives to the UN are pulled up by their bosses back home for not being able to compete successfully with India. Such resentment, which Tirumurti’s predecessors too had to guard against, will not go away merely because a Turkish diplomat has ceased to be the PGA. But when such countries are not in key roles, as Bozkir was, they pose little challenge to India.A clear sign that Maldives will win handsomely in Monday’s election is that Shahid has already begun setting up his Secretariat, although the transition from Bozkir to himself will start only in mid-August. The Maldivian has requested South Block, seat of the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), to release one of the Indian DPRs, Naidu, to head his PGA Secretariat. Indians make excellent Chef de Cabinet at the UN, mainly owing to their drafting skills in English. Father Miguel d’Escoto Brockmann, a Catholic priest from Nicaragua, who became the PGA in 2008, drafted Nirupam Sen, who had just left his job as Permanent Representative in New York, into his Secretariat. When Ban Ki-Moon became the UN Secretary General, the first appointment he made was that of Vijay Nambiar, Sen’s predecessor as his Chef de Cabinet.If Kabul’s candidate loses the race to be the PGA on Monday, it will partly be the world’s vote of no-confidence in post-September Afghanistan, once American troops pull out of that country. In choosing Shahid over Rassoul, many countries will be taking into account what can happen to the government in Kabul devoid of the military might of the United States, which acts as a bulwark against its overthrow. The rationale for a vote against Rassoul may be a nagging worry in many capitals whether the UN can afford to have a PGA without a country in the sense there may be no government to back Rassoul if President Ashraf Ghani is overthrown after the US leaves.A vote for the PGA is not only a vote for a country: the candidate’s persona and his credentials are important. Rassoul’s entire life’s work, although impressive, has been confined to Afghan affairs. Shahid, on the other hand, has been a member of the UN diplomats’ club, so to speak, because he has been active in every General Assembly from 1987 to 1994 as a multilateralist diplomat of his country. His role in the “Sixth Committee” of the General Assembly during this period is still remembered by many diplomats at the UN. Because the Sixth Committee is the primary forum for the consideration of legal questions in the General Assembly, that experience is seen as a major plus for him in the race for PGA.In 2017, the UN introduced major changes to the process of electing the PGA, making it more transparent and involving civil society representatives, even individuals interested in global affairs. Candidates for the post now have to present their vision statements to the public and to conduct informal interactive dialogues with member-states. Shahid’s three-hour presentation on May 6 was that of someone who knows the UN well. The inclusive exercise persuaded many countries to throw their lot with Maldives in Monday’s vote.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/turkeys-loss-could-be-indias-gain-at-unga-264526
07-06-2021||---||Private schools’ right to privacy||Do private unaided schools in Chandigarh have any right to privacy? This issue arises in the context of the UT administration requiring schools to upload their financial statements on their website so that they may be available to students and their parents — in other words to the public. This, despite the schools furnishing their income and expenditure accounts and budget to the authorities concerned every year.To set up a good private school entails a great deal of expense and effort. Why would anyone undertake such a venture if the government’s attitude is as it appears to be?Apprehending that uploading financial information would render private institutions vulnerable to unbridled dissection of their accounts by the public, and possible resultant unwarranted attacks by parents and other busybodies which may create hurdles in the smooth functioning of the institutions, the private schools took the matter to the high court.A Division Bench in CW 7706 of 2020 in Independent Schools Association Chandigarh vs Union of India, decided on May 28, upheld the direction of the UT administration regarding the uploading of the financial statements of private schools on their website. It was observed that the uploading of income and expenditure was sought by the administration on account of complaints received from parents regarding schools indulging in profiteering.Further, it was observed ‘that neither the State Governments are considering the financial record submitted by the private institutions meticulously nor the officials go into depth of the account statements prepared by professional chartered accountants’, and added, ‘if the financial statement of private institutions is uploaded on the website of the institutions, the same will ensure transparency and will be an aid in achieving the goal of ensuring that no institution is indulging in profiteering and charging of capitation fee. It cannot be disputed that there are institutions which indulge in charging of capitation fee and indulging in profiteering. Since the accounts of institutions are prepared by professionals, we cannot expect the officials working in government departments to find out the truth beneath the financial statements.’Next it was said, ‘If the financial statements of the institutes are uploaded on the websites of the institutions, the parents of students will be able to look into financial statements of the institutes. There is a high probability that various parents may have an expertise in the field of accounting which will help the administration in ensuring that no institute/school indulges in profiteering or charging of capitation fees.’It will be seen that what weighed so much with the court was that the financial statements of private institutions are prepared by professionals and that it could not be expected that officials working in government departments could find out the truth beneath the financial statements.With respect, this reasoning cannot be expected to commend itself. It cannot be assumed that government officials are incapable of and do not scrutinise and understand the financial statements furnished by private institutions. Surely, governments do not ask for such statements merely to clutter up their offices. If any school is charging capitation fees or other unauthorised amounts, the departments concerned must be assumed to be capable of detecting it and taking suitable action.What also seems to have influenced the court in directing schools to upload their financial statements was that some of them had already done so. If some schools may have done so, it does not mean that others too must do so, unless legally incumbent upon them to follow suit.When on behalf of private schools the issue of their right to privacy was raised, the court held that this would not in any manner breach their right to privacy, observing that ‘the field of education is a charitable occupation.’As is well known, not all private schools are charitable institutions nor are they required to be. There is, in fact, no bar on a private school to be set up as a business venture for profit. One wonders if saying that uploading financial statements of private schools does not breach their right to privacy would stand further judicial scrutiny. Be that as it may, the final word rests with the Supreme Court.In dealing with private schools, their role in providing education to so many in the country, and this number is certainly not insignificant, should never be undermined. In a welfare state like ours, it is the responsibility of the government to provide education for all. The government has been unable to do this. Private schools thus supplement what the government was required to do but has been unable to do.It is ironic that governments seem very concerned about the fees that private schools charge but one rarely hears anything said about the quality of education imparted by schools, whether government or private. The school fees are known to parents before they admit their children to any school, and knowing this, many parents often prefer to send their children to private schools. Having admitted their children to such a school, does it behove parents to complain against the fees?The country needs many more schools, both government and private, particularly those providing quality education. To set up a good private school entails a great deal of expense and effort. Why would anyone undertake such a venture if the government’s attitude towards private schools is as it appears to be?It would be pertinent to recall here the observations of the Supreme Court’s 11-judge Constitutional Bench in TMA Pai versus State of Karnataka: ‘It is in the interest of the general public that more good quality schools are established; autonomy and non-regulation of school administration in the right of appointment, admission of students and the fee to be charged will ensure that more such institutions are established.’Let not the cause of education in the country be jeopardised by the government missing the forest for the trees.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/private-schools-right-to-privacy-264503
