08-06-2021||---||Vaccine compliance vital to rein in pandemic||Reports of villagers jumping into rivers or pelting visiting vaccination teams with stones point to vaccine hesitancy. Many common as well as prominent people are refusing to take the jab. Reports and data from different parts of the country show that a significant proportion of people from diverse economic backgrounds and age-groups have an aversion to receiving the vaccine on different pretexts.Early this year, when a couple of ‘Made in India’ vaccines were being approved by the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) for emergency use authorisation, some partisan and irresponsible comments regarding the vaccines sent a wrong message. This deterred many from taking the jab due to misconceptions. Aversion also led to a wastage of vaccines due to a lower turnout at the vaccination centres.Vaccination is being seen as an effective and credible preventive measure to tackle the pandemic and minimise the damage by a likely third wave. Recent shortage of vaccines, as per government estimates, is temporary and expected to end soon, but an acceptance of vaccines by the commoners, especially in villages and semi-urban areas, is still a challenge. To enhance vaccine compliance, nudging people based on scientific facts and addressing their concerns by dispelling misconceptions associated with the jabs is necessary.The first major concern is that vaccination may cause death in some cases. Cases of deaths were reported during the early phases of vaccination. As per the figures available from the Union Health Ministry, till March 27, 2021, more than 6.11 crore people were vaccinated and a total of 176 deaths reported among those vaccinated. However, a causative link between the vaccine and deaths could not be established and a proper investigation for the cause of death was required. A national committee on adverse events following immunisation (AEFI) has now assessed these cases and reported that a miniscule number of cases with clotting and bleeding have been found in India after the injection of Covishield, one of the Covid-19 vaccines available in India. These numbers, at 0.61 per million jabs, were much lower than 4.0 or more per million in the UK and other European countries. The AEFI committee also reported that there were no such events after injections of Covaxin.The Health Ministry has advised health workers to make people aware about the side-effects of vaccination, especially Covishield, and to report any adverse symptoms that may occur in the first three weeks after the inoculation. Looking at the severity and mortality in the ongoing second wave, the benefits of vaccination outweighs the risks and therefore must be taken without any hesitancy.The second concern among the people is that vaccines are not effective and infections occur even after the first or second dose. Scientists suggest that though some protection may be available a few weeks after the first dose, full protection comes only after two weeks of the second dose of vaccine. One can still get exposed to the virus due to negligence or Covid-inappropriate behaviour. However, data from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) suggests that only 0.13 per cent of Covaxin-administered people got infected, which was 0.07 per cent for the Covishield-injected. These numbers are extremely low despite rampant non-compliance of Covid-appropriate behaviour. It was also observed that in those infected despite vaccination, the disease remained asymptomatic or mild, and death due to Covid was prevented. It means that vaccines protected the person vaccinated. Still, it is necessary to follow the preventive measures even after taking the jab.Another myth doing the round, especially in adults, is that vaccine can hamper fertility. This is a baseless and scientifically untenable misconception, mainly prominent in the Western countries. However, no such case has ever been reported anywhere. Instead, reports are now coming that some of those who contracted the infection and recovered, showed erectile dysfunction, especially after the second wave. Vaccines would have helped avoid such post-recovery complications. Scientists and doctors have asserted that vaccines offer significant protection against the virus and minimise infections, severity, hospital admissions, fatality and also lessen the complications after recovery from Covid.Some minor side-effects associated with vaccination are however real and people should be well advised about them by the hospital staff, Anganwadi and ASHA workers at the vaccination centres. The steps to be taken if symptoms become bothersome should also be instructed clearly. The most common side-effects include pain or swelling at the site of injection, fever or chill, headache, body ache, lethargy, mild flu symptoms, which last up to 36 to 48 hours or a little more. These symptoms can be managed by over-the-counter symptomatic medicines.Recently, apprehension emerged in some sections owing to an increase in the gap between two doses of Covishield vaccine to 12-16 weeks, although no change was suggested for Covaxin. Initially, the gap between two doses of Covishield was 28 days, which had been revised to 6-8 weeks in March. It was suspected to be a step taken to mitigate the current shortage of vaccines amidst the second wave. But the fact is that the increase was recommended by the Covid-19 working group based on scientific evidence and experience in other countries, especially the UK. A scientist, Andrew Pollard, at AstraZeneca, the company which has developed Covishield, said a longer gap between two doses induces stronger immune response after the second dose and offered ‘very good protection’. A recent study in the Lancet journal has indicated that a longer gap between two doses of Pfizer vaccine, to be available in India soon, may decrease antibody response by over five times against the new Delta variant (B.1.617.2). It was first reported in India and was majorly responsible for the second wave. As new variants emerge, gap between doses may need to be tweaked or booster shots may be required to enhance the vaccine efficacy.Vaccines available in the country have been tested during duly approved clinical trials and found to be effective and safe. Covishield, made by Serum Institute of India (licensed by AstraZeneca) is reportedly more than 80% effective. Covaxin, made by Bharat Biotech India Limited and ICMR, is around 78% effective. A third vaccine, Sputnik-V made in Russia and licensed to Dr Reddy’s Laboratories for manufacturing in India, is nearly 90% effective. As per the talks with the US Administration, American vaccines from Moderna, Pfizer and Johnson & Johnson (single dose) will also be available in India soon.Humanity is in a race against time to avert future waves and end the pandemic. Thus, full vaccination of the maximum population is obligatory, and no time should be wasted on hesitancy due to unfounded fears. The likelihood of a third wave can be averted only by vaccination. The vaccine does not allow the virus to proliferate in the bodies of vaccinated persons and limits the possibility of new variants. In the war against the pandemic, vaccinated citizens become invincible soldiers against an invisible enemy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/vaccine-compliance-vital-to-rein-in-pandemic-265030
08-06-2021||---||China on mind, US reboots its priorities||The US President, Joe Biden, has not quite secured his domestic agenda, but he is setting off this week to give shape to his foreign policy. First stop will be the UK, which is hosting the G-7 summit. After that, a hop across the Channel to Brussels, where he will participate in a meeting with NATO partners. Then on June 16, there will be a summit meeting with Russian President Vladimir Putin in Geneva.The locus of Biden’s foreign tour is as strong a signal as you can get, that for the present, the trans-Atlantic remains the primary focus of US policy. Biden knows that to meet his key foreign policy goal — outcompeting China on all fronts-he must first repair and strengthen the US itself and revitalise America’s primary alliance network.In recent months, the US has worked with European allies to sanction both China and Russia — the former on Xinjiang and the latter because of cyber attacks and Ukraine. Biden has also strongly emphasised prioritising democracy and human rights along with issues of trade and security, something that sits well in Brussels.Russian cyber attacks and other such activities are in some ways an effort by Russia to get the attention of the West and work out a modus vivendi. Putin knows well that the future of Russia lies in its ties with Western Europe, and not China, and the key to that is the US. For the Americans, weakening the emerging Sino-Russian entente is an important goal since their main geopolitical rival of this century is China. The upcoming summit in Geneva could well yield some surprise results. Already, there are signals that the US may be ready to accept the Nord Stream 2 pipeline running from Russia to Germany.With a revitalised trans-Atlantic relationship as a springboard, Biden hopes to raise the game with China, as well as take up the agenda of climate change. Though his administration's formal China policy is yet to be revealed, the US has signalled that it would involve cooperation with allies on a broad front involving technology, development and connectivity, even while going on the front foot to combat Covid.In many areas, the administration is building upon and expanding the Trump administration’s sanctions on Chinese entities. In the next phase, a bipartisan Strategic Competition Act will provide hundreds of millions of dollars for the US competitive effort. A complementary Endless Frontier Act will boost technology research to promote US innovation by putting up $100 billion.On the eve of Biden’s tour, the US declared a donation of 80 million vaccine doses, most of them to the global Covax facility, making it the biggest donor in the world by far. This signals the US return to multilateralism and that it has successfully overcome the Covid pandemic.In the real world, unexpected events usurp policy goals and no region is more unpredictable here for the US than the Middle-East which has thwarted US attempts to pivot away from the region and “return” to Asia, the most dynamic economic region of the world. The region remains a powder keg, not only on account of the Israel-Palestine issue, but the Saudi-Israeli-UAE strategy of containing Iran.Where does India fit in here? Remarkably, a recent US poll showed that in April, more Indians had a favourable view of the US (79 per cent) under the Biden administration than the Americans themselves (78). Positive views of the US were up in most of alliance countries, especially Germany, but only in Japan and Italy did they exceed 50 per cent. But it is unlikely that New Delhi can derive any payoff from this. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar’s recent visit suggested that there is a distinct lack of frisson in US-India ties.The priority given to India on account of the US Indo-Pacific strategy remains strong in terms of high-level visits and virtual conversations between leaders. There is a solid foundation of defence and security ties built up in the past decade and more. Better US ties with Moscow could ease pressure on New Delhi on account of American sanctions on arms trade with Russia.As the relative gap between its power and that of China grows, India needs the US to balance China in the South Asia-Indian Ocean Region. The Indian contribution, military or economic, towards a strong American Indo-Pacific strategy appears more nebulous. This is an asymmetry which cannot but have real-life consequences. India should not assume that antipathy to China alone will be the over-riding factor in the US global policy.Even though the Indian economy is limping, everything looks good on the Indo-US bilateral front where trade in goods and services is flourishing, as is the FDI relationship, even though India’s protectionist turn doesn’t sit well with Washington. But this is small change compared to the US engagement with China. With Trump snapping at his heels, Biden must show results in the next year or so, which would preclude measures against China that could have a blowback on the US.The recent spectacle of India begging for assistance because of its own bungled response to Covid could not have gone unnoticed in the Administration. New Delhi looked more of a liability than the self-confident player which is needed to boost US policy in the region.India’s increasing autocratic turn and persecution of Muslims, too, cannot easily be ignored by the US which is critical of China on both those counts. All US administrations balance policy between American interests and values. If India can serve US interests, the values part of the equation can be adjusted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/china-on-mind-us-reboots-its-priorities-265002
08-06-2021||---||Lakshadweep conundrum||The changes initiated in the small, remote union territory (UT) of Lakshadweep by its new administrator, a former home minister of Gujarat, have disturbed the tranquillity of the place and caused a sharp public reaction not only in the archipelago but also in nearby Kerala and the country at large. New Delhi exercising remote control over this UT is what bothers me. The concept of UTs has become untenable, except in a few solitary, exceptional cases. I have looked at this question in depth in my forthcoming book, India—A Federal Union of States: Fault Lines, Challenges and Opportunities and have made suggestions regarding the future of UTs.I am reminded of a story of Zarina, the queen of the Russian emperor, the Czar, over 200 years ago. One day, Zarina was walking in the palace garden when she saw a beautiful rose. She was so taken in that she was worried that someone would pluck it. She pleaded with the emperor to protect it. He said a sentry would be posted there immediately to protect the flower. A sentry stood at the flowerbed for years together, no questions asked. The story of UTs is just like that.At the time of Independence, scattered over India, were six small areas administered directly by the Centre — Delhi, Ajmer-Merwara, Coorg, British Baluchistan, the Andaman and Nicobar Islands, and Panth-Piploda. Because of their small size, they could not — except in the case of Coorg which had a Legislative Council of some kind — share in the system of representative government provided for in the Governors’ provinces and for reasons historical and political they could not be merged in the neighbouring areas. BN Rau, constitutional adviser, did not suggest any change in their status as Centrally administered areas. The Provincial Constitution Committee met on June 9, 1947. By that time, it was clear that British Baluchistan would be a part of Pakistan. The committee decided to refer the question of the other Chief Commissioners' Provinces to the Union Constitution Committee. The latter recommended that as an interim measure, these areas should continue to be administered by the Centre and any change in this system could be considered subsequently.In the joint meeting of the union and provincial committees held on July 18, 1947, the question of responsible governments for only Delhi and Coorg was considered. It was later decided that Coorg, Ajmer-Merwara and Delhi should be designated as Lieutenant Governors’ Provinces. N Gopalaswami Ayyangar called them the ‘minor provinces’.Currently there are eight UTs. The basic question whether UTs need to be continued has never been examined so far. This was also true in respect of the Second Administrative Reforms Commission, though it made recommendations pertaining to the administration of UTs.The downgrading of J&K state into two UTs was a gross misuse of powers under Article 3 of the Constitution which gives powers to Parliament to form new states and alter areas, boundaries or names of existing states. Abrogation of Article 370 could have been done without downgrading the state, since it was already under President’s rule. For long, Ladakh was demanding that it be made a UT. In view of continuing Chinese threat on the border, Ladakh should be continued as a UT. The statehood of J&K must be restored as soon as the delimitation of its constituencies is completed. This is reported to be getting delayed due to non-cooperation of main parties in the state. After the upgradation of J&K as a state, legislative Assembly elections should be held at the earliest.India’s capital being located in the national capital region (NCR), the NCR will have to be continued as a UT. It is time the political parties reconcile themselves to this position. Whichever party comes to power at the Centre, it is unlikely to grant statehood to NCR.Chandigarh has unnecessarily continued as a UT for a long time. Denial of Chandigarh to Punjab was as bad as the denial of Bombay to Maharashtra. I have discussed in detail the background of the decision leading to making Chandigarh a UT and have argued that there was no justification to deny it to Punjab. In fact, the Punjab problem could have been nipped in the bud if Chandigarh was given to Punjab. Haryana should now be enabled to build a new capital for itself and Central assistance should be given for the purpose. As for the contentious issues regarding the border areas between the Punjab and Haryana, a linguistic commission should be appointed with the well-accepted criteria, namely, language, contiguity, cultural relations, etc., with a village as a unit.Andaman and Nicobar, being strategic border islands, should be retained as a UT. As for the other UTs, it is best that they are merged with the adjacent states. Special mention may be made of Puducherry. Its separate cultural identity can be continued to be preserved by making it a district in Tamil Nadu.It is high time the question of the future of UTs is decided rationally on the basis of transparent criteria, rather than political compulsions or simply continuing with them as a vestige of the past.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/lakshadweep-conundrum-264989
