09-06-2021||Senior Financial Journalist||Tread warily on higher ethanol blending in petrol||India has unveiled plans to increase the pace of blending biofuel ethanol in petrol at a time when global oil prices are rising ominously. The aim of raising the share of ethanol in petrol from the current average of 8.5 per cent to 20 per cent by 2025 instead of 2030 is seen as a way of reducing the growing oil import bill. This is clearly in the context of a potential crisis in case oil prices rise suddenly to unexpected levels. Currently, the outlook is not encouraging for a country that buys most of its oil from abroad. Crude oil prices are hovering at around $71 per barrel, a rise of over 30 per cent over the past few months. And this at a time when the second wave of the pandemic has halted the stilted economic recovery that began in January 2021.The country has had a reprieve from high oil prices for the last two fiscals. The pandemic was a factor in depressing prices in early 2020. The situation became even worse in the rest of the year and prices were ruling at around $40 for most of this period. A reversal only began earlier in this calendar year when global demand began to pick up while production quotas imposed by oil cartel, OPEC and its allies including Russia, began to have an impact on the market. As a consequence, the crude oil import bill was an affordable $101 billion in 2019-20 and a remarkably low $62.7 billion in 2020-21. The current fiscal, however, is seeing world prices rise steadily to levels that are worrying for the third largest oil importer in the world. On the plus side, it looks as if the international market will be volatile for the rest of the year and will thus have troughs and peaks.The reasons are numerous. First, Covid outbreaks are continuing in many parts of the world despite vaccinations becoming widespread in key developed countries. This will, in turn, lead to fluctuations in demand. Second, the entry of Iran into the market in case sanctions are lifted by the US in the coming months means that availability will rise sharply. Besides, it is unlikely Iran will abide by OPEC’s production curbs after it is able to re-enter the market after such a long hiatus.And finally, all reports indicate that global inventories are full while US shale operators are continuing to pump oil in significant quantities. So, it may be premature to make any predictions, but the likelihood is that prices will not rise continuously this year and there will instead be bouts of volatility.For India, however, the situation continues to be precarious as domestic consumption is likely to rise significantly along with the revival of industrial and commercial activities. Demand was much lower than usual last year owing to the lockdown and continued restrictions on mobility due to regional Covid surges. Physical imports were thus curtailed while the cost was also easily manageable owing to continued softening of international prices. In fact, at one point in April last year, prices had crashed to about $20 per barrel giving this country the opportunity to make bulk purchases and fill up its crude reserve storages.Reversing of the scenario has meant that the prospect of lower imports by higher blending of ethanol has become more attractive than ever before. The inter-ministerial report on ethanol blending submitted last week has given an optimistic projection that the country could potentially save $5 billion annually on a projected oil import bill of $550 billion. It envisages a steep rise in ethanol production from the present 320 crore litres annually.Currently, ethanol or ethyl alcohol is made largely from sugarcane in this country though it can be produced from foodgrains as well. Raising the level of ethanol in petrol would reduce polluting emissions, but it would also increase the acreage under sugarcane for ethanol production. And this is not desirable from the environmental point of view for several reasons. One is the high usage of water in ethanol production, including the rainwater used by sugarcane plants as well as the water used to wash away pollutants. This could considerably deplete the country’s water resources.Another reason for taking a cautious approach to higher ethanol blending is that it will mean a sizeable rise in the area sown with sugarcane. This could potentially put pressure on other food crops and their future availability and prices. The report has apparently spoken of shifting to grain distillation units instead of relying only on sugarcane but establishing such infrastructure will obviously take a long time. Meanwhile, any rise in ethanol blending will depend on higher availability of sugarcane waste.Raising ethanol blending in petrol to 20 per cent can thus be considered as only one of several measures to contain consumption of fossil fuels. It needs to be implemented with great care to ensure that excess water use does not end up depleting the country’s precious water resources. The use of other grains for ethanol production also needs to be expanded though this remains a long-term strategy.At the same time, the trade-offs of opting for higher ethanol production need to be considered carefully by policymakers. The fact is, the projected saving on oil imports is not likely to be as high as mentioned in the report, especially since the annual cost has been projected at an unusually high level. The question has to be, is it worth going ahead with a plan that could conceivably lead to a huge depletion of water resources and reduce acreage for food crops, and yet not achieve the projected foreign exchange savings. Reducing pollution emissions by use of ethanol is also an environmental goal but whether it offsets the other negative ecological aspects has to be taken into account. Ethanol blending in a bigger way in the immediate future thus needs to be opted for only after weighing all options.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/tread-warily-on-higher-ethanol-blending-in-petrol-265746
09-06-2021||Food & Agriculture Specialist||Time for farmers to have a say in politics||In a tweet, the popular Indian Historypics handle recently shared the cover story of erstwhile Hindi weekly Dharamyug (September 1972) titled Ann Upjaaye Kisan! Bhookho Mare Kisan! (Farmers grow food! Farmers die of hunger!). The focus was on how the people who produce food for the country were themselves living in hunger. That was a time five years after the Green Revolution had set in and valiant farmers in the north-western region had literally pulled the country from the throes of a ‘ship-to-mouth’existence.Nearly 50 years later, the iconic farm protest at the doorstep of New Delhi showcases the piteous condition of farmers who have somehow survived against all odds and produced a record harvest year after year. Faced with mounting indebtedness, the spate of farm suicides over the years leaves a trail of neglect and apathy.With the policy focus remaining on increasing crop production, successive governments have turned a blind eye to the deplorable living conditions of farmers and farm workers. This was the outcome of a flawed economic thinking that aimed at pushing farmers out of agriculture to join the army of daily wage workers in the cities.For several decades now, farmers have been protesting in one part of the country or the other, demanding a guaranteed price for their crops in the form of a higher minimum support price (MSP). They have been invariably been asking for karza mukti (loan waivers). These two demands actually reflected the urgent need to address the crying need of providing economic justice to the farming community, languishing at the bottom of the pyramid.But nothing tangible has come about, with the states either ignoring the protests or, at best, offering a temporary reprieve. The agrarian crisis, in the process, has only worsened.According to the National Crime Records Bureau, recorded farm protests across the country were 4,837 in 2016, 3,300 in 2017 and 2,008 in 2018. A CSE study quoting media reports, however, showed the number of major farm protests in the country increasing fivefold between 2017 and 2021. Besides local issues, most of these protests highlighted the economic disparities that the farmers were living with.Realising that the continuing farm protests had failed to draw the nation’s attention to the acute farm crisis and knowing that farmers and farm workers had been routinely treated by various political affiliations as nothing more than a vote bank, farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal had invited me way back in 2015 to take an initiative to bring farm leaders from across the country on one platform. We deliberated on the objectives as well as the challenges it posed, considering that farm unions were broadly divided on lines of caste, religion and political ideologies and bringing them together was not that easy.Two stalwarts of the farm movement in the country — Mahendra Singh Tikait of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) and Prof MD Nanjudaswamy of the Karnataka Rajya Ryot Sangha (KRRS) — had, a few decades back, toyed with the idea of a unified farm front, but somehow the idea didn’t materialise.Not many of the 52 farm leaders, representing the major factions of unions/organisations spread across the country, who assembled for a three-day conclave at Chandigarh in August 2015 actually knew one another. That was, perhaps, the first time that several farm leaders, cutting across ideologies and political affiliations, sat on the same table. During the intense discussions that followed, aimed at bringing the farm unions together, the leaders acknowledged the need of working together and agreed to form a loose network called the Kisan Ekta. More importantly, the Chandigarh conclave helped create a strong camaraderie and bonhomie among farmer leaders.In the next three conclaves held at Bangalore, Akola and Shimla, an effort was made to reach out to some other farmer leaders as well. While the general consensus was that the farm movement in the country should remain apolitical, a few were strong votaries for forming a political party.Among them were some whose argument was that by being apolitical, as experience had shown, farmers would remain perpetually at the mercy of the political leaders. Vote-bank politics would continue to keep the farming community divided, and the farmer leaders should, therefore, consider forming a political party.Farmer leaders agreed in principle, but they were not willing to take a political plunge for reasons they understood better. In a TV interview at Shimla, to a question whether the Kisan Ekta would soon be a political party, my response was that the objective behind uniting farm unions was to ‘influence’ the political process.The year 2020, however, marked a watershed in the farmers’ struggle as Punjab’s farm unions with divergent leanings came together to wage a united protest against the three Central farm laws. This has spread in other parts too. Not only have farmer leaders from Punjab emerged taller on the national scene but also those from Haryana and Uttar Pradesh. So have many other regional leaders emerged stronger in their parts of the country. The rush for clicking selfies with them is an indication of their growing popularity.With farmer leaders now expanding the outreach through mahapanchayats in different parts of the country, the crucial issue related to the withdrawal of the Central laws and the demand for making MSP a legal right for farmers has reached every nook and cranny. In addition, their effort to reach out to other communities, which certainly has political ramifications, is bearing fruit.In any case, considering that more than 50 per cent of the population is engaged in agriculture and allied activities, the time has never been so ripe for the collective farmer leadership to rethink its role — whether to go political or remain apolitical.After all, reversing the flawed economic design that has kept farmers deliberately impoverished all these years in the name of economic growth will require farmers to emerge stronger on the political front and play a pivotal role in decision-making.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/time-for-farmers-to-have-a-say-in-politics-265750
09-06-2021||Professor||Viable immunisation plan||At this time last year, it seemed hugely optimistic to think of vaccines being widely available within a year. It is a tribute to research and clinical scientists, vaccine companies, governments and global consortia that we have over 2 billion doses of vaccines delivered globally and over 200 million doses of vaccines used in India. We have been lucky in that this pandemic is caused by a virus for which we could build on our knowledge from other related viruses to make vaccines and make them very quickly. However, it’s often said it is not vaccines that control the disease, vaccination does.The government should consider offering indemnity to all vaccine manufacturers for a defined period and use that to drive down prices.A new vaccine is always a challenge. In low and middle-income countries, where there has not been an adult immunisation programme in the past, to vaccinate large populations was anticipated to have financial logistic and human resource hurdles. The principles of our vaccination policy have been laid out and are in use in practically all countries. A strong immunisation programme requires policies that are based on evidence-based decision-making, as well as the planning and prioritisation process.Last year, we appeared to have a clear process and policies in place. In August, the Centre announced its intention to procure vaccines and put in place several committees, including a vaccine and research and development committee, the Covid-19 working group of the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation and established a National Expert Group for Vaccine Administration for Covid-19. The government announced plans to immunise 300 million people by July 2021, covering all healthcare and essential workers and all above 50 years of age.In September 2020, our regulators put out draft recommendations for data requirements for approval of vaccines. It was anticipated, based on projections made by the companies, that following an enabling provision to manufacture at risk the companies were ramping up stocks and there would be over 100 million doses a month available from January 2021. Based on the government’s announced plans and the projected supply, it seemed feasible, though ambitious, to cover 300 million people by or close to July 2021.In January 2021, when the programme was rolled out, the expected prioritisation of healthcare workers followed several ‘dry runs’, the development of a detailed communication strategy and a detailed immunisation plan. But the rapid cascading of categories in February, March, April and May, based on the selection of timing and criteria that continue to be opaque, added to the very large numbers of India’s eligible population without a matching ramping up of supply to keep up with eligibility. It was decided that the Centre would take the responsibility of procuring vaccines for those over 45 years of age, while states were to directly purchase vaccines for those below 45 years at a price different from that of the Centre. Further clarifications subsequently fixed the states’ share at 25%, with the allocation to be decided by the Centre, while 25% was for private players with unspecified allocation mechanisms.In addition to struggling with the two manufacturers, states floated global tenders, and, unsurprisingly, did not receive any valid responses from global manufacturers who had previously stated that they would deal directly with national governments and reiterated their stance. In the spirit of entrepreneurship, tech-savvy young people developed apps that allowed them to score vaccine appointments, while we had the unedifying spectacle of the urban Indian driving into rural areas to get vaccinated at facilities where the residents of villages did not know about or were denied vaccination.The digital divide restricts access, but so does economic inequity. The average price of Covid-19 vaccines globally is less than $6, so Indians who access the vaccine in the private sector are privileged in having the access but are also paying much more than the rest of the world. And, of course, because vaccine prices are high, the proportion of the population that can afford to get vaccinated will, while the poor must wait for government supply. We can argue that this is the way of the world for much of healthcare, but it has never been this way for the national vaccination programme, of which we could be justifiably proud of its scale and improving reach until the pandemic upended everything.So what are the ways forward for India? We have experimented, it has created huge opportunity costs with complicated logistics, wasted effort and promotion of inequity. But these problems can be solved.We need centralised procurement and decentralised distribution. One negotiated price, and the Centre is good at this, for each product. A clear line of sight to future products and supply timelines is essential, with marginal under-estimates to account for delays, to prepare a roadmap for implementation of both first and second doses in a predictable manner. International suppliers can only provide small numbers of doses this year, and by next year we should have sufficient supplies from Indian manufacturers. The presumably at-risk purchase commitment to Biological E for 30 million doses should be followed up with other such commitments for vaccines in the pipeline and used to negotiate prices.A great deal of discussion on indemnity is going on, and the government should consider offering indemnity to all manufacturers for a defined period and use that to drive down prices, particularly those where the government has provided support for development or infrastructure.We must address vaccine hesitancy by engaging community leaders with tailored messaging and adopt mechanisms of vaccine delivery as suggested by local leaders in hard-to-reach populations and locations. Trust is essential, and comes from clear and transparent communication. Trust is also required for science. Ensuring that we build the genomic and clinical and epidemiological systems that demonstrate that vaccines are working, or if they are failing, that we have the data to pivot on strategies such as dosing intervals is essential. From civil society to infectious disease modellers to government health authorities, we are all stakeholders in the vaccination policy, and we need open, adaptable partnerships to deliver the protection of vaccines to all Indian citizens.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/viable-immunisation-plan-265754
