10-06-2021||---||The time for India to play the Tibet card is now||India is in a strategic quandary: how to counter China’s periodic coercion on the undefined LAC, which Beijing refuses to delineate? In 2013 (Chumar), 2014 (Depsang) and 2017 (Doklam), the PLA was persuaded to pull back, but not in 2020 East Ladakh. India does not have any instrument to dissuade or deter China in Tibet due to the asymmetry in hard power and infrastructure without compromising its strategic autonomy or inviting a kinetic response. Neither of these options is India willing to undertake.The Chinese have violated border agreements and brazenly blamed India for the “rights and wrongs” in East Ladakh. Foreign Minister S Jaishankar has said that the Chinese have given five reasons for amassing troops on the border, provoked clashes for the first time in 45 years and shredded the 1988 consensus built over time to maintain peace along the border.In December 2020, the then US President Trump signed into law America’s Tibet Policy Support Act (TPSA), signifying Tibet’s geo-strategic importance, origin of great rivers, necessity of protecting the environment of the Tibet plateau and ensuring Tibetans enjoy genuine autonomy. The TPSA makes it a policy to ensure that the Dalai Lama’s succession is consistent with Tibetan Buddhism and is the prerogative of His Holiness. In the US, the succession issue is sacrosanct and codenamed Project 23T.Similarly, the Chinese Communist Party holds dear two issues: its historical right to choose the 15th Dalai Lama; and concern over Tibetans in exile, particularly political and spiritual control over Tibet, including Chinese supervision over the monastery management committees. Previously, Tibetan youth joined monasteries when five years old. The Chinese have changed it to 18 years. The US State Department, in its annual country report on human rights in China and Tibet, for the first time, does not describe Tibet as an inalienable part of China. It is a significant departure as Beijing makes every country say that Tibet is a part of China.On March 10, 2021, the 66th Tibet Uprising Day was commemorated in New York opposite the UN Headquarters, recalling that 6,000 monasteries had been destroyed and 156 Tibetans had self-immolated. Robert Destro, the sixth Tibet coordinator for the US State Department, noted that after nine rounds of talks with the Dalai Lama’s emissary, a proposal for genuine autonomy was given by China in writing.In the Freedom House report (March 8, 2021), Tibet is described as the least free country after Syria and in Report Without Borders (2021), Tibet is categorised as more inaccessible than North Korea. On the Uprising Day, US House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said: “62 years ago, brave Tibetans rose up against Chinese invasion…; Beijing, for years has waged a campaign to destroy Tibetan culture…and lauded the new TPSA.”China has built elaborate road, rail and habitation hubs with military infrastructure on the border with Nepal, Bhutan and India. Whole villages have been encroached across borders since 2017. On August 29, 2020, President Xi Jinping ordered that Tibet be built into an impregnable fortress, the new Great Wall, and facts be dug out that link Tibet to China for their impact on the boundary dispute with India.India’s boundary dispute is intrinsically linked to Tibet. New Delhi’s recognition of Chinese sovereignty over Tibet was contingent upon China’s acceptance of Tibetan autonomy. The Dalai Lama gave up the quest for independence in exchange for genuine autonomy.Beijing has squashed autonomy and not kept its side of the bargain with Tibet and India. In 1965, Prime Minister Lal Bahadur Shastri had informed the Tibet Government in Exile (TGE) that he would recognise it, but he died prematurely. But the original sin was committed by India’s failure to prevent the annexation of Tibet, India’s vital area. Lt-Gen Francis Tuker, GoC-in-C, Eastern Command, wrote in 1946-47 that China, not Russia, was the main threat and Tibet be protected.India should inform China that in the light of the recent events on the border, especially in East Ladakh, and New Delhi’s rethink of its Tibet policy, fresh facts had emerged: Sovereignty claim over Tibet had been fudged, as Tibet was taken by force and, therefore, sovereignty was inherited. Tibet was never a part of the imperial China or of the Mongol empire. Illegal occupation of Tibet through invasion, misrepresentation of facts and altering the historical narrative did not provide legitimacy. The Indo-Tibet border was ratified in 1914 by the McMahon Line and ratified by Tibet. The Dalai Lama had traded suzerainty (not sovereignty) for autonomy.This first step in reopening the Tibet issue will attract stiff Chinese reaction. After Trump signed the TPSA, the Chinese Embassy in New Delhi outlined Beijing’s position, saying that the Indian media supporting US legislation was advocating Indian interference in China’s Tibet affairs. It warned the media to take an objective issue on China’s sovereignty and territorial integrity and not play the Tibet card to meddle in China’s internal affairs.But, India has to internationalise the issue of Tibetan freedom in concert with other democracies. The US Congress and the EU Parliament are believed to have recognised Tibet as an occupied country.In his Freedom Brief 2020, Michael Van Walt, legal adviser to the Central Tibet Administration, has noted that China’s presence is unlawful in Tibet, which has become an occupied country. As China does not possess sovereignty over it, government policy must be corrected as per the international law. India must enlarge the bilateral canvas of the border dispute to include Tibet and consider leading on Tibetan autonomy at the global fora. The time to bell the cat is now, when pique against China is at its peak.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/the-time-for-india-to-play-the-tibet-card-is-now-266040
10-06-2021||---||We need to forge a new middle ground||India needs a new ideological equilibrium. As we go through one of the darkest periods in the history of independent India, our Republic needs to discover a new middle ground that can frame hope for a better future. We need to forge a new ideological consensus that can align the public mood with our constitutional values.This is neither easy nor exciting. Imagining a new world, free from the constraints of here and now, is intellectually gratifying; forging a consensus is messy. Chasing a utopia is politically thrilling; discovering the middle ground is boring. Yet, democratic outcomes hinge upon the middle ground. The fate of the democracy, indeed of our young republic, depends upon the possibility of shifting the middle ground. This is the most pressing intellectual and political challenge of our times.This challenge arises because the old equilibrium has collapsed and the new one is unsustainable. It is common to refer to the earlier one as Left and the new one as Right. This European parallel is inaccurate and misleading.For the first five decades, the ideological consensus in India was defined by a mix of liberal democracy with nationalism, socialism, secularism, social justice and modernism. Over the years, this consensus degenerated. Liberal democracy was reduced to populism, nationalism faded into an empty slogan, socialism meant privatising profit and socialising risk, secularism turned to political opportunism or deracinated posturing, social justice was limited to caste-based reservations and modernism became a cover for cultural slavery.No wonder, the public stopped subscribing to it. The spectrum of public opinion has shifted away from this old consensus. The new mid-point comprises acceptance of soft authoritarianism, aggressive and parochial nationalism, market fetishism, brazen majoritarianism, perpetuation of caste hierarchy and obscurantism. Every Indian must worry about this because this deadly ideological mix is out of sync with our constitutional values. This is also unsustainable, as it would mean the end of India as we have known it. This is not a stable equilibrium.Yet, we cannot go back to the earlier ‘Nehruvian’consensus. The Left-Liberal-progressive politics wants to go back to it. That's neither feasible nor desirable. The older consensus had degenerated. It sidestepped any serious engagement with issues of ecology, caste and gender inequalities and cultural and religious sensibilities of the people. Frankly, the older equilibrium was premised upon an elite consensus that shut the doors on the people. Those days are over for good.We have no option except to forge a new middle ground. There is no readymade recipe for this. But we can anticipate seven ingredients that the new consensus must have.First, the new consensus must be grounded in a positive and self-confident nationalism. An abstract internationalism or post-nationalism is not the answer to the shallow and shrill nationalism that dominates the public mind today. We cannot look down upon nationalism the way European intellectuals do. The only viable response to the dominant rashtrawaad is desh prem, a positive nationalism that draws upon the best tradition of our freedom struggle. This would mean taking pride in India and giving a substantive meaning to the idea of India. Externally, this would involve securing for India, along with our neighbours and other post-colonial states, a rightful place at the global stage. Internally, this entails an investment in the Indian model of national unity that accepts deep diversities.Second, we need to evolve a secularism anchored in our cultural and religious ethos. Communal bigotry cannot be defeated by deracinated secularism; defensive minoritariansim is no response to aggressive majoritarianism. Disengage from western debates on secularism as State-church separation.Our real issue is religious and sectarian conflict. We need a state that practises sarvadharmasamabhav: equal respect for, principal distance from and non-discrimination against all religious communities. At the same time, the State must be able to act in a non-partisan manner against any oppression or injustice within any religious community. Turning our back to religious traditions won’t help us achieve a secular State. We must learn to have deep and open-ended engagement with all our religious traditions.Third, we need to work out some variant of market socialism that stands firm on the end goal of last person first, while remaining flexible on the mechanisms for achieving this objective.Bureaucratic State socialism is no answer to the inequities and wastefulness of the capitalist order. Markets are here to stay, just as is State regulation. Our economics must become ‘eco-norm-ics’: an integration of economic rationality with ethical norms and ecological sustainability. The focus of welfare policies needs to shift from basic needs like food and housing to employment, education and health.Fourth, we must foreground the issue of social justice while embracing a multi-dimensional approach to it. This avoids the pitfalls of identity denial and identity obsession that mark today’s politics. This would involve acknowledging and addressing caste inequalities in a more serious way. It would involve recognising many cross-cutting dimensions of social inequalities that require state policy response: gender, sexual orientation, class, region, religious community and locality (rural-urban). Responding to various forms of injustice invites us to expand the repertoire of instruments of social justice. Caste-based reservations must be fine-tuned. The issues of political representation and leadership of women and marginalised communities need special attention.Fifth, environmentalism cannot be kept at the margins of the political agenda anymore. We cannot live in denial of the enormous environmental cost, mostly for the adivasi communities, of what we call development. Nor is climate change denial an option anymore. Movements for peoples’ control over Jal-Jangal-Jameen have laid the foundations for environmentalism. This also calls for a reorientation in our agrarian policies and practices.Sixth, our cultural policies and politics must be guided by the quest for Indian modernity that characterised our freedom struggle. This would save us from the shallow and imitative modernism on the one hand, and the defensive and inferiority-stricken traditionalism on the other. This would entail recovery and reconstruction of our civilisational heritage, while being open to learning from the world. This would necessitate a focus on the promotion of Indian languages, recognition of existing knowledge, traditions and recasting of the education curricula to reflect our needs, context and intellectual resources.Finally, we need to embrace democratic republicanism, both as an end and a means. This requires us to recognise that democracy is not just about crafting a constitution, creating institutions and holding elections. It involves the creation of a political community of equal, informed and involved citizens. It takes us beyond the regular issues of liberal democracy: freedom of expression, institutional autonomy, procedural checks and balances, etc. It invites us towards deepening the democracy by decentring political power and ensuring equal access to resources and people’s direct participation in decision-making.None of these elements is new, though their combination might be somewhat unfamiliar. The middle ground proposed is not a brand new ideology. It is merely an explication of what exists in our Constitution and an attempt to connect these to the public. In that sense, the forging of a new ideological equilibrium is not just an academic or intellectual task. It requires a shaping and shifting of the existing spectrum of public opinion. This is a political challenge.Views are personal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/we-need-to-forge-a-new-middle-ground-266032
10-06-2021||---||Israel-Palestine conflict||The absence of diplomatic relations with Israel for five decades left people in India with relatively little knowledge of Israeli thinking, about its neighbourhood. Moreover, India had little or no contact historically with the Jewish people in Israel and across the world. There was also little public understanding of the prevailing differences, aspirations and rivalries of people in West Asia and the Gulf Region who belonged to Judaism, Christianity and Islam — which all regard Jerusalem as their holy city.There is a deep religious divide in Israel now, between the Jewish people and its minority Muslim population. This is very different from what happened in India, where the country was divided on religious lines in 1947. India adopted a secular Constitution. Pakistan, which believed in Jinnah’s ‘two-nation’ theory of dividing people on the basis of religion, fell apart in 1971, with the creation of Bangladesh. This has raised the question if religion alone could be a viable basis for nationhood.Prejudices prevail even today, between people who practice the three ‘Semitic’ faiths in West Asia. Jerusalem is the holiest city for Christians, as Jesus Christ was crucified, and buried there. For the Jewish people, who suffered the trauma of holocaust, Israel, with Jerusalem as its capital, is the ‘Promised Land’, where they had sought to live in, for centuries. The Temple Mount in Jerusalem is the third holiest site in Islam, after Mecca and Medina. The recent flare up in the Palestinian territory of Gaza arose from protests in east Jerusalem. The protests followed moves by Israel for the eviction of six Palestinian families from their homes. The Palestinians feared an adverse decision against them by the Israeli Supreme Court. They felt that the territory they were being expelled from was their own under international law. The situation escalated, with huge exchanges of fire between the Palestinian residents in Gaza and the Israelis. As many as 256 Palestinians, including 66 children, were killed in the exchange of fire. India has appropriately opted for a delicate balancing act in its relations with Israel, on the one hand, and its Arab neighbours, on the other.While India’s relations with Israel have expanded, PM Modi also developed a close personal relationship with his Israeli counterpart, Benjamin Netanyahu. Modi, however, also made it a point to visit the Palestinian capital Ramallah and call on Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas. Recent years have also been marked by a remarkable new relationship between Israel and some of its Arab neighbours, which, like Israel, have faced a deteriorating relationship with Iran.Six Arab countries — Egypt, Jordan, Bahrain, UAE, Sudan and Morocco — now have diplomatic relations with Israel. Other leading Arab countries like Saudi Arabia have discreet and direct talks and negotiations with Israel. They have a shared interest in countering the role of Iran in the region, including Tehran’s support for radical Arab groups. Over the past few decades, the West Asia region has seen a shift of focus from Arab-Israeli rivalry to Arab-Persian (Iranian) rivalry.There was disappointment in the Arab world when the then PM Narasimha Rao recognised Israel. Arab countries, however, soon recognised the reality that India would retain an interest in, and sympathy for, the Palestinian cause. Interestingly, Modi flew to Ramallah from Jordan in a Jordanian helicopter, escorted by Israeli military aircraft, for a meeting with Mahmoud Abbas. In recent discussions in the Security Council, on developments in Gaza and Jerusalem, India’s Permanent Representative TS Tirumurti clearly spelt out what India expected from Israel and Palestine — ‘Immediate de-escalation is the need of the hour. We urge both sides to show restraint, desist from actions that exacerbate tensions and refrain from attempts to unilaterally change the existing status quo, including in east Jerusalem, and its neighbourhood’.Israel recognises that European powers are increasingly inclined to be sympathetic to the plight of the Palestinians. In an important gesture of sympathy, US Secretary of State Anthony Blinken announced that the US had decided to reopen its consulate in Jerusalem, after his meeting with Abbas in Ramallah. Washington evidently believes that Netanyahu’s hardline on the Palestinians, particularly in Jerusalem, is counterproductive.While the Palestinian issue is not going to be resolved in a hurry, it is noteworthy that President Biden is taking interest in rehabilitating Palestinians, whose homes in Gaza were destroyed by heavy Israeli bombardment. In the meantime, Israel will press ahead in getting formal diplomatic recognition from Arab countries, like Saudi Arabia. Israel would be well advised to not permit any further encroachment into Palestinian lands, especially in Jerusalem. Viable shape has to be given to measures to end Palestinian alienation.There is little doubt that Egypt, and possibly Saudi Arabia, will be utilised to keep Hamas away from becoming trigger-happy. A major concern of Israel has been the role of Iran in the region, where Tehran is gaining substantial influence, while arming radical groups like the Hamas. The main question now is whether Iran will continue with these policies if Tehran negotiates a deal with the US and its European allies, which would end nuclear sanctions against it.Netanyahu was unable to put together a viable coalition after the recent elections. Israel now appears set to form an ideologically divided coalition, led by a right-wing PM Naftali Bennett, who is a former Israeli military commando. The coalition government will include a left-leaning foreign minister, Yair Lapid. Bennett has a two-year term and will be succeeded by Lapid. The Biden administration would be happy with what has transpired. The Biden administration will be busy urging the Israelis to arrange a measure of reconciliation with the Palestinians. Issues pertaining to Jerusalem need to be handled sensitively by the Bennett government, with understanding of Palestinian concerns.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/israel-palestine-conflict-266023
