11-06-2021||---||Centre-state discord blunting fight against Covid||At long last, there was an acknowledgment, albeit a tangential one, that the Centre’s vaccine policy, that was twisted and tweaked to suit political exigencies, might have gone awry. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in an address to the nation on Monday, reversed his government’s Covid-19 vaccination policy and announced that the Centre would revert to a system of centralised procurement of vaccines, provide vaccines free of cost to the 18-44 age-group and set aside 25 per cent of the procurement open for the private sector.Since the pandemic erupted, every measure taken by Delhi was framed as a joust between the Centre and the non-BJP-ruled states in the zeal to score brownie points. The competition that at times looked like play-acting, unfortunately ensnared some of the chief ministers.Be it an endeavour to unsuccessfully stem the outflow of migrant workers from the big cities to their villages after a national lockdown was suddenly declared and managing the collateral losses from a near-economic collapse in the first wave in 2020 to coping with the ravages wrought by a brutal second hit, politics became the bane of India’s pandemic combat.Unfortunately, Modi could not resist playing politics in his June 7 speech in which he implied that the country’s vaccine programmes since Independence to extirpate smallpox, measles, polio and diphtheria etc. were actually below par for the “decades of wait” for the relevant vaccines the exercise supposedly entailed. In fact, India’s universal immunisation programme has been the world’s envy for decades.The destruction wrought by the second wave that apparently caught the Centre unaware — despite the heads-up that the B.1.1.7 and the P.1 variants could have entered the country from abroad — got amplified by the government’s attitude that was characterised by seeming helplessness and marked callousness.The states, waiting for ‘directions’ and ‘action’ from Delhi, were left to fend for themselves amid an undocumented number of deaths in the most agonising conditions, forced upon by oxygen crunch, shortage of hospital beds and scarcity of life-saving injections and drugs. As the US and UK battled the new variants by procuring advance quantities of vaccines, ramping up indigenous production and spreading their use across demographic groups, India was curiously lethargic. Flush with the purported ‘success’ of the “Vaccine Maitri” diplomacy, when it came to inoculating its own people, the country ran woefully short of doses.Let’s map the course that the Centre’s vaccination programme went through. At the first meeting of the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration in 2020, the Centre announced it would take full control and advised states “not to chart separate pathways of procurement”. Therefore, the states had no choice but depend on the Centre for the vaccine supplies as and when the programme rolled out. On April 8, 2021, at an online Covid review meeting with chief ministers, Modi’s stress was on “aggressive testing and micro-containment to break the chain of transmission” that by then had become uncontrollably predatory. The PM termed the vaccination as a “long-term and continuous strategy” in the fight against the pandemic. The choice of the word ‘strategy’ suggested a coldly clinical approach. By then, most countries had accepted the vaccine as their only lifeline for surviving the virus and saving lives, and not just as another weapon in an arsenal.The meeting was held against the backdrop of a confrontation between the Centre and the non-BJP ruled states over the availability (or lack) of vaccine doses. As the states despaired of being short of meeting their targets, Harsh Vardhan, the Union Health Minister, accused the Opposition-ruled states of “politicising a public health issue” and “purveying lies” while not doing enough of testing, contact tracing and enhancing infrastructure.Later in April, when the caseload got too large for comfort, when vaccine shortages were reported the country over and the Centre’s mismanagement came into sharp relief, the government resorted to another plan. It put the onus of vaccinating those in the 18 to 44 age-group entirely on the states and private hospitals. The plan was dressed up as a “liberalised and accelerated” strategy, but in reality it gave the states no leeway in determining the volume of procurement or pricing.Health experts saw the policy as a tactic to deflect attention from the Centre’s mismanagement and pass the onus on to the states. The policy accentuated the plight of the states that ran around for vaccines with supplies drying up periodically and resulting in inoculation centres shutting down even in the national capital. Meanwhile, private hospitals jacked up vaccine prices to as high as Rs 2,000 per dose. In the opinion of some health experts, the ‘model’ constructed by the ‘liberalised’ policy came close to the template adopted by the BJP-helmed government in sectors such as telecom and civil aviation where the state seemed unwilling to use its sovereign power of compulsory licensing at the cost of favouring a few conglomerates and the private health industry.However, the scenario changed after the outcome of the state elections, notably West Bengal where the BJP trailed the Trinamool Congress as a poor second instead of emerging as the projected victor. The Opposition stepped up to the plate. Pinarayi Vijayan, re-elected as the Kerala CM, mobilised support for centralising vaccine procurement from his counterparts. The CMs of Odisha and Andhra Pradesh, classified as ‘neutral’, pitched in with Vijayan.The pushback from the states was supplemented by a recent Supreme Court judgment in a suo motu case. The court concluded that the Centre’s decision to not provide free vaccination to the 18-44 age-group was “prima facie, arbitrary and irrational”. It called on the Centre to account for the Rs 35,000 crore earmarked in the budget for vaccines and asked if it at all regulated the end-price charged by the private hospitals.While Modi’s announcement seemed timed to blunt the Opposition’s attack and answer the court before the next hearing on June 30, certain questions went unanswered. How will the drastic vaccine shortfall be suddenly made up? What about the differential pricing for public procurement of vaccines by the Centre and the states? How will the private sector, which can procure up to 25 per cent of the vaccines, be regulated?||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/centre-state-discord-blunting-fight-against-covid-266501
11-06-2021||---||Onus on India to make strides as G7 partner||THE three-day G7 summit, which begins in the UK today, will witness the participation of India. The G7 is a group of developed, liberal democracies of Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the UK and the US. As G8, it included Russia (1998-2014) before it annexed Crimea. The EU is a participant. Besides India, Australia, South Korea and South Africa have been invited to the current summit.The focus of the G7-2021 is “help the world fight, and then build back better from coronavirus and create a greener, more prosperous future.” Thus, health, climate change and economy will be the focuses of the summit.India is a regular participant at these meetings since 2003. In some years, many countries were invited, like by Italy in L’Aquila in 2009 when the G8 met 15 invitee countries and 11 international organisations.What does this really mean for India? For the G7, it is an inflection point, with calm returning to the trans-Atlantic relationship with the election of Joe Biden.The G7 meeting (after a hiatus of a year since the last meeting could not be held due to the pandemic) indicates that not only is the US back in the mainstream of international relations, but also that the post-Brexit UK is playing a bigger role, and the western industrialised democracies are putting their best foot forward. Together, they intend to face an aggressive China, the impact of the pandemic, the financial crisis and the persistent challenges of climate change.All these issues are of interest to India. Therefore, the engagement of India with the G7 in 2021 is special.In the past 25 years, the India-China relationship has never been at such a low point. India’s Act East Policy is more active with the enhancement of the Indo-Pacific concept, and the emergence of Quad. However, India has also embarked on a more determined Act West policy. Though the West includes West Asia and Africa, a greater outreach to Europe and the US has been the hallmark of this new policy. India is continuously expanding its relationship with groupings which do not include China, for instance Quad and the EU. The G7 offers another such opportunity to expand the ring of strategic friendships excluding China.The US and the UK are building a larger coalition of democracies, including India, Australia and South Korea, sometimes called the D10. If this emerges, it would be a geographical expansion of the G7 ambit, bringing in the Indo-Pacific. This augurs well for the India-G7 engagement.The G7 are net providers of ODA, FDI, technology and capital to other parts of the world, including India. Although India is also now a provider of development assistance and provides FDI even to G7 countries, its levels of equitable engagement with the G7 countries remain low. Complementarities can be found in technology, resilient supply chains, vaccine production and digital economy.Each of the G7 countries has a macro-level agreement on these issues. But at a specific level, the Europeans are more accommodating of China and countries like the US, Japan, India and Australia are greater strategic rivals.India can work with the G7 on getting China to abide by international rules on value chains, the pandemic, strengthening public health infrastructure and a robust international economic order.While strategically, and in economic development, India can be a valuable partner of the G7, on many other critical issues like trade, sustainability, labour, standards, e-commerce and digital economy, there are limitations because of the natural contradictions which still abide between India as a developing country and the G7. India has taken important steps on climate change, with the International Solar Alliance, and its green commitments to come out of a corner on this, and act positively to secure the support of G7. However, in the WTO, it still finds itself at odds with the G7 countries. The latest issue is the TRIPs waiver initiative for wider vaccine availability.Till India reaches a level of development where it can share the costs of international cohabitation with the G7 countries, it will not be able to undertake the responsibilities that an association with G7 may entail.It has to focus on common priorities where the mutual gains in a strategic matrix can be maximised. The effort to expand vaccination for all by investing in production and distribution infrastructure is one such area of cooperation.Among the proposed G7 decisions, two merit prompt attention. The first is the proposal to have vaccine passports for letting people travel to G7 countries which is opposed by India as discriminatory. India is away from full vaccination even of the categories of people who travel overseas. This may place another barrier, above visa regimes, on the mobility of Indian professionals.The other proposal is of a global corporate tax scheme, which will be brought to the G20 meeting in July. This has two main elements. One, a tax on multinational corporations (MNCs) in countries of their operation. Second, a minimum tax on MNCs at 15 per cent. For India, this is a significant initiative requiring careful thought.India, to attract FDI, provides tax incentives to foreign and new investors through competitive corporate tax rates. In September 2019, the base rate was reduced from 30 per cent to 22 per cent. New manufacturing companies were incentivised with a 15 per cent corporate tax. Such incentives would be diminished by a minimum tax scheme because that would equalise the tax everywhere. In 2016, India introduced an equalisation tax levy on digital companies, and in 2018, the concept of a significant economic presence was introduced.These have similarities with the G7 proposals but their impact needs to be forecast. India would do well to correlate these to the G20 decisions as G20 is more broad-based than G7.The G7 invitation is a seat at the high table at a critical time for the world. More than ever, India’s potential draws attention. This needs to be realised soon. India’s capacities to deal with the main agenda of G7 are more valuable today. India has to take the steps towards balancing its role as an emerging economy and a strategic partner for G7.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/onus-on-india-to-make-strides-as-g7-partner-266505
11-06-2021||Agroup of retired ambassadors||One face for the world||At times, individual IFS colleagues do write on subjects of their interest but the CCG has not delved on the country’s foreign policy initiatives because of lack of domain knowledge. I, for one, have no quarrel with the Forum of Former Indian Ambassadors. Its views will be of equal worth to me as that of my IFS colleagues in the CCG. I had revelled in the accounts of our PM’s journeys in foreign lands and his uninhibited embrace of foreign leaders. It helped to improve our standing in those lands. Indian tourists were treated a little more kindly abroad.The only occasion I felt that he erred was in Houston, where he met the Indian diaspora. The then US President Trump was seeking another term in office and our PM thought it was a good opportunity to humour him. He raised the slogan ‘Agli baar Trump sarkar’. It was not appropriate for an Indian leader to take sides in a friendly country’s election contest. The gambit failed as we know.In matters of foreign policy, I am of the view that the entire country should be united. In relation to our mighty neighbour to the East, the views of the forum should be accepted in the spirit in which they were enunciated. Even if other former IFS officers in the CCG feel that diplomacy could have been handled differently, such views should be confined to our shores. If they help in broadening options, they will have made a contribution to our decision-making processes.The birth of the forum to counterbalance the views of the former IFS officers, now part of the CCG, is another matter. It is an unfortunate manifestation of a schism that has riven the country apart in the past decade. Foreign policy should involve opposition views before it is formulated. If not earlier, the opposition should be taken into confidence immediately before the policy is declared.I am certain that no patriotic Indian will want our relations with other countries to be anything but advantageous to our country’s interests. Hence, the division in the ranks of our compatriots, who served together at a point of time in the country’s foreign service is not a happy happening. Disunity is a development that has gripped our polity to an extent never before experienced but defence and external affairs are two spheres where unity should be non-negotiable.And that brings me to the real purport of my article. The government is upset with retired IAS, IFS, IPS officers criticising it for its various policies and actions that offend constitutional morality. To silence them, the government has amended the Central Pension Rules to threaten retired officials with stoppage of their pensions. Manmohan Singh’s Congress government had also attempted something similar with IB and RAW’s former operatives but wisely decided to rest their oars.Modi’s government wants intelligence and security officials, formerly of the IB, RAW, ED and 13 other organisations, 18 in all, to take clearances from the heads of these organisations before publishing books or articles in magazines and newspapers on any aspect touching the domain of that organisation or its personnel.It is obvious that the move is meant to frighten former officers to keep their mouths shut. The only outfit I served and that has found its place on the list is the CRPF. I spent six years as a DIGP and five or six weeks of 1985 as its Director General before I was plucked out to solve the communal imbroglio in Gujarat.I know of no secrets worth sharing about the force, and the only time I referred to it in my writings was to criticise the use of its men, trained to disperse home-grown mobs, for security of individuals, a job for which they were not trained. If I was still occupying the chair of the DG, CRPF, how would I have reacted if an old hand had asked for my permission to bemoan the wrong use?I would have concurred with the opinion. The DGP, after all, is a professional. Misplaced political considerations had propelled the detailing of men for an alien role. What is the DG, CRPF, to reply when he himself is happy that a retired man has taken up cudgels which he himself could not because the political boss brooks no objection to his orders? So, he takes the line of least resistance and refers the request to the Home Ministry where the normal journey of a file from the Under Secretary to the Deputy Secretary, thence to the Joint Secretary and the Additional Secretary to the Home Secretary and finally to the Home Minister, will ensure that the story itself is automatically ‘killed’ by the passage of time.Is that the finale that Modi’s government has conceived? If that is the dream, I am afraid it will remain just that — a dream!The political objective is achieved when silence is ensured — in this case by sheer delay in dealing with the request for clearance. If, however, the writer decides to write anyway ignoring the consequences, the process of stopping his pension, including the natural justice requirement of giving him the opportunity to state his case, will take months, if not a year, to resolve. Finally, the case is argued in courts of law and that takes even longer, years if not decades, till the pensioner kicks the bucket.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/one-face-for-the-world-266506
