12-06-2021||---||Middle class on shaky ground||We have enough evidence to show that the Covid pandemic has left most Indians poorer. Even the recovery that we saw in October last year barely managed to put an average Indian family on a par with where it was two years ago. CMIE’s latest data shows that even in January, when many believed India had defeated the coronavirus, the average household income was below the lowest point of 2019. Pew Research estimates that the number of poor people in India more than doubled last year.This is likely to be an understatement, since Pew Research made its projections based on income distribution data from 2011. CMIE’s data, analysed by economists from Azim Premji University, shows that income inequality increased in 2020. Their ‘State of Working’ report tells us that labour’s share of GDP dropped from 32.5% in 2019-20 to 27% in the middle of 2020-21. Nearly half of those who had salaried jobs in the formal sector moved into informal jobs.About 100 million people lost their jobs in the beginning of the pandemic, which was roughly 25% of those who had work in 2019. Even at the end of 2020, 15 million people couldn’t find work. Those who did get employed had to settle for lower pay. CMIE’s data shows that average incomes bounced back in October 2020. But even here inflation took away most of the gains. The report shows that an average worker’s real income dropped by 17% in September-October 2020, compared to the same period a year ago. Self-employed people were the worst hit, but even those with permanent salaried jobs saw a 5% decline in their real ‘inflation-adjusted’ income.The report says that an additional 230 million people fell below the ‘national minimum wage’ threshold of poverty. In absolute terms that means that the proportion of poor people rose from 22% in 2019 to 39% in 2020. In the middle of all this, India Inc made record profits. By the beginning of this year, the best-placed corporate employees saw a slight improvement in their situation. CMIE’s latest wave of its Consumer Pyramids Household Survey shows that the number of 'company employees’ who work in offices increased from 10 million to 11 million in the first four months of 2021 compared to last year. On the other hand, company employees who work outside offices — factories, construction sites, retail outlets, laboratories, deliveries, running errands — declined from 41 million to 36 million in the same period.We would probably be right in assuming that a significant proportion of ‘white-collar’ jobs would be concentrated amongst those working from offices. CMIE’s data shows that the number of such ‘office’ workers remained stable throughout 2020 and increased in 2021. Yet, anecdotal evidence and news reports suggest that many such jobs were lost during the peak of the first wave last year. This apparent anomaly can be explained if corporates have used the pandemic to let go of senior high-cost employees, promoting those in the middle to senior positions without a commensurate pay hike, and employing younger people at low salaries to fill vacancies.Of course, the situation might have changed from April, when the second wave began, when several corporates announced that they were downsizing. One estimate suggests that the total number of white-collar jobs dropped by 24% to less than 14 million between April 2020 and this April. Jobs portals suggest that hirings declined by 15% in April-May compared to the previous two months. A recent report shows a hiring pick-up in the last two weeks of May. This see-saw in white-collar jobs shows that they have become extremely unstable. It is difficult for even the cream of India’s employees to feel secure in their jobs. That also means they will find it difficult to make any big spending decisions.White-collar employees, along with successful entrepreneurs, account for the bulk of India’s buying classes. They make up less than 5% of India’s population. These 14-15 million households buy cars, air-conditioners, double-door refrigerators, washing machines, microwave ovens, smart TVs and high-end smartphones. They are the ones who eat regularly at restaurants or go on holidays. They spend on high-speed broadband services, DTH and OTT, and shop heavily online. They also invest in mutual funds and take loans to buy homes. Job security is essential to make these expenditure decisions.If this class loses its consumer confidence, a big part of India’s organised manufacturing and services sector will be hit. Data on consumption decisions suggest that this is already happening. CMIE’s latest CPHS sweep shows that the intention to buy consumer durables dropped sharply in the first four months of 2021, compared to the same period last year. In January-April 2020, roughly 20 lakh households planned to buy a TV set. One year later that had dropped to less than 7 lakh households. Similarly, those who intended to buy refrigerators dropped from 23 lakh households to less than 7 lakh. Those planning to buy washing machines dropped from 30 lakh to just above 3 lakh.These are clear signs that India’s consuming classes are facing an unprecedented crisis. The difficulty of getting jobs, the low pay if one manages to get work, the long hours resulting from reduced bench strength in every office, and job insecurity, is going to have a long-lasting effect on how an entire generation approaches their economic life. This is especially so because the Covid-induced recession comes on the back of a decade of economic slowdown. About 30% of those employed today have not witnessed the boom period of the early 2000s, and have never experienced a ‘wealth effect’.Job insecurity and financial uncertainty also have a profound effect on people’s personality. Both breed fear, promote obedience to authority, and suppress innovation. They also create a predisposition towards accepting autocratic behaviour from one’s bosses. In the social sphere, they promote patriarchy, traditionalism and authoritarian politics. This is the ‘long-term effect’ of Covid that we are doomed to suffer for several years to come.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/middle-class-on-shaky-ground-267044
12-06-2021||---||Looking beyond the second wave of Covid||AFTER two months of the devastating second wave, India’s Covid cases seem to be on a downward trend. India saw an unprecedented spike in the daily caseload beginning in March, reaching over four lakh in the first week of May this year with deaths crossing 4,500 on a single day, the highest in the world. The test positivity had also crossed an alarming 25%. The main reasons for the explosion of cases were lowering of the guard on masks and social distancing due to complacency, congregations during election rallies and the emergence of new more transmissible variants of the virus.India is now witnessing another epidemic, that of mucormycosis. Already approximately 30,000 cases have been reported. Present data suggest that Rhizopus arrhizus is the predominant agent causing Covid-associated mucormycosis (CAM) in India. A majority of (CAM) patients have uncontrolled diabetes. At the PGI, over 200 new CAM cases have been seen so far in 2021, with a majority having Covid while about 15% had recovered from it and some did not have Covid. Apart from the fact that steroids can cause elevation in blood sugar levels, SARS-CoV-2 itself can induce damage to pancreatic islets cells, which have a high expression of ACE-2 receptors. Increased resistance to insulin due to the inflammatory reaction may also be responsible for the elevation of blood sugar. A significant observation is that hardly any patient treated for Covid-19 at the PGI developed mucormycosis. This suggests that indiscriminate and prolonged use of steroids by treating doctors is the key factor. Despite guidelines clearly stating that steroids are recommended for moderate or severe cases only when oxygen levels drop, patients have been receiving steroids in many mild cases.Apart from the unwarranted use of steroids in many patients, there has been a widespread practice of giving multiple antibiotics, Ivermectin, Hydroxychloroquin and sometimes prophylactic antifungal drugs by physicians. Even convalescent plasma continued to be used despite WHO negating its benefit over six months ago. The clamour for Remdesivir was also much beyond the actual number of patients who might have benefitted from it. These indiscretions caused panic resulting in hoarding and black marketing. People even stockpiled oxygen at home. Many doctors are yet to follow the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare guidelines, either ignoring them or not being aware of them.One major cause of the destruction caused by the second wave is the emergence of Delta variant. Mutations in the viral genome leading to development of variants can make the virus more transmissible and immune to vaccines or make it cause more severe disease. Duration of infectiousness may also be increased. A recent CSIR-led research on genomic analysis of samples from November 2020 to April 2021 has shown Delta variant to be the dominant strain in India. This strain is 70% more transmissible than the Alpha variant which itself is 50% more transmissible than the original virus. Other research (Lancet June 3) has shown that two doses of Pfizer-BioNtech vaccine had five times less neutralising antibodies against the Delta variant than against other variants. Delta variant has also been thought to cause more severe disease.It is important for India to increase genomic sequencing so as to be ahead of impending likelihood of resurgence due to more infectious or more deadly strains. Being a large country, we need to sequence samples from different states. The importance of this strategy can be gauged from the fact that after the emergence of Delta variant in the UK, the government has slowed down lifting of the lockdown.Additionally, there is a need to do serological surveys in different parts of the country. Antibody levels give an estimate of the population which is still vulnerable. Using this data, we can strategise our vaccination delivery better.There has been speculation that India may have a third wave in a few months. This is based on the emergence of a third wave in some countries like Italy, France and UK after 8 to 23 weeks of the second wave. No one can deny this likelihood till we have adequate herd immunity through natural infection or vaccination. Moreover, there being a probability of new variants which may escape immunity, another wave is very much possible. Some experts believe that it is not a question of ‘if’ but ‘when’. It is also being speculated that the third wave will involve children. The logic behind that is the likely protection of adults through natural infection or vaccination, leaving children vulnerable. However, experience from Europe and the US suggests that children are infrequently affected. Some experts attribute it to the lack of ACE-2 and other receptors in lungs of children. However, with the current rate of vaccination, even large segments of our total population remain susceptible to one or more waves. In any case, we need to ramp up our paediatric healthcare and augment infrastructure, especially oxygen supply which was found wanting earlier.To limit the damage in coming months after the rampaging second wave, we need to pull all our resources. Foremost of them is vaccination. With the announcement of a new vaccine policy of the government and increased availability of vaccines in coming months, we need to scale up daily vaccinations to 70 lakh a day or more to hope to reach herd immunity in the next six months. That remains our best bet against the next wave. There have been concerns about the adverse effects of vaccines and the chances of re-infection. So far, an insignificant number of serious adverse effects have been reported in India so far. Re-infection or breakthrough infection after two doses of vaccine is also quite low. In a study from PGI on vaccinated healthcare workers who had completed at least two weeks after the second dose, only 1.6% of the 3,000 recipients got re-infected. Among those who were never vaccinated, the number of infections was six times more.As the lockdown got lifted partially a few days back, we are seeing people flocking to markets and flouting social distancing norms. After a peak of four lakh cases, 80,000-90,000 cases look reassuring but they have the potential to cause a flare-up. We must avoid crowding, social gatherings and unnecessary travel yet. We must continue with the mask and ensure it is worn properly. Since the virus also spreads through aerosols, proper ventilation of buildings must be ensured. This holds true especially for government offices. We must bring back the same seriousness as we had in the initial days of the pandemic, a limited number of clients or customers entering premises and queues being maintained with a distance of two metres. It is too early yet to reopen educational institutions. Lastly, as the second wave had a high attack rate among household members, contact tracing and isolation must be continued for positive cases.We are a long way away from overcoming the pandemic. Therefore, we must not lower our guard. While the authorities need to focus on organising vaccination, serological surveys and genome typing, the public needs to stick to masking, avoiding crowded places and going unhesitatingly for the jab.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/looking-beyond-the-second-wave-of-covid-267070
12-06-2021||---||Review strategy to tackle Left-wing extremism||AN important news item this week about the proposed meeting of a tribal delegation with the CM and Governor of Chhattisgarh to lodge a protest against the establishment of a security camp near Silger in the state went almost unnoticed at the national level. Basically, the tribals have been put up as a front by the Maoists because they have been rattled by this new security camp; three of them were killed in firing from the camp when they attacked it on May 17. They don’t want such camps around to check their activities in the interior areas dominated by them.The Maoists don’t believe in Indian democracy and their aim is to overthrow the Indian State by violent means. They have been trying to achieve this for decades after the CPI decided to join electoral politics in 1951. Starting with Naxalbari in 1967, there have been many groups, by splits and mergers, depending on their success or failure in different states, finally forming the CPI (Maoist) in 2004 by the merger of PWG (People’s War Group) and MCCI (Maoist Communist Centre of India); and it has been a force to reckon with since then. At one time, they had a Red Corridor from Pashupatinath to Tirupati, covering many states. With setbacks over the years, they are most active today in Bastar (Chhattisgarh) and Gadchiroli (Maharashtra), along with some activities in Bihar, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha, Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. Their effective presence has come down from over 100 districts to about one-third now with depleted strength. So, some success has been achieved by the State, but no final victory so far.Their basic area of operation has been the tribal belts of these states having dense forests and difficult terrain. They exploit the tribals living there by brainwashing them about the social and economic injustice meted out to them, lack of development, displacement from their land for government projects etc. Some of these grievances are genuine as the State has not been able to address these properly. The Maoists also don’t allow development to take place either as they will lose their base. Taking advantage of inter-state boundaries and moving swiftly to the adjoining state by crossing over when they are under pressure in one state has been their operational strength along with guerrilla warfare. For funding, they depend on extortion and aid. They are also helped by urban Naxals and many sympathisers inside and outside the country. The poor tribals are caught in the crossfire of the Maoists and the security forces.The Indian State has not been able to tackle this challenge fully for decades in spite of years of planning, schemes, funds and deployment of forces. The progress is rather slow. Even now, the Maoists are able to kill a large number of security persons at regular intervals and take away their weapons and communication equipment. Definitely a relook at the strategy is needed. A four-point strategy is suggested for consideration.The first is the requirement of a strong political will on a long-term basis. This was helpful in controlling situations in Punjab, Tripura and Andhra Pradesh. But the advantage there was that state-specific issues were at stake and here it is an inter-state problem. Unfortunately, the will has been missing due to the very nature of our federal structure and rule of different political parties at the Centre and the states over the decades, each having its own political agenda even in relation to this problem including some having sympathy for them, others at times favouring talks which of course have been offered but could not take place because the Maoists don’t want to shun violence and weapons during the talks. So, it is very important that on the issue of controlling Maoist violence, there should be unanimity among the political parties. The Centre should take the lead in this regard.Secondly, the state police forces must lead the operations as only locals can tackle such a problem and the present dual system of paramilitary forces working alongside cannot work effectively. The state police should be bolstered by increasing its strength and providing full support to police stations. To increase its strength immediately, all the battalions of paramilitary forces working there should be sent on deputation/absorption to the affected states. An example is the BSF which was raised in 1965 after the war with Pakistan by merging state armed police battalions of border states, pending its recruitment to raise the force further. Out of battalions, a few should be earmarked as ‘peace battalions’ by the states for providing security to the development projects in the areas. Further, the Army’s help should be taken in training these battalions in counter-insurgency operations. And psychological operations using social media as a big component must be an integral part of these operations. For inter-state coordination, the Centre should station a commander/coordinator in the region. All the state governments in the country should help in dealing legally with urban Naxals who support violence.Thirdly, the basic issues of socio-economic rights, livelihood of the tribals and development projects in these areas should be speeded up. The job of the security forces is only to contain violence and not resolve issues.Fourthly, this battle must be fought on the ideological front. Communism has a big appeal for the poor tribals, especially when it matches with the ground reality of there being haves and have-nots. There are many organisations in the country that can contribute in this regard. With all these steps, besides the good work being done, there can be hope of tackling early this internal security challenge which may otherwise linger on for decades.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/review-strategy-to-tackle-left-wing-extremism-267074
