13-06-2021||We have all lost so many friends||Degeneration gap||Our generation has had its time: this is the age of the millennials, a moniker to describe those who are now in the prime of their lives. They have the energy, the opportunities and the confidence that many of my generation have lost forever. However, it is not age that separates us from this brave new generation, but an entire worldview and an attitude to life so alien that I often wonder how it came to pass that we no longer speak the same language. Not a generation but a degeneration gap separates us, I feel.This generation grew up in the decades when India was at a promising cusp: the pain of Partition, the early years of struggle and poverty, the low self-esteem of most Indians had receded substantially by then. Many of us middle class folk had put behind us the suffocating ties of old clans and kinship, moved to big cities and lived the classic nuclear family life of a couple with two-and-a-half children. Like the Baby Boomers of the 1950s in America, this generation that had emerged from the post-war years was finding its swagger and confidence again. Industrial development, access to higher education and the prosperity of secure livelihoods gave the Baby Boomers many years of comfort and ease. Within a few years, however, came other problems — racism, college dropouts, social delinquency and sexual freedom gone rogue that created a fresh set of challenges.All this was, however, nothing as compared to the tectonic shift that came with the rise of the digital age. As more and more people got hooked on to their digital devices, human nature was radically refashioned. Once upon a time, we greeted strangers on the road, sat next to unknown passengers and chatted, made eye contact with other human beings and learnt life’s basic lessons from our families and teachers. Now the stimulus is almost entirely received from social media. The loneliness of individual lives makes millennials reach out to similar souls across the world so that their own confusion and isolation become easier to handle. Naturally, such relationships lack depth and emotional involvement and so the sense of loneliness and isolation is enhanced rather than reduced as we reach out to more and more ‘virtual’ friends.The addiction to phones is a case in point. There is not a single young person I know who does not carry a phone everywhere — even to the loo! The fear of losing out on information (no matter how trivial and inane) is so acute that many sleep with their phone in their hand. Is it any wonder then that the mobile phone has destroyed family conversation in the evenings or around a table?I find the millennials more concerned about what is happening in some remote island in the Caribbean than in their own neighbourhood. They have forgotten how to greet people because they can’t emote until they send an emoji on a phone. Look around you and see how many young people make the time to talk to their parents, siblings or relatives in a day. Then compare it to how many times they have communicated with unknown strangers that day and you will figure out what I am trying to say.I could go on and on but my limited point is that this is the generation that we are leaving our planet to. These atomised souls who cannot articulate a single thought that has not come out of a WhatsApp post or some other form of social media will one day decide how to take the world forward. The patience to wait and let life take its normal course is another casualty. Constant stimulation only reduces the threshold to suffer boredom and routine tasks. On the other hand, my generation that grew up without all this, not even a TV, has infinite patience as compared to them. We are accustomed to the fact that most things happen in their own sweet time, so wait without fidgeting or cursing an app that won’t open or a person who likes to talk at length. I swear I will never make fun of the uncleji who takes time to warm his mental batteries before answering a simple question: after all, he grew up when there was no electricity. Delays infuriate the young: they want everything now and will walk away if the phone is put on hold. Instant gratification, whether of food or entertainment, has blown away the joy of waiting for life’s pleasures. Above all, it is depleting the earth’s resources at a frightening pace.The millennials have done some tremendous work in the sphere of technology and wealth generation: I hope they spend some time now on building human bridges destroyed by greed and selfishness. Sharing the vaccine with poorer countries is a good starting point. Let some good come out of this wretched virus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/degeneration-gap-267611
13-06-2021||The ailments connected with mental health have been with us for centuries. The pulls and pressures of modernisation have brought them to the fore in advanced countries. Fortunately||Why tackling mental health needs to be prioritised||However, these “godmen” do provide comfort and solace to a large number of Indians, and even to foreigners, that organised religions fail to do. Strange as it may sound, they are, in my reckoning, the psychiatrists of India, though they know nothing about psychiatry. They are canny enough to identify the insecurities of their followers and exploit those insecurities. Surprisingly, they attract high-profile celebrities as well, right up to prime ministers. Indira Gandhi was closely linked to Dhirendra Brahmachari, PV Narasimha Rao to Chandraswami, the Beatles had transcendental meditation guru Maharishi Mahesh Yogi (they got disillusioned with him later). The brilliant constitutional lawyer, Nani Palkhivala, was an ardent devotee of Sai Baba, as is the cricket great, Sunil Gavaskar.Mental health issues are often genetic. Many families have a streak of mental instability that gets passed down through the generations. I had an eccentric great grandfather who liked writing letters to Queen Victoria. One of his grandsons (my uncle) was mentally challenged, and a great great granddaughter (my cousin’s daughter) died by suicide while studying for PhD at Oxford. The dividing line between eccentricity and mental illness is blurred, as is that between bipolar disorder and schizophrenia. One can merge into the other over time. Perhaps the most famous schizophrenic was John Nash, the American Nobel Prize winner on whom a wonderful film, ‘A Beautiful Mind’, was made some years ago. He was constantly haunted by imaginary demons.Mood swings and depression are also common mental issues. Fame is no insulator of depression, as the confessions of Bollywood superstar Deepika Padukone have revealed. In the case of Parveen Babi, one of the great film beauties of her time, depression and schizophrenia turned into a more severe mental illness, bordering on insanity. But few would have thought that sportspersons could be similarly afflicted. Just the other day, Naomi Osaka, the 23-year-old Japanese tennis player who is the world’s richest female athlete, stunned the sports world by withdrawing from the French Open after winning her first round. She said she had been suffering from bouts of severe depression since 2018, the year she had won the US Open, defeating the legendary Serena Williams in the final.In that match, the audience had vociferously rooted for Williams. That, along with the press conference that followed, had evidently traumatised Osaka. So much so, she dreaded being asked tough questions by the media. Which is why she announced that she would not address the traditional post-match press conference at the French Open (for which she was heavily fined). This led to her subsequent withdrawal from the tournament. There is now intense speculation over her participation in Wimbledon. Could we be witnessing the end of the tennis career of a great sporting talent, mainly due to her inability to handle mental issues? If she doesn’t want to face the media, surely she has the right to refuse. Since we are on tennis, one of the best players India has produced, Premjit Lal (he took the great Rod Laver to five sets at Wimbledon), after being quite normal, suddenly descended to the depths of despair in the last years of his life, leaving his many friends and admirers saddened and uncomprehending.Indian TV is also being targeted by some in the social media for its coverage of the pandemic. Hundreds of bodies floating down the holy Ganga, hasty burials on the riverside, overflowing crematoria, lack of hospital beds, patients struggling to breathe from lack of oxygen — all this has been graphically, and perhaps sickeningly, shown on various channels. One Facebook post labelled such coverage as a “second pandemic”, this time a mental health one. Reporters and anchors were called “ghouls” who were “disrespecting the dead and violating the last sacred moments of the departed”. The post had more supporters than detractors. Clearly, most social media viewers don’t approve of the unsparing TV coverage of the pandemic, however honest it may be. Admittedly, these images could have troubled many, particularly the young and more sensitive. However, reality can sometimes be ugly and repulsive. Should one excise it completely, as if nothing has gone wrong? And yes, the pandemic has seen a big increase in the number of those who are mentally disturbed; they need counselling, perhaps psychiatric help. Students have had to take their classes online and stay indoors. Some cannot cope with a situation that they have never faced before. They need counselling which their parents are probably not equipped to give. Millions have suddenly lost their jobs and livelihood, while still in their prime. They, too, need some kind of help. There has been much talk about the inadequate health infrastructure in the country. That certainly needs much more investment and urgent overhaul. But let’s not forget mental health, which has been ignored and neglected for far too long.— The writer is a veteran journalist||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/why-tackling-mental-health-needs-to-be-prioritised-267610
13-06-2021||Captain Karamjit Singh Sodhi||All-too-known face among Pak PoWs||The war had ended two months back but fear was writ large on many faces because it was known that the Pakistanis had mined the approach to Chittagong harbour. The vessel arrived at Chittagong safely and with the help of the local pilot, they went up to Karnaphuli river, which was strewn with the remnants of bombarded and sunk merchant ships — a testament to the brave actions of the Indian Air Force and pilots of INS Vikrant.In the evening, Sodhi went out for a meal and saw the local population raising slogans of “Indian-Bangla Bhai Bhai”.No rickshaw-wallah or restaurant owner accepted any money from him. It was the valour displayed by the Indian armed forces that generated respect in the hearts of the local population, he thought.The following day, 1,500 PoWs, escorted by the Army, were brought to the ship. Officers up to the rank of Major were assigned the space meant for lady passengers in the ship. The senior officers were kept in the ship hospital, which could accommodate about 10 of them. The PoWs cooked their own meals in the galley while senior officers were brought to the officers’ mess and were served the same food as the ship officers.When the ship berthed at Kolkata’s King George dock, an Army Colonel took charge and went through the list of the PoWs. He wanted to meet the senior-most officer, who was of the rank of Commodore. Sodhi was detailed to bring the Commodore from the ship hospital.When the Colonel saw the Commodore, both of them saluted and addressed each other as “Sir”. They shook hands with moist eyes but neither could utter a word; their body language indicated that they knew each other.Later it was revealed that before Independence, the Colonel was a cadet in the same training institute where the Commodore was an instructor. At the time of Partition, the two had gone on separate paths but MV Andaman had brought them face to face once again, though this time their loyalties, like the circumstances, were all too different.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/all-too-known-face-among-pak-pows-267608
13-06-2021||“In Congress||Democracy faces headwinds||This was the vision of the founding fathers of the USA. However, although it says “all men are created equal”, yet at the time of writing this Declaration, there were millions of African Americans who were slaves and worked on the farmlands of the South. They were not treated as human beings and were made to do all the jobs that white Americans avoided, on the farms or in the households. They were not allowed to move freely or use government transport — it took a century and more for them to use public transport and sit where they wanted to. “Deriving their just powers from the consent of the governed” — the blacks did not have the right to vote. Even women did not have the right to vote. It was after very long struggles that they got the right to vote, women in 1918 and black men in 1870. Even today, equality does not exist and a wide chasm divides the blacks and whites. The Trump years have reversed the process of integration and encouraged white supremacists. Trump rose to power on a divisive agenda whose fires he stoked during his tenure and continues to do so now. He has successfully sold his claim that the election was “stolen” from him and he has a solid base which believes it. He almost mounted a coup when he encouraged the January 6, 2021, attack on the Capitol.Meanwhile, the attacks on the blacks have increased, random attacks on schools, malls, etc, have increased and purchases of various weapons have gone up exponentially. The whole situation is bleak, and the US appears to be sitting on a volcano which may erupt anytime.Simultaneously, a more sinister development is taking place, i.e. the Republican-controlled states are trying to change the electoral laws in such a way so as to make it difficult for the minorities to vote and thus cut the Democrats’ base. Efforts are on to bring in laws enabling the state legislatures to overturn the election results. President Biden realises the challenges faced by democracy and has appointed the VP to devote full attention and time and lead the fight against anti-democratic forces. He is undertaking a tour of European countries and the UK, where he is going to draw strategies to bring all the democracies together to unitedly face the anti-democratic forces.I have devoted so much space to the US because we all looked up to it as the beacon of liberty and freedom and the fountainhead of all democracy. The US stood up for democracy in the world but at the same time supported dictators in Latin America, the Middle East and Africa. This was to support their strategic and economic interests, and they have waged many wars to safeguard them.During the Cold war period, the world was quite neatly divided between the Soviet and Western blocs — between dictatorships and democracies. Even after the fall of the Berlin wall, although many Soviet bloc countries broke away from the Soviet Union, the only change was that dictatorships replaced communist rule. Although some of them joined NATO, and some remain under Russian influence, wherever elections were held, the dictators crushed all Opposition, even in the face of results adverse to them. The short point is that communism collapsed and strong men took over, and the US, Russia and China made deals with them. Democracy was nowhere and only front organisations representing freedom of speech, religion, media, etc, continue to make some noises.Even Vietnam, the Philippines, Cambodia, Myanmar, Sri Lanka, Pakistan, Afghanistan (chaos reigns) are governed by democratically “elected” dictators. Voters are intimidated, polls are rigged and other strong-arm tactics used. The UK and western Europe continue to be democracies, even here there are growing rightist movements which spell danger to democracy.This is a very brief bird’s-eye view of the state of democracy in the world. The question arises as to what is the reason for this: why do even elected leaders tend to move away from democratic norms? Why does a man tend to gather as much power as he can, legally, illegally or by subterfuge? The family is the first place where autocratic trends are observed. These continue in the workplace and finally spill over into areas of governance. One of the most fundamental obstacles in the way of an enlightened democracy is lack of a proper educational system. We are still not exposing our students to modern ways of learning and thinking.Western societies are more open in this regard, especially their educational system which encourages thinking and research. We, on the other hand, do not welcome questions in the classroom and our educational system is geared to learning by rote — because of this, our universities hardly produce any worthwhile research whereas the same students do wonders when they go to the USA, UK and European countries. They even win Nobel Prizes and many are heading very important multinationals and others are engaged in cutting-edge research. We will have to overhaul our system, encourage discussion and dissent and heavily fund research in universities, if we wish to become a power house of research and democratic values.In most democratic societies where discussion and dissent are not encouraged, the tendency for the leadership is to move towards unilateral decision-making. Transparency in governance decreases and accessibility to the public becomes less. The leader becomes more isolated and starts depending heavily on the armed forces, police and the administration setups. These coteries become increasingly loyal as they come to share some of the power and perks. Sometimes even political militias are raised to mobilise or intimidate the masses. All of these combine to make a solid platform for the leadership, which having secured its space becomes more brazen and bold in its actions. As in the case of Trump in the US, he may try to subvert the Constitution and democracy itself. This can be stopped or slowed only by the collective will of the people. “Eternal vigilance is the price of liberty.”I have not talked of our country because it is also open to the same ills as other democracies. In addition, we have a carryover from thousands of years — our caste system. In spite of the superficial efforts of successive governments to undo the injustice this system has done to millions of people throughout history, we have only perpetuated it. The caste system is the foundation of the divide and rule system which the British perfected and we have followed in our education system, employment system and elections. The British added to this by nurturing the Hindu-Muslim divide and we have built upon it for electoral purposes and for settling centuries’ old scores. We have weakened democratic processes and democracy itself.Where do we go from here? We have seen that democratic values are not encouraged at home, in society or in the government. Is dictatorship better — dictatorship of one man or one party? I cannot do better than to go back to that wise old man — a consummate politician, a wily fox in war, a great historian — Sir Winston Churchill. He says, “Many forms of government have been tried, and will be tried in this world of sin and woe. No one pretends that democracy is perfect or all-wise. Indeed, it has been said that democracy is the worst form of government except all those other forms that have been tried from time to time.”I cannot agree more — in this system, you and I have a vote, we have a voice, we have our views. In dictatorships, we would have none of these and also be open to loss of liberty and perhaps loss of life.— The writer is ex-chairman of UPSC, former Manipur Governor and served as J&K DGP||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/democracy-faces-headwinds-267519
