14-06-2021||---||Civil servants should go by the rulebook alone||Hierarchical protocol is the bedrock of governance, and its absence is horrendous anarchy. Respect is a voluntary feeling, but adherence to official protocol is not. Protocol is not a private subject, like an individual’s own choice of the quantum of dignity that he has to accord to his family elders and others. It is the basic minimum dignity and respect that is officially prescribed as a hierarchical mandate upon every civil servant.The recent controversy involving the West Bengal Chief Secretary, who is the custodian and chief watchdog of protocol adherence in his state, shows that whatever may be the political environment, adversarial and acrimonious by any standards, there was no need for the Chief Secretary to take sides on considerations of personal expediency, and it would have been appropriate to go by the rulebook alone.No one having even an elementary grounding as an IAS officer can imagine a Chief Secretary and the DGP of the state not receiving the prime minister during his official visits in their respective state, except perhaps in case of being off duty, for example with a crippling physical disability, or a personal tragedy, in which case the officiating Chief Secretary or the officiating DGP has to take over as such, with proper prior intimation.It is very well in the knowledge of any bureaucrat of the rank of Chief Secretary that for him the PM or the CM, when it comes to adherence to protocol, are well-established institutions and not individuals. A Chief Secretary is the Chief Secretary to the government of a state, and not the Chief Secretary to the CM, much less a chief political secretary to the CM.A different level of maturity as well as of a detached and uncoloured appreciation of every catch-22 situation is called upon from a civil servant who rises to the post of Chief Secretary. In such situations, despite the proclaimed acrimony between the political bosses in the state and those at the Centre, the Chief Secretary has to play a crucial role in rendering the right advice to the CM about protocol and propriety, rather than facilitate a breach in the reverse of it. The proximity of the Chief Secretary in the day-to-day working with the CM should play a positive role, bringing in the right amount of correction in the prevailing thought process, rather than fuelling acrimonious protocol breaches.The Chief Secretary is supposed to possess a different level of knowledge, maturity and understanding. Even junior and middle-level field officers are well aware of the fact that as per the SPG security drill, air traffic is curtailed within a certain radius of air space for anyone else when the PM is airborne to his destination, which is why usually all relevant functionaries who have to reach at the same venue by air must essentially land almost one hour before the landing time of the PM. When the PM moves, he naturally has the precedence, and the Chief Secretary and the DGP always plan minute-to-minute movement of the state-level VIPs in such a way that they don’t infringe upon the security restrictions meant for the PM’s safety.Such excuses like delay caused due to air restrictions do not hold good in knowledgeable administrative circles. It is clear that either the Chief Secretary of West Bengal did not plan as he should have, or he successfully planned a breach of the protocol for whatever considerations he may have had.Politics has, unfortunately, come to theatrics, tantrums, rewards and retribution. But these mantras are not for the civil servants to practise. No Chief Secretary would have thought of skipping an official meeting presided over by the PM while in his own state, because there is nothing more important than that for the Chief Secretary, and if there is something more important than that, surely the PM knows about it and would, surely, prioritise accordingly.It is just as no deputy commissioner/ collector/district magistrate in a district would even think of missing a meeting presided over by the CM of a state while travelling to his district.No one can imagine that when the Chief Justice of India visits the state and presides over an official review meeting of judicial officers, the chief justice of the high court of that state decides to abstain, or when the chief of defence forces visits the command headquarters for a review, the army commander decides to walk out and abstain.Such serious aberrations bordering on delinquency would render well-established hierarchical governance into the worst degree of anarchy.The West Bengal imbroglio is case study material for the Lal Bahadur Shastri National Academy of Administration, Mussoorie. The protocol breach that the West Bengal Chief Secretary has indulged in is, perhaps, the worst of its type by a civil servant heading the civil services in the state.The issue of invoking punitive provisions of the Disaster Management Act against a state Chief Secretary will, most probably, land up in a court of law, being the first of its type, and will have to justify its tenability. Politically motivated commentary is also likely to shroud the transfer of the West Bengal Chief Secretary to the Union Government, which seems to have been rendered redundant after the retirement of the officer.But the scars of prima facie professional misconduct may remain for posterity to dwell upon. Sardar Patel envisaged the All India Services as the steel frame, and it will remain so only till its members adhere to the basics of propriety. While the civil servants must go all out to carry out the policies framed by their political bosses in public interest without being egotist obstructionists pulled back by negative energy, it is essential to draw a line and not to fall below the fundamental denominator of an impersonal neutrality in observance of the basic minimum professional standards of the All India Services officers.If the steel frame becomes kinked due to misplaced personal political alignments or lure of rewards, resulting into pliability in issues requiring righteous firmness expected from the officers, the resultant rot cannot be attributed to other stakeholders, who are too eager to exploit the civil services as tools in their political chess games.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/civil-servants-should-go-by-the-rulebook-alone-268076
14-06-2021||---||Sedition & the State through prism of law||SEDITION, as defined by the law dictionary, is “an agreement, communication, or other preliminary activity aimed at inciting treason or some lesser commotion against public authority”. Evidently, sedition is a ‘preliminary activity’, not necessarily the completion of an(y) act. So, the essential features thereof are “agreement, communication... other preliminary activity.”Crime compulsorily has to have ‘intention’ (mens rea/guilty mind) and ‘act’ (actus reus/guilty act) to be proved beyond doubt by the prosecution in a court. And there lies a challenge for the judiciary, called upon to adjudicate between the State and the citizen. Can the latter endanger the might, power and existence of the former? Only the court can decide.On a closer scrutiny, however, it’s found that the implication of the aforesaid legal definition makes it essential to have at least two persons’ involvement in sedition. Because, both ‘agreement’ and ‘communication’ cannot be made with or conveyed to one’s own self only.So, can, therefore, ‘preliminary activity’ be ruled out as a “one-time statement or utterance or cause of action” for sedition connected with another act called ‘treason’? It would require a broader scrutiny because it can well be argued that “uttering unacceptable words in the heat of the moment by one individual”, if found vague subsequently, may not be justifiable, thereby giving rise to the needless existential fear to a thriving and vibrant democracy, especially since the Constitution guarantees Fundamental Rights to the citizens. These rights constitute the bedrock of Indian democracy and universal appreciation and credibility of the post-1950 Republic, which functioned in tandem with the exemplary and sterling vigilance of the judiciary.Sedition is an act of “advocacy aimed at inciting or producing — and likely to incite or produce — imminent lawless action.” In ‘common law’ (the body of law derived from judicial decisions, rather than from statutes or constitutions), sedition included “defaming a member of the royal family or government.”There, however, exists a fine line of difference between ‘sedition’ and ‘treason’. The former is committed by preliminary steps, the latter entails an overt act for executing a plan. However, if the “plan is merely for small commotion, even accomplishing the plan, it doesn’t amount to treason.”Thus, sedition — if looked at closely and carefully through the prism of law — cannot be organised in isolation. It has to be interfaced with various provisions of the law, promulgated from time to time. The basic features of the Constitution of India also have to be looked at to avoid isolation or collision with the supreme law of the land.It’s because the Constitution cannot be seen to be subservient to any clause or section, or be subordinated to, or superseded by, any law. Because, “we the people of India” made the Constitution, which, in turn, created Parliament. Hence, laws made thereunder should not appear to be either trampling upon, or running in contradiction to/of, the basic features of the Constitution of India.In The Book of English Law (PB Fairest, 1967), Edward Jenks opines: “Sedition — this, perhaps the vaguest of all offences, known to the Criminal Law, is defined as the speaking or writing of words calculated to excite disaffection against the Constitution as by law established, to procure the alteration of it by other than lawful means, or to incite any person to commit a crime to the disturbance of the peace, or to raise discontent or disaffection, or to promote ill-feeling between different classes of the community.“A charge of sedition is, historically, one of the chief means by which the Government, especially at the end of the 18th and the beginning of the 19th century, strove to put down hostile critics. It is evident that vagueness of the charge is a danger to liberty of the subject, especially if the Courts of Justice can be induced to take a view favourable to the Government.”The long, steady, painstaking, acrimonious and tortuous discourse on ‘sedition’ squeezes the strongest of spirits, even of the best of both the Bar and the Bench, leaving the accused, counsel and the jury with a sense of an unfinished mission, notwithstanding the words and interpretation of sedition reflected in the judicial verdict.A sedition case, therefore, invariably has a beginning without an end — irrespective of difference or diversity, monarchy or democracy, dictatorship or oligarchy, or ideology in a given situation, ‘sedition’ will always be the ultimate means of fixing the perceived ‘wayward’ elements.In the Indian context, although sedition has existed in Section 124A of the Penal Code since 1860, the ‘real’ deterrent Act thereof appeared with the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) in 1967, essentially to combat ‘terrorism’ as a tool of ‘sedition’.Primarily, it was to combat the Communist Party of China-masterminded/commissioned Naxalite movement which began in the areas of Naxalbari, Kharibari and Phansidewa in West Bengal. Considered (rightly, of course) as proxy foot soldiers of the Chinese PLA, the first salvo was fired on May 24, 1967, at a stone’s throw from East Pakistan, Bhutan, Sikkim, Nepal, and China. Little wonder, the then Government of India, without wasting time, introduced the UAPA on December 30, 1967.Did the UAPA-1967 run contrary to the Constitution guaranteeing freedom of speech and expression as a Fundamental Right in Article 19(1)(a)? Literally, ‘yes’; but legally, only the judiciary can decide on a case-by-case basis, because none else has the wherewithal and expertise to see through the merit of the case and the applicability of law thereon.Contextually today, however, US Chief Justice Earl Warren’s era (1953-1969) comes to mind. Like India, the US too faced sedition trials and tribulations for years. Nevertheless, it’s the judiciary under Warren which took charge and changed the face of US democracy forever through epoch-making judgments, thereby strengthening democracy from the roots rather than uprooting it through mindless verdicts. The judiciary liberated American democracy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/sedition-the-state-through-prism-of-law-268075
14-06-2021||---||Taliban hold the cards||Speculative reports are once again in circulation in the Indian media citing ‘sources’ that India has opened ‘channels of communication with Afghan Taliban factions and leaders’. One fresh element is that India’s outreach is ‘limited to Taliban factions and leaders that are perceived as being “nationalist” or outside the sphere of influence of Pakistan and Iran.’Prudence demands that we cut down the staff at our mission in Kabul to the barest minimum, and as we did in 1992, take a daily call.This must be the first time anyone has identified a ‘nationalist’ wing within the Taliban, which is generally regarded by the international community as a movement rooted in Afghan soil drawing support of Pakistan whose political agenda is almost exclusively focused on national issues. Indeed, it is difficult to find many insurgencies in modern history that are so ultra-nationalist. Therefore, to discover a ‘nationalist’ wing is no small ingenuity.The Ministry of External Affairs spokesman has refused to react to these esoteric reports, whose objective seems to be dissemination of self-serving narratives that help obfuscate the deeply flawed Afghan policies that have brought India to a cul-de-sac today. Whoever invited Rashid Dostum and Mohammed Atta as state guests to New Delhi as recently as in the months of September-October and created photo-ops for them with External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar gave the tale away that India has become an outlier in the search for peace settlement in Afghanistan.This is not to understate the criticality of a dialogue with the Taliban. Certainly, the mainstreaming of the Taliban is only a matter of time now. What is unfolding is probably an outright Taliban takeover in Kabul. For a longtime observer, the current developments bear eerie similarity with the final lap of the communist regime in Afghanistan. The territories that the government controls are shrinking by the day and are largely limited to urban areas while the Taliban either control or are contesting for dominance in the bulk of the country. Twilight zones always wear a deceptive look with the sun assuming a larger-than-life size and glow as it approaches the horizon — and then it simply plops down, so abruptly, unceremoniously, that it may not even get noticed.That is what is unfolding in Afghanistan. Who cares about India’s ‘exploratory’ overreach to the Taliban in this twilight zone? All that is needed is to be patient for a little while longer until the Taliban name their representatives for Kabul. From what one can gather, our small-time operatives in the security establishment are holding a brief to establish some sort of contact quickly with the Taliban cadres. This serves no purpose.The Taliban movement is ideology- based and has a ‘top-down’ approach. Besides, in Afghanistan, optics and formalism matter. A major regional power like India should communicate with the top man. That was the decision PM Narasimha Rao took at a similar juncture when he instructed the Ministry of External Affairs to open a dialogue with the Mujahideen after they overthrew Najibullah in 1992. When I travelled inside Afghanistan on that pioneering mission, I met the Mujahideen leaders — ‘Ustad’ Rabbani, Ahmed Shah Massoud (‘Lion of Panjshir’), ‘Ustad’ Sayyaf and so on.All such contacts must begin with a thoughtful conversation. The pow-wow behind lampposts or bushes with minor functionaries will not take us anywhere. The Afghans are intensely ‘political’. They welcome expansive, sophisticated conversations rich in allegory that help them to size you up, your policies, your intentions. We need to convince the Taliban that we seek goodwill and a mutually beneficial relationship and for that to happen, fundamentally, we need to have an open mind uncluttered by past prejudices and vanities.Such sophisticated conversations are best undertaken by professional diplomats or erudite politicians (if anyone is available amidst the raging pandemic) — but certainly not by the security establishment. And, we must begin with someone of the stature of Sirajuddin Haqqani or Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar, no less.However, that is all for the future. Presently, what we need to concentrate is on the security issues that are potentially risking the lives of our diplomats in Kabul. A decision may have to be taken at some point whether the mission should be wound up. The Australians already left Kabul. But then, their troops committed unspeakable war crimes — such as using Afghans for target practice — and anticipate retribution.We are probably sailing in a different boat. Nonetheless, make no mistake, once the last American soldier leaves by July, there are no more checks and balances. The US hopes to hire the Turks to keep a detachment at the Kabul airport but the Taliban has vetoed the idea. Prudence demands that we cut down the staff to the barest minimum, and as we did in 1992, take a daily call. We had wired the mission into the IPA Division via a cracking wireless system. No doubt, far better communication systems should be available today. A chaotic situation is developing.Then comes the contingency planning for the evacuation of the staff. Timing will be the essence of the matter. We might be completely beholden to the Taliban forces that may seize Kabul airport — most likely the very same Haqqani group whom we disparagingly label as ‘proxies of the Pakistani military’. Is that acceptable?Today, world chancelleries that keep embassies in Kabul must be grappling with such practical issues. Our preoccupations too ought to be prioritised. It is too late now to dabble in ‘outreach’ to the ‘nationalistic’ Taliban. First let us pull through the dangerous transition ahead. The rest comes later.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/taliban-hold-the-cards-268071
