15-06-2021||---||Above board and beyond||With the cancellation of the board exams, many of our youngsters and their parents, I assume, are passing through some sort of psychic bewilderment and anxiety. Even though at this time of the pandemic, nothing should matter more than the safety of these students, some of them, it seems, are still angry. It is not surprising. As the prevalent practice of education is integrally related to the centrality of standardised tests and exams, one is conditioned to believe that there is no other way to evaluate one’s worth, or intellectual/cognitive development; and hence, not to get an opportunity to compete, and write this mystified exam (with enhanced palpitation, sleepless nights and temple visits), or not to be graded, ranked and hierarchised by a centralised/ value-neutral authority is to lose what matters in this hyper-competitive society: fighting spirit and achievement orientation. The quality of education, it is feared, is bound to decay if there is no board exam.However, there are educationists and pedagogues amongst us who think somewhat differently. Even under normal circumstances, as they remind us, the one-sided emphasis on centralised tests has disastrous consequences. First, in a society like ours characterised by highly stratified schooling and uneven distribution of social and cultural capital, the board exam cannot be said to be ‘neutral’. Even though a student of a municipality school located at a slum in Delhi and a student of an international school in Mumbai are asked to read the same texts and write the same exam, they are by no means equal participants in this race. Possibly, this sort of exam legitimises and sanctifies the already existing social inequality through the rationale of ‘meritocracy’. And second, they would argue that the ritualisation of exams distorts the higher goal of education. The spirit of learning/unlearning with joy and wonder is sacrificed; what really matters is the ‘war instinct’—the strategy of writing the ‘correct’ answer, and reducing every discipline into a set of ‘knowledge capsules’ for quick consumption. In this age of inflated marks, 100% in physics does by no means indicate the arrival of a young Einstein; or, for that matter, 99% in English (even though it can assure your child’s admission in a branded college) is no guarantee that William Blake and Charles Dickens fascinate her. In other words, this hype over exams needs to be demystified.This debate can go on. But then, what all of us would concede that neither the CBSE nor the ICSE can prepare our youngsters to face the most important exam the pandemic has made them confront. And it is important to realise that the preparedness for life (yes, as the pandemic has shown, it is not a picnic party; it is inseparable from death, pain, suffering and impermanence) is not to memorise the 10 reasons for the downfall of the Mughal Empire, or to solve a differential equation, or to merge with the IIT/IIM nexus. Can the prevalent system of education, with excessive stress on bookish knowledge, instrumental intelligence and ‘success’ mantras really prepare our children to become sensitive to life and associated existential questions?Look at them, feel their stress and anxiety, and experience their psychic nausea as they consume the statistics of death and see the taken-for-granted world crumbling in front of their eyes. I am not saying that they should feel eternally sad. As a teacher, I have no hesitation in saying that a lesson in physics or history has its own role, and this academic engagement can also prove to be therapeutic. And youngsters ought to study and expand their horizons. Yet, as the pandemic is teaching us, our children ought to cultivate something deep—beyond the official curriculum. And without this awakened intelligence, life cannot be lived meaningfully as they would enter the world and experience the new reality. What are the qualities they need to cultivate to face this real exam of life?First, the art of perseverance and endurance is the most important lesson to be learned. When darkness prevails and everything around looks bleak, it is important to acquire the courage to wait, retain the conviction that this too will pass, and the light of new dawn is as real as the intensity of dark night. ‘I can think, I can wait, I can fast’ — Siddhartha (the protagonist of Hermann Hesse’s novel) reminded us of this important lesson of life that every seeker (a student is a seeker, not an exam warrior) ought to learn in order to pass through the complex trajectory of existence: life and death, pain and pleasure, and peaks and valleys. Second, the nuanced art of empathy is yet another important lesson to be learned. Should our youngsters remain obsessed with egotistic success? Or is it more important for them to understand and feel the pain of migrant workers, the trauma of those who have lost their nearest ones simply because there was no oxygen cylinder, or the helplessness of those who have lost their jobs? And third, the cultivation of a creatively nuanced critical consciousness is the need of the hour. This is not about cramming CBSE political science questions; this is the ability to see the ugliness of the narcissistic political class, the exploitative character of Indian society, the harshness of vaccine inequality, and yet strive for the ethics of care in the post-pandemic world.Should parents, teachers and educators bother to think of this real exam that no board has ever visualised?||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/above-board-and-beyond-268474
15-06-2021||---||BJP can’t afford to let UP slip out of its hands||YOU can cock a snook at the Prime Minister if you are a Mamata Banerjee. But not if you are a CM of the BJP, not even if you are Yogi Adityanath, a Hindutva icon most in demand after Narendra Modi.Yogi Adityanath went to Delhi last week to sue for peace. The upshot of the visit: he agreed to go in for a cabinet reshuffle he had been resisting. The BJP brass read out the riot act to him about all that had gone wrong in UP.Unless the situation spins out of control, Yogi Adityanath will continue as the chief minister and lead the party into elections. For an alternative at this juncture is a risky proposition with only seven to eight months left for the polls. The Prime Minister, the Home Minister and the BJP president have gone into the damage control mode.Very few BJP MLAs reportedly spoke in Adityanath’s favour to party leaders BL Santhosh and Radha Mohan Singh who were sent to Lucknow to ascertain their views. They flayed his mishandling of the second wave of Covid, for working through a handful of bureaucrats and ignoring MLAs and ministers. There were complaints, and these are long standing ones, about Adityanath being partial to the community he belongs to, the Rajputs, known to be as aggressive as the Yadavs when they are in power. This has alienated the Brahmins, who are large in number in UP (around 12 per cent) and traditional supporters of the BJP.The cabinet reshuffle in Lucknow is expected to give an important role to AK Sharma, a bureaucrat-turned-politician who is a confidant of the Prime Minister, sent to UP to be his eyes and ears in Lucknow. Sharma resigned as a secretary in the Union government earlier this year, and was made a BJP MLC. The buzz was that the PM wanted him to be made the deputy chief minister and be given the Home department. Yogi Adityanath had so far resisted this move.The prospective reshuffle in Lucknow is also expected to give a berth to Jitin Prasada, who left the Congress to join the BJP. Like AK Sharma, he too is expected to be brought in as an MLC in July.Jitin Prasada’s exit from the Congress comes at a time when the BJP is smarting under its defeat in West Bengal. Though he had lost the last three elections he contested, in 2014, 2017 and 2019, the BJP is creating a hype around his name to signal the Brahmins that the party is mindful of their concerns.It is also sending another message and this is to potential entrants who may be looking at the party as a possible haven — that if they cross over, their interests would be taken care of. An integral part of the BJP’s poll strategy has been to wean away important leaders from other parties on the eve of elections to bolster its prospects.This was a message of the appointment of a former Congressman Himanta Biswa Sarma as the chief minister of Assam. The elevation of Jyotiraditya Scindia as a Union Minister, which is on the cards, would do likewise. He has been waiting in the wings for the promised prize since he crossed over with 22 MLAs, bringing down the Congress government in Madhya Pradesh last year.Finally, the PM is expected to go for the long overdue cabinet reshuffle in Delhi soon. There are many vacancies to fill after the exit of allies like the Shiv Sena, Akali Dal, and Ram Vilas Paswan’s LJP.Another poll season is not far away. Eight elections are due in 2022 — in UP, Punjab, Manipur, Goa, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Gujarat and Jammu and Kashmir. It goes without saying that UP will determine the BJP’s prospects in 2024. It is not in power in large states like Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal. If you add Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh and Kerala to it, the loss of UP will put it out of power in states accounting for more than 250 Lok Sabha seats. The BJP cannot afford to let UP slip out of its hands.The UP poll is likely to be a four-cornered fight. Already, Amit Shah has reached out to smaIler parties, like the Kurmi-dominated Apna Dal and the Nishad Party. The non-Yadav OBCs and the most backward castes (MBCs) have been an important catchment area for the BJP.Mayawati is likely to go it alone. From all accounts, she may consider supporting the BJP afterwards if it falls short of the magic numbers.The Samajwadi Party and RLD have already forged an understanding. The farmers of western UP, particularly the Jats, are looking at the new RLD chief Jayant Choudhary with favour, after his support to the Kisan agitation. Akhilesh Yadav does not seem to be in a mood to tie up with the Congress this time, as he did in 2017. The Congress brings nothing to the table except inflated demands for seats. The Muslims, Akhilesh calculates, would gravitate to his party as the main challenger of the BJP, as it happened in West Bengal, rather than getting divided.The Bengal victory has already spurred the non-BJP regional parties into action. Having joined the BJP in 2017, Mukul Roy’s ghar wapsi in the Trinamool Congress was a big setback for the BJP. He is already in touch with 20 BJP MLAs in West Bengal with a view to bringing some over to Mamata’s side.In Bihar, HAM party leader Jitan Ram Manjhi is in touch with the RLD leaders and spoke to Lalu Yadav in New Delhi last week.Poll strategist Prashant Kishor, who delivered West Bengal and Tamil Nadu to the TMC and DMK and who knows many regional satraps well, had a three-hour meeting with Sharad Pawar in Mumbai to look ahead. Will he now play the role of a ‘sutradhar’ in getting together the non-BJP parties for 2024?These are some straws in the wind. Everything will hinge on Uttar Pradesh. The outcome of UP-2022 will depend on how much ground the BJP manages to recover with the correctives it is trying to put in place. It is not going to be easy. People forget economic hardships, but it is more difficult to forgive the loss of loved ones due to the government’s ineptitude and insensitive handling. Talk to people in Baghpat or in Lucknow, there is palpable anger against the party.The PM’s image has also taken a beating. By calling Yogi to Delhi, and pulling him up, the Prime Minister is trying to mitigate the damage, by coming across as a leader who intervenes when things go wrong. But will his word carry weight as it used to at one time?Much will also depend on Akhilesh Yadav. In 2012, the red-capped Akhilesh had hit the road on his cycle, and taken his party to victory. The Samajwadi Party won in the recent panchayat polls by default. It will take more than ‘default’ to recapture the state in 2022.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/bjp-cant-afford-to-let-up-slip-out-of-its-hands-268475
15-06-2021||---||Defection, dissidence rouse Congress from stupor||IN this hot summer, both the Congress and the BJP are feeling the heat. The Congress has witnessed the defection of former Union minister Jitin Prasada to the BJP, besides rumblings in Punjab and Rajasthan. A committee set up by the AICC ‘interim president’ Sonia Gandhi tried to broker a truce between Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh and his detractors.Prasada’s defection worked as a wake-up call, with the Congress high command summoning Sachin Pilot to break the ongoing impasse with Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot. Pilot is said to have declined an offer to be AICC general secretary at the Congress’ national headquarters, insisting that first his supporters should be rehabilitated in the Gehlot cabinet and the Rajasthan unit of the party.The gulf between Rahul Gandhi’s and Sonia Gandhi’s thinking is reportedly widening. Sonia is said to be keen to prevent further desertions, while Rahul is apparently in favour of letting all those go who wish to switch sides or opt for ‘greener pastures’. It is believed that Sonia has agreed to grant a Rajya Sabha berth to ‘G23’ member Ghulam Nabi Azad with the help of ally DMK. Rajya Sabha byelections are due in Tamil Nadu.On another plane, poll strategist Prashant Kishor went to Mumbai to call on Maratha strongman Sharad Pawar. Kishor and Pawar are said to be working on a plan to bring all non-BJP/NDA regional players such as Mamata Banerjee, MK Stalin, Uddhav Thackeray and Jagan Mohan Reddy on board to work out a mahagathbandhan against Prime Minister Narendra Modi. There is a lack of clarity about the role of the Congress, the Left and parties like the Biju Janata Dal that can serve as important players in a big grouping against Modi.For the first time in seven years, the BJP is looking a tad vulnerable. And it’s not just about the poor state of economy or the inept handling of the Covid-19 catastrophe, but the disquiet from within. Dissident activity within the ruling BJP in Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh is reaching a crescendo. In Bhopal, Cabinet ministers were heard taking potshots at one another, staging a walkout and mocking senior bureaucrats in the presence of Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan.While the political situation in Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh is alarming, Uttar Pradesh seems to be heading for a point of no return. Uttar Pradesh is set to go to the polls early next year. It is said that the road to Delhi goes via Lucknow. In the context of the 2024 Lok Sabha polls, the importance of UP is paramount. Once again, more than tactless handling of the Covid-19 second wave, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath faces a virtual revolt from a sizeable chunk of BJP MLAs. The recently concluded panchayat polls have been far below the expectations of the ruling party and some internal assessment points at ‘not so bright’ outcome in the 2022 Assembly polls. More importantly, there are reports of growing differences between Delhi (BJP leadership) and Lucknow (Yogi Adityanath). These differences relate to the appointment of a senior bureaucrat from the Prime Minister’s Office as a BJP MLC in Uttar Pradesh and abortive attempts to make him the Deputy Chief Minister in the politically most significant state of the country. Yogi supporters perhaps felt that a Deputy CM, a Delhi durbar appointee, may act as a ‘super chief minister’ or undermine the political authority of the incumbent chief minister.Some sections of the media and political analysts are speculating that the BJP top brass is toying with the idea of bifurcating or trifurcating Uttar Pradesh. Such a move is fraught with danger. Ideally, the Prime Minister should mull over the idea of setting up the Second States Reorganisation Commission (SSRC) so that a clinical and professional exercise is conducted. After all, there have been legitimate and historic agitations for the creation of Vidarbha (Maharashtra) and Gorkhaland (Bengal). Why should Uttar Pradesh be accorded importance simply because it is BJP-ruled and any bifurcation or trifurcation would result in more BJP-ruled states? The advocates of this move point at a state Assembly resolution passed during Mayawati’s rule in 2011 that has been gathering dust in the North Block. The resolution had recommended the division of Uttar Pradesh into four units: Uttaranchal (eastern UP), Awadh (Central UP), Bundelkhand and ‘Harit Pradesh’ (western UP).Any move to set up the SSRC would open a Pandora’s box. The States Reorganisation Act of 1956 was a major reform of the boundaries and governance of the country’s states and territories. Although many additional changes to state boundaries — including the creation of new states like Telangana, Chhattisgarh, Uttarakhand and Jharkhand — have taken place since 1956, the States Reorganisation Act remains the most extensive change in state boundaries since Independence. The States Reorganisation Commission was headed by Justice Fazl Ali, a retired judge of the Supreme Court.All eyes are now on Modi and Yogi on how they negotiate the Uttar Pradesh tangle. If the Uttar Pradesh CM manages to stay on till the 2022 Assembly polls and prevents a bifurcation/trifurcation move, he would emerge as a power centre in the BJP where the scope for more than the big two has remained non-existent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/defection-dissidence-rouse-congress-from-stupor-268476
