16-06-2021||---||Galwan incident exposed Chinese vulnerabilities||It was on the intervening night of June 15-16 last year that Colonel Santosh Babu, the unassuming Commanding Officer of 16 Bihar Regiment, and 19 of his men sacrificed their lives in the Galwan valley in eastern Ladakh. The Chinese had overwhelmed India at the same locale during the 1962 debacle. As the 20 brave warriors died fighting, another posse from the same battalion, along with two adjoining units, took on the Chinese PLA army in retaliation.The Galwan incident exposed the vulnerabilities of the Chinese as a combat-proven entity and the limitations of a rigid party-affiliated PLA. It is reported that their conscripts expressed admiration for the unarmed combat prowess of the Indian Army, wishing to learn the ropes of hand-to-hand combat themselves for future use. The adversary’s famous ‘human wave’ tactics of 1962 had no doubt been replaced by crude, unconventional weaponry such as wire-reinforced clubs and stones. But it was clear even after a series of military and diplomatic meetings that the rules of engagement would change forever. Following operations on the Kailash Range during early September last year, the Indian Army captured commanding heights to give themselves an advantageous bargaining position for the future. Also, the determination with which the ground manoeuvres were conducted, in the backdrop of the pandemic, conveyed a clear message to an unpredictable adversary. The stand-off that lasted for a good part of last year also showcased the integrated battle culture of our defence mechanism.India should actually have seen China’s misadventure coming, threatened as the latter was along India’s motorable road from Shyok to Daulat Beg Oldi. Pushed to the wall due to international opprobrium over the origin of the novel coronavirus, the Chinese leadership perhaps resorted to the border moves as a pressure-relieving measure. India needs aggressive diplomatic forays to call out the aggressor whenever that happens and the invoking of traditional goodwill with other friendly nations, as highlighted by Prime Minister Narendra Modi during his visit to Ladakh after the Galwan violence.Going forward, such posturing would be as important as actual military capability for a high-altitude border war, when push comes to shove. With its mouthpiece such as Global Times and its cyber warfare, China would leave no stone unturned to create trouble for us by opening up a front with Pakistan to throw us off balance. Needless to say, the Indian Air Force would play a critical role in any future military confrontation in Ladakh. Inductions such as the Rafale jets would be the key to achieving favourable end results in any future military situation versus China.India’s preoccupation with the ongoing Covid crisis could present an opportunity to China to attempt misadventures along the northern border, which has become ‘hot’ akin to the LoC with Pakistan, but with several additional challenges of high-altitude warfare. The Department of Military Affairs would have its hands full for the foreseeable future.Innovative national policies and measures to spend adequately on defence need not be overstated, especially as military assets to conduct a high-altitude campaign would come at a price.But there is a limit up to which arrangements such as Quad could help to counter the Chinese threat. A Quad Plus proposition and beefing up our maritime capability across Malacca and even into the South China Sea are possible options, should a war be thrust upon us. Malacca is an Achilles’ heel for the Chinese as nearly 60 per cent of their energy needs flow through it and here is where India, sitting atop an otherwise non-militarised Indian Ocean, could call the shots. Continued strong military ties with Russia and Israel are also crucial to ensure state-of-the-art, assured military wherewithal, as also is the arming of nations such as the Philippines and Vietnam with equipment such as the Brahmos, the Tejas LCA or associated training facilities. Afghanistan is another sector, especially after the American and NATO withdrawal from there, where India could end up directly jostling for strategic elbow room with China. One also can’t overlook China’s attempts to gain traction in terms of its footprint in India’s neighbouring countries such as Nepal, Bangladesh and Sri Lanka.Thus, the time ahead promises to be challenging, tricky and critically important for our country to maintain its international reputation as a viable secular democratic power in South Asia. In doing so, our measures — military and diplomatic — to counter China’s ‘salami slicing’ attempts hold the key. And towards this end, the international goodwill we have may need cashing in, as exemplified in recent statements by American power brokers such as Republican Mitch McConnell and commentator Ashley Tellis.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/galwan-incident-exposed-chinese-vulnerabilities-269069
16-06-2021||---||It’s time Congress recaptures spirit of 1920s||Elections to five important Assemblies — Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Uttarakhand, Goa and Manipur — are due in early 2022, yet the main Opposition party, the Congress, continues to be in a state of atrophy. There was a time when the party could self-correct, when leaders could respond to the popular mood. Consider the period 1912-1929. In his An Autobiography, Jawaharlal Nehru scathingly dismissed the 1912 party session in Bankipore as “very much an English-knowing upper class affair where morning coats and well-pressed trousers were greatly in evidence. Essentially, it was a social gathering with no political excitement or tension.” By the middle of the 1920s, the party had been transformed from an elite to a mass party. The leadership had managed to gauge public opinion and change strategies.The change was initiated in 1919: a crucial year for the freedom struggle. The draconian Rowlatt Act and the senseless firing on peaceful protesters at Jallianwala Bagh propelled public anger. Congress strategies of petitioning the colonial government fell into disrepute. The party might have become irrelevant, had not Gandhi introduced it to new forms of politics.His proposal that the party lead a non-cooperation movement against the colonial government rocked the 1920 session. A number of leaders had supported the 1919 reforms introduced by the government. Now, Gandhi proposed a boycott of legislative assemblies, schools, universities and government jobs. Motilal Nehru supported the initiative, other leaders disagreed. Gandhi’s proposal was accepted because the rank and file of the party supported him. Soon enough, leaders discovered that they were wrong, and that people were enthusiastic about the movement. The Congressleadership bowed to popular opinion. This was one incident among many that demonstrated the ability of the party to appreciate public feelings. In 1929, prompted by Jawaharlal Nehru and other younger leaders, the Congress adopted the resolution on Purna Swaraj. The Congress became a mass party, a far cry from the party that had been captured by the elites.The Congress took over power in independent India, and increasingly lost the ability to grasp what people wanted. By the early 1970s, it had become a durbar. Proximity to the leader became infinitely more important than proximity to the people. The distance that has grown between the once grand old party, and the people, has cost the Congress dear. The decline of the party has also cost the people of India. We have been taken over by a well-oiled and a well-funded electoral machine. We are dominated by the cynical agenda of the ruling party. There is little space to breathe. In the India of today, dissent is sedition, young people are jailed for drawing a cartoon, for authoring a poem, for speaking out, and for disagreeing with discriminatory laws. But leaders of a party, that once led India to independence, are silent. This is the ultimate tragedy ofour democracy. We do not carethat this person or that person leaves the party. What we care about is the increasingly dismal state of our democracy.Why is a competitive party system essential for democracy? One, in a liberal democracy, people have the right to choose between different political agendas. We exercise choice whether we buy books or designer items. Why should we not have choices in politics? Politics will decide how we live. Our freedom to live the way we want to is connected to the choices we exercise in politics. Two, a competitive party system plays an important role in the formation of public opinion on what has been done, and what needs to be done. Only then can we arrive at a considered judgment on the policy that is best for our country. We can hardly have knowledge of, or deliberate on policy, if only one agenda is thrust down our throats. Three, for every party that dishonours the Constitution and constitutional commitments, we need two parties that can defend the fundamental law of the land. In the history of the post-colonial world, one-party rule has signified the demise of democracy.In the 1980s, scholars began to speak of a ‘crisis of representation’ and suggest that hierarchical and bureaucratic parties were incapable of representing interests. The alternative was civil society. By the opening decades of the twenty-first century, right-wing populists heading undemocratic parties cracked down on civil society. And we realised that civil society organisations cannot be a substitute for political parties, they have to work with the latter. Conversely, a democratic government can remain in touch with public sentiments only through political parties that work along with, say human rights organisations. A necessary proviso is of course that the party institutionalises internal democracy. Parties whose members are in thrall to the leader can hardly democratise society.It is time that the Congress recaptures the spirit of the 1920s. It is time it learns that elites become irrelevant if they spend their time in personalised power struggles. It is time that it begins to understand and appreciate our anxieties about next year’s elections and subsequent ones. The grand old party owes the country. Once its leaders deliberated on democracy and gave us the Constitution. It is time our democracy and our Constitution is reclaimed by the party and once again handed over to us. It is time for a second freedom struggle, centred around a second azadi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/its-time-congress-recaptures-spirit-of-1920s-269007
16-06-2021||---||Revival of G7 and its impact||The three-day G7 summit concluded on June 13 and released an unusually long and detailed joint statement of 70 paragraphs and a separate Open Societies Statement. The latter statement was on behalf of the G7 and the four invitees to the summit, namely Australia, India, South Korea and South Africa. The summit is only the first of three key meetings involving western countries. This week includes a meeting of the EU and the US and a meeting of the NATO military alliance, both in Brussels. Fortified by the display of solidarity at these three summits, President Biden will have his first summit with Russian President Putin in Geneva on June 16.From the US perspective, the objective of the summits is to announce that ‘America is back’ and ready to lead the world after the debilitating disruption of western alliances and partnerships and a retreat from global engagement during the Trump years. What Biden is signalling is that the revival of American leadership and diplomatic activism will be anchored in the web of its transatlantic relationships, even as the Indo-Pacific strategy will be its key preoccupation, given the acknowledged challenge posed by China. The emphasis on the transatlantic alliance and partnership is also important in countering the Russian threat. While Biden has described China as a competitor, Russia is the ‘enemy’, even though the US is prepared to work together with both on areas where there are convergent interests on global issues, such as climate change, cyber security and nuclear non-proliferation. Has Biden succeeded in convincing his western allies and partners and his adversaries that the US is back? The answer to that, as judged from the joint statement, should be a yes. But then, the Trump years were a low base to compare to.Has Biden achieved a degree of western consensus in presenting a united front against Russia and China? Perhaps more against Russia and less against China. For example, the launch of the Build Back a Better World (B3W) partnership was launched as a ‘values driven, high standard and transparent infrastructure partnership led by major democracies’, but stopped short of explicitly posing it as an alternative to China’s Belt and Road Initiative. There are few details of how this partnership is going to be financed beyond saying that this will be private financed but with ‘catalytic investment’ from public and multilateral sources. We may conclude that there are simply not enough resources available to be deployed by the G7 which could match what China has been offering, despite concerns over lack of transparency and exacerbation of the debt overload on several developing countries.There are several other references to Chinese misdemeanours which taken together do represent a broad western consensus on the need to confront China. These include the importance of maintaining peace and stability in the Taiwan Strait, ‘a free and open Indo-Pacific’, of avoiding ‘unilateral attempts to change the status quo and increase tensions in the East and South China Seas.’ In addition, there are references to human rights issues in Xinjiang and Hong Kong, both of which are regarded as ‘core issues’ by China. Overall, therefore, one could say that Biden has been able to fashion a consensus on acknowledging the Chinese security challenge and ideological challenge.Will this impress China? Up to a point. The economic and commercial relationship between Europe and China is deep and broad ranging as is that between China and Japan. The EU and China have been working together, for example, for several years on developing benchmarks for climate finance, including green bonds, disclosure norms and the running of carbon markets. The area of climate finance will assume critical importance as climate change action gets into high gear after the Glasgow summit later this year. There is a limit to disengaging from the world’s second largest economy and the central node in global supply chains.China has reacted by dismissing the G7, pointing out that a small group of countries cannot rule the world. There is another important shift the summit represents. After the global financial and economic crisis of 2007-8, it is the G20 which was established as the premier forum for international economic coordination. It worked very well in dealing with the immediate crisis, but its role has steadily diminished since then. With renewed tensions between the US and China and with Russia, the utility of the G20 is not so obvious currently. This adds to the significance of the revival of G7, even though its economic heft is much less than in its heyday. It constitutes only 30% of world GDP as against 60% at the end of the Cold War. However, the global trading system and its financial infrastructure continue to be dominated by the G7 so one should not underestimate its influence. It has the potential to emerge as a core of a broader coalition to achieve a degree of balance in the power equations that the emergence of China has upturned in the new millennium.The adoption of the Statement on Open Societies reflects Biden’s renewed emphasis on the importance of preserving and promoting ‘open societies, democratic values and multilateralism as foundations for dignity, opportunity and prosperity for all.’ For all the cynicism that attends the expression of such lofty statements, they have value in contesting China’s confident belief in the efficacy of its authoritarian ideology and system of governance. Biden is taking head on the prevailing pessimism about democracy within democracies themselves. One should welcome PM Modi being honoured as the lead speaker at the session on Open Societies. His remarks were unexceptionable and worthy of a leader of the world’s largest democracy. One hopes that this is followed by a renewed commitment to democratic values which are enshrined in the Indian Constitution, but also constitute, as PM Modi said, the civilisational values of India.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/revival-of-g7-and-its-impact-268955
