17-06-2021||---||India must be more vocal in calling out China||China, under the authoritarian rule of the Communist Party, will remain the major threat to our national security. Its peaceful rise, as hoped for by those with a penchant for political correctness, was always a chimera — there is just not enough space and resources for this in the Chinese worldview. With an unsettled land border — the Line of Actual Control (LAC) over almost 3,500 km — India will remain its adversary in many ways, beyond the identified disputed and sensitive areas on our northern borders.Having been stalemated in the Himalayan heights in south-western Bhutan and in eastern Ladakh by the undaunted Indian Army within a span of three years, China would not wish to face such humiliation again and its focus areas for regional hegemony are likely to be other than conventional conflicts. However, for India, being ever wary of its northern neighbour is a given. While gearing up for the non-military dimensions of any threat, the Army needs to be equipped and prepared for the long haul all along the LAC, even at the added human wear and tear and economic costs this entails.We are long used to countering Pakistan’s perfidy and inimical actions on our own with little more than verbal condemnation of state-sponsored terrorism by most other nations of consequence. Expecting more tangible support in case of an adverse turn of events with China or at least its opprobrium also appears unrealistic. Most Western powers have strong economic linkages with China as do countries like Russia and in any case are too far removed from this part of the globe to be impacted or affected in any significant manner. To take the other three members of the Quad, their prime interest is centred around South China Sea. Further, it may be of interest to note that Japan is China’s second largest economic partner after the US and political differences, an unhappy history and some maritime disputes about island territories are not likely to change this relationship. Similar is the case with Australia which is a very unpredictable player and has been on a different page many times where Indian interests are involved. The mighty United States has its own axe to grind and with the Biden administration at the helm, it would look more at working with China while retaining its pre-eminence as a global power.A major takeaway from the G7 summit in Southern England, held over the last weekend, is the Build Back Better World (B3W) initiative for building infrastructure in developing countries. This is being projected as an effective counter to the ongoing One Belt One Road project of China. The G7 countries may promote this in an endeavour by the leading economic powers not to lose out in political and economic influence to Communist China. However, unlike India, the G7 is far removed from any physical conflict with China and the B3W will not diminish the threat posed by the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) or similar projects in our neighbourhood.All this implies that for safeguarding our borders and our national security, dependence on external support and help is qualified by many factors and at best can only be to a very limited degree. In this vein, while it is reassuring to see the photo optics of our Army deployed on the icy heights in battle gear with our weapon platforms in combat readiness, the true measure of our national power will be our ability to stare down the Dragon on geo-political issues, to which it is sensitive, as well as remaining on a par in technological prowess in some key areas.Politically and diplomatically, a more vociferous stance is necessary in dealing with China. Be it the ethnic and religious persecution in Xinjiang and Tibet in its west and south-west or the suppressing of dissent under the PLA jackboots in Hong Kong, as a responsible democratic country, India needs to be much more vocal in condemning such gross human rights violations. Firm and even strident attitudes towards China have to move beyond ‘think tank’ discussions and get mainstreamed into our foreign policy. A most important issue, on which India has remained largely silent, is the succession of the Dalai Lama. The Central Tibetan Administration, based at Dharamsala in Himachal Pradesh, needs our full support on this very vital and sensitive subject for Tibetans the world over. The CCP will try to foist someone politically convenient as the next spiritual leader of Tibetan Buddhism. This needs to be countered and prevented from this stage itself. China may have conquered the land of the Tibetans, but it cannot be allowed to capture their spiritual space.China is likely to take increasing recourse to unconventional forms of warfare. An area of ever-increasing importance is the cyber domain, which has a ubiquitous presence in the everyday functioning of various services, be it communications (physical, voice, data or transportation), banking and commerce, power generation and transmission or even routine activities at individual levels. In the past, the Chinese hand has been often suspected in disruptions caused through offensive cyber operations. While a large degree of redundancy and recoverability is required in such cyber dependent services, there is a definite need for a well-developed offensive cyber operations capability, with credible deniability.Another area where future conflicts are likely to be waged is the vastness of space, from anti-satellite missiles to weaponised space-based platforms, which can greatly affect all systems dependent on this medium, be it navigation, communications or something as innocuous as crop patterns and weather forecasts. China served notice to the world as far back as January 2007 with its first demonstrated anti-satellite capability. Our space programme ranks among the leading ones and this is one area where any adversary should not be allowed to gain an edge. Descending below the stratosphere, the increasing importance of unmanned aerial platforms makes it incumbent to keep abreast with their development and production on a larger scale. Their very potent usage during the recent Nagorno-Karabakh conflict between Armenia and Azerbaijan is a clear pointer towards future battlefields.The paradox of a totalitarian regime and a free market economy is likely to persist till the Communist Party remains in absolute power. What does this augur? There is no gainsaying that China has various strengths which will always come into play. However, a firm political line needs to be articulated on issues of rights abuse against ethnic minorities in that country while remaining prepared for unconventional and asymmetric initiatives by the CCP in its bid for regional domination.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/india-must-be-more-vocal-in-calling-out-china-269527
17-06-2021||---||‘Excess’ deaths the key to actual Covid toll||Just how many Indians have died in the second wave of Covid? What would be the eventual toll of the pandemic? This is not idle, morbid curiosity. The true numbers have momentous humanitarian, public health, economic and political implications.I have been asking this question for the past few weeks. This was triggered by personal experiences, not very different from what most Indians have gone through recently. In the past two months, I have lost my mentor, another colleague, a batch-mate, several teachers, many comrades in the movement and just too many persons I knew or knew of. I have attended more memorial meetings than I remember in a long time. My own small village in Haryana has lost 19 lives in less than two months.That is what set me thinking: just how big is the scale of this tragedy? I started following media reports and expert analyses, besides conducting my own word-of-mouth survey. Everything pointed to a big scandal. But, how big? That was unclear.Last week was a breakthrough. Now, it is clear that we are looking at the biggest death toll caused by any single disaster or epidemic in the last century. It is also clear that the Central Government and nearly all the state governments are sitting over and concealing the scandalous numbers. Experts have a clear sense of the scale of this disaster by now, but they are, perhaps, waiting for more verifiable evidence before they can publish their estimates. Hence, my effort to offer a tentative estimate.Let’s begin with the latest data bomb. Last week, data journalist S Rukmini published the entire data set on the number of deaths in Madhya Pradesh and Andhra Pradesh (and partly on Tamil Nadu) as recorded in the official Civil Registration System (CRS). So, now we have a month-by-month breakdown of the number of deaths officially recorded in these states for each district and smaller units. This data enables us to begin answering the big question.So far, we have seen shameful images of packed crematoria and bodies floating on the Ganga, shocking stories of suppression and distortion of Covid deaths in some cities, and data on the huge death toll in select villages. But this anecdotal evidence did not allow us to project the big picture. We have also had attempts by The Economist, the New York Times and academic institutions to offer estimates of the total death toll. But these were clear under-estimates because all of them took the government’s official infection and fatality figures as their starting point.Rukmini’s data expose takes us beyond these limitations. First of all, the data set is big and covers the entire states of AP and MP. Besides, it allows us to pursue the right approach. Instead of wasting time on the meaningless official statistics on the number of persons infected, cured or dead from Covid, this approach focuses on the number of ‘excess’ deaths. The simple question is: how many ‘excess’ deaths, over and above the normal number, have we seen during this period? Not all of these ‘excess’ deaths may be due to Covid. As we know, the burden on hospitals and shortage of oxygen has caused some additional deaths unrelated to Covid. Yet, it is reasonable to interpret the spike in deaths as caused by the pandemic.Most importantly, this information is from the most authentic data set: the government’s official register of births and deaths or the CRS. The data set is not perfect. Many deaths are reported after a month or even a year. And in many states, a significant number of deaths are never reported and recorded in the CRS.But, fortunately, we have good official estimates of how big this error is in each state, thanks to the Sample Registration System (SRS), another official arm of the robust statistical system. We know that while AP records 100 per cent of its deaths in the CRS, the figure is 78.8 per cent in MP. We can adjust for these deficits in the data.Now let us look at why this data is so shocking. MP used to record around 34,000 deaths in May every year. This year, it has gone beyond 1.64 lakh! That is, more than 1.3 lakh excess deaths in one state in one month. Remember, the official figure for Covid deaths in the entire country since March last year is just 3.8 lakh.In AP, the numbers shot up from an average of 27,000 to over 1.30 lakh. In both states, the number of deaths reported is 4.8 times the normal figure.The reported numbers need to be fine-tuned to take into account the expected delays in reporting for both states and non-reporting of some cases in MP. So, in both the states, the final estimated numbers of death would be a little over five times (5.02 in MP and 5.14 in AP) the normal death toll.But that is only for the peak month of May. The data for both the states gives us the numbers for the four months of build-up to the peak. From January to April, the average death toll in MP was 1.4 times the normal.Now let us use this information to project the numbers for the entire country. We take the average of MP and AP and assume that it holds for the rest of the country. That is a big assumption, but not a very risky one. It so happens that both these states are not among the worst or the best states when it comes to the spread of Covid and the official death rate. If anything, they have reported lesser number of cases and deaths since April 1, compared to the national average. So, we assume that the death toll in the entire country would have been 5.08 times higher in May this year than the normal monthly count of 6.08 lakh. That gives us an estimate of 30.9 lakh, of which 24.8 lakh are the ‘excess’ deaths, for May.We assume that the graph for the months of January to April would have been similar to MP in the rest of the country, accounting for 0.4 times additional deaths than normal. We also assume that the four months of decline from the peak, from June to September, would also have a similar curve as from January to April. This assumption holds even if the peak in some part of the country was not in May but in April or June. Using this method, we estimate nearly 10 lakh deaths on either side of the peak.Add all this up and you have a rough estimate of excess deaths, largely Covid deaths, for the entire country for all the nine months of the expected duration of the second wave: 44.3 lakh. There is nothing final about this number. More data from other states would tell us whether the national average is higher or lower than these two states. More sophisticated modelling will improve the rough estimates offered here. But one thing is sure: we are not talking thousands or single-digit lakhs but millions of deaths. We are looking at more deaths than the numbers recorded in any epidemic or any disaster in India, including the Bengal famine, in the past 100 years, since the Spanish Flu of 1919-20.The pity is that all this information is sitting on the computers of the Home Ministry in Delhi that controls the CRS and the SRS. Will the Centre stop issuing silly denials and come clean with the entire data on what is clearly the biggest public health scandal of this century?Views are personal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/excess-deaths-the-key-to-actual-covid-toll-269518
17-06-2021||---||Back where we began||The two waves of the pandemic have created a huge army of unemployed in the country and no quick solution is in sight. The jobless will have to wait for the economy to slowly pick up as the current partial lockdowns are gradually lifted and a trickle of fresh jobs is created. Around a crore or over 10 million people have lost their jobs in the second wave of the pandemic, with the total number of jobs going down from 403 million before the pandemic started last year to 390 million today. This has made the unemployment rate reach a colossal 14.7 per cent on May 23, according to the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE).The sharp rise in job losses that had occurred when the economy came to a halt as a countrywide lockdown was declared in March last year, began to abate with jobs being restored as the economy gradually opened up again further down in 2020. But even before the job recovery was complete, the process began to stall from January. And then came the second wave.The psychological impact of more and more people losing their jobs as the year progressed made many without a job turn fatalistic and stop looking for jobs. So the labour force participation rate (those in the job market) has now come down to 40 per cent compared to the pre-pandemic rate of 42.5 per cent.This huge level of joblessness has had its impact on the way people live. The CMIE’s periodic surveys have found that almost the entire population in the country, 97 per cent, is worse off than what it was before the pandemic hit last year. This is after adding up those who say that they are worse off and those who say they are no better off and then taking into account the impact of inflation.The worst hit by a job loss are the daily wagers who have little to fall back upon. A huge 90 million daily wagers lost their jobs in April last year and another 36 million who were in regular formal employment suffered the same fate. As the year progressed, many of them got back to work but a considerable number of them were able to secure only non-formal jobs. So overall the quality of employment has declined. Non-formal employment means savings, particularly savings for post-retirement, being hit.How do we get out of this calamitous situation? The core issue is there is a lack of demand. The RBI says the second wave has created a ‘demand shock’. This is the result of several factors — a lack of mobility (people could not move around because of the lockdown), fall in discretionary spending (e.g. ‘I will delay replacing my old car’) and the joblessness that we have just talked about which has taken money out of the hands of the working class.So the critical need of the hour is to ensure that domestic consumption is given a push by putting money in the hands of people. Once they spend to regain the life they had before the pandemic came it will give the economy a push and enable it to go forward, pick up steam and create jobs again.Who will give that push? Not householders, most of whom have got deeper into debt over the last year. Not the enterprises which are currently running at only 66 per cent capacity utilisation, giving them no incentive to spend in investment to create new capacity to meet anticipated high demand. Not the rich who are investing in the stock market which is witnessing an unseemly and unhealthy boom, even as the economy and the conditions of ordinary people are precarious.Thus all eyes are now turned towards the Central government to give the economy a push by creating demand. But the urgency to put money in the hands of people here and now does not seem to be there. The government is saying, first use all the schemes and avenues made available in the February budget, and then, if we see the need, we will raise allocations.The RBI is maintaining an easy money policy which is creating enough liquidity to enable businesses to borrow and invest but business sentiment does not seem to be keen on undertaking fresh investment to create new capacity. The only businesses willing to spend are the micro and small businesses which have downed shutters because of the lockdown. This took away their customers not once but twice in less than two years. So they ran out of cash, had to let their staff go (this created unemployment) as they could not pay wages and also rent. So, like the poor, these businesses also need cash support. As if all this was not bad enough, bad news has come from the inflation front. The wholesale price index shot up to 12.9 per cent in May and in its train has followed the retail index which, in the same month, has recorded an inflation of 6.3 per cent.What this means is that inflation has broken out of the comfort zone of the RBI, which is plus-minus 2 per cent around 4 per cent. Once inflation crosses 6 per cent, the RBI should logically begin to tighten liquidity, that is put a break on creating new money when one of the cures for the presence of lack of demand is an easy monetary policy followed by the central bank.But how do we have this conundrum — prices going up sharply at a time of lack of demand? The reasons cited for this are high fuel and commodity prices and low base effect. The last means that prices last May were unusually low as a result of the lockdown. So this is a statistical quirk which will pass. But the government has a big role to play in fuel prices going up rapidly. There is a huge tax component in the price that consumers pay while buying petrol and diesel from which both the Centre and the states benefit. The Central government is dutifully passing on the impact of high and rising international energy prices after adding the taxes.Global commodity prices are firming up in anticipation of the major economies starting to get going again after beating the virus and the Indian Government is also dutifully passing on these hikes to the Indian consumer.The government must liberally put cash into the hands of the poor and small businesses, stop making money out of diesel and petrol and absorb some of the rising prices of imported commodities. But there is no sign that it is ready to put in place such a policy package.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/back-where-we-began-269486
