18-06-2021||Science Commentator||Use the lull to enhance Covid preparedness||The second wave of Covid-19 in India is on a steady decline after causing far greater devastation than the first one. In a few weeks, the number of new infections and mortality figures may reach levels similar to those in January. The unlocking process has begun in most states. In metropolitan cities and towns, the process has been rather swift. Industrial and commercial activities have resumed. People are flocking to malls and shopping districts in large numbers, and restaurants are reporting rising footfalls. Fruits, vegetable and other retail markets are crowded once again. Traffic on the city roads is chock-a-block like before. Metro services, too, have restarted though with occupancy limitations. Highways from metro cities leading to hill stations and other tourist destinations are reporting long traffic snarls. Barring educational institutions, bars, gyms and public parks, most activities are back to the pre-second wave level.The situation raises some pertinent questions: Have any lessons been learnt from the experience of unlocking after the first wave? Are we committing the same mistakes and risk entering a perpetual cycle of waves and lockdowns? The answers to such questions are not encouraging at this point, for the following reasons.First, we are unlocking the wrong way and hardly any lessons have been learnt from the experience after the first wave. The only difference is that the process of unlocking after the 2020 lockdown was national, and now it is state-wise since the duration and intensity of lockdown was left to the discretion of states based on the pandemic curve in each state.The process of unlocking should be guided by now clearly laid-down epidemiological parameters — test positivity rate, change in cases (measured by percentage growth on a weekly basis) and oxygen/ICU bed occupancy. Data on these parameters at the district level should guide decisions relating to lockdowns and unlocking. The National Institute of Epidemiology has developed a four-level alert system for implementing control measures at the district level. It has listed activities that can be allowed and those that need to be restricted in each level. Such a calibrated approach is missing in the current phase of unlocking. In Delhi, for instance, shopping malls have been allowed to reopen while public parks remain shut ignoring the fact that ventilation is a key factor to reduce the risk of spreading Covid-19.Second, the period of unlocking is not being used for strategically increasing the vaccination coverage. The availability of vaccines continues to be less than required, and the pace of vaccination is way below the daily target needed to achieve the goal of vaccinating all adult Indian population by December 31. Given the continued shortfall in vaccine supplies, the effort should be to vaccinate more and more people in identified districts having susceptible population groups and high transmission areas. This was not done in January-March 2021 — vaccines were allocated to states based on their population and other factors — and is not being done now. Vaccine requirements should be assessed in each city ward and at the village level for preparing micro plans. The emphasis should be on achieving coverage of fully vaccinated individuals. There is no point in touting large figures of those who have got one dose. For speedier coverage, vaccination centres should not restrict themselves to one vaccine. Both Covaxin and Covishield — and Sputnik when it is ready — should be made available at all centres.Third, the window of opportunity before the next wave is not being fully utilised to identify and bridge critical gaps in the health system — infrastructure and manpower at all levels. Creating additional capacity for oxygen production and supply as well as ICU beds is just one aspect of preparedness at the tertiary level. We need to strengthen district hospitals and primary care facilities to ensure that big hospitals don’t get overburdened in times of an outbreak or surge. Incidents of fire were reported from many ICU wards, indicating the lack of mandatory fire testing. District hospitals don’t have paediatric ICU beds, in case children get affected in the next wave as widely speculated. Doctors and paramedical staff in government hospitals lack proper facilities for themselves and often complain of delay in getting salaries. ASHA workers — who are the backbone of the health system in rural areas — are poorly paid and are on strike in Maharashtra seeking higher wages. In May, health workers went on a day’s national strike. Doctors have been agitating over the incidence of violence against them. Along with all these concerns, hangs the question of the likely shortage of health manpower.Fourth, India needs to learn from the pandemic surge being reported from many countries in Europe and elsewhere. The third wave has hit some countries, while others are experiencing increased hospitalisation due to the Delta variant. Amidst all this, large events like football matches and election campaigns are taking place, and tourist destinations have been thrown open. In America, masking is no more mandatory for those fully vaccinated. To facilitate travel, vaccine passports are in the offing. It would be of interest to see if countries with a substantially high number of vaccinated are able to duck the next wave. A careful study of the mistakes and successes of others, be it lockdowns, unlocking or vaccination, can help India calibrate its strategies. After all, elections are due in Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and other states early next year and political activity may begin there in a few months.Above all, the need is for transparent and open Covid control policies, based on science and data. The pandemic is not yet over. The virus is still circulating and mutating. The Delta variant is not the last deadly one we have seen. The period of respite is an opportunity for enhancing preparedness for the future. Sustained efforts can yield results, as demonstrated twice in the recent case of cyclones where the loss of life could be minimised due to community awareness and mobilisation backed by accurate warning systems. This is the only way to break the vicious cycle of pandemic waves and lockdowns.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/use-the-lull-to-enhance-covid-preparedness-270143
18-06-2021||Author and Columnist||Survival at stake for new Israeli coalition||The public mood in Israel at the ouster of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, who was in power since 2009, was evident by rival rallies in the ‘Liberal’ Tel Aviv and in the ‘Orthodox’ Jerusalem on the night of June 13. Thousands of Israelis spontaneously swarmed to the Rabin and Dizengoff squares in Tel Aviv, chanting “Bibi go home”, dancing, singing, spraying foam-confetti and leaping into the fountain pools for a “celebratory splash”. A lady wearing the Indian bindi was prominently seen accusing Bibi of dictatorship in the guise of democracy.In contrast, only subdued demonstrations were held in Jerusalem by the orthodox Jews supporting Netanyahu outside his official residence and at the Western Wall on 13th. However, on June 15, Netanyahu supporters came in greater strength to organise a provocative flag-waving demonstration resembling the violent pro-Trump Capitol Hill march on January 6, 2021. They walked from Damascus Gate, the main entry to the Muslim Quarter of Jerusalem’s Old City, chanting “this is our home” and “Jerusalem is ours”. A vigilant police prevented clashes with the Palestinians.Public opinion polls after the ceasefire on May 22 had indicated severe disapproval over Netanyahu’s hard-line tactics during the 11-day Hamas conflict which had resulted in hundreds of Palestinian civilian deaths, including children. The media had quoted Israelis as saying that such an uncompromising strategy had not benefited their country with long-term peace or making their lives easier. They were also annoyed with Netanyahu’s incompetent handling of the Covid pandemic.It was this feeling which had swung the public opinion in favour of Yesh Atid party leader Yair Lapid as their preferred prime minister in place of Netanyahu who was hanging on to that chair since 2019 without clear Knesset (parliamentary) majority by playing with coalitions, while retaining absolute personal power.Netanyahu’s tactics, with the help of US President Donald Trump, by flagging emotive issues like the Jewish sanctity of the Temple Mount for political reasons had only increased daily tensions for an average Israeli citizen as this policy was unable to control either Hamas or the militant PLO Palestinians. The Times of Israel said on May 23 that this had also generated a feeling, even among his erstwhile coalition partners like Naftali Bennett of Yamina party, that Netanyahu’s “prioritising of personal and political considerations over the country’s well-being” was unacceptable. This was a hint that he was clinging on to power to stave off his four corruption trials.A few hours before the parliamentary vote which rejected him, Netanyahu had pushed his anti-US rhetoric high at the Knesset by sharply criticising the Biden administration for its “soft line on Iran” which would endanger Israel’s security. He compared Biden’s Iran policy to the American refusal in 1944 to bomb Auschwitz concentration camp. He said that he had rejected Biden’s proposal to reopen the US consulate in Jerusalem to handle relationship with Palestinians which was closed by President Trump.He added that he had rejected Biden’s proposal to freeze Israeli constructions on Palestinian lands. He ridiculed Naftali Bennett, who if elected, “would be too weak to stand up to Washington”. American political website Axios quoted an unnamed senior Israeli diplomat: “He decided to damage the US-Israel relationship for his own personal interests and is trying to leave scorched earth for the incoming government.”The person who originally used the Temple Mount issue for prime ministerial ambitions was Ariel Sharon. There was a lull in violence from 1998 when Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Barak of the Labour Party was talking with PLO Chief Yasser Arafat on US President Bill Clinton’s initiative, culminating in the July11-25, 2000 Camp David Summit. Although there was no final agreement, this period from 1998 till November 2000 had seen remarkable peace.However, Likud leader Ariel Sharon’s aggressive “Temple Mount March” on September 28, 2000 had inflamed Palestinian feelings. Accompanied by 1,000 police officers, Sharon declared that the Temple Mount would be perpetually under Israeli control. That certainly won him the Prime Ministership in March 2001 elections, but resulted in perpetual Palestinian suspicion over Jewish intentions on al-Aqsa mosque. It also led to the 2001 Second (al-Aqsa) Intifada. Netanyahu has continued the same strategy.Away from all the tumult relating to the government formation, the Israeli media focused on the person who had symbolised the defeat of Netanyahu’s “National Security Government” strategy. That was on June 10, when Gilad Schalit, a 35-year-old ex-soldier celebrated his pre-wedding ‘mehendi ceremony’ with his fiancée Nitzan Shabbat which they call ‘henna ceremony’. It is not known whether the Israeli media indirectly wanted to highlight the common bond in Abrahamic religions as the “henna ceremony” is common among “Sephardi Jews” as well as with Arab Muslims and Iranian Shias.Gilad Schalit was captured by Hamas on June 25, 2006. The fabled Israeli security services could not locate him in the small enclave of Gaza for over five years. That forced Netanyahu to agree to a humiliating exchange of 1,027 Palestinian prisoners in Israeli jails for Hamas to release Schalit on October 18, 2011. Criticism from others, including former Prime Minister Ehud Olmert, that they would never have released the killers had continued to haunt Netanyahu.Speaking at the Knesset, the new Prime Minister Naftali Bennett praised Netanyahu’s contribution as PM, ignoring his taunts earlier on his inexperience. He also promised to open “a new page” in his government’s relations with the Arab citizens and solve their housing problems. Yet, he warned against violence and ceasefire violations which he implemented on June 16 by ordering air strikes on Hamas for sending incendiary balloons to Israel.Whether the fragile Bennett-Lapid coalition survives or not, what is very refreshing is Bennett’s interview to The Times of Israel on February 24, vowing “to eschew Netanyahu’s politics of domestic hatred and division”. He said: “What Bibi did for ages… the dog whistle against this group or that group, I don’t go there. I’m more right-wing than Bibi, but I don’t use hate or polarisation as a tool to promote myself politically.” That is a good lesson for all, including India.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/survival-at-stake-for-new-israeli-coalition-270144
18-06-2021||The elevation of Justice NV Ramana as the Chief Justice of India has introduced a discernible change in the way justice is being delivered by the judiciary. This was first noticed in the process of selection of the CBI chief. It gave the people hope that the third pillar of democracy is asserting itself||Glasshouses and stones||I think of officers who continue to keep the flag flying. Their numbers are dwindling. But people cling on to them in the hope of getting justice, which is what IPS officers were specially recruited to dispense.Take, for instance, the remarks made in open court by Justices Hemant Gupta and V Ramasubramanian when turning down the demand of the former Police Commissioner of Mumbai for transfer to the CBI the investigation of cases filed against him in Mumbai by sundry complainants. Why the CBI? For one, the ex-Commissioner had asked for the allegations he had made against the state’s Home Minister to be inquired into by the CBI and the Bombay High Court had obliged.The court’s decision was a good one because you cannot expect the state government’s agencies to establish the truth when its own Home Minister is the object of suspicion. The minister was accused of summoning two junior officials of the police’s Crime Branch to his house and tasking them with collecting Rs 100 crore every month from bar owners and such like who tweak the law for financial gain.When the former Commissioner was removed from the coveted position held by him, he abandoned his comfort zone and dashed off a letter to the CM in protest. In that letter the details of the minister’s design to strengthen his party’s coffers through encouragement of criminality were laid bare. The name of the two junior officials who had been tasked with the collections were also disclosed. One of the two was Sachin Vaze. The exact contents of the letter have not been published. Vaze was the closest confidant of the chief! When Vaze botched up, the ex-Commissioner had anticipated an unhappy turn of events. He had recorded his conversation with Vaze and the other police Inspector in which allegedly the demand for Rs 100 crore was mentioned. He wrote to the CM and simultaneously released a copy of his letter to the press.The Leader of the Opposition in the Maharashtra Vidhan Sabha, BJP’s Devendra Fadnavis, denounced the three-party alliance ruling the state — the Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress. When he was the CM earlier, Fadnavis had made use of the same officer, Param Bir Singh, first to justify the state’s action against the left-oriented activists arrested in the Bhima Koregaon conspiracy case, and later, when the officer was appointed Director, Anti-Corruption Bureau, to absolve NCP’s Ajit Pawar in a big irrigation scam, in an attempt to cement a political alliance. It was in the interest of his (Fadnavis) party to ensure that Anil Deshmukh, the Aghadi’s Home Minister, was reviled. So, the BJP welcomed back into its camp the ex-Police Commissioner with open arms.It is an open secret that in recent years the CBI has been used by the party in power. So, when the High Court of Bombay ordered the inquiry into the ex-Commissioner’s accusations against the minister to be assigned to the CBI, the former Commissioner could not but have been in seventh heaven.But the state government counter attacked with three or four complaints of selected victims against the ex-Commissioner. Two former Inspectors, one cricket bookie and one real estate agent were lined up with their own individual grievances of extortion against the officer when he was Commissioner of Thane three-four years ago. The state’s investigation agencies were entrusted with the investigations. Param Bir Singh approached the Supreme Court for relief, knowing well that the state’s police units are as caged in the state as the CBI is at the Centre. While turning down his request, the judges remarked that ‘those who live in glasshouses should not throw stones’. How did the judges conclude that both, the accused and the accusers, lived in glasshouses, a sentiment shared by the rank and file of the Thane and Mumbai police?When two prominent residents of the SC-dubbed glasshouses join hands, if one of them relies on a specialist to do hatchet jobs of unlawful content and that hatchet man trips up in a crucial operation, because by now he has begun believing in his own invincibility, the denouement is bound to follow.Faced with unexpected and sudden ruin, the resident resorts to his own instincts of survival. And here, too, he meets a dead end as the judiciary is in no mood to oblige.The disgraced minister, whose cash-for-transfer policy was universally known to all ranks of the police force he was chosen to administer, hopes to get off the hook because presently it is one man’s word against the other. At this moment of time, his opponent in the adjoining glasshouse has a slight advantage because of the recorded evidence.The bar owners would have to shut shop if they had to pay these added imposts to the legally mandated taxes they pay. A sharp increase in protection money would be a novel way of combating the crime itself. Only combating the crime was not the intent of the two occupants of the glasshouses!The entire episode has left a sour taste in the mouth. I was always proud to proclaim my membership of the elite IPS, which I joined in 1953. But opting for positivity of the type our PM preaches, I think only of those officers who continue to keep the flag flying. Their numbers show signs of dwindling. But people cling on to them in the hope of getting justice, which is what IPS officers were specially recruited to dispense.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/glasshouses-and-stones-270145
