19-06-2021||The first anniversary of the death of 20 Indian soldiers of the 16 Bihar Regiment||Challenging China||Despite the Galwan clash, the Chinese expanded their share in the Indian smartphone market from 71 per cent to 75 per cent in 2020, thus conclusively disproving the theory that the lure of the Indian market would be a deterrent to Chinese military pursuits. In fact, it is now the Indian market that is dependent on Chinese telecom instruments, electronic instruments, components and consumer goods, computer hardware and peripherals, and pharmaceutical ingredients. The latest trade figures put out by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry show that we imported goods worth $65.21 billion from China in 2020-21, topping the charts, whereas our US imports were not even half of that value at just $28.86 billion. Sure, we export more to the US and hence have a trade surplus, but the trade deficit of $45.9 billion with China tells the real story of our dependence on Chinese manufacturing.Even when our import bill fell by about 17 per cent, the Chinese goods as a share of our total imports only grew in the year of the standoff at the Line of Actual Control. No wonder the Chinese believe that India has no option but to gulp its pride, lick its wounds and carry on with the India-China trade to ensure that our digital economy, telecom connections and computer terminals remain hooked and running. In fact, it is high time Indian economists started taking a hard look at the generational losses the country incurred in stymieing its manufacturing by entering into the World Trade Organisation regime gamed by American investors and Chinese manufacturers. While China became the global manufacturing hub in the last couple of decades, India was reduced to a glitzy global shopping mall buying cheap Chinese goods and remaining happy about it.But then, bilateral trade is not the only defining factor; and the Chinese perception of the Indian reaction is not entirely correct because India had, at least in the last few decades, completely forgotten the 1962 debacle and started believing in a benign China. India’s security apparatus was forever preoccupied with its western neighbour, convincing itself that China is a friend. Even this writer, as late as in 2018, wanted to believe that India could remain a swing state in a simultaneous and mutually exclusive, opportunistic relationship with the US and China. That was what Indians wanted to believe — that a growing China will not be a threat but could actually help us also grow. Doklam was the first jolt, which India did not understand, and then came the territorial aggression in Ladakh. With the death of those 20 bravehearts, India began understanding Chinese designs.Finally, the Gwadar-to-Xinjiang China-Pakistan Economic Corridor has begun making military sense as we confront the Sino-Pakistan arc in the subcontinent from Doklam to Gwadar. To this should be added the sea arc from Gwadar port to Hambantota port in Sri Lanka to the third largest Bangladesh port, Payra, which is being developed by the Chinese. Reuters had in 2014 reported the docking of a Chinese submarine and a warship at the Colombo port, where China is now developing the Colombo port city project on reclaimed land. China’s encirclement of India is a reality that has dawned on Indians thanks to the Galwan martyrs.Once we acknowledge the land and the sea arcs for what they are, there are two ways to respond to this encirclement: Acceptance of China as a superpower while still trying to play the opportunistic swing game between the two competing global superpowers for investments, military concessions and regional peace; or complete rejection of the Chinese hegemonic claims in the neighbourhood and an attempt to build itself as a counterweight that the world would respect. The emerging Indo-Pacific alliance becomes crucial in this context. But the problem here is the complete lack of self-belief: Let alone pensioners in the US or Europe, how many Indians would be willing to invest their life savings in Indian companies?It is not easy for a society in which the rule of law is becoming increasingly arbitrary to convince itself and others of its destiny. For instance, anyone who wants to invest in northern India ought to look at Delhi’s satellite cities of Noida or Gurugram as prime destinations; but then, what would they see? From auto-rickshaws parked in the middle of a flyover, rickety buses stopping where they want, “wrong-side driving” (a Gurugram contribution to the English language) to mob lynching over cows, civic unrest, police cases against journalists and the threat of eviction to digital companies like Twitter. All this is not going to lure the fleeting dollar, which has easier and better destinations. Unless we rewire ourselves to get plugged into the Anglo-Saxon economies and reignite our manufacturing dreams, we may get squeezed by the Sino-Pak military corridor. It is also time for reflection for all those WTO champions who ridiculed local manufacturing, asking why India should reinvent the wheel — well, if you don’t have your own wheel, you will get crushed under the neighbour’s.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/challenging-china-270632
19-06-2021||---||The law should deter wrongful prosecution||Not quite enough attention was drawn when the Allahabad High Court acquitted Vishnu Tiwari a couple of months ago. He was arrested, tried and convicted in a false case of rape filed against him due to an alleged dispute over a land after almost two decades. Innocence and acquittal in this case have no meaning for Vishnu who has lost everything during this period. The tale of Vishnu in this country is not an isolated one as several thousands in this country are behind the bars as undertrial. And there are ‘wrongfully prosecuted’ ones whose number is not known to us.Following this case, a petition was also filed in the Supreme Court praying for directions for framing of guidelines pertaining to compensation of victims of wrongful prosecution. In highlighting the problem of wrongful prosecution, the petition can potentially benefit our criminal justice system (CJS) in myriad ways. The plea relies upon the Delhi High Court judgment in Babloo Chauhan versus Delhi wherein J Muralidhar had lamented the absence of a legal framework for providing relief to victims of wrongful prosecution. In the same case, I was appointed as amicus curiae by the Delhi HC and it had been my submission that a scheme must be developed to provide for comprehensive assistance to such victims. Consequently, the Delhi HC had referred the issue to the Law Commission, which culminated in the 277th Law Commission Report (LCR).In this context, a shift in our CJS from rights-based due process values towards a repression of crime at all costs is fairly obvious. The recent string of baseless detentions and subsequent release of accused upon judicial intervention points to a questionable trend to arrest first and find justification later. A significant part of the problem lies in the lack of legislative/institutional accountability of the functionaries who perpetuate such injustices with impunity. On display is a violation of constitutional and statutory rights, accompanied by a blatant disregard for the psychological, sociological and economic implications of the abuse of power for the victims and their family members.These unfortunate victims are discarded as unheeded ‘by-products’ of our criminal justice factory. A prominent example of such a victim is that of Adambhai Sulemanbhai Ajmeri. In 2014, Adambhai was acquitted by the SC in the Akshardham terror attack case after spending more than 11 years in prison for a crime in which he had been thoughtlessly and falsely implicated. His trials and tribulations during the period translate into extensive custodial torture, incarceration, loss of livelihood, psychological harassment, social stigma, rigours of criminal trial and much more. With the loss of their sole breadwinner, his family had to rely upon the benevolence of neighbours for meals and leftovers. His children had to discontinue their education, both for want of financial resources as well as stigmatisation at the hands of their peers for being the wards of a purported terrorist. The situation did not change much after acquittal and release either. Adambhai was unable to secure a job, mostly because the acquittal barely changed the social stigma which was already attached to his name and person. The absence of provisions under any act, regulation, rule, law or bye-law to remedy, redress or alleviate such suffering is perturbing.In its discussion, the 277th LCR correctly espouses wrongful prosecution as a negligent or malicious procedural misconduct on part of the police or prosecutorial agencies which culminates into the prosecution of an otherwise innocent person who is ultimately acquitted for the reason of his innocence. Even though there is a growing concern about the increased reporting on the instances of wrongful prosecution, the current discussion and action around wrongful prosecution can best be termed as deficient.The legislative framework envisaged by the 277th LCR is still too under-developed to merit a complete implementation. First, the discourse around miscarriage of justice has a specific context within which it is placed and the context of ‘wrongful prosecution’ can be differentiated from the same. The LCR, however, holds ‘wrongful prosecution’ to be the standard of ‘miscarriage of justice’ in India. Secondly, even though the Commission accepts ‘negligent procedural misconduct’ as an ingredient of wrongful prosecution, the cause of action as proposed by the LCR can only arise in cases of ‘malicious prosecution’ and ‘prosecutions instituted without good faith’. In effect, such definition ends up excluding particular instances where the prosecutions are attributable to technical lapses on part of the erring functionaries.Thirdly, the framework proposed by the LCR robs the victims of their victimhood by continually using the term ‘accused’ to denote the person aggrieved by wrongful prosecution. Fourthly, the mechanism for compensation as proposed by the Law Commission is likely to run into many of the issues which are facing the existing compensation mechanism under Section 357 of the CrPC. The proposed scheme merely lists out the factors which must be taken into account by the court for computing the quantum of compensation without providing for a concrete method. The same could lead to arbitrariness in calculation. Perhaps a scheme of computation and disbursement of compensation as recently envisaged by the Delhi HC in the case of Karan versus State could be developed for this purpose.Fourthly, as is the case with Section 357, the lack of definite time-frames within the legislative framework of the LCR could potentially delay the award of compensation and its receipt. Lastly, whereas the scheme proposed by the LCR allows for the court to direct the State to proceed against the erring official in accordance with the law, it doesn’t allow for the court to fix individual responsibility of such erring official. Another measure to increase accountability could be the promotion of restitution. The court must be allowed to order restitution to be paid to the victim directly by the erring official.The discourse on wrongful prosecution in India is still pubescent in many respects, including the lack of a conceptual clarity in its definition. While the recommendations of the 277th LCR are a noble attempt, research is required into the political, social and economic aspects of wrongful prosecution. Neither can the need for a legislative framework governing wrongful prosecution and its compensation be denied. Nevertheless, insofar as it furthers the discourse on wrongful prosecution, the impugned petition is welcome indeed.Views are personal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/the-law-should-deter-wrongful-prosecution-270693
19-06-2021||---||Provide for putting off polls amid pandemic||There is little doubt that the attention of the political class will, over the coming months, increasingly become focused on the 2022 Assembly elections, particularly to that of Uttar Pradesh. The five-year term of five Assemblies is scheduled to expire in the first half of next year.Hence, unless extraordinary developments occur and if it follows convention, the Election Commission of India (ECI) will, in all likelihood, hold them together by moving the UP elections forward. It will, therefore, have to commence election preparations by late autumn or early winter. The UP poll will have substantial stakes for not only the BJP, the regional UP parties and the Congress but also for the national scene. International observers, too, will seek to draw conclusions about the possible political direction from the poll outcome in UP.The ECI came in for considerable criticism, including from courts, regarding its failure of the observance of Covid protocols during the March-April Assembly elections. While it is a question of debate if the ECI was right in taking objection to some of the more intemperate remarks of the judges, it is beyond question that all parties and politicians broke Covid protocols, which they themselves were earlier urging the people to observe. The ECI, too, did not take the action it needed to take to ensure that all political leaders and parties adhered to these protocols. Certainly, the mere issuance of comprehensive guidelines and thereafter advisories proved insufficient.The second Covid wave is abating. The government has assured that by the year-end, a large number of Indians will be inoculated. At the same time, there are apprehensions of a third wave. What can be reasonably stated is that the state elections will have to be held at a time the pandemic would not have passed into history. It is, therefore, vital for the ECI to think through the precautions that it will have to take to ensure that all concerned, including political parties, officials and voters, adhere to Covid-appropriate behaviour.To do so, it must not rely on the existing guidelines or their marginal amendments. It must consult with the political parties and officialdom to evolve, if possible, a binding consensus. For this purpose, if required, it may also suggest changes in the law which the political class must seriously consider. It must also consult with the official medical fraternity, especially its sections charged with Covid management. But it must go beyond this even if it has never done so earlier. It must discuss with social scientists and communications experts on effective ways of spreading the message of the need on the part of the electorate to conform to Covid-appropriate behaviour, specifically during the entire election process.The country’s Covid experience also points to another requirement which will need consideration after the pandemic is over. It cannot occur in these contentious and polarised times when the government’s Covid management will itself be an issue in the elections. This relates to the possibility of a situation in a future pandemic when it may be virtually impossible to hold Assembly or Lok Sabha elections without risking the great spread of infections.This is not far-fetched. For, what if the country had experienced the second Covid wave in April-May 2014 or 2019 instead of in these months in 2021? Would it have been possible to conduct the elections in large parts of the country amidst the havoc caused by the second wave? The ECI would have then had to rely on interpretations of the existing constitutional provisions relating to its mandate in departing from convention to deal with an unanticipated and emergency situation. It has done so on an earlier occasion in another context, but that became controversial, forcing the executive to seek the Supreme Court’s opinion. It is prudent to anticipate situations and provide constitutional structures for the ECI to act without attracting controversy.The Constitution prescribes that the term of the Lok Sabha and a state Assembly can be extended for a period of up to a year if an emergency has been invoked because of external aggression or armed rebellion or financial reasons. There is no need to go so far as to proclaim an emergency on account of a pandemic, for the laws already available provide sufficient powers to the Central and state governments to handle such situations. Besides, health emergencies would not warrant the curtailment of fundamental rights, including those relating to moving the courts. However, as pandemics may make holding elections risky to the citizens’ health and life, amendments to extend the terms of Parliament and the Assemblies need to be considered.Naturally, an extension of the term of Parliament/Assemblies cannot be taken lightly. Every means will have to be first explored to hold elections on time. Technological advances may also provide solutions, though the application of technology will have to take the aspects of the extent of its access and, hence, equity into account. But despite all this, if unbiased and independent scientific advice says that in order to save lives it is essential to postpone elections, there would be no alternative but to do so.The Constitution should have specific provisions for the postponement of elections in case the needs of national health arising out of pandemics or epidemics demand that. That is a lesson which should be drawn from this pandemic experience.Scholars and some global institutions are turning their attention to issues relating to the postponement of elections as well as their quality arising out of humanitarian concerns, including pandemics. Hitherto, the focus of scholarship largely has been on how to ensure free and fair electoral exercises instead of situations requiring their postponement. The International Institute for Democracy and Electoral Assistance, an intergovernmental organisation, of which India is a founder-member, has followed the impact of the pandemic on elections worldwide. Many countries held national and sub-national elections while a large number postponed them.In a thoughtful article in the Election Law Journal, Toby S James and Sead Alihodzic examine issues relating to holding elections in emergency situations, including natural disasters and epidemics. They consider steps that can be taken to uphold their fairness during such situations and also note, “There is an obvious humanitarian case for delaying the conduct of elections where it may bring about immediate threats to human life and security.”Societies and polities have to learn from experience. They cannot take the view that no constitutional provisions need to be made for events that seldom occur. In this case, it is being said that such a pandemic was not seen in a hundred years. That is no reason for not thinking imaginatively for situations that may confront us with the next pandemic, whenever that may strike us, hopefully only in the remote future.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/provide-for-putting-off-polls-amid-pandemic-270706
