20-06-2021||My growing-up exposure was to the world of telegrams||The social media blinkers||The postman’s arrival was the most anticipated moment of the day. I constantly peered from my window, waiting for him, as a delayed love letter or a bad report card from school could create havoc.The arrival of computer changed one’s entire understanding of time and speed. How, at the click of a button, a mail written in Chandigarh could reach London in the same instant. It seemed not only a miracle but a source of wonderment and awe. The computer quickly became the new-age god.The journey from the telegram era to the computer took many decades but I remained a technological refugee — unsure of its basic usage, constantly floundering.What is disconcerting in this technological ‘Pandora’s box’ is the way information is disbursed, like lightning, with deadly force. Thoughtfulness, homework, due diligence sometimes get brushed aside in this immediate and reactive space. This space sometimes becomes contentious where invectives are spewed and media trials take place. The words that are churned out can be a source of unexpected troubles, or alternately can help in articulating lost spaces, awaiting to be reclaimed and articulated in a language that sometimes gets buried in hyperbole and rhetoric. Words are never ‘only words,’ says Slovenian philosopher Slavoj Zizek; they matter because they define the contours ‘of what we can do’.I see most social media spaces as a space where one has a voice to articulate a multitude of singularities. It all adds up and strengthens free thought and expression despite the fact that words do not always have fixed meaning and can lend themselves to multiple interpretations. “Do I contradict myself? Very well then, I contradict myself. I am large I contain multitudes,” says American poet Walt Whitman.Social media is a performance space. It allows you to be whoever you wish to be. I see profiles of writers and actors claiming international renown and strangers becoming confidants and personal therapists. This made me understand that social media is also a space to invent, imagine, fantasise, fetishise and have multiple identities. This identity, constructed through the imagination, makes the ordinary extraordinary, creating a hallucinatory world where truths are tested and discarded and then tested again and again.We are now inundated with instantly available information, and we all have become addicts to this accessibility. The question that concerns is the difference between apprehension and comprehension, between information that is received and the information that is processed and should ostensibly transform us. Transformation that requires effort and imagination has somewhat got dissipated due to social media and its accomplice — information at the press of a button.We have sterilised and sanitised our world, and like Lady Macbeth, we are constantly washing not only our hands but also our reality. Surrounded by social media — WhatsApp, Twitter, Facebook, Clubhouse, Instagram — a digital reality within the confines of the computer replaces real life, real experiences, real relationships. Through this medium, we enter an etherised, safe, cocooned world with no tangible connection, no smell, no touch, no feel. A virtual, alternative reality with no sunlight or air!Social media is under the scanner, and the cacophonous arguments for a ban are certainly an assault on free expression and choices. Most social media chatter hovers between fact and factoid. Hate speeches, stalking, trolling is now a cottage industry and no one emerges smelling of roses. Conversely, social media is also a space that is associated with heat and passion, conflict/confrontation and defiance. An interplay of opposing forces and actions, in which beliefs, moral choices and political proclivities are in evidence. Isn’t that what democracy is all about? Plurality, multiplicity, many voices, many threads, many layers of opinion? Why silence it? Dissent is considered a threat in autocracy, not in a democracy!The irony is that social media is used for different reasons by different people. Sometimes to plug an opinion, sell a product, share an idea or a poem! More significant than the facts of life is the meaning and significance that we attribute to those fact-formulating ideas and opinions, creating perceptions and perspectives.Social media also caters to the exhibitionist within us, and can also make us believe in the ‘Dear Diary’ syndrome. The isolation of being with your phone, iPad or computer makes one temporarily forget that social media is a public space. Conversely, the fear of being invisiblised due to Covid-19 has made us desperate to be noticed, acknowledged and validated through our endless posts, with the number of ‘likes’ and ‘comments’ determining our existence. I exist only because of social media is a scary dictum, but a truism for all addicts. Most social media addicts are nocturnal ramblers, interacting with disembodied souls, unknown to each other. They spew, rant, share intimacies, secrets, thoughts, fetishes and a response from this faceless multitude becomes the barometer from which one’s popularity and visibility is mapped.It’s a double-edged sword, which plays different roles for different strokes. It satisfies a voyeuristic streak within us. A new dress, haircut, outing to a fancy eatery has no purpose unless it is photographed and shared. Each phone has become a personal museum of pictures and events. If this museum of photography is not acknowledged, our digital edifice crumbles and disintegrates. It never ceases to amaze me how fragile, transient and vulnerable we are!The social media world is certainly polarised by those who are active and those who have rejected it. An isolating and lonely space, filled with unexpected ripples. We do not realise that our tiniest gesture can have a large-scale impact. A comment that does not fit into the national narrative can lead to jail, public censure or court cases. As a child, we often recited this ditty, “Sticks and stones can break my bones, but words can never hurt me.” But today, it’s all reversed, the sticks and stones that break the bones of a hapless vegetable seller or violate the body of a woman have the perpetuator escaping unscathed, while the words and ideas of a thinker, a protester, an artist or a cartoonist can land him/her in jail or make him/her face the lynch mob.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/the-social-media-blinkers-271015
20-06-2021||The seemingly indestructible Milkha Singh — strong and wiry||Milkha, a life lived to the fullest||The greatest Indian runner, reintroduced to younger generations with the movie ‘Bhaag Milkha Bhaag’, was a legend in his own lifetime. The regret of losing a medal at the 1960 Rome Olympics pained him for 61 years, and he’d often say that before he “left this world”, he wanted to see an Indian athlete take the “gold medal that fell out of my hand”.Milkha didn’t really have the 400m Olympics gold in his hand — however, the medal was well within his reach, and he was one of the favourites to win it. But Milkha’s tale, extraordinary and brutal, inspirational and edifying, is a near-mythical superhero story that has acquired layers with time. The core, though, is crystal clear — the limitless power of the human will. Milkha often repeated an Urdu couplet to explain how he did it:“Haath ki lakeeronse zindagi nahin bantiAzm hamara bhi kuchh hissa hai zindagibanane mein”Witnessing the killing of his parents and siblings, surviving as a penniless refugee in Delhi, joining the Army and becoming a world-class athlete — Milkha did it all because of his ‘azm’, will.Not a jokeIn the 1980s, to us schoolkids, Milkha Singh was a mythical character, possibly invented for the noble purpose of raising laughter — he was the Sardarji who didn’t catch the thief because he sprinted past him; he didn’t take the bus because he travelled faster than it; he was the man who, when asked if he was relaxing, answered: “No, I’m Milkha Singh.” Before the Rajinikanth memes of paranormal achievements, we had the Milkha Singh and Dara Singh memes.Milkha’s achievements were indeed extraordinary — he remains the only Indian track athlete to win a gold at the Commonwealth Games, where the athletics competition is markedly stiffer than at the Asian Games; his fourth-place finish at 1960 Rome is the best result for an Indian in track and field at the Olympics (PT Usha emulated him in the boycott-affected Los Angeles Olympics in 1984); his 400m national record stood for 38 long years. An aside — when this reporter called him after Paramjeet Singh broke his record in 1998, Milkha was frank in expressing his doubt over the new ‘record’ because it was set in India — he said an athlete’s top performance comes against tougher competition, i.e. abroad. Milkha had announced an award of Rs2 lakh for the athlete who broke his record, and he did give away Rs1 lakh to Paramjeet, despite the doubts.Milkha’s achievements are amazing, especially for a man who didn’t even know for the first 22 years of his life that you could make a living by running and winning races.Milkha ran and won races, 77 out of the 80 that he ran in his lifetime. He made a comfortable life for himself and his family, and his son Jeev Milkha Singh is one of India’s greatest golfers.Five days before he died, his wife, Nirmal, had passed away. For the Milkha family, their remaining separated for only five days is a sign of “true love and companionship”.Lamenting over the passing away of the great runner, a friend who was inspired by Milkha said: “Surely, we’ll meet in a better world.” But one would argue that, surely, meeting and knowing of Milkha in this one world we know of, in this one life that we know of, is enough — the lessons that his life can teach us are precious and timeless: azm, blood and sweat, acceptance of the fruits of one’s labours, living life to the fullest. Unlettered and wise, naïve and worldly, Milkha teaches us how to live life — only if one’s willing to be taught. Milkha’s chalice was bitter and sweet, as it is for most of us, but he drank it to the dregs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/milkha-a-life-lived-to-the-fullest-271028
20-06-2021||A few days back||Lessons from a father and a teacher||The officer went on to tell me that he was my father’s student in the Indian Military Academy (IMA), and later again at Staff College, and that he holds dear all that he learnt from him. Customary pleasantries exchanged, we said goodbye.My father has spent a significant part of his 40-year military career teaching as an instructor, something I, as a child, knew at the back of my mind, but didn’t actively reflect on. This Father’s Day, and that chance encounter at the railway station, got me thinking about the things my father has practised, taught and passed on to his students and, of course, to his children.Here are some key learnings that I endeavour to imbibe, and that have resonated over many such chance encounters with his former students:Making a point without making an enemy. This is an important skill to have in order to navigate fragile egos while still being able to make a difference. My father didn’t rise to the top of his profession by being a ‘yes man’. But the fact that he did get as far as he did while continuing to call a spade a spade is something to learn from. Even today, he continues to do the same, actively engaging with those he disagrees with on social media — with a dose of wit thrown in.Intellectual pursuit — over and above the perceived job requirement. The only way to grow is to learn more and read more, especially when most around you will point out the redundancy of the additional effort, given that things appear to be on track. This is the reason I have continued academic pursuits, along with my professional commitments.Physical fitness. The one tool that one has to live life to the fullest with is one’s body — be it pursuing a sport, or simply moving with ease in one’s younger years and without pain in later years. Many of us don’t devote adequate time, energy and resources towards the pursuit of physical fitness — only to pay for it dearly later. Physical fitness isn’t just about physique. It’s an outcome of critical character traits — discipline, consistency, commitment and perseverance — that are essential for a fulfilling life.Raise the bar higher. Be highly competitive but ultimately strive to compete with your own self. As Ernest Hemingway said, “There is nothing noble in being superior to your fellow man; true nobility is being superior to your former self.”Say the right thing, even if it’s unpopular. Especially when it’s unpopular. When in doubt about how to conduct yourself, always choose to be a role model because you never know who may be watching and getting influenced. Speaking up for what you believe in is very important, especially in times like these.Never compromise on integrity. Integrity is the quality of being honest and having strong moral principles. And there’s really no room for grey in this regard. Because it’s not others that you do it for. You must maintain the highest standards of integrity so that you can look yourself in the eye.Always apologise when wrong. It’s not easy to eat crow and admit a mistake or an error of judgment, especially when one is perceived to be successful or a ‘rising star’. However, I’ve seen my father do this over the years, and he continues to do so. Although such admissions to his children, understandably, are cloaked in sermons!This Father’s Day, I thought I’d share some learnings from my father that have shaped the person that I am. I do have a long way to go.Papa, I know you’re reading this, and I’d like to say that it is my constant endeavour to live up to your ideals. Thank you for being a true role model. I constantly strive to achieve the high standards set by you.Salute.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/lessons-from-a-father-and-a-teacher-271065
20-06-2021||I missed all my deadlines last week. I didn’t reply to urgent emails and failed to deliver work commitments. After a while||In dark times, a friendship that helped heal the hearts||Last fortnight, I had shared that my friend, S, had been critical with Covid-19 in a hospital. Her name is Surekha, and she died last week. I cannot remember experiencing this kind of shock and grief in my life before — both of which are also clouding my ability to process any other memories, except those of Surekha.When her condition deteriorated in hospital, a few of us who knew about it wondered how and when we should begin to break the news to others who were her friends. Surekha had been one of the early adopters of Twitter in India and, over the years, she brought to Twitter a spontaneity and creativity that was hard to define, yet magnetic in its appeal. She understood and exploited the best of the platform, using it to engage with and amplify causes, campaigns, ideas and people she believed in. Surekha extended herself freely to reach out to those who she felt would benefit from the interaction. She often described herself as socially anxious and grouchy, yet there was a captivating charm that drew people to her.I had imagined that there would be an outpouring of tributes and memories but nothing prepared me for the deluge of Surekha stories that people began to share as soon as news of her death spread online. Soon her name was trending on Twitter. Online news portals published her obituaries; and columnists who had been friends wrote in mainstream newspapers about what she meant to them.The Internet had been her stage, and it seemed only fitting that her people collected there to share their grief as well as personal stories that featured Surekha’s words, joys, angst and reckless generosity.“With Surekha, there was no mask,” one person said. “She came as herself and others felt safe lowering their own guard with her.”“She was everyone’s unpaid agent. She would critique your work but also be an unabashed champion of your creativity.”“You believed the lies she said about you in your praise to the point that the lies became true,” another multi-talented friend shared.“Considering I interacted with S only a few times, I have been wondering why her death seems to have affected me the way it has,” wrote one person, resonating the feelings of a collective. A pattern began to emerge as we read each other’s words on the common friend who had died so young. Each one of us spoke of a unique, intimate connection with Surekha. Each had felt cherished in this relationship formed via text messages and chats on Twitter DM. She had argued, critiqued, encouraged us.“This is my friend,” I wrote, sharing a photo of her and me together as we stood at one of the stalls at our daughters’ school fair. “Surekha, the empath, the lover, the carer of people. Surekha, the wounded. The healer.“She taught me so much, I could spend the rest of my life writing about it. No one can love like her. Although we have nothing left with us now except how to practice being Surekha.”Exactly a week after her death, her friends and family came together on Zoom to celebrate her love and our sense of bereavement. Many of the friends shared that while they had known Surekha for years, they had not met her in real life. Most of us were seeing each other for the first time. Yet the sense of anguish at her death was so tangible that we were allowing our voices to break and tears to flow in the company of each other. We had loved and lost together.We all agreed that Surekha would have forbidden this public display of love and adulation. Yet, we had no choice but to be disobedient now.I learnt from Surekha to always put love and compassion before judgment. To know that everyone is haunted by pain, that we all carry unresolved trauma, but in our own way, we are fighting to emerge from it... Be true to yourself, be forgiving of missed deadlines and help others get in touch with their best selves.— The writer is a filmmaker & author.natasha.badhwar@gmail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/in-dark-times-a-friendship-that-helped-heal-the-hearts-271074
