21-06-2021||---||Avoid complacency, be ready for third wave||The Covid-19 second wave has caused an unprecedented health, economic and societal impact in our living memory. It has also exposed the weaknesses in our health system and in our ability to mount an effective response to a public health emergency of this magnitude.While many countries of Europe and the United States had already experienced the pandemic in various waves, sadly we did not learn from these countries and tended to celebrate victory prematurely, much before the battle was actually won. As a result, the country was caught off guard and unprepared to respond adequately when the second wave suddenly hit us and many lives were lost and families tragically devastated by the rampaging virus.Now, there is already a talk of the third wave while we are still grappling with bringing the second wave under full control. The latest trends, however, bring hope as the number of new cases and deaths show a steady, though slow, decline.As we begin the process of unlocking, there should not be any room for laxity in the practices of Covid-appropriate behaviour and urgently getting vaccinated. The process of unlocking should occur in a systematic and graded manner. Social, religious and election gatherings, including melas and marriages, must continue to be restricted. By preventing such superspreader events, we can hope to break the chain of transmission and end the pandemic sooner than later.There should not be any hurry to dismantle the physical infrastructure, such as makeshift hospitals created during the second wave. Instead, we should use the lull period to continuously ramp up the surge capacity in terms of hospital beds, oxygen supply, PPE kits and life-saving medicines.Even as the threat of the third wave is real, what is also clear is that its severity or potential impact will entirely depend on what we as a nation and its citizens do now. Do we use the opportunity to learn from the previous waves and strictly adhere to Covid-preventive measures as advocated by the government? Will the governments at the Central and state levels appropriately strengthen the health capacity in terms of health workforce, essential supplies, such as hospital beds and oxygen supply, and vigorously pursue the system of test, track and isolate cases?Or, do we decide to go the way we did before the second wave, and take it as it comes, to our own peril? So, what are the lessons that we can use now?First, that the situation is highly dynamic and, therefore, complacency by the government as well as the people at large must be avoided at all costs. As we have to live with this virus for the foreseeable future, it becomes necessary that we continue to practice preventive measures, such as wearing of masks consistently and correctly, and swiftly getting the vaccine to all eligible people, especially those most vulnerable to severe disease.These measures, along with physical distancing and frequent washing of hands with soap that do not cost much, can save us from illness and our loved ones from untold mental and psychological trauma that accompany the Covid-19 infection.Prevention remains the bedrock of our response to Covid. In this regard, the government’s responsibility is to devise and implement a comprehensive and evidence-based communication strategy designed at individual behavioural change; and ramp up vaccination production and distribution on a war footing.Experience shows that behavioural change is possible only through inter-personal communication imparted by someone belonging to the community or one trusted by the community. The social media being a double-edged sword, measures are required to ensure it is used in a positive manner and particularly to counter disinformation.In addition, we need to continuously monitor the behaviour of the virus to detect new mutations through the gene-sequencing surveillance system. The current network of 10 labs under the Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium (INSACOG), established to ramp up the process of sequencing across the country, should be expanded by enrolling other labs so as to cover enough samples required for this purpose.One of the key elements of preparedness is our ability to anticipate. Like it is said, ‘prepare for the worst and hope for the best’. Over-preparation is certainly better than under-preparation.The epidemiological and gene-sequencing data as credible tools for our preparedness should be disseminated widely and made available to all — to the Central, state and local health staff, scientific community as well as civil society and interested individuals — for use in enhancing their own preparedness. States and districts should have the freedom to not only collect and collate but also analyse data for public health action. Surveillance, after all, simply means ‘information for action’.Keeping a close eye on the evolving epidemiological situation by analysing real-time surveillance data and positivity rates can provide early warning signals. For example, regarding the occurrence of focal outbreaks, they need to be investigated promptly and managed with appropriate containment measures in order to prevent further spread of the disease beyond the local area.The Covid-19 pandemic has made one thing amply clear: that health needs to be accorded a top priority by the government and all individuals. This means the strengthening of the country’s health system by enhancing the human resources, finances, the health information system and the governance system.Since big cities largely bore the brunt in the first two waves, there is every possibility that the next wave, if it comes, may disproportionately affect the small towns and villages. Hence, health facilities such as primary health centres, community health centres and district hospitals must be urgently upgraded with adequate numbers of doctors, nurses and other essential equipment and facilities.Finally, experts, for years, have been warning of an impending pandemic as new infections continue to emerge. Hence, preparedness of the highest order is imperative at all times if we are to avert or respond effectively to such an eventuality.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/avoid-complacency-be-ready-for-third-wave-271629
21-06-2021||---||G7 summit and the prospect of a new cold war||If the G7 summit, recently held at the UK’s seaside resort Carbis Bay in Cornwall, were to be remembered for one thing, it would be for President Biden’s desire to lead the western world, in general, and to redefine the contours of Washington’s rivalry with China. The stage has now been set for a new cold war, even though the hostility against China has been there for over a decade now, with tensions in the waters of the South China Sea where China has acquired islands and littorals, and China’s aggressive diplomacy with its Belt and Road Initiative (BRI), which far supersedes all the grants that the western countries collectively offer to the third world.But over the past year, it is China’s alleged role in the spread of the Covid-19 virus and Beijing’s stonewalling of serious investigation of its research labs — as the one in Wuhan, which could have been the source of the pandemic — has become the rallying point of the western countries against China. The G7 has, thus, vowed to investigate the pandemic’s origins.Ironically, even as China prepares to celebrate the centenary of the founding of its Communist Party on July 1 this year, there is both admiration for its phenomenal economic growth and anger at the way it seeks to influence events across the world. Indeed, as China is today the only serious challenger to American hegemony — and I might add, that there are some who think it isn’t such a bad thing, after all — there is now a strong anti-Chinese sentiment in the US.Similarly, within China, the Communist Party leadership is fanning anti-US sentiment by its state-controlled media. But it isn’t just a contest of economies — with China’s nearly $15-trillion GDP coming rapidly closer to America’s $22.5 trillion — but it’s a clash of ideologies that is at stake.The Chinese model — backed by Beijing’s handouts to smaller and weaker economies — despite its totalitarian nature, could become an alternative to many countries that saw the rich countries of the West unwilling to offer hope or financial support to the poorer nations as they desperately grappled with the devastation of the pandemic. China, instead, had bounced back quickly after the initial months of the pandemic and was back in business as usual.Prior to the G7 summit, some in the western media had projected that it was going to be the last chance of the US to lead the world. No wonder, President Biden wrote in The Washington Post, on the eve of the G7 summit, that “the United States must lead the world from a position of strength”.And, thus, on his first foreign visit as President, Biden decided to use the G-7 summit to his best advantage, such as his announcement of “Building Back Better World” (B3W) as the main theme of the summit, as an initiative of meeting the infrastructure needs of ‘low and middle income countries’.In reality, B3W is meant to counter China’s trillion-dollar-plus Belt and Road Initiative (BRI), that’s all over the world, buying out greedy leaders and territory wherever Beijing sees an opportunity.Moreover, the questions that the critics of B3W are asking are: Where would all the money come from to fund the initiatives that might counter China’s BRI? Biden wants the rich and large corporations to pay more taxes to help houses to pay. But will they? Moreover, in the democracies that make up the G7, this would require debates followed by legislation.In China, the money for projects like the BRI comes with the diktat of the Communist Party — as billionaire Jack Ma learnt recently — or that of its supreme leader, Xi Jinping.Besides, the G7 offer of 2 billion vaccines for the poor countries facing the Covid menace is woefully short of the world’s requirements of 12-14 billion vaccines. The West cannot be safe if the rest of the world is still unvaccinated.Even then, the battle lines between the West and the two totalitarian powers were further accentuated following the confrontational declaration against the stands of the Russian and Chinese government against dissidents: like Russian opposition leader Alexei Navalny, or those in Hong Kong and for Beijing’s repression in China’s Xinjiang region where its Uighur Muslims are facing the same high-handed tactics as the Tibetans have for decades. Over a million Uighurs are either in labour camps or being educated to be good ‘Chinese Muslims’, whatever that means.While President Putin warned the US against transforming G7 from a designed framework for economic development into one of an ‘anti-Russia and anti-China club’, China has accused the US of ‘fanning confrontation’. And while Russia and China may not be on the same page on all issues, they are certainly watching closely how Quad — the much-trumpeted quadrilateral maritime arrangement between the US, Japan, Australia and India — evolves into what China has dubbed as a possible Asian NATO. Whether it does become one, the ongoing Sino-Indian standoff in Ladakh gives the US and the G7 a good template to build upon this initiative with India, which has in the past shunned military alliances.Beijing, however, knows that it is no longer a pushover, even though its military will become world class only by 2035. Today, the US and Japan are said to have more naval punch than China. But military might now is essentially there to deter ‘expansionism’, as Modi reminded the Chinese when he visited Ladakh after the clashes at Galwan.But it is China’s economic clout on Europe’s G7 members that could lead to their reluctance to join Biden’s anti-China chorus. From 2010 to 2019, according to the Mercator Institute of China Studies, Chinese foreign direct investment in Germany was euro€22.7 billion ($27.5 billion); in Italy euro€15.9 billion ($19.2 billion); and in France euro€14.4 billion ($17.4 billion). Even the UK, whose relations with China have been strained over the last couple of years, received euro 50.3 billion ($60.9 billion) in such investment.Thus, in the final analysis, “the European Union’s desire for strategic autonomy and Biden’s hunt for allies to primarily counter China will create natural barriers to cooperation,” as analysts at the Eurasia Group wrote in the note ahead of Biden’s trip to the UK and Europe.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/g7-summit-and-the-prospect-of-a-new-cold-war-271591
21-06-2021||---||Changes in Jewish order||Israel-United States relations are at the crossroads with the departure from office of Benjamin Netanyahu, the longest-serving PM of the Jewish state. Indian interests in the US cannot be immune from the vicissitudes of this existential foreign policy challenge for Naftali Bennett as he settles down as the head of a new government in Tel Aviv.Netanyahu crossed the line when he implied that US President Joe Biden was a Nazi facilitator in his final speech to Knesset as PM. By returning to the nuclear deal with Iran, junked by Donald Trump, Netanyahu said Biden was acting like World War era US President Franklin Roosevelt, who could have bombed train tracks in Poland before Holocaust victims were transported to their deaths in Auschwitz.Roosevelt failed to stop the mass movement of Jews to concentration camps in Poland, when he could have halted the genocidal transportation by bombing the rail lines or train engines. Netanyahu said the US neglected European Jews when they were being exterminated, and the nuclear deal with Iran, which Obama and Biden joined when they were President and Vice-President, was similar.By remaining in office too long, arguably beyond the years for his own country’s good, getting trapped in an echo chamber and believing in his own infallibility, Netanyahu became blind to the changing realities of Jewish America. The diaspora, which has had a whip hand on US policies towards Israel for decades, is no longer what it was when Netanyahu lived in Massachusetts in the 1970s, or when he was Deputy Chief of Mission with the rank of minister at the Israeli embassy in Washington in the 1980s.American Jews are no longer a monolithic group. When they migrated from Europe, they placed support for the new Jewish state above all else. When Arabs and Israel went to war, they abandoned their newly-adopted country and went back to their “Promised Land” to fight for Israel. In many American homes, Jewish kids woke up and found their father gone: to join the Yom Kippur war. This was a community which toiled unitedly to build an impregnable wall of support for Israel at the grassroots, in the US media, banking and finance, the strategic community, academia, and above all, in the US Congress, the White House and successive administrations. Nothing was left to chance.If US-India relations are what they are today, the role of the American Jewish community in promoting them is one that is yet to be sufficiently explored in public domains. It deserves to be researched and brought out as a vital contribution to contemporary diplomatic history. Comfortable with the innings it has scored during the Netanyahu years, India is lagging in proactive responses to deep changes that are taking place among American Jews. With Bennett replacing Netanyahu, this poses a challenge.When the history of the Trump years is written, it will be seen that his thoughtless, mindless spur-of-the-moment style of diplomacy damaged Israel much more than those whom his policies were supposed to damage. Trump was a catalyst in splitting open divisions among American Jews, which were simmering before he transformed from a businessman to President.When the US presidential election was still going through the process of primaries, five presidential hopefuls spoke at the national conference of J Street, which is gaining support as a counterweight to the American Israel Public Affairs Committee, which hitherto had an unchallenged lead role in Washington in advocacy for Israel. J Street was founded in 2007 as a progressive Jewish organisation, but it languished until Trump tried to outdo American Jews in professed support for Israel. Five other presumptive presidential candidates spoke via video. Three of the 10 leaders who spoke said the unthinkable: that if they were in the White House they would use US aid to Israel to rein in Tel Aviv’s policies on new Jewish settlements in territories occupied by Israel and on the annexation of West Bank.Bernie Sanders, a Jew whose withdrawal from the race paved the way for Biden’s nomination, said: “It is not anti-Semitism to say that the Netanyahu government has been racist.” Pete Buttigieg said Americans ought to be “committed to the US-Israel alliance” without endorsing “individual policy choices” made by Netanyahu. The Center for American Progress, headed by Indian American Neera Tanden, has produced a report which recommends that the US should have a “policy alternative” of conditional aid to Israel.These are not empty words of no consequence. Buttigieg is now in Biden’s cabinet as secretary of transportation. Tanden is in the White House as senior adviser to Biden. Senator Elizabeth Warren, who spoke to J Street, too, favours using US aid to control Israel’s policies. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Michael Bennet also addressed the conference. Although they declined to endorse the aid-for-peace policy, they count in the Democratic caucus on Capitol Hill. But it is the policy position of Sanders that will matter in the twists and turns of Biden’s Israel policy in the months ahead. He is the conscience of the Democratic Party and he is a Jew, although not an observant one.India needs to take into serious account the emerging trends in the Jewish diaspora. It must build bridges with the powerful Jewish groups which count in the Democratic Party and will be crucial in the next four years of the Biden presidency. India must not lose sight of the fact that Douglas Emhoff, husband of Vice-President Kamala Harris, is a progressive Jew. Siddhartha Shankar Ray, who began courting the Jewish diaspora as ambassador in Washington, and most of his successors, put all their eggs with time-tested and traditional Jewish American groups. This has served India well. Measures like the India-US nuclear deal would not have passed in the US Congress without Jewish support. Bennett’s ascendancy to prime ministership is a good time to have a fresh look at our alliances with the powerful Jewish diaspora.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/changes-in-jewish-order-271574
