22-06-2021||---||‘Juneteenth’ for black lib||The Biden administration’s decision to declare June 19 or ‘Juneteenth’ as a national holiday, on a par with Independence Day (July 4), Christmas, Veterans Day (November 11) and New Year’s Day is yet another hallmark of the unfinished socio-political agenda of American democracy.The recent years have made no secret of the fact that the US is a divided society. There are large segments of the population who are denied equal political and social rights and exist as an economic underclass, minus educational or financial equity. A strong current of US political opinion has been able to prevent through legal, monetary and social means, the fulfilment of America’s own vision, put out in its Declaration of Independence in 1776, that ‘all men are created equal.’Juneteenth commemorates the emancipation of Black Americans, most of who were slaves in the US till the middle of the 19th century. The Emancipation Proclamation, signed by President Abraham Lincoln in the midst of the Civil War (1860-1865), had declared all slaves free as of January 1, 1863. But it was only when the victorious Union Army reached Galveston that some 2.5 lakh black slaves in Texas learnt they were free through an order issued by Union General Gordon Granger on June 19, 1865.For the record, black Americans had arrived in the US at the same time as the whites in the 1620s, only they had come as captured slaves shipped across the Atlantic to labour in the American colonies.Thereafter, black Americans celebrated this date as their independence day, because July 4, the traditional American independence day, had meant little to them. The deep divide that these two dates represent continues to this day.It took exactly one more century after Juneteenth to August 1965 when the blacks got the legal right to vote, some 15 years after all Indians did. This was a century of enormous suffering that saw a migration of freed slaves to ghettos in the northern cities. Blacks were barred in many places from buying property, permitted limited access to legal processes, prevented from voting and their children sent to segregated schools. Businesses did do well in black enclaves like Tulsa, Oklahoma and east St Louis, only to be destroyed by white mob violence. Thousands of blacks were lynched often for no cause — lynching was a means of controlling and dominating the blacks.As the US rose to become the richest and most powerful country in the world, a substantial proportion of its citizens were socially and politically handicapped and denied the ability to generate equity as the whites were, in the form of property and savings or educational attainment comparable to the white community. Recall that fully 25 per cent of all Americans were black at the time of independence, most of them slaves. Today, they number 13 per cent.It is difficult to sum up the historical injustice that black Americans suffered. Or the extent to which they helped to enrich America. The labour of black slaves in cotton plantations enabled the US to become an economic power in the 19th century. Since they were bought and sold in the market, it is possible to estimate that their value in 1860 was ‘three times greater than the total amount invested in (US) banks’. And it was seven times the total value of currency circulating in the US at the time.Home ownership rates for black families are around 44 per cent compared to 74 for white families. A Washington Post analysis found that a typical middle class black household in 2016 had $13,000 in wealth, compared to the nearly $1,50,000 for the median white household, and that the gap had actually increased since 1968.The US has seen periods where it has overcome the divisions to meet enormous challenges — World War II was one of them, as was the competition with the Soviet Union. Sending a man to the moon was a huge scientific exercise, but it came in a political era that saw a slew of social security measures like healthcare for poorer and older Americans, reforms in education, rural education, the environment, public broadcasting, transportation and it was not surprising that it also provided the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and the Voting Rights Act of 1965 to bring blacks into the political mainstream.But now, as the American demographic profile becomes less white, we see a last-ditch stand of the conservatives. They detest where America is right now and are afraid where it is headed. Across the country, right-wing politicians are passing laws to restrict voting by the poorer and less educated black community.The principal competitor of the US, China, simply wiped out its social divisions by executing several million people at the time when the People’s Republic was founded and in the Cultural Revolution (1966-1976). Homogeneity is something that is intrinsic to the Hans who have a history of assimilating diverse peoples and cultures. You can see the effort being made now to do so in Xinjiang and Tibet and the turmoil makes China that much weaker.In President Biden’s recent European tour, the central message was that of competition with China and the virtues of democracy over autocracy. Yet, Biden knows that the root of the January 6 attack on the US Capitol, and the refusal of large numbers of the opposition to acknowledge him President, is racism, which not only weakens him, but the country and all its institutions.For countries like India, who are relying on a strong US to meet their own geopolitical goals, this is not good news.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/juneteenth-for-black-lib-271985
22-06-2021||---||Biden resets ties with allies to check China||President Biden’s first foreign visit to Europe from June 9-16 will be remembered for how he tamed dissenting and doubting allies and rejuvenated the transatlantic alliance to convey a message of strong unity and resolve to an aggressive China (and a combative Russia), which is trying to challenge the international order for unilateral gains. China was the dominant theme during his discussions with G-7 leaders at Cornwall, UK (June 11-13) and EU and NATO leaders (June 14-16) at Brussels and Geneva and the underlying theme in his discussions with President Putin on July 16.The final G-7 communiqué is dominated by the US with several paras aimed directly and indirectly against China (and some against Russia), such as eradicating the use of forced labour in global supply chains (reference to Xinjiang and Tibet), collective approaches to challenge unfair trade policies, use of technologies to promote democratic values and fundamental freedoms.The G-7 supported President Biden’s initiative of “a timely, transparent, expert-led and science-based WHO-convened phase-2 Covid-19 origins study in China”. It is going to rile China as its senior diplomat Yang Jiechi had urged the US Secretary of State Anthony Blinken in his phone conversation on June 11 to “not politicise the source of the virus and focus on global cooperation in the fight against the disease”.The group’s formulation on China’s human rights abuse in Xinjiang, respect for fundamental freedoms and a high degree of autonomy for Hong Kong is a compromise as the mention of genocide which the US wanted was dropped to accommodate the concerns of Germany, France and Italy.The US and Europe have fundamental contradictions with regard to China and Russia. While the US faces an immediate threat from China, many European countries have extensive economic ties with Beijing and no security concerns. For Europe, the more immediate threat is from Russia, a perception not fully shared by the US. Several European countries were not happy that the resources of US (and NATO) would be drawn away from Moscow, their primary threat, to a more distant China.They were also worried that taking a hard line on China would make her less receptive to cooperate on more pressing multilateral issues such as climate change, control of pandemics and trade.For the first time, the G-7 took a united stand against China on an issue of core interest to her, i.e. Taiwan, and in support of the US by agreeing on the “importance of peace and stability across the Taiwan Strait and peaceful resolution of cross-strait disputes”.The G-7 unveiled a new initiative known as “Build Back Better World” (B3W) to give an alternative choice to the developing countries in building infrastructure to spare themselves from China’s debt trap projects. The group has agreed to provide one billion doses of coronavirus vaccines in 2021-22 and more later.At Cornwall G-7 meetings, India was more deeply engaged at the ministerial and PM’s level. PM Modi spoke of the need for democratic societies to strengthen each others’ hands to respond to new challenges, India’s efforts to share its development partnership with other developing countries, its readiness to work with B3W partners and its engagement with WHO, G-20 and G-7 countries for dealing with the current pandemic and preparing for future pandemics.NATO leaders’ 79-point statement devoted three paragraphs with 10 mentions castigating China’s behaviour. It said: “China’s stated ambitions and assertive behaviour present systematic challenges to the rules-based international order”. China is investing heavily in new disruptive technologies such as autonomous systems, facial recognition and artificial intelligence and putting these into new weapon systems, which are changing the nature of warfare never seen before. China should act responsibly in the international system, including in space, cyber and maritime domains, in keeping with its role as a major power.President Biden’s meeting with President Putin at Geneva (June 16) was another high point of this visit. It reflected his desire to focus on the escalating rivalry between the US and China by reducing tensions with Moscow. He improved the atmospherics by calling Russia as one of the two Great Powers (other being the US and not China) and President Putin a worthy adversary, which would have been music to Putin’s ears. Though the results of the meeting were modest (establishment of bilateral strategic stability dialogue for control of new and dangerous weapons, limitation on the use of cyber weapons and return of Ambassadors) it is expected to promote a dialogue between the two countries on other issues of mutual concern, reducing current hostility and tensions.China would be disappointed as it had always thought that the huge dependence of the US’s European and Asian allies on her would never allow emergence of a unified transatlantic bloc aimed against Beijing. Though some differences remain on the economic issues, President Biden has been able to rally his disparate allies together. The EU has freezed the Comprehensive Agreement on Investment hurriedly concluded by Beijing in December, 2020 before President Biden’s takeover.President Xi Jinping had tried to forge a united front with Russia by deputing his senior diplomat Yang Jiechi to Moscow but that ploy has not worked. Chinese official media has grudgingly admitted that the “Geneva meeting shows that both sides have the will to stop the worsening US-Russia relationship. President Biden wants to ease the tensions with Russia to focus on dealing with China now”.President Biden’s initiatives would strengthen transatlantic unity and build on resetting relations with Russia, isolating China. It may even embolden some of Xi’s critics at home to question whether his wolf warrior diplomacy had yielded any positive results for the country. It would add increasing pressure on Xi to defend himself as he rallies the Chinese Communist Party to celebrate 100 years of its foundation in July 2021, and is likely to temper China’s aggressive behaviour toward its neighbours.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/biden-resets-ties-with-allies-to-check-china-272001
22-06-2021||---||Centre, states should foster federal bond||Ban Ki-moon, former UN Secretary General, in one of his articles on India, noted that “it is only through free, unified and collective mobilisation that India can achieve lasting peace, justice and prosperity. Your country’s founding fathers understood this necessity. Their vision should remain at the heart of your future.” He was referring to the political and social catastrophe that India was undergoing at that time and warned it could set back the country’s development for generations and reminded us how India attained its independence from callous imperialism.Every Indian knows the formation of a national government with the joining of 560 odd princely states with the British India presidencies, marking diversity and plurality as our core values. The achievements of the national government during the last seven decades of its existence are not trivial but substantial in terms of UNDP indices. Yet, we have not been able to live up to the expectations of our founding fathers who through their collective wisdom gave us a magnificent written Constitution that solemnly resolved to constitute a sovereign, democratic (socialist, secular) republic. It was also made clear, “India, that is Bharat, shall be a Union of States.” We may reflect here that it was not just Bharat, but consisted of several states defined under Article 1(3). We are reminded of this basic structure of the nation-state once again when MK Stalin after taking charge as the CM of Tamil Nadu spoke about “Ondriya Arasu”, the confederation of states and their rights. It is not only MK Stalin, several other CMs, including that of Punjab and West Bengal, have raised their voice against the propensity of the Centre to appropriate the powers, privileges and cultural identity of states.The Constituent Assembly deliberated on the issue of the structure of a federal state. They knew of the history of imperial rulers, from the time of Kharavela, the mighty king of Kalinga (1-2 BCE), who through his Hathigumpha inscription noted that Bharat Varsha is different from Tramira. Later, it was elaborated by the East India Company Surveyor General James Runnel in 1733 that the line above Balasore to Bharuch is Hindustan and below, Deccan. The epic Ramayana and Samudra Gupta’s expeditions spoke about the southward expansion and the resistance encountered. The colonial rulers have created a country with South Asian dimensions.In the modern period, several countries have emerged on the basis of agreements, treaties etc. The idea of a federal structure seems to be different from that of confederation. The term federal is derived from the Latin word ‘foedus’, which means league, treaty, covenant etc under the Roman law.Confederation generally involves the principle of Westphalia. The experience of several European countries, USA, Australia, Canada etc in the formation of a federal structure is different from our legacy of state formation. Most of the countries are single ethnic or nation-based realms to form either symmetrical or asymmetrical federations. Scholars have noted that the Australian federation displays the strongest aggregative characteristics while those of India are the most devolutionary, with Canada falling somewhere in between.The soul of a federation lies in the sovereignty vested either with the nation or to the constituent units or both as in the USA. In the case of India, it is noted by some experts that articles of confederation are adhered to as ‘compact between states’by signing two agreements. The ‘Standstill Agreement’formulated by the Political Department of British India government and the ‘Instrument of Accession’formulated by the states department are signed by all of the princely states, except Nizam, Junagadh, Mangrol and Babariwad. It is in this context that our federation, which according to our founding fathers is indestructible, needs to be understood. The term indestructible seems to have been taken as an ideal with enigmatic scope for disputes, if the constitutional ideals translated as devolutions are not respected. In fact, they have noted that though the country and its people are divided into different states for the convenience of administration, “the country is one integral whole, its people a single people living under a single imperium derived from a single source”.It appears that the Constitution makers were under the impression that the federation was not the result of an agreement and therefore secession does not arise. But the fact was that the princely states joined the Union with their own social and cultural identities under some kind of an instrument of force that may not be legal. Thus, the seeds of a strong Centre and the accompanying malevolence were sown inadvertently.The experience of the states with a federal structure during the last seven decades is mixed. Constitutional structures like the Schedules, devolution of grants, functions and even conferring of citizenship to others who will reside in a particular state not being consulted are in place. The Kerala Assembly passing a resolution demanding the scrapping of Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) last year has added one more issue to the list of disputes between the Centre and the states. Already, the states have been raising the issue of their economic autonomy being eroded after the GST clause 269A was added to the Constitution, reducing their right to levy and retain taxes. The State List is pruned and education including entrance examinations for medical etc is taken away from the ambit of the states creating social tensions. It was anticipated that the learned judges who have introduced innovations like ‘basic structure’ would come to the rescue of the states by ingeniously applying Part XI of the Constitution, rather than reasoning defences to rescue the privileged. It is an irony that the states that lie below the Bharat Varsha in terms of language, culture and colour are not protected even under Article 14 and 15 as the Constituent Assembly perhaps was overwhelmed by their allegiance to Bharat and not India. It is time to listen to the sane advice of elders to evolve a benevolent Centre.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/centre-states-should-foster-federal-bond-272015
