23-06-2021||---||Prolonged unrest in Myanmar limits India’s choices||Myanmar has entered the fifth month after the military coup, with resistance to the coup optically resilient and bedding in. No coup led by the Commander-in-Chief (General Min Aung Hlaing) himself has met with such popular dissent and wide-scale opposition. But this coup is atypical, as the military was voluntarily sharing power with the elected National League for Democracy (NLD) led by Aung San Suu Kyi in a unique hybrid system where the military called the shots and the powerful NLD provided the democratic veneer.The junta’s game plan of legally disqualifying the NLD from future elections and taking penal action for sedition and corruption against Suu Kyi is playing out to a delayed schedule due to the growing strength of resistance. A recent study reveals that while protests have visibly declined, use of explosive devices and fighting in the border regions with Kachins, Karens and Chin has risen exponentially. Detained protestors are being tortured by the Office of Military Security which has raised a vigilante group called Pyuisawhti — a Burmese warrior prince — in May for surveillance in urban areas. According to the UN Human Rights Office, 893 civilians have been killed and nearly 6,000 protestors detained.In the military’s estimate, action of the shadow National Unity Government (NUG) with the Civil Disobedience Movement and People’s Defence Force with their alliance with four ethnic armed organisations, has been brought under control. General Hlaing has given himself an indefinite extension of service beyond July when he was to retire. He is saying elections will be held (not in one or two years) but when peace and stability are restored. The economy has collapsed (down to 3 per cent and poverty risen from 24 to 27 per cent), replaced with underground trade and business by criminal networks. A suspicion that Beijing was behind the coup has boosted anti-China sentiments, prompting Chinese Ambassador Chen Hai to say his country is playing a constructive role in bringing peace and stability. While sanctions have not worked, internally displaced numbers have reached 100,000, mainly from Kayah State while refugees have crossed over into Thailand and India. Eight weeks after the ASEAN five-point consensus to find a negotiated solution, even the search for a special envoy is proving elusive.Government prosecutors are completing their presentation of charges this month after which Suu Kyi’s defence team will present its case. In his first interview, General Hlaing told Hong Kong Phoenix TV that transfer of power to civil administration will happen after the elections. The NUG’s first press conference on June 4 had to be aborted as the military shut down the Internet.As the peak of resistance is probably past, so has the use of force by the elite 77 Infantry Division, infamous for deployment against protests like the CDM. General Hlaing’s political solution consists of changing the electoral system from first-past-the-post to one that ensures the military-backed Union Solidarity and Development Party (USDP) wins a majority which will require tweaking the military-drafted Constitution and encouraging the entry of additional political parties like the National Democratic Force which split from the NLD in 2010, People’s Party founded in 2018 and People’s Pioneer Party formed in 2019. Suu Kyi neither encouraged nurturing second-rung leadership, which she kept overcentralised, nor tapped provincial talent.General Hlaing’s plans for regime change roughly follow the Thailand model. General Hlaing reached out to former General and now Prime Minister Prayuth Chan o’cha through the effervescent and pro-military Foreign Minister Wunna Maung Lwin. A back-channel has existed between General Chan o’cha who won the Thai elections in 2019 by leading a pro-military political party. In 2014, General Chan o’cha had reached out to General Hlaing when he staged a coup, but recently he was disinclined to be publicly associated with Hlaing. That was the reason he skipped the Jakarta ASEAN meet in April. But in 2018, Hlaing was awarded the Knight and Grand Cross of Most Exalted Order of White Elephant for his support to the Thai military.Burmese Generals are inward looking and consider themselves as guardians of society, religion and moral values. The military is the backbone of state administration and functional order.India’s support for restoration of democracy may not align with the Hlaing model. Its Act East policy has been jolted due to unrest on the Indian and Thai borders as insurgency has been revived. India drew flak when it ordered states bordering Myanmar to prevent refugees from entering overland into Mizoram, Manipur and Nagaland. India has not signed the 1951 UN Refugee Convention and its 1967 Protocol. Despite bar orders from New Delhi, Mizoram and Manipur have permitted 17,000 refugees, including the Chief Minister of Chin state, fleeing fighting, to enter their states. Unless India along with Japan, creates a niche position for itself in the ASEAN peace plan, its support for the junta will hurt its democratic credentials.This month’s UNGA resolution condemning the coup and urging an arms embargo, passed with 119 out of 193 votes, was only the fourth resolution after Haiti (1991), Burundi (1993) and Honduras (2009). India is among 36 abstentions and it must step up support for democratic resistance for an inclusive Myanmar.The ASEAN process is beset with challenges that are contained in the military spokesperson’s statement: “Whether we can allow a special envoy of ASEAN will depend on stability. Whether we follow ASEAN’s suggestion (five-point consensus) will depend on the situation in the country.”Civil-military cohabitation appears not to have worked for both sides. Worse, they feel they don’t need each other. Military under genuine civilian control in a democratic dispensation is a distant goal; even restoration of power-sharing is unlikely, further limiting India’s strategic choices.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/prolonged-unrest-in-myanmar-limits-indias-choices-272448
23-06-2021||---||Put in place unified national health system||Most countries of the world have health systems that consist of both public and private sectors of varying scope. How convergent these two sectors are is often the touchstone of a successful health system.Such convergence entails that the services of the private sector are well aligned with the national health goals and priorities. This alignment assumes special significance during emergencies like Covid-19, which require the entire healthcare ecosystem to be marshalled to mount a unified response in national interest.It should not come as a surprise that the lack of such a convergence, which has traditionally characterised Indian healthcare, has failed us during the Covid-19 management.The Indian pre-pandemic health system was characterised by a decrepit public sector and a largely unregulated private sector. It saw multiple small-scale, vertical, and often, half-hearted attempts at convergence over many decades. The attempts have been insufficient to usher in an overarching national health system. It is high time we learned from the ongoing disaster.Since the early 2000s, a number of public health insurance (PHI) schemes, covering mainly the poor for hospital expenses, have been rolled out by the Centre and states. The Ayushman Bharat — Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (AB-PMJAY) is the latest Central scheme in this category. By 2018, at least 31 state-level PHI schemes had been in existence.Apart from protecting the poor from catastrophic health expenses, these schemes presented an opportunity to utilise, regulate and meaningfully orient the services of the private players. However, even after nearly two decades of their inception, they have gained little ground.There are three broad aspects that help demonstrate this story. As per the 75th round of the NSS (2017-18), only 8.9 per cent of the population in the urban areas and 12.9 per cent in the rural areas were covered under the government-sponsored insurance schemes. Even in such forward states as Maharashtra and Gujarat, the recent NFHS-5 (2019-20) estimates indicate that less than 30 per cent of the population is covered by any health insurance scheme. This is despite the PHI schemes being operational in these states for nearly a decade.Another important aspect has been the rather poor participation from the private sector, not to mention the even fewer gains that have accrued to the public hospitals. Only around three per cent of the private hospitals are eligible for the AB-PMJAY, thus making the latter an insignificant payer of the overall private in-patient care in the country. The PHI schemes have failed in their mandate of ensuring strategic purchasing of health services and diverting private participation in areas and geographies of deficit.The final aspect is the creation of a comprehensive health information infrastructure, which is pivotal to strategic collaboration with the private sector. Only recently have talks on integrating the fragmented health information systems and creating unique health identifiers gained momentum under the National Digital Health Mission. But their scope remains restricted, given the scarce footprint of the PHI schemes in the country.Low public investment in the PHI schemes is a major reason for these inadequacies. However, no amount of funds can make up for the lack of vision. Different governments have time and again seen the schemes as a populist tool to woo the poor masses, and not as an overarching instrument that can help shape a truly ‘national’ health system in the country.Strategic purchasing of private outpatient care services remains a distant possibility, given the much more under-regulated character of medical practices. The corollary is that the prevalent malpractices became widespread and generated chaos and suffering during the Covid-19 pandemic.India has nearly four decades of experience dealing with public-private partnerships (PPP) of various kinds and at different levels. However, akin to universal health insurance, the approach has been fragmented, vertical and short-sighted. While private players have often been blamed for abdicating their part, the government’s approach has been little better. Often, these PPPs have become tools for the government to shift the entire responsibility to the private sector, with little continuing support and monitoring. Also, the PPPs have largely involved bigger players rather than the ubiquitous small players who are the true representatives of the Indian private healthcare sector.The current Covid-19 vaccination policy is a classic case in point. A disproportionate share (25 per cent) of total vaccines has been allotted to the private sector despite only a handful of big players being in a position to actually absorb them. While a centralised mechanism for aggregating vaccine supplies for small private hospitals has recently been envisaged, it has been quite late to come.One of the biggest strengths of the private sector — greater reach — has been scarcely conceived as being instrumental to delivering vaccines to the remotest corners of the country. This will require the government to procure and strategically allocate doses to the private sector, with careful and decentralised monitoring of practices.In the aftermath of the pandemic, the foremost expectation from the government would be that it chalks out a comprehensive, actionable and enduring plan to strategically harness private sector services. Merely increasing public sector funding is an antiquated idea and out of touch with contemporary realities.The country cannot afford to be hit by another pandemic without a unified national health system in place.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/put-in-place-unified-national-health-system-272449
23-06-2021||---||More trouble than triumph||Yogi Adityanath’s sense of triumph on display last week may be transient because of the muddled politicking that has beset the BJP in UP in the walk-up to the Assembly polls. The CM was believed to successfully resist the induction of Arvind Kumar Sharma, a former Gujarat-cadre IAS officer, in his Cabinet because Sharma, who was part of PM Modi’s cabal of bureaucrats since 2001, was perceived as a proxy for Delhi in Lucknow. Adityanath reportedly feared that Sharma’s instatement in his governing council could have thrown up a challenge and created a second power centre in the nucleus. Sharma, who was recently elected as a member of the legislative council, was appointed a vice-president, one among 17 others, in the state BJP organisation. In keeping with the one-person-one-post norm, the position effectively puts him out of the reckoning for a berth in the Adityanath ministry in future. Even as Adityanath might have prevailed in this phase of a face-off between the Centre and UP, the last has not been heard. Delhi indicated it will not yield in the joust for one-upmanship.A perceptible fallout of the Adityanath-Sharma episode was, far from consolidating the CM’s leadership in the polls, it raised questions. A week after Swatantra Dev Singh, the UP BJP president, stated that Adityanath was the ‘undisputed’ leader, Keshav Prasad Maurya, the deputy CM, said the matter would only be reconciled after the elections. On Monday, another minister, Swami Prasad Maurya, added weight to the deputy CM’s line, saying that the final decision on the next CM would be arbitrated by the Central brass on a later date.The leadership tangle, just seven months before UP votes, is a throwback to the historic state elections of 1993, held a year after the Babri mosque was razed. The polls were billed as a referendum on the demolition and the expectation was the outcome would be in the BJP’s favour. However, an opposition coalition of the SP-BSP beat the BJP by a whisker in a surprise verdict. A major reason for the reversal was the BJP’s failure to resolve the ambiguity over the authority of its erstwhile CM Kalyan Singh.Adityanath is placed in a different zone. He’s not from the BJP or the RSS, their writ does not run over him and he merely uses the lotus symbol to fight elections. That makes him an outlier, a status he used to his advantage as the CM. He strengthened and expanded the Hindu Yuva Vahini, which was set up as his private militia in Gorakhpur, his home turf. It has morphed into a BJP competitor the state over. The BJP is unhappy not just with the Vahini.Adityanath is accused of pandering excessively to the Rajputs, the caste he belongs to and accommodating their representatives at every echelon of the administration and police. The statements that came from the Mauryas are deliberate. Keshav Prasad and Swami Prasad are from the OBCs who form the BJP’s backbone in its recent incarnation as a party of the less-empowered OBC and Dalit sub-castes. To retain its character and colour, it is imperative for the BJP to shake off the ‘pro-Rajput’ label it acquired under Adityanath.Even Swatantra Dev Singh, who endorsed Adityanath’s captaincy, balanced his statement by singling out the CM’s ‘integrity and honesty’ as his principal attributes. Like Modi, Adityanath is often commended for being single, ‘distant’ from his family and keeping his relatives and favour-seekers at arm’s length. Is this good enough to sway the extraordinarily large electorate that rooted for the BJP in 2017 before Adityanath was declared the CM?Left to himself, Adityanath would cast his political persona entirely in the Hindutva mould and identify himself with the BJP’s core issues and more, chief among which is the Ram temple in Ayodhya. The about-to-materialise temple is the centrepiece of his politics because his spiritual mentor, Mahant Avaidyanath, raised his political career around the Ramjanmabhoomi ‘movement’.To compound Adityanath’s troubles, the temple has got mired in allegations of malfeasance and corruption. An investigation by a digital media outlet revealed that several acres of land around the so-called disputed structure in Ayodhya were allegedly acquired from their owners, who were reportedly close to local BJP leaders, at prices several times in excess of the stipulated circle rates. The land will be part of the temple complex, whose construction is overseen by a government-constituted trust, the Sri Ramjanmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust. A trustee is listed as a legal witness in one of the questionable land transactions. Additionally, the SP and the Aam Aadmi Party alleged that in another case, land was bought by the temple trust from a certified absconder who is related to a BJP leader. The alleged deals kicked up enough of a furore in Ayodhya for prominent mahants, tangentially associated with the trust, to demand a probe.The temple — estimated to be built at a cost of Rs 1,100 crore by Swami Govind Dev Giriji Maharaj, the trust’s treasurer — is projected to be completed by 2024, in time for the Lok Sabha elections. The Adityanath dispensation showered exceptional bounty on Ayodhya, promising to extol its status to that of a ‘model town’ on a budget of Rs 640 crore, allocated for 2021-22. However, the real estate pacts have cast enough of a shadow over the grandiose blueprint for the PM to call a virtual meeting with the CM and his officers on June 26 and discuss Ayodhya’s future.In the end, the Centre’s trust as well as the Adityanath government have to account for the transactions if the BJP’s temple showpiece has to emerge and stand unscathed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/more-trouble-than-triumph-272450
