24-06-2021||---||Economic recovery linked to vax, Covid surges||The year began with a bright outlook for the economy, but now, halfway into 2021, the situation has changed dramatically. In January, there were widespread projections of a V-shaped recovery from the trough of the pandemic year, even as most economic indicators were looking upwards. Six months on, the scenario is gloomy and there are predictions of yet another growth contraction during the second Covid wave.Recovery now only looks possible from July onwards. The earlier upbeat growth forecasts made by ratings agencies, multilateral bodies and even the Reserve Bank of India have lately been watered down considerably.Barclays, for instance, downgraded its growth projection for fiscal 2021-22 down to 9.2 per cent from 11 per cent earlier. Moody’s also revised its predictions for growth from 13.7 per cent to 9.3 per cent. The World Bank now expects India to grow by only 8.3 per cent during the year against the earlier estimate of 10.1 per cent. The RBI, in its turn, has revised expectations down to 9.5 per cent from 10.5 per cent, while the State Bank of India is the most pessimistic with a growth forecast of 7.9 per cent from 10.4 per cent previously.The second Covid surge in April and May has been the villain of the piece and regional lockdowns have stalled business and commercial operations. Unlocking is taking place in most parts of the country in a phased way, but normalcy is likely to return only in mid/late July.In other words, the first quarter of the current fiscal will have a dismal outcome and the prospects for recovery hinge on the rest of the year. The only plus point is that compared to last year’s total economic shutdown, this time there have been relaxations for essential activities and transport movement. Even so, recovery will be vastly slower than envisaged six months ago.Inflationary pressures have also built up in the economy, unlike after the initial Covid wave. Wholesale price inflation touched 12.94 per cent in May, the highest in decades. Retail inflation reached 6.3 per cent year-on-year in the same month, breaching the RBI’s upper tolerance band of 6 per cent. This is a sharp rise from 4.29 per cent recorded in April.The data raises questions over whether the central bank’s accommodative policy can continue in the coming months. For the time being, it is clear that most members of the MPC feel that there is a greater need to focus on recovery in the economy, but even this outlook could change if inflation continues to gallop at this pace.The culprits driving this scenario are food and fuel. The pass-through effect of hardening international crude oil prices is having a cascading effect at the retail level. As far as oil is concerned, rapid price hikes over the past few months indicate that the government’s urgency of ensuring higher revenue inflows outweighs the repercussions of the inflationary impact.Food prices are also part of the problem, with the biggest role played by edible oils. The shortfall in domestic availability of these oils has led to a reliance on the increasingly costly imports.Recovery will also be halting till there is a revival of the worst-affected micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) segment as well as the services economy, including the hospitality sector and aviation. Here too, the story is the same: that the upswing in the early part of 2021 was negated by the second Covid surge rising to a peak in April and May in most parts of the country.Nearly 60 per cent of the NPAs in these two months are reported to have come from the MSME sector. Retail associations are also asserting that there was a decline of nearly 80 per cent in normal business during May. These sectors are also the biggest employers. No wonder then that data is showing job losses doubling from 7.4 million in April to over 15 million in May, indicating the mounting impact of the pandemic.The worry now is that a third Covid wave may be on the horizon. Medical experts are already making predictions that the lack of Covid-appropriate behaviour could bring it on sooner rather than later. It is abundantly clear that any amount of fiscal stimulus is not going to fix the immediate problem which is to ensure that further lockdowns of the economy, even if regional in nature, are averted as far as possible. More curbs will bring more distress and yet more loss of livelihoods, whether in the urban or rural economies.The solution to the impending crisis is clearly two-fold. The first is to ensure that vaccinations are on track and that the country is able to achieve the highly ambitious target of covering the entire population by December this year. And the second is to ensure that the basics of Covid-appropriate behaviour, like wearing masks, are enforced in public places.For the first, the outlook is not bright as vaccine shortages have yet to be fully overcome. On the plus side, the government seems to have recognised flaws in its earlier planning and begun making advance payments to vaccine manufacturers and become more liberal on imports. Epidemiologists claim that even this will only enable 70 per cent of the population to get one dose by December. Whether the government will achieve its target of 100 per cent by this date will have to be seen in the coming months, as similar confidence on vaccine availability in the beginning of the year proved to be a mirage.On the second, state governments must play a bigger role in ensuring careful implementation of unlocking measures. Mumbai (Maharashtra) is widely considered to be a model in this regard and could, perhaps, be used as a template by other states in this regard.The fact is that there is a critical link between Covid surges and economic recovery. Industry association chiefs are now talking about the need for being very watchful before unlocking to avoid a second Covid wave. It is also recognised by all that there is no path towards revival without a widespread vaccination of the population. Unless this becomes a reality, there is little hope of achieving even the revised projections of economic growth for the current fiscal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/economic-recovery-linked-to-vax-covid-surges-273174
24-06-2021||---||Pakistan in troubled waters||Five decades after its surrender in Dhaka, Pakistan is finding that Bangladesh, which remained poverty-stricken because of its exploitation by West Pakistan, is today a dynamic and growingly prosperous country. Bangladesh, with a population of 160 million, is now competing with the booming economies of its Southeast Asian neighbours. Its economy has grown at 6% annually over the past two decades. Even during the Covid challenge, it is expected to register a growth of 6.8% in 2021 and 7.2% in 2022, by the Asian Development Bank (ADB). Pakistan, on the other hand, is a massive recipient of foreign doles. It averaged a growth rate of around 3.5% in the years preceding the pandemic.Bangladesh has also been far ahead of Pakistan in human development indicators, like women’s education and literacy. With foreign exchange reserves of $45 billion, Bangladesh has provided $200 million under a currency swap agreement to Sri Lanka. Bangladesh is ahead of Pakistan economically, even as it spared no effort to look after hundreds of thousands of Rohingya refugees from Myanmar.Pakistan, in contrast, has uneasy relations with virtually all its neighbours, notably India and Afghanistan. Pakistan has also incurred Iranian displeasure over its trans-border support for disgruntled elements from Iran. Pakistan has become a virtual international “basket case”, feverishly looking around for financial “aid” from international institutions like the IMF, World Bank, ADB and its “all-weather friend” China. Gulf countries like Saudi Arabia and the UAE, which have contributed generously to address Pakistan’s economic woes, recently had second thoughts on aiding Pakistan.Pakistan’s economic woes have grown rapidly in recent years. Its total external debt had risen from $44.35 billion in 2013 to $90.12 billion in April 2021. Interestingly, Pakistan’s debt repayments to China rose from 9.3% in the recent past to 27.4% in 2021. These are official figures, which do not necessarily reflect the real position on Pakistan’s growing debts to China. The real costs will be substantially more when the $65 billion CPEC, linking Gilgit-Baltistan in PoK to the port of Gwadar in Balochistan, fully takes shape. This ‘corridor’ may be of great use to China. Its utility to Pakistan is, however, questionable, especially given the huge costs of the debts that Pakistan will have to repay to China.Gwadar is now virtually a Chinese port. It is just a question of time before the Chinese take over total control of the port. They even now have a dominant say on who enters and who leaves the port. Gwadar is set to become a major strategic naval base for China. This becomes inevitable as China proceeds to complete its wide range of projects under CPEC, which will ultimately link Gilgit-Baltistan to the Arabian Sea at Gwadar. It is very likely that with Pakistan borrowing more than it can repay, Gwadar will become a replica of the Hambantota port in Sri Lanka that was built with Chinese ‘aid’. Hambantota is now virtually owned by China.The foundations of the CPEC were laid in 2013, when Chinese premier Li Keqiang visited Pakistan. The project has become more controversial after Lt Gen Asim Saleem Bajwa was appointed its chairman. He and his family reportedly have a colourful record of their assets abroad. Saudi Arabia, which was planning to invest $10 billion in the Gwadar port, has now withdrawn and indicated that the money will be invested in Karachi. Saudi Arabia knows that China is set to invest $25 billion in Riyadh’s main rival/adversary, Iran, located close to Gwadar.While one would have expected a sense of circumspection in Pakistan’s dealings with the Americans, Imran Khan and his loyalists have gone ballistic in criticising and embarrassing the Biden administration. The Pakistan media has also gone ballistic, declaring that the US had been told ‘firmly’ that Pakistan would not provide any bases on its territory for US drones to be deployed for action in Afghanistan. There have been separate meetings between US Secretary of State Antony Blinken, Secretary of Defence Lloyd Austin, National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan and CIA director William Burns, with their Pakistani counterparts, and the army chief, General Bajwa. Moreover, wide publicity was given to Imran’s decision to refuse a request for a meeting by the visiting CIA director.The Pakistan army, which has sought to maintain good relations with the US, would be wondering what is going on, as virtually every visiting American invariably pays homage to General Bajwa, who understandably has concerns about instability and turmoil in Afghanistan. Pakistan is going to be fully focused on developments in Afghanistan in the wake of the US withdrawal. The Taliban are determined to rule Afghanistan again. They are not ready to share power. The Taliban will, however, meet growing resistance as they approach Kabul. They will also meet strong resistance in non-Pashtun regions. While Pakistan is backing its protégés, it will have to watch out for trouble in its Pashtun areas bordering Afghanistan. Iran would reluctantly be drawn into the conflict.India would be well advised to stay at an arm’s length from any direct involvement in the raging civil war, while remaining in touch with its friends in Afghanistan. There can be no meaningful relations with an Imran Khan-led government. We, however, need to keep our “back channel” lines of communication with Pakistan open. India should also ensure that Pakistan is not let off the hook in the Financial Action Task Force, especially given its continuing support for leaders of terrorist groups. Moreover, the architects of the terrorist attacks on our Parliament and Mumbai — Maulana Masood Azhar and Hafiz Mohammed Saeed — have mysteriously disappeared, just before the FATF meeting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/pakistan-in-troubled-waters-273157
24-06-2021||---||How Emergency entered school textbooks||Are you sure, Professor saheb? Is our country ready for this?” Every year, I remember this story and ask myself this question on the anniversary of Indira Gandhi’s Emergency. This story is not about the Emergency. It is about how the Emergency first entered an official national textbook, that too during the Congress rule.The year was 2007. Prof Krishna Kumar, an eminent thinker on education and then Director of the National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT), was leading a complete overhaul of school textbooks. Prof Suhas Palshikar and I were invited to lead the rewriting of political science textbooks for classes IX to XII. Those were heady days. Inspired by the idea of radical pedagogy, we set out to change the content, the format and the look-and-feel of the school textbooks of what used to be called ‘Civics’. We decided that high school students must not be treated as infants, that textbooks in political science must not shy away from politics, and that we must not brush inconvenient truth under the carpet. We enjoyed amazing freedom, thanks to the ecosystem set up by Prof Kumar. This included the gentle scholar, Prof Hari Vasudevan, who oversaw the social sciences textbooks and the broad-minded National Monitoring Team headed by Professors Mrinal Miri and GP Deshpande.All this was tested in the chapter on the Emergency in the Class XII textbook India since Independence.The inclusion of India since Independence in the political science syllabi itself was no less than a coup. Earlier, school textbooks stopped with India’s Independence. Students were supposed to understand politics in the 21st century without any idea of what happened in the second half of the 20th century. Everyone agreed with our suggestion that students who opt for political science in Plus Two must read a full course tracing the history of Indian politics. We invited Prof Ujjwal Kumar Singh to lead the team for this book.So far so good! The devil lay in the details — the content of the proposed book. Controversy began as soon as the course was announced. “NCERT puts Gujarat riots in the textbook” screamed media headlines, even before a single word was written. Once we got down to writing the book, we decided to handle political landmines with some ground rules. We adopted a descriptive tone, offered more than one viewpoint on every contentious matter and stuck to verifiable facts. We used pictures and cartoons to say what we found impossible to say in words.That’s what we did in Chapter 6, ‘The Crisis of Democratic Order’, the chapter that dealt with politics leading up to, during and after the Emergency. We took extra precautions to verify everything, but did not bury anything under the carpet. So, the chapter described everything that the then ruling Congress party would not have wanted the coming generations to know and remember: Indira Gandhi converting a personal crisis into a national crisis, the Cabinet being informed after the Emergency was proclaimed, the muzzling of media, Sanjay Gandhi’s role as an extra-constitutional authority and the instances of Emergency excesses. The chapter had special boxes on the two notorious incidents of Emergency excesses: demolitions at the Turkman Gate in Old Delhi and the custodial death of P. Rajan in Kerala. Some very sharp cartoons and images captured the culture of sycophancy and the spiral of silence that characterised the Emergency.Now the challenge was to get this draft cleared through a sarkari system. Three eminent scholars — Ramachandra Guha, Sunil Khilnani and Mahesh Rangarajan — had read an early draft of the book. Besides routine vetting and monitoring, the NCERT appointed a special committee to read the manuscript. Chapter 6 was read aloud word by word, debated and approved. Everyone knew the real issue was not the truth of what the chapter said. The issue was the political implications of speaking the truth about the Emergency during the Congress raj and that too in an official textbook. At stake was not just this chapter or this textbook, but the entire exercise of rewriting of textbooks, not to mention Prof Kumar’s job. Yet, to his credit, he never said a word to dissuade us. When the draft was cleared by all committees, he made a request: “Do you mind if we show the draft to the minister before we send the book to the press?” We agreed. After all, the minister was to answer for what we wrote, should the matter come to Parliament. The minister asked for a week to read the manuscript.Exactly a week later, Prof Kumar asked Prof Yashpal and me to join him at Shastri Bhavan to see the Minister of Human Resource Development, Arjun Singh. I must confess I was a tad worried about his reputation as a wily politician. A man of few words, he came straight to the point: “Maine padh lee, mujhe kuchh khaas nahin kehena. Magar inhe kuchh poochhna tha (I’ve read it and don’t have much to say. But he has some questions).” This ‘inhe’ turned out to be his private secretary, an IAS officer, clearly His Master’s Voice. He opened the chapter on the Emergency and began the interrogation: “Sir, they say the Emergency was controversial.” Instead of responding to him, I turned to the minister: “Sir, in your long political career, won’t you rate the Emergency as one of the controversial episodes?” I got a studied ‘Hmmm’ from him. Next question: “Sir, they cite Shah Commission which was boycotted by the Congress party.” I offered a technical defence: “But you would agree, sir, that this is the only official document on the Emergency that was placed in Parliament and never rescinded.” This went on for about half an hour, entirely focused on Chapter 6, the minister feigning to be the referee between a bureaucrat and a professor.Just before my patience was to give way, Arjun Singh waved at his PS to stop. He turned to me and asked, “Professor saheb, apko lagta hai hamara desh iske liye taiyar hai?” I was ready with my stock response: Our democracy has matured; reflecting back on this breakdown is an act of strengthening the system; the students in +2 are about to cast their vote, so they deserve to know, and so on. I could detect a smirk on the minister’s face. Prof Yashpal cut me short, his speech as flamboyant as his hair: “Sir, ab in panchhiyon ko khule asmaan me udne dijiye (Let these birds fly in open sky).” The smirk turned into as broad a smile as you could get from a dour-faced Arjun Singh.The meeting ended. The deal was clear: we had done our job, now the minister was to look after Parliament and the party. I don’t know how, but that is what he did. Not a word was changed in that chapter, or the entire book. The Emergency made an unvarnished entry into the official school textbook, and that too during the Congress years.Cut to 2021. Arjun Singh is no more, nor do we have in our midst Professors Yashpal, Hari Vasudevan and GP Deshpande. The story sounds five decades old. The NCERT is preparing to scrap this and all other textbooks, indeed rewrite the National Curriculum Framework. As I turn the pages of the textbook, I notice that its preface described the book as a “tribute to the maturity of Indian democracy”. I wince and recall Arjun Singh’s question again. My answer has faded, washed away in the waves of authoritarianism that we have suffered since in India and abroad. His simple question has a deeper meaning today.Views are personal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/how-emergency-entered-school-textbooks-273107
