25-06-2021||Before I took charge of the office of the DGP||A threat to the nation, really?||If the law was fairly and honestly interpreted and used, the police would have a powerful tool up their sleeves to counter truly subversive activities. But if it is misusing the Act to suppress dissenting voices that serve as irritants to autocratic regimes, then the application of its provisions to conscientious dissenters is nothing short of demonic! Natasha, Devangana and Asif could not be classified as terrorists by any stretch of imagination. They indulged in neither murder nor mayhem, did not encourage by words or deeds the forcible removal of the elected government from office, said or did nothing to incite their followers to revolt against the ruling dispensation. The Delhi High Court perused the entire thousand-page chargesheet filed by the Delhi Police more than a year ago and found no evidence to show that these three young students were terrorists.The police could honestly allege that they were inciting local Muslim women to sit in dharna at Shaheen Bagh, disrupt traffic and shout slogans in protest against the CAA. But did they provoke the riots in Delhi in February 2020? In my view, no! Further, provoking riots does not make them terrorists.The Delhi High Court adjudged the confinement of the students as ill-intentioned and ordered their release on bail. The police went in appeal to the Supreme Court, which in its wisdom did not interfere with the bail order but felt that the hundred-page order of the high court in a mere bail matter was extraordinary and needed a closer look.That the Supreme Court did not interfere with the high court’s order is significant. The amendment to the UAPA, passed in 2019, had added “individuals” to “organisations” which could be dubbed terrorists by the police. The Delhi High Court held that the three youths did not fit the bill. The Supreme Court probably wants to determine this for itself. It wants to judge if the release of such accused on bail will militate against the State’s ability to keep terrorism in check and should the courts before trials begin to look so closely at the evidence to determine whether the police have used their discretion of proclaiming the accused as terrorists? The stringent provisions of the Act rule out grant of bail if the police say that terrorism is involved. Should the police be empowered with such singular authority that can keep citizens in jail for long years without trial?It is unusual for cases prosecuted under the Act to start the course of trial till many years intervene. The accused languish in jail for years. The very process of trial becomes a punishment imposed by the investigating arm of the judicial process system. The police, like in the case of fake encounters, become the investigator, the prosecutor and the judge! If it can be ensured that trials would start and end in a year at the most, the ends of justice would have been met. In this particular case, I had spoken to the Police Commissioner of Delhi on the phone. He had averred that he had enough evidence to nail the students. My reply was that in that case let the trial start so that the people know that they were real terrorists and not mere protesters exercising their lungs.But this regime has been consistently applying the UAPA and the sedition clause of the IPC to magnify offences that would only invite a slap on the wrists. The most recent example is that of Disha Ravi, a young student from Bengaluru who was whisked away by a police party from Delhi by plane. Mercifully, she was rescued by the trial court itself after spending three-four uncomfortable nights in the cold of Delhi at the height of winter she had never experienced in her native clime. Her only fault was that she was an environmental activist and was probably coming in the way of the government’s development agenda.Since 2016, after the BJP won its landslide victory in the Lok Sabha elections of 2014, riding on the crest of a wave called hope, opponents and critics of the regime have been saddled with these harsh interpretations of the laws, resulting in a steep ten-fold increase in the number of cases. Only 2 per cent of UAPA and sedition cases that have run through the gauntlet of trials have ended in conviction, which means that 98% of the accused have spent years in prison for offences they had not committed or the evidence to prove it was scanty!Of all the democracies, this nation has the unenviable record of accommodating more undertrials in our jails than actual convicts. The undertrials jostle for space to sleep and a piece of cloth to spread on the floor. My college friend, Rajamani Iyer, whose son was taken in for a white-collar offence he swore to me he had not committed, was denied bail for months. And after the bail was finally granted, he lingered in the Arthur Road holding centre in Mumbai for 24 days till he agreed to accept court-favoured sureties who he had to compensate! I brought this fact to the notice of the then Chief Justice of the Bombay High Court through a letter. I am sure she must have ordered an inquiry and taken some corrective action, the details of which have not been communicated to me.We have numerous flaws in our democracy. But only democracies slipping into autocracy treat the right to liberty cavalierly. The right to liberty is guaranteed by our Constitution. Our courts have always prided in upholding it. Yet, recently, habeas corpus petitions have not been treated with the same reverence as they were earlier. Activists languish in jails despite their advanced age, their disabilities and chronic illnesses. Are they really such a threat to the existence of the nation as my ex-colleagues in the IPS say they are?||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/a-threat-to-the-nation-really-273578
25-06-2021||---||Spectre of ‘colour revolution’ worries PLA||With anti-China sentiment rising globally and US President Joe Biden making efforts to form a broad coalition to contain China’s rise, anxiety in the leadership echelons of the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) has heightened over the possibility of a ‘colour revolution’. This anxiety has spread to the CCP’s sword arm, the People’s Liberation Army (PLA).While an article in the People’s Liberation Army Daily on May 5, 2020, had pointed to such concerns in military circles, at least two recent articles underscore that these worries have resurfaced, and more strongly. Last year’s PLA Daily article had alluded to major powers utilising the difficult post-Covid global economic situation for gaining overall strategic advantage. It had cautioned they could use the economic crisis to cause a recession in China and provoke social unrest. Advocating that financial and military preparedness would have to be commensurate, it warned that an economic crisis could, in turn, cause a political crisis.Amid a series of warnings to citizens by China’s Ministry of State Security (MoSS) since April this year to be vigilant against attempts by the US and the West to instigate a ‘colour revolution’ in China, similar anxieties in the PLA have recently become transparent. Two articles by PLA officers this May reflect these anxieties.On May 20, 2021, the Chinese government’s largest think tank, the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences (CASS), published an article authored jointly by two PLA officers from the Political College of National Defense University and the Joint Logistics Support Force Longyan Comprehensive Warehouse Support Team.Their article disclosed that serious concerns exist about the PLA rank and file adhering to the policy of the party’s absolute leadership over the army.Asserting that “the party’s absolute leadership over the army is the fundamental principle of our party’s army building and ruling the army”, they said this principle is facing new challenges today. They enumerated the reasons as: the pace of military modernisation and rejuvenating the army; new methods of building the army at the grassroots level; the “profound new changes” in mission requirements, including the composition of officers and soldiers and troop organisation; and the external social environment.They said these obstruct efforts to ensure that the grassroots level accepts “the party’s absolute leadership over the army”.The article insisted that unless “the party’s absolute leadership of the army is accepted down the line to the grassroots level”, the majority of officers and soldiers will face severe tests in their missions in complex struggles.Additionally, it regretted that “officers and soldiers of the new era generally lack the training in the severe and complex environment and the baptism of blood and fire on the battlefield.”The article emphasised that if the grassroots level of the army is not strong politically and “lack understanding and mastery of the party’s absolute leadership over the military”, they would be more susceptible to “the extremely deceptive political propaganda of the hostile forces.”Keeping in mind that college and high school graduates today constitute the largest single source of recruits and their thinking could well have been influenced by “liberal” teachers and professors, the article emphasised the importance of clearing out “the fog of thought”.It recalled Chinese President Xi Jinping’s warning that “some Western countries are stepping up to instigate ‘colour revolutions’ in our country, stepping up the implementation of online ‘Cultural Cold War’ and ‘political genetic modification’ projects in an attempt to root out our military officers and soldiers and pull the military out of the party banner.”Xi Jinping asserted that “The challenges we face in the field of ideology and political security are very serious” and it is imperative “to first strengthen positive publicity and guidance of public opinion... Consolidate and strengthen the mainstream ideological and public opinion... and guide officers and soldiers to grasp correct standpoints and viewpoints.”He called for self-confidence in the present system while comparing China and foreign countries. The article reiterated Xi Jinping’s caution that “The so-called process of ‘democratisation’ in the West has brought about long-term turmoil and war” and “the most fundamental thing is to always uphold the party’s absolute leadership over the army.”Acknowledging the importance of the Internet for the young officers and soldiers, described as of the “media generation”, the article underscored the importance of countering online propaganda. It recalled Xi Jinping’s instruction that the new situation “urgently requires us to change our minds, carry out online struggles like a war, and continuously strengthen the ability of officers and soldiers to resist the erosion of social corruption and the infiltration and destruction of hostile forces”.Expressing doubts about the political reliability of the younger PLA officers and soldiers, the article’s authors recommended enhanced emphasis on “educating” the personnel.The sentiments were indirectly echoed the same week in a Liberation Army Daily article whose author was identified only as a member of PLA Unit 31006. He asserted that “Party members must enhance their sense of honour” and bolster the “sense of pride as a member of the party organisation.” The unnamed author spoke of the inspiration gained from “the firm belief of the revolutionary ancestors” and urged the soldiers to emulate “their infinite loyalty to the party” and the manner they cherished “the honourable title of” communist"!The appearance of these articles suggests that instances of indiscipline involving younger personnel have occurred in the PLA which, in turn, have raised concerns about the political reliability and loyalty of the younger personnel. Xi Jinping is personally adamant that the PLA remains under the CCP. The articles probably herald the start of a new campaign in the PLA, emphasising political reliability.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/spectre-of-colour-revolution-worries-pla-273596
25-06-2021||---||The grand illusion of Centre-state cooperation||Prime Minister Narendra Modi rarely speaks of the nitty-gritty of governance. It is as though he leaves it to the ministers, if ever, or to the bureaucrats mostly. So, it was a surprise that he chose to write a blog on June 22 in which he talked about how he was successful in pushing the states to carry out certain reforms like ‘one nation one ration card’, simplifying the business licensing process, notifying floor rates for property tax, bringing in revenue for the municipalities which could help in paying the wages of municipal workers, and the implementation of direct benefit transfer (DBT) in lieu of free electricity and water supply. He argues that the last reform has checked the wastage of power and water. These reforms had to be implemented by the state governments, and these changes would have taken a longer time if the Centre did not offer the incentive of raising the credit facility by 1 per cent of the state GDP apart from another 1 per cent increase in credit facility due to the Covid-19 crisis and the economic crunch it caused.The Prime Minister reveals that many of the states had adopted the governance changes and they availed of the 1 per cent credit that was offered in its wake, and this amounted to Rs 1.06 lakh crore in 2020-21. And he concludes that this showed that reforms can be implemented not through stealth and compulsion as it was done earlier, but through conviction and incentives as it was done by his government. And he calls this ‘Centre-state bhagidari’, another variant of his formulation of cooperative federalism.It is an interesting claim, and it merits a closer look. The basic principle is that the states can avail increased credit facility — 1 per cent of the state GDP — if reforms directed by the Centre are implemented. In plain terms, it is a carrot-and-stick policy, and it was forced upon the states by the economic crunch caused by the pandemic, and the Centre seems to have felt that this was the best time to force the states to adopt the slated reforms. And the PM is arguing that this is the way to carry forward reforms, implying that it would have to be another crisis like the pandemic, a time when the states are in need for additional finance, and this finance is not provided by way of grant but by loosening the credit strings. And then calling it an act of partnership between the Centre and the states does not sound right. There is something in all this that is not falling in place.The PM seems to overlook the fact that the Centre is taking advantage of a crisis — a national medical emergency — to force the states to swallow a bitter pill. Economic reforms, at the best of times, should happen when there is no crunch or crisis, but they are undertaken because they would improve the finances of the states and the economic well-being of the people, and in the words of the Prime Minister, “Each of the reforms was linked to improve ease of living to the public, particularly the poor, the vulnerable and middle class.” And the second aim was to “promote fiscal sustainability.” It can be argued that changes happen only in response to a crisis. But to arm-twist the states to adopt reforms at a time when they should be focusing on dealing with the plight of the people seems an odd argument. It is possible to argue that ‘one nation one ration card’ was particularly helpful amid the pandemic when the poor migrants were shuttling between cities and villages. But this should have been done as a direct response to the crisis triggered by the pandemic, and not as a carrot-and-stick policy, the kind that lending institutions like the International Monetary Fund (IMF) adopted towards countries in economic distress, as India was in 1991. And for the PM to describe this as Centre-state cooperation is not very convincing.It seems the Prime Minister has forgotten that the states in the first decade of this century had adopted electricity reforms by unbundling generation, transmission and distribution to get out of the crisis of state electricity boards (SEBs) sinking under the financial burden and faced with the prospect of bankruptcy, and the state governments not in a position to bail them out, and the continuous shortfall of power which affected industrial development of the respective states. It was a complicated reform and quite painful too, but many state governments undertook power reforms because they were left with no other choice.The credit incentive offered by the Centre and tying it with the purse strings might seem a clever ploy but it cannot be considered as global best practice. In a federal polity, the Centre should have no say in the financial matters of the states. There was the system of a state government seeking an overdraft from the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), and it depended on the state governments’ promise of exercising control over expenditure. It was purely a financial issue between the state government and the central bank. The states could have sought guarantees from the Central Government, and the RBI could concede the overdraft facility based on the Centre’s guarantees. But after the initial reforms of the 1990s, state governments, particularly Andhra Pradesh under the then Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu, sought loan from private entities like Peerless Insurance. There were pitfalls of turning to private lenders, but it also opened up the possibility of market borrowing by the states.This was the kind of financial devolution that should characterise economic reforms in a federal polity. India still remains a centralised state with the tax devolution policy, and the issue has been made more complicated by the Goods and Services Tax (GST), where the Centre and states are forced to get together to levy and share taxes. The PM’s argument in his blog claiming success of certain reforms is nothing more than arm-twisting the states to adopt changes in lieu of increased credit access. It is the domination of the Centre over the states by another name.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/the-grand-illusion-of-centre-state-cooperation-273601
