26-06-2021||---||New York mayoral poll augurs post-Covid recovery||In one of the first signs of post-Covid-19 normalcy in a city which became the symbol of mayhem caused by the pandemic last year, a fierce campaign was the highlight of the primary elections for the Mayor of New York City, a coveted position which provides arguably one of the most visible faces after the US President. The primary elections are also taking place for the city council, public advocate and comptroller.Election for the Democratic and Republican primaries was on June 22 and the General Elections will take place on November 2. The General Elections will be a formality as the winner of the Democratic primary will be the next Mayor. This is because the city is heavily Democratic with 3.6 million registered Democrats with only 0.5 million Republicans. The stakes are high as the new administration of the city will oversee the revitalisation after a year of immense loss, both in terms of human and financial loss. The city, financial capital of the US, has always acquired an outsized importance in the global context as it is the first port of entry for millions of immigrants to the US. New York City also has one of the largest concentrations of Indian-Americans in the US.Among the top contenders for the Mayor’s position are a former police officer and African-American Eric Adams, followed by seven other candidates, including Maya Wiley, a former counsel to Mayor Bill de Blasio. A new system — which has triggered a lot of interest — is in place that allows voters to rank up to five candidates in order of preference. The idea is to have a candidate who appeals to all sections of the population. Early trends indicate that for the Mayor’s position, Eric Adams leads the tally. The primary elections for members of the NYC council saw unprecedented ten Indian-American candidates in the running. In the counting, which is still going on, three of these candidates are in close contention for representing their respective districts.In the big picture analysis, NYC is no exception to issues of other big global cities where turf wars are common between the state and city administrations. One of the continuing issues of contention is the contested jurisdiction of domains pertaining to the city between Albany, New York state’s capital, and New York City, comprising the five boroughs. Even when Covid-19 was ravaging the city, there were frequent public feuds between NYC Mayor Bill de Blasio and New York State Governor Andrew Cuomo on issues such as the timing of the lockdown and opening of schools.In terms of electability, due to the sheer diversity of the city and the new ranking system, a candidate has to reach out to diverse constituencies. Broadly speaking, African-Americans comprise 24.3 per cent of the electorate whereas Hispanic or Spanish speakers are 29.1 per cent. Asians are around 14 per cent. The Whites, a general term for people with European origin, are around 42 per cent. They include Jews who form nearly 14 per cent of the population.The evolving story of ruling power structures in NYC is also the changing pattern of US immigration as global events ignited fresh waves of movement to the new world. In the early 20th century, the power in the city was wielded by Tammany Hall, an organisation that became a pivotal political machine of the city to put persons in influential political positions of the city. De facto, it became an organisation of Irish Catholics who came to NYC after the infamous Irish famine in the last quarter of the 19th century. With the decline of influence of Tammany Hall, the demographics of other communities swelled.While the Mayor’s position is important in the city’s history, so have been the unelected bureaucrats. This is elaborated in greater detail by Robert Caro in his magisterial book — The Power Broker — in which he describes how urban planner Robert Moses, from 1920s to 1970s, reshaped the city with infrastructural projects that often benefitted the rich with deleterious effects on the poor. Caro, in his book, exposed how his projects such as public beaches were constructed to keep the poor away.In the past 40 years, each Mayor has had his fair share of crisis to tackle. Edward Koch became the first Jewish Mayor from 1978 to 1989 and his tenure coincided with NYC becoming the epicentre of the AIDS epidemic. His successor, David Dinkins, who died last year, was the first African-American Mayor and his tenure was tarnished by the infamous Crown Heights riots in 1991 between Hasidic Jews and African-Americans. Dinkins was followed by Rudolph Giuliani who was the Mayor when the 9/11 attacks took place. Though he claimed that under his watch, crime reduced in the city, his detractors point out that incidents of police repression of minorities increased.Giuliani’s tenure was followed by billionaire Michael Bloomberg under whose watch the tourist industry grew. He banned public smoking indoors and launched a public campaign against diabetes and obesity. His critics point out that his policies made the city more unequal. Mayor Bill de Blasio was elected on the promise of making the city more equitable. The present elections have been dominated by issues linked to public safety (the annual crime rate increased for the first time in the past 30 years), racially based policing and post-Covid-19 recovery plans.With electoral process for the primaries nearing completion, global attention will be on the prospective policies of the new NYC administration. The pandemic has redefined the work culture. It has left the white collar unscathed, but put a strain on the economically weaker communities and turned a heightened spotlight on public health issues, particularly in dense cities like NYC. Along with this, the new Mayor will have to address the age-old, city-specific issues and concerns, including the rising crime graph.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/new-york-mayoral-poll-augurs-post-covid-recovery-274083
26-06-2021||---||Defence innovation needs top-down reforms||The Ministry of Defence recently released a document outlining a set of 20 reforms that have been introduced across the defence sector. This is a welcome change on the part of a ministry that has traditionally been seen to stay in the background, taking refuge under the national security blanket.Amongst the list are the two important elements — of bringing atmanirbharta to defence and of reforming defence R&D — both of which are aimed towards meeting the requirements of the armed forces through indigenous sources whilst aiming to make India a hub of defence manufacturing.Self-reliance in the field of defence production has been a cherished objective of successive governments dating back many decades. But the nation still finds itself in the unenviable state of being the second largest international arms importer.A weakness is clearly underlying the state of affairs. This weakness is the result of our following an archaic organisational model where both defence R&D and production remain under the Ministry of Defence. This business model is not practised by any western democracy boasting of an internationally competitive defence industry.Two examples merit mention in the furtherance of this view. The first is the recent announcement by the Defence Minister of budgetary allocation for the Innovations for Defence Excellence (iDEX)-Defence Innovation Organisation (DIO), which was recently formed. Through funding start-ups or individual innovators, the latter is expected to create an ecosystem fostering innovation and technology development in the defence and aerospace sectors.Whilst the spirit behind this initiative is laudable, what undermines confidence is that this organisation will also be under the Department of Defence Production in the MoD when it is well known that the government bureaucracy’s work culture is rule-and-precedence bound. It is inhibited further by the shadow of agencies like the CAG, CBI and CVC.Laboratories or institutions exploring new frontiers in technology or weapon systems must, of necessity, be of an intellectual explorer’s mindset — quite the opposite of the rule-bound administrators — as they thrive on an out-of-the-box thinking and risk-taking leading to innovative solutions. The very idea of placing the DIO under a government department, hence, appears flawed and a contradiction.This view is reinforced if one considers that the DRDO already has a network of advanced technology centres within academic institutes funded and tasked to pursue research directed towards conceiving and developing next-generation defence technologies. That notwithstanding these, the MoD still finds need for an innovation organisation speaks for itself.The second example is that of aeronautics. It needs recalling that it was in the early fifties that the government had authorised the development of HF-24 fighter aircraft, with the then Prime Minister stating that it would aid in the development of a modern aircraft industry in India. HAL commenced design in 1956 and the aircraft entered the IAF service in 1967, being at the time the first Asian jet fighter (outside of the USSR) to go into production.In 1970, Vikram Sarabhai had proposed to the Administrative Reforms Commission an organisational model with a ministry of advanced technologies comprising separate commissions for atomic energy, space, earth sciences and aeronautics.It speaks for his foresight that in all the fields, except aeronautics, the government followed this model and the nation is today on a par internationally. Only aeronautics remained the technological orphan, confined to the folds of the MoD, with continuing dependence on imports.It was to address this weakness that the Aeronautical Society of India had, in 1994, under APJ Abdul Kalam’s presidentship, proposed a national aeronautics policy, wherein it had been stated: “Aviation is one of the most significant technological influences of modern time and empowers the nation with strength for international partnership. It is a major tool for economic development and has significant role in national security and international relations….”Further, industrial aeronautics is an area where much commonality exists between the rapidly expanding civil aviation sector and military aviation, and, from a defence-industrial policy viability point of view, can contribute to the economies of scale and international footprint.This proposal was lost in our bureaucratic jungle and an updated version submitted in 2004 appears to have suffered the same fate. So much for dynamism in the South Block towards making India a defence manufacturing hub of international standing!In fairness, for the first time, we now have a vision promoting innovation in the defence industrial sector originating from the highest level of government leadership. There is, hence, cause for optimism that there is willingness to shed past baggage.To benefit from this positive climate and claim Indian aeronautics’ rightful place, however, we first need take an innovative look at the higher-level defence organisation model with reference to the place of defence R&D and production within it.Indeed, for an innovative attitude to take root in the mindset of the national security establishment, innovative administrative reforms starting from top to down are the need of the day. Not the reverse, as appears to be in the case of iDEX-DIO, or, indeed, of the integrating of operational commands.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/defence-innovation-needs-top-down-reforms-274009
26-06-2021||---||Political economy for the rich||For three decades now, public opinion has been systematically massaged in favour of private enterprise and the free market. Today, almost all of us believe that the profit motive is not only good for businesses, but also for society as a whole. We have been nudged by mainstream media, economists and various other experts and our netas, that the market rewards talent, merit and hard-work, and punishes sloth and inefficiency. Ironically, this moral philosophical attitude has ended up fostering policies that inevitably favour the rich.In the neoliberal fantasy world, markets are a level playing field, where citizens confront each other as equal economic agents. They not only exchange goods and services, but also compete with each other to provide them at the lowest cost. Those who use their resources efficiently become successful entrepreneurs, while others become their employees. Apparently, by some magical clockwork or through sheer providence, this system is supposed to benefit everyone, whether they are owners of capital or workers.In reality, free markets are always skewed in favour of owners of capital. Those with money will always outcompete others by offering high salaries to the best talents, accessing the latest technologies and selling goods at lower than the cost of production. Corporates with deep pockets can sustain losses for a long time. On the other hand, a first-generation entrepreneur who borrows money to start a business cannot survive for long without making profits. This leads to amalgamations in every industry, leading to monopolies.Neoliberal economists argue that monopolies do not cause economy inequality, because such behemoths are invariably publicly held. In effect, therefore, everyone who owns shares of these companies is an owner. In reality, small shareholders have no say in how a company functions. It is the big shareholders who decide the company’s investment strategies and who is to be remunerated and how.It is in the interest of big capital to ensure that this system not only functions, but also gets reproduced over time. The first is to ensure that all laws relating to the economy are oriented towards allowing the unfettered operation of monopoly capital. Big corporates know that democratic states will have to curtail the formation of powerful monopolies, but they also know that state institutions charged with implementing fair market practices work more in omission.The second thing that big capital must do is to ensure that government policies help them. Again, governments cannot appear to be favouring large business houses, so all economic policies need to be dressed up as ‘reforms’. Whenever governments proclaim that they are withdrawing from the economy, they are actually creating a policy environment that favours big business.It is, therefore, essential that these policies be sold to the public as beneficial to society. It has to be embedded in an overall discourse of economic growth. This is what we have seen taking place since the early 1990s. Every government has talked of growth, or vikas, rather than equity or inclusive development. And the various pink-paper pundits, opinion builders, columnists and editors have pushed forward this ‘reformist’ agenda.Public opinion has taken such a rigid pro-market shape now that even governments and politicians cannot go against it. Even if a government wants to curtail private profit, it will have to withdraw, because our captains of industry have become our natural heroes. That is why, laws that curtail the rights of workers are lauded by the media, as are policies that reduce regulatory oversight over India Inc. If the government acts against any business house, editorials are written opposing these moves. On the other hand, if the government cuts corporate tax it gets immediate media support.This is why India Inc can get away by paying low taxes at a time when they are making record profits. Over the past 10 years, the contribution of corporate tax to the total tax receipts of the Centre has dropped from 36 per cent to just 23 per cent. On the other side, the share of indirect taxes has risen from 45 per cent to 53 per cent. This goes against every theory of equitable taxation. Higher direct taxes, especially corporate taxes, is considered to be progressive because it puts the burden of taxation on those who can afford it. Indirect taxes – GST, sales tax, VAT, customs, excise – affect everyone, whether rich or poor. The higher the contribution of indirect taxes in an economy, the more inequitable it is considered to be.Pro-market economics tell us that the stock markets are the great equalisers in free-market economies. This has been successfully drilled into our minds that investing in stock markets allows every citizen to share in corporate profits. That is why, no one protests when government policy is oriented towards keeping interest rates low, along with low taxes on capital gains from the stock markets.Low returns from bank deposits, which are also taxed, encourages money to flow into the markets. Our policy makers tell us that this ensures that household savings go directly into the productive process, without the need for mediation by banks. It supposedly also widens the ownership base of private companies and their assets. In reality, the markets benefit those who can deploy large amounts of capital. A few large investors determine which companies do well on the bourses.It is significant that the Covid year, when Independent India faced its worst recession ever, was also a year of record corporate profits, lowest corporate taxes and a great year for the stock markets. While an overwhelming majority of Indians saw a significant drop in their real income, the richest 1 per cent became even richer. This is an inevitable side-effect of 30 years of ‘reforms’.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/political-economy-for-the-rich-273927
