27-06-2021||The story is not new||‘Go West, young man’||Throughout human history, man has always moved in search of mainly better economic prospects and quality of life. We have today a large number of students going abroad for higher studies and employment thereafter. However, I wish to dwell on the pioneers who left Punjab for foreign shores in the early Fifties of the last century. The first trickle began from the Doaba region of Punjab and consisted mainly of illiterate or semi-literate youth, some of whom belonged to families uprooted from west Punjab and who had not been properly rehabilitated. They went to the UK in search of work and with the objective of helping their families through remittances. The only work which paid well was in the open steel furnaces and in the mines — very tough work and the salary though meagre by British standards suited the migrant’s objective. I wonder at them — not knowing the language, the people, the culture, living in their cocoons. I have heard of them leaving chalk marks on their residences (many of them stayed together) and counted the stations on the underground because they could not read — hence 10th, 15th station, etc.Occasionally, they would get lost but they had been advised to go to the nearest Bobby and inform him. In the first few years, the Bobby would have them dropped at their homes. Soon, the police understood that they were literally being taken for a ride and put a stop to this practice. Meanwhile, they kept on saving money and sending it home. This created an almost parallel economy because people started sending money through unofficial channels. I remember at one stage, the official value of the pound was Rs18, whereas it was Rs30 in the black market. Travel agents, government officials were involved in this and a whole crop of carriers came up who went to the villages to deliver the money in rupees. In the absence of phones, inland letters were used, and a coded message would be sent regarding the amount. Some of these travel agents and others became millionaires and some went on to become ministers.The whole of the Punjab economy was shaken up positively and farmers in new clothes and on two-wheelers, carrying transistors, were visible more and more. The prices of land shot up as the NRI money was used to buy land. This led to an increased flow of youth to these countries, and with the next generation came a change both in the lifestyles in the UK and in Punjab. The second generation, unlike the first one, was undecided about coming back but by the time of the third generation, which was brought up and educated abroad, a shift took place and they refused to come back. They adapted to the local systems and also branched out into businesses, industries and professional jobs. The flow of money to Punjab also decreased, as also the craze for land. Punjab’s troubles in the ’80s and ’90s finally put paid to any desire to come back — even the pioneers decided to stay on. The Punjab skyline, which had increasingly been dotted with huge mansions and marriage palaces, began to stall and the reverse trend of selling off assets had started.In the meantime, a strong nexus had developed between the travel agents, NRIs, government officials and politicians of all hues. The NRI became a very valuable source of election funds. If the politicians had gone beyond themselves and thought of the state, Punjab would have been a different and better place today. Governments of all kinds held NRI conferences, created special cells to harness the NRI money and expertise to industrialise Punjab, but these turned out to be just “melas” with no results. To the best of my knowledge, not a single major industry has been set up with the help of these people. Initially they showed keen interest to invest and kept on waiting for government response, but they all went back empty-handed. I think all those sammelans and cells came to nought and have been wound up or are defunct. With a little initiative and less red tape, Punjab could’ve been industrialised and our youth could have got employment here. Not only industry, the NRIs could have helped in the field of higher education by setting up institutes of global standards and brought in their expertise. Another field which could have benefited immensely is healthcare. State-of-the-art hospitals could have been set up. NRI doctors of international repute would have come and helped. Medical education and research could have made a quantum leap. Our bureaucracy, our political parties, our governments are not facilitators but rather are roadblocks in the path of progress. If political power cannot be used for the betterment of people, but rather only for the purposes of self-aggrandisement, then what is the purpose of such power?I have only talked of the human resource which we could have used for transforming Punjab. We could have produced a better, compassionate, healthy and educated human being. We could have become a destination for others and not a springboard for immigration. Punjab’s unique resource was its human material. It is now no longer so. Unemployment and poor education and healthcare have led to this.To strengthen my argument for the Punjabis, just look at their business acumen and the tremendous success they have achieved overseas. Not only this, they have also entered the political and social spheres where they have excelled. Today, we have MPs in the UK and Scotland, members in Congress in the USA and lawmakers in Canada and Australia. We have a large contingent of ministers in Canada, some in the UK and we have public servants in the USA who are Senate approved. We have captains of industry in the best of multinationals, and we have scholars and researchers of repute in many fields.On the social front, I will give only one example which has caught the imagination of people in the West — the Sikh concept of ‘langar’: free food given to all visitors to the gurdwaras; more than that in time of emergency, be it the airplane crash in Belgium, rail mishaps elsewhere, famines, earthquakes, floods and now Covid. These Sikh organisations, like Khalsa Aid, etc. are like first responders. After joining the search and rescue mission, they set up ‘langars’ for one and all — healthy, simple, ample food. This is the kind of social service, ‘sewa’, which our young men render in foreign lands — their adopted lands to whom they owe their allegiance. Now if we had facilitated them to enter different sectors in Punjab, imagine the contribution they could have made. If only Punjab had some visionaries with the burning desire to serve Punjab, they had only to reach out to the diaspora.Even today, the governments abroad and private industries look upon Punjabis as an excellent human resource which can adapt and become a major contributor to society. Hence, it is still “Go West, young man” and of course do not come back. Our children are leaving the country after Plus Two for higher education and most will get employment over there or become entrepreneurs as excellence is rewarded in their meritocracy. Today, our villages are being emptied out of youth, our cities and towns are full of old couples whose next two generations have gone out. They look with dimmed eyes to those foreign shores where their loved ones are making lives for themselves. Of course, the gentlemen who have run this country for decades — their children don’t have to go out to seek employment, they have set up huge ‘benami’ sources of income. They don’t have to bear the pangs of separation and loneliness which others have to. They are the rulers, and we are the subjects, and our meeting point comes once in five years when we anoint them again.To conclude, a final salute to those doughty young men who left for foreign lands without knowing what lay in store for them — the furnaces and the mines, pigeonholes for dwelling, cut off from local society. Their initiative and sacrifice led to the well-being of their children and grandkids. Hundreds of thousands of them spread all over the globe with Punjab still in their hearts. It is sad and haunting to still hear the mantra — “Go West, young man”, where your ancestors have dug new roots.— The writer is ex-chairman of UPSC, former Manipur Governor and served as J&K DGP||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/go-west-young-man-274447
27-06-2021||Each year the monsoon teases us — just as you think the rains will come and wash away the oppressive heat of summer||The change within||Meanwhile, political matters are reaching a boiling point as important state elections draw near. One only hopes that leaders learn from the past and — like the elusive monsoon — don’t get cheated by false hopes. Who knows when the dreaded third wave may strike us and what terrible calamities await us if it does.Enough of such doomsday predictions. I want to now bring some cheer into lives that are wilting under the long lockdown and its terrible consequences. We have to pull ourselves out of this dark hole and start to think of what we will do to alter our lifestyles so that we can say this was a life-altering experience. Sadly, I feel most people are looking forward to resuming their pre-Covid lives and can’t wait to party, shop and meet friends. There is no dearth of daredevils who will walk around without masks or dodge taking a vaccine. What can one say of such foolish people? They will never learn or change.Let me tell you what I have been made aware of: first among these epiphanies is that I can do with much less than I thought was possible. Whether this means clothes and assets, or whether it means cutting down on unnecessary social engagements — the long incarceration has opened my eyes to the monumental vanity of collecting and hoarding possessions. It has also given me an opportunity to examine my priorities and let some attachments go. At 70, I don’t need so much and the pleasure of giving away far exceeds the joy of buying stuff for oneself.Giving away precious possessions comes with some heartache, no doubt, but the happiness that it gives eventually is worth the pain. Also, if one can give it to those who will never be able to buy it themselves, the joy is even greater. So my sarees are going to young students or to my maids who love possessing those bright and shining textiles that I know I can never wear. The same goes for handbags, shoes and some jewellery. The heirloom pieces will go to my granddaughters so that they stay in the family; the rest to those friends who have liked some pieces. Money, too, will be given to charity: not temples or well-endowed missions but to those who help the poor and girls who wish to study. There are some excellent NGOs that I have in mind.I have also discovered several forgotten friends, and learnt to be more tolerant of those who think differently from me. This includes even those who are closest to me: my husband, siblings and cousins. Their political views and lifestyles would have irritated me once but today, if I find my husband napping in the morning when he should be doing something better, or sneaking a drink in the afternoon (something I would have screeched about earlier), I turn a blind eye. If the children don’t call or ask us how we are, I have taught myself to overlook their indifference. Instead, I call them up. Believe me, it took a lot to achieve this large-heartedness but it made me free of attachments in a way I did not think possible.I have also made time for those books I promised I would read one day and yes, even deal with solitude and loneliness. To watch the world from inside is an altogether different experience from going outside and being part of a moving crowd. Often, meeting and spending time with people you don’t really need in your lives brings in levels of anxiety and anger that one can do without. As Wallis Simpson, the Duchess of Windsor and the woman who made her husband give up the crown of England, once said: ‘One can never be rich enough or thin enough.’ So why envy those who are still trapped in their desire to look forever young and behave as if they are still 30 years younger than they are? I am proud to have grey hair and a sagging skin. After all, those who like me see me as I was when they knew me 30 years ago: we have weathered these years together.I am not aiming for sainthood but want to spend the years that I have left with dignity. That, dear reader, comes only when one can confront one’s foibles and make a conscious effort to smoothen the angularities of bias and arrogance. I am learning to accept those people and those facts that cannot or will not change by changing myself. I may not always succeed but becoming aware of the need to change is surely a step in the right direction.Try it, it will give you something to aim for when you enter the world that awaits us.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/the-change-within-274448
27-06-2021||The year 1971 holds a special meaning for those of us who passed out from the Indian Military Academy in Dehradun 50 years ago||Golden jubilee of  ‘Born to Battle’ batch||It was on June 13, 1971, that we stood on the drill square facing the historic Chetwode building; the façade seemed to beckon our excitement. The Almighty too blessed us, the heavens opened with a heavy shower; fully drenched, the cottons stuck to our skin, the hackles swayed on the headgear, but sentinel like, we were unshakeable. The parade followed, it was just the best foot forward. With the heels dug in, the rows moved meticulously to the appreciation of all those present, especially the reviewing officer. He praised our immaculate smartness, perfect drill and rare gusto despite the weather. The haunting tune of ‘Auld Lang Syne’ filled the air, we slow-marched on the final journey towards the hallowed doors of the Chetwode. We stepped on the ‘Antim Pag’ to cross the Rubicon, from Gentlemen Cadets we became Gentlemen Officers of the Indian Army. Our pride was boundless, the one star on our shoulders outshone everything.A short leave followed, and by the first week of July, we bid farewell to our families. Their unspoken words were clear, ‘Soldier going to war — will you take my heart with you, so that I may share a little in the famous things you do?’ We reported to our units already on the battle stations. We were determined, ready to fight or die. Some of us never returned from the bloody battles, killed but with honour; it was sad that many of us died young and headed early for Valhalla, but the enemy learnt that ‘Veerta ki jaan hain (hum)/Bharat ki shaan hain/Tere hi kachhaar mein/Tujhe hi hila diya’. No wonder, we are called ‘Born to Battle’!Among us was Second Lieutenant Arun Khetarpal, honoured with the Param Vir Chakra, posthumously, for his valour, even acknowledged by the enemy. In the years to follow, many more would leave us, bravery remained their forte; there can be no better example than Col NJC Nair, Ashok Chakra (posthumous), Kirti Chakra — decorated with the two highest awards for gallantry during peacetime soldiering.We were all set to return to our alma mater, the IMA, in June this year, but the pandemic gave no leeway so the new norm of a webinar was the only option. Our meet started with a remembrance for our stars in the firmament, the Last Post sounded, their spirits joined us. It reminded me of the words from ‘For the Fallen’, ‘They shall not grow old, as we that are left; age shall not weary them nor the years condemn, at the going down of the sun and in the morning, we will remember them always.’The open session followed, verbal backslapping, joking, a pandemonium of cross-talk, we felt our oneness; Babbuas, Bongs, Kanchas, Mizos, Punjies, Sirdies, Tants, Tambis, close-knit as ever. Like all good things, this also ended, with a hope and prayer to meet in the near future.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/golden-jubilee-of-born-to-battle-batch-274450
27-06-2021||Agreed||Why we cut such a sorry figure in international sport||But the sad reality is that he only came fourth when it really mattered internationally, in the 400 m in the 1960 Rome Olympics, not even getting a bronze medal, though he had won gold in the Commonwealth and Asian Games. I got to know him a little when living in Chandigarh in the 1980s. He also built a house on the outskirts of Kasauli, in Himachal, where I have a family home. We managed to get him to address a session at the 2013 Khushwant Singh Litfest at Kasauli Club. On the dais was also Rakeysh Omprakash Mehra, the maker of that marvellous film ‘Bhaag Milkha Bhaag’, in my view the best biopic ever made on an Indian sportsperson. The session was packed. Milkha had everybody spellbound as he talked about his life in colloquial Hindi, with some Punjabi thrown in. Modest to a fault, he self-deprecatingly confessed to being “unpadh” (without formal education). He won over everybody.I have always wondered why, as the second most populous nation in the world, we cut such a sorry figure in sports. In the Olympics, we have won just one solitary individual gold medal, that of Abhinav Bindra in shooting. The total number of individual Olympic medals won by India can be counted on the fingers of one hand. In hockey, after being dominant in the years before and after Independence, we have been nowhere since 1980. The only Olympic sports where India has shown some promise are badminton, boxing, wrestling, shooting and archery.Let’s now turn to the country we consider our main rival in more ways than one — China. It has won a humongous 546 Olympic medals, 224 of them gold. We like to claim that India scores in “soft” power. Well, sports is very much a “soft” power where China is streets ahead. Apart from Bindra, India has had few world champions: Viswanathan Anand in chess (though some would not consider it a “sport”), Wilson Jones and Pankaj Advani in billiards, Mirabai Chanu in weightlifting, PV Sindhu, Prakash Padukone and Pullela Gopichand in badminton (the last two won the All England Championship, considered the world’s prime badminton tournament). In tennis, Sania Mirza, the best women’s player India has produced, has won six doubles Grand Slams. Leander Paes and Mahesh Bhupathi have done even better. But the trouble is that nobody really considers doubles in the same league as singles, and in singles, no Indian has even reached a Grand Slam final. In the sport that is gaining increasing popularity, golf, there was actually an ethnic Indian who became the world number one, Vijay Singh, but he was a Fijian and hence does not count.A prime reason why India has done so poorly in sport is that most of our sports bodies have been headed by politicians and civil servants. Their main interest was in getting publicity and patronage for themselves, and being able to go abroad with their respective teams (while enjoying a generous per diem allowance), not in furthering the interest of the sport they were in charge of. When India did produce world-beaters, as in badminton, with the likes of Saina Nehwal, PV Sindhu and Srikanth Kidambi, it was mainly because sportspersons, such as Padukone and Gopichand, had set up coaching academies, thereby sidelining the government. Even Ramanathan Krishnan, who was a semi-finalist in Wimbledon twice, owed his prowess to his father coaching him on a private court, not to official assistance. The same goes for Bindra, whose father, too, was the main influencer and financer of his son’s success.You would have noticed that I have made no mention of cricket. For good reason. Though we may not like it, since it has become a national passion, akin to religion, it is not in my view an international sport. It is played seriously by exactly 10 countries, all from the Commonwealth. Outside them, even avid sports fans know little or nothing about cricket. When Russian tennis superstar Maria Sharapova was once asked ahout Sachin Tendulkar, she looked blank and confessed she had no idea who he was! Other icons like Sunil Gavaskar, Rahul Dravid and Kapil Dev, even Virat Kohli, household names here, are virtually unknown outside the cricketing world. On the other hand, Usain Bolt, Muhammad Ali, Tiger Woods, Cristiano Ronaldo, Lionel Messi and Lewis Hamilton are international stars who have excelled in sports played, or followed, by millions in virtually every country. Cricket has strangled Indian sport by cornering finances and focusing too much attention, especially of the young, on it. Until that focus, along with the money that goes with it, shifts elsewhere, there is no hope of India becoming a sporting power.— The writer is a veteran journalist||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/why-we-cut-such-a-sorry-figure-in-international-sport-274461
