28-06-2021||---||Public money write-off calls for accountability||AN additional 230 million people have quietly slid below the poverty line during the first year of the pandemic, reports the Centre for Sustainable Employment at the Azim Premji University (APU). In another study, the Pew Research Centre had computed the middle class to have shrunk by an estimated 32 million. This estimate is again for the first year of the pandemic. However, both studies are a grim reminder of the severe blow dealt by the pandemic to the middle class and the poor.We still do not know how severely (or relatively softly) the devastating second wave has impacted. While all sections of society have been hit in varying proportions, with household savings coming down drastically, and unemployment soaring, forcing the government to extend till November the 5-kg free ration scheme for the 800 million needy, the corporate net profits of listed companies have soared by 57.6 per cent in the last fiscal. At a time when economy is struggling to cope with the impact, the stock markets, fuelled by surplus money, too have been rallying high. While the wealth of India’s billionaires has gone up by 35 per cent, Bloomberg says the wealth of the top two — Ambani and Adani — has jumped to $84 billion and $78 billion, respectively.The rich continue to amass wealth, while the pandemic has driven the poor against the wall.Let’s dig still deeper. The increase in corporate profits does not, however, translate into higher tax collection from the rich. In reality, while the rich get hefty tax concessions and easy money, the rest of the country ends up paying more taxes. Corporate tax collections have declined significantly, reaching their lowest in 10 years. The systematic reduction in corporate tax is in sync with the global trend. The Finance Minister had in September 2019 lowered the corporate tax base from 30 per cent to 22 per cent, and reduced the corporate tax for the new manufacturing companies from 25 per cent to 15 per cent. This costs the exchequer Rs 1.45 lakh crore by way of revenue foregone every year.Now let us take a look at how the tax base has shifted from the corporate to the average households. Against the direct tax collections — corporate and personal income tax — for 2020-21, which amounts to Rs 9.45 lakh crore, the indirect tax collections have exceeded it, and reached a high of Rs 11.37 lakh crore. In addition, the common person in the street ended up paying over Rs 5.70 lakh crore as taxes (excise and VAT) on petrol and diesel, with roughly 60 per cent of fuel tax coming from two-wheelers. Add to it the electricity duty that consumer pays along with taxes on real estate registry and excise duty on liquor, the share of indirect tax that a common person finally ends up paying is enormous. At least now the individual tax payers cannot claim they alone provide resources for development. The non-tax payers too have made a significantly higher contribution in generating revenue. Let’s not forget, even a labourer wearing a plastic chappal (bathroom slippers) pays GST. In fact, it should now be abundantly clear: everyone pays tax.What may appear baffling is that at a time when the share of corporate profit in the country’s GDP has reached a 10-year high of 2.63 per cent, Indian banks had written-off a whopping Rs 1.53 lakh crore of corporate bad loans in 2020-21. As per RBI estimates, non-performing assets (NPAs) of banks are expected to increase further. Meanwhile, the total write-off in the past four years, since 2017-18, stands at a staggering Rs 6.96 lakh crore. A lot of hue and cry erupts whenever farm loans are waived but the periodic NPA write-off by the banks goes rather unnoticed.As if this is not enough, a newspaper report, based on an RTI reply, showed how Rs 5 lakh crore of bank money is struck in frauds. Accordingly, the top 50 credit accounts contributed 76 per cent to these dubious transactions.Interestingly, the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC) was enacted with the aim to punish the chronic defaulters but has left much to be desired. The two recent insolvency proceedings, where the banks/lenders have been forced to take a ‘haircut’ of 93 to 96 per cent, have evoked a lot of public anger. In a resolution plan, approved by the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT), the bidder -- Twin Star Technologies of Vedanta group -- gets control of 13 companies of the debt-ridden Videocon group by ‘paying almost nothing’. Against the admitted claims of Rs 64,838.63 crore, Vedanta group walks away by paying only Rs 2,962.02 crore as a one-time settlement which is merely 4.15 per cent of the total amount. In other words, the creditors, including banks, have agreed to waive the remaining 95.85 per cent of the outstanding amount.In another insolvency resolution, lenders of the Shiva Industries and Holdings, including several banks, have agreed to take a ‘haircut’ of 93.5 per cent. Of the total outstanding of Rs 4,863 crore, the creditors will get only Rs 313 crore. Of this, the company has agreed to pay upfront only Rs 5 crore. Financial journalist and author Sucheta Dalal quipped: “Now take a bicycle loan and see how banks treat you.”There are numerous such cases, where the bidders have walked away with cheap deals, leaving the banks (and other lenders) to take a heavy cut, often in the range of 80-95 per cent. The general impression is that it is public money that is being siphoned-off through a legitimate route. After all, the banks hold public money, and any write-off means public money lost.Probably this is what irked industrialist Harsh Goenka, who tweeted: “Promoters stash away money on the side, take the company to the cleaners, get a 80-90% haircut from bankers/NCLT — that’s the new game in town.” he wrote, adding: “A lot of institutions cleansed by the government — NCLT next please @PMOIndia. We can’t have our hard-earned money being stolen.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/public-money-write-off-calls-for-accountability-274934
28-06-2021||---||Draconian laws should be open to debate||RECOVERING unsteadily from Covid-19, one had to choose between two titles, ‘Pinjra Tod’ and ‘Shav-vahini Ganga’, the poem by Gujarati poet Parul Khakkar, which caused ripples in the US and Gujarat these two months. Such was the fury of the right-wingers on reading the poem that about 28,000 misogynist and abusive epithets were hurled at the poor lady, who wrote down the sad narrative of corpses being carried by the Ganga.When the reaction is so strong and venomous, the poet can be sure of having hit the nail hard on the head. It is said an army of IT activists took to firing their missiles at the poet. Has there been an example of this kind in the past? This entire episode should form a big chunk of social history and should be taught in colleges, starting with the spoof, ‘All is well, sab kuch changa changa/Lord in your ideal realm, the hearse is now the Ganga.’ The poem has already been translated in many languages. The Gujarat Sahitya Akademi also pitched in, and attacked the poem. One would have loved to read some of the vicious trolls.The central image of the Ganga, as the carrier of corpses, is a strong one and would remain in our memory. Much more optimistic is the ‘Pinjra Thod’ episode. It gladdens the heart. First, the very thought that two or three scholars could think of the sobriquet ‘Pinjra Tod’ was a bit of a shock. Then the police action, like a ton of bricks unloaded on the accused, brought the action of activists to the front page. Natasha Narwal, Devangana Kalita and Asif Iqbal established the outfit to oppose draconian laws. A year back on May 23, the police arrested Natasha from her home, and also Devangana Kalita, and booked them under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act for their alleged (some would read as fictitious) role in the Delhi riots case, when the then US President Donald Trump was to come to New Delhi.On January 8 this year, a Delhi court rejected Natasha’s bail plea on the tenuous ground that “the right to oppose any legislation… is not an absolute right but subject to reasonable restrictions.” Who is going to define “absolute right” and “'reasonable restrictions” to the executive, especially when the executive is the Indian police which has an exemplary record during the Emergency of Mrs Gandhi as they hunted down everyone who stood for freedom to act within the laws of the country. Even the judiciary of our highest court failed us then, we should not forget. And to continue with the tragic tale, Natasha’s father, Mahavir Narwal, a reputed scientist, died this May of Covid, without being allowed to meet his daughter. These should be counted as cruelties of the system. Has anyone paid heed to the suffering? A scholar from Jamia Millia Islamia, Safoora Zargar, who was carrying a baby, was charged under UAPA. Hailing from Kishtwar, Safoora was in jail for months. Amulya Leona was another kettle of fish, foolishly shouting slogans in favour of Pakistan and was jailed, some will say rightly.‘Pinjra Tod’ needs to be celebrated as an ideal which could think of taking on the big bad State. Both the courage and the idealism of the girls have to be applauded. Women have borne the suffering rather heroically and have carried the cross. It is a happy augury that they are building new solidarities.Bail orders freeing someone till the trial starts should be considered a godsend. Our prisons would be able to breathe. Undertrials also need some support for ittakes years for the trials to come up for hearing. Suppose for an instant, a file of an undertrial goes missing in our Kafkaesque world, he may die in Tihar without his case ever coming up.At last, a year after, the Delhi High Court took the right view and one has to bow to the two Justices, Siddharth Mridul and Anup Jairam Bhambani, who clarified that the constitutionally guaranteed right to protest and terrorist activity were getting blurred. (May I venture to suggest that the prosecution wants them blurred). They questioned that “the wanton use of serious penal provisions would only trivialise them.’ And they pointed out that there ‘was no particularised allegation…to bear out the allegation that the appellant incited violence.’It seemed that furnace-hot verbiage in the charge-sheets replaced non-existent facts. The Justices also said “the court must not countenance a State agency crying wolf.” Well said your Lordships! They freed the three on bail. But they had already spent a year in jail.Does India and the Indian system deserve draconian laws? We don’t burn up streets in protest, set tramcars on fire. We are generally a fairly peaceable lot. For seven months, farmers have agitated peacefully for their demands. Most of the world’s non-violent cults, religions that enforce or favour vegetarianism, emanate from India. Why do we need harsh laws? And why laws where the provision for bail is thrown out of the window? I remember TADA was once promulgated and misused. I remember that Gujarat had punished even offenders of their prohibition laws under the Terrorist and Disruptive Activities Prevention Act (TADA). You could be detained for a year without a charge. There should be a big debate on such issues. Can the State hold a mirror unto itself?But all’s well that ends well. As the Gujarati poet says, ‘Sab kuch changa changa.’||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/draconian-laws-should-be-open-to-debate-274933
28-06-2021||---||The right balance with China||AN extraordinary sequencing of three western summit meetings in the middle of this month — G7 in the UK, NATO and the US-European Union in Brussels — brought to the surface the potentials and limits to Washington’s efforts to consolidate the western alliance system behind its containment of China.The fault lines impact world politics and international security, but they carry special significance for India in terms of its close friendly ties with the US as well as its problematic relationship with China characterised by the current downhill slide. The significance of the summits lies in the following: first, the US’ measure of success in getting its European allies on board its China strategy; second, the prospects for an alliance of ‘democracy versus autocracy’; and, third, Europe’s willingness to move on from words to deeds to counter China actively.India has to learn from the trend that western countries, companies and influential figures will not become an ‘enemy’ of China in the traditional sense.There are incipient signs that European countries, under pressure from Washington, have begun adjusting their attitude toward China, officially or not. For the first time in over three decades, the EU launched sanctions against China on human rights issues. A French warship held exercises in the East China Sea with the US and Japan. The US campaign against Chinese tech companies is gaining traction in Europe. Suffice to say, as Washington’s pressure on China becomes stronger and a western ideological anti-China front crystallises, more European countries may tilt toward the US in the short term.However, Europeans do not have an ‘enemy’ image of China and some even speak and act independently. In the long run, Europe cannot be impervious to the benefits to be derived out of China's growing economic power. The Europeans are also not unaware that what’s good for the goose is good for the gander. The point is, although China-US relations are frayed, bilateral trade is still very strong, as the 52.3 per cent growth in dollar terms in the first five months of 2021 shows, which was the fastest among all China's major trade partners. Based on this astonishing growth, bilateral trade may hit a whopping $650 billion in 2021, a record high.Curiously, during the fortnight before the June summits, four top officials, including Secretary of State Antony Blinken, had calls with their Chinese counterparts. One of them was Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen who discussed with China’s Vice-Premier Liu He and politburo member Biden’s plans to ‘support a continued strong economic recovery and the importance of cooperating on areas that are in US interests.’ No matter how Washington tries to provoke ideological or geopolitical conflict with China, it cannot stop mutually beneficial trade relations.Now, the centrality of China in the US interests is a hugely consequential trend for Europe. Indeed, in the post-summit media briefing, US National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan disclosed that the White House would be working on a summit soon between Biden and Xi Jinping.India has to take note of the complex matrix working in the West’s relations with China. Washington’s diplomacy excels in sloganeering. Thus, it catches attention when repeated ad nauseam that ‘America is back.’ But, as the ‘New York Times’ put it, ‘European leaders still wonder whether his (Biden’s) presidency may yet be just an intermezzo, sandwiched between the Trump era and the election of another America First leader uninterested in the 72-year-old Atlantic alliance.’Inevitably, Europe will seek to strike a balance on China, which is an important trade partner, crucial to solving the climate crisis and not a military power in Europe. Europe doesn’t want the binary ‘democracy versus autocracy’ hardening into a new cold war. The West is mired in debt and the G7 could not create a serious alternative to China’s Belt and Road. As German Chancellor Angela Merkel put it, ‘If you look at the cyber threats and hybrid threats, if you look at the cooperation between Russia and China, you cannot simply ignore China.’ But she also said: ‘One must not overrate it either — we need to find the right balance.’The ‘right balance’ becomes important in India’s relations with China, too, where bilateral trade soared 70.1 per cent in dollar terms in the first five months of this year to $48.16 billion, according to Chinese customs data. China-India trade has shrugged off the impact of the border tensions. Importantly, China has been importing from India at a much faster rate than ever before.India has much to learn from the trend that western countries, political forces, companies and influential figures will not become an ‘enemy’ of China in the traditional sense, even if Washington were to use its various levers to coerce those countries to give it maximum support, or to demand them to pick a side. According to the latest survey released by the EU’s Chamber of Commerce in China, nearly 60 per cent of European companies plan to expand their businesses in China this year, an increase of nearly 10 percentage points from last year.The bottom line is that while on the one hand the Biden administration wants to show it is safeguarding the US-dominated international order and needs to cope with pressure and competition from the Republicans, it is also clear about the imperatives of economic cooperation with China, especially in trade and finance. Equally, while the EU has increased its ideological friction with China, the member countries have maintained their enthusiasm for expanding economic cooperation with China. In both cases, the laws of economics are prevailing over hawkish opinions. China, being the largest trading partner of more than 120 countries and regions, has room for manoeuvre against tariffs or ‘decoupling’ of a few high-tech projects.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/the-right-balance-with-china-274932
