29-06-2021||---||Theaterisation proposal ridden with lacunae||The Kargil Review Committee recommended a ‘first among equals’ Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) — albeit a four-star one approved by the Cabinet Committee on Security (CCS) in December 2019 and not a five-star one, as was desirable in a nuclearised scenario and was expected to enhance the procurement and operational integration of the three services.But a series of missteps such as pension reforms and theaterisation bode ill for national security. The attempt by the DMA to create ‘theatre commands’ unabashedly promotes turf battles between the three services rather than leading to defence capability integration. The need for India to replace its existing seven each of Army/ IAF and three Naval single-service sectoral commands with five or so integrated theatre commands — west, north and east for Pakistan/China threats, air defence and maritime theatres — is being proposed without thinking it through.China and Pakistan-centric operations would demand the involvement of multiple proposed theatre commands such as the Western, Northern and Eastern Land Theatres as also the Maritime and Air Defence Theatres. The need is to clearly recognise the traditional war-waging mindset and domain orientation of the Army, Navy and Indian Air Force.The Army generally has a battle horizon of “a day’s march”, within which it sees its battle space. General Sundarji attempted to widen this to around 100 km, with his laudable mechanised ambitions.The Navy, on the other hand, operates in a few knots per hour domain, with even gunboat diplomacy and carrier battle groups taking several days to be manifestly effective.The Air Force is the truly strategic service, capability and mindset wise. A fighter bomber on a tactical mission is capable of achieving strategic goals, as exemplified by the timely IAF Hunter and MIG-21 aircraft strike on the East Pakistan Government House on December 14, 1971, instrumental in the capitulation of the entire Pakistani Eastern Army.Air forces have the capability to strike across the targeting cycle, directly at the enemy’s military and political leadership, if so desired, something the other two services cannot do, unless piggybacked by air assets.Now the Department of Military Affairs’ attempt to make the IAF a tactical entity via theaterisation is worrisome and against traditional wisdom, for it’s the only service capable of prosecuting war at all three levels —tactical, operational and strategic — in any air campaign seamlessly.All three services have their priorities for war-fighting, derived from national security objectives and associated service doctrines. The IAF was the first to articulate an Air Power Doctrine in the early 1990s. The Navy followed up with its own doctrine and finally the Army, too.An attempt to articulate a joint doctrine is now gaining traction, more so after the formation of the Integrated Andaman & Nicobar Command. Be that as it may, joint war-fighting procedures and norms have evolved over the years, functioning rather well indeed at the service command, i.e. operational levels.The same has been amply demonstrated in the wars so far waged by the Indian defence forces, including in Kargil and the latest Ladakh standoff. There is no need now to try and fix a system that is not broken.Every nation needs to adopt military organisations which suit its national ethos and threat dynamics. We do not have a five-star joint chief of staff and talking of creating theatre commands at this juncture is putting the cart before the horse.Our energies now need to be devoted towards beefing up our single-service inventories and effecting suitable cadre reviews to achieve desirable teeth: to tail ratios. Whereas, bringing in another level of operational command in the guise of a theatre commander is inapt for our strategic security posture and bound to be an exercise in futility. The serious attendant handicaps would be inadequate domain expertise of a different service theatre commander and undesirable parcelling out of expensive air power assets.Valuable soft skills and other command and control tools such as AWACS, AEW, flight refuelling aircraft, strategic transport/ airlift capability, electronic combat assets and other force multipliers are meant to be dynamically switched from one combat zone to another, depending on the situation. They are definitely not to be brought ‘under the command’ of one expert military leader. A novice air commander orchestrating air power in war is fraught with danger. Aping the organisational structures in the US, Israel or China (or even the puny Maldives, as protagonists have sought to) would be detrimental to operational efficiency, especially of a nation’s air force.The prevalent career profiles in the three services do not cater to ‘maroon’ tenures in the upward hierarchical transition of a service officer. India is not yet ready to experiment with ideas such as theaterisation.The other important deterrent against theaterisation is the dwindling force structure of the IAF, already down to 30 squadrons (and slated to reduce further), thanks to slow accretions. The dangers of parcelling out of air assets, as theaterisation envisages, need not be emphasised.Further, the concept of a land or maritime-centric theatre is anathema to true integrated war-fighting, which is what we should strive for: a unified thinking amongst the practitioners, rather than cosmetic organisational tinkering.If the intent is only to have a single operational commander overall, we should be aiming for a single theatre, which is what the Indian armed forces have been oriented to all these years.Thus, the theatrisation proposal is ridden with operational lacunae which are now being sought to be thrust on an uncooperative IAF, whereas any sensible reorganisation should encompass technical weapon upgrade and efforts to better the teeth-tail ratios of our combat arms.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/theaterisation-proposal-ridden-with-lacunae-275354
29-06-2021||---||Pandemic is a fit case for China to pay up||One had argued that reparation be paid by China to the world in general, and India in particular, for the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic which has infected more than 18 crore people and claimed almost 40 lakh lives across the globe so far, including three crore infected and 3.9 lakh dead in India. However, friends told me that unlike Germany, which was defeated in World War I, China is not ‘vanquished’. Hence, China can’t be made to pay reparation.Examining China’s role in inflicting unprecedented devastation, misery and mayhem on the world, one found that there’s an influential section of China lovers in India (who are more concerned about trade and business even at the expense of India’s interests, preferring indifference to Beijing’s ceaseless threat to New Delhi). They are consistently trying to portray the adversely affected nations as weak, cowardly and submissive.Hence, it’s imperative that a case is made out for the 222 ‘vanquished’ nations which collectively face the Communist Party of China (CPC), which turns 100 on July 1.Perusing post-First and Second World War papers, it must be recalled that whereas the two 20th-century mega wars were started and fought by three or four European states’ dramatis personae against bigger nations, resulting in the victor-vanquished scenario, the 21st-century pandemic is a manifestation of Chinese culpability against humanity, perpetrated by the ruling CPC against the rest of the world. Fatally affecting every country, the virus threatens the long-term health and physical existence of humans. Covid-19 has already killed millions and devastated global economies.China has succeeded in winning over leaders of countries to ravage resources and capture ports and islands and rupture landlocked states in Asia, Europe and Africa. It’s the new multi-front, multi-dimensional war of the CPC, included in which are several forms of criminality through wars of all means.The CPC has broadened and redefined the art and craft of conquest through “war, irregular war, just war (bellum justum), mixed war, perfect war, private war, regular war, revolutionary war, solemn war.” Nothing seems to be left out.Yet, the covert CPC attempt is unable to hide anymore its questionable intentions from the comity of nations. Slowly, and steadily, realisation is dawning across continents to take on the CPC and make it accountable for its brazen lapses. The CPC can be taken before a specially constituted court by the affected nations, on the lines of the Nuremberg and Tokyo war crime tribunals.Nevertheless, the problem arises from the fact that it will be beyond the United Nations (in its present form) to pin down the CPC since China has veto power to abort any international legal act against its own illegal act, perpetrated and perpetuated through a “devious, indirect approach”.The real challenge, therefore, is to tackle the CPC’s malevolence and mala fide. When the International Court of Justice’s (ICJ’s) July 2016 verdict went against China and favoured the Philippines on the South China Sea dispute, China audaciously ridiculed the ICJ with its characteristic arrogance. Reportedly, the international court has no power to enforce its own legal verdict, thereby leaving the world to face ‘might is right’ and ‘survival of the fittest’. Thus, even if the CPC harms, harasses and hits all, the world can only wait, watch, and wail.All, however, isn’t lost. The door is open to take the CPC to the ICJ. Try, constitute a special tribunal to impart justice for the “crimes against humanity” and “aggression” (of diplomatic threat, abuse, bullying, political blackmail), thereby impinging upon the economic activity, territorial integrity and political sovereignty of nation-states across the globe.Since the UN Security Council has express powers to enforce the ICJ judgments, it’s time to confront the CPC rather than resorting to appeasement, born out of the fear of a CPC reprisal or retribution.The ICJ aside, the International Law Commission (ILC) could also be taken on board. A body created in 1947 by the UN “for the purpose of encouraging progressive development and codification of international law”, the ILC consists of experts in international law who drafted important treaties like the Vienna Convention on Law of Treaties, which became a binding treaty law.The supreme need of the hour is to combat the CPC through international bodies, showing gumption to abort the threat to human existence posed by a single nation’s ruling party. The big or small, tiny or mighty, must have consensus — as was done after World War II to nip in the bud the mindless aggression of those who once posed a threat to humanity.Thus, those arguing that though “one could take on the vanquished power in the 20th century, yet there’s no scope to treat China like that in the 21st century” aren’t being realist. The issue is the existential threat to humans. Whether it’s the vanquished or the victor, it doesn’t matter. What’s relevant is whoever tries to pose a universal threat to humanity must be brought to justice.And, today, the centenary-celebrating CPC is the sole culprit, under its dictatorial regime, which is more dangerous than the vanquished of all the eras taken together, posing an “en masse existential threat to humanity’.Countries of the world, unite. You have nothing to lose except the precious lives of your able-bodied citizens. Remember, the Chinese State is the Communist Party of China and vice versa.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/pandemic-is-a-fit-case-for-china-to-pay-up-275355
29-06-2021||---||Spotlight back on J&K||There has been a consistent pattern of terrorist attacks in the wake of positive developments in Jammu and Kashmir or in India-Pakistan relations. There are powerful constituencies in Pakistan which consider even limited improvements in India-Pakistan relations as threatening to their entrenched interests. By the same token, for them any prospect of a return to even limited peace and political normalcy in the state — now a UT — must be nipped in the bud. The Kargil intrusion followed the then PM Vajpayee’s bus journey to Lahore in February 1999. PM Modi’s dramatic stopover in Lahore on December 25, 2015, to meet Pakistani PM Nawaz Sharif was followed within days by the terrorist attack on the Air Force base at Pathankot on January 2, 2016. The launch of the Srinagar-Muzaffarabad bus service in 2005 was greeted by setting on fire a government tourist office sheltering bus passengers and there were blasts on the route. So the drone attack on the Jammu Air Force station in the early hours of June 27 should not come as a surprise. It happened just a few days after the surprise and well-publicised meeting on June 24 between the PM and leaders of the erstwhile much-derided Gupkar group of mostly mainstream parties of J&K. This follows the revival of the ceasefire between India and Pakistan along the LoC since February 25, 2021, which has, against expectations, been scrupulously observed by both sides. Back channel talks have been reportedly held between the National Security Advisers of the two countries and the UAE has claimed that it has played an intermediary role. The attack puts the Indian Government in a difficult position. If it undertakes some retaliatory action against Pakistan, then the promising developments in relations would be stalled and India-Pakistan tensions will be heightened. This will inevitably impact on political developments in the state. Whatever limited gains may have been anticipated from the June 24 meeting would likely diminish. If it does not retaliate, that, too, will have consequences because it will encourage more such attacks, perhaps of even greater lethality. Pakistan will deny involvement. But even if the drones were launched from inside Indian territory, there can be little doubt that the attacks have been inspired by elements within Pakistan. We have to proceed on that assumption.The use of drones to attack military or civilian targets introduces a dangerous new dimension to the security threats confronting India. This in any case requires an urgent and comprehensive assessment and a counter-strategy. This will be relevant not only for the India-Pakistan theatre, but also the India-China theatre. China has advanced drone technologies and production capacities. Pakistan has access to these as an ally and will see them as adding another asymmetrical capability to threaten India.A two-front war, in which India has to confront both Chinese and Pakistan forces simultaneously, is no longer just a possibility to guard against. It is becoming an operational reality. China and Pakistan have been conducting joint military exercises for years but recently they held their first-ever joint air exercises from airfields in Tibet. The message to India could not be more clear and direct. In a two-front war scenario, it is J&K which would be front and centre. It constitutes territory in contention with both China and Pakistan. Our security planners need to appreciate this new reality and its ominous implications.The limited détente with Pakistan and the reaching out to the mainstream political parties in J&K have been triggered by two broad developments. Internally in the state, the sidelining and even demonising of the mainstream parties and leaders and the nurturing of a new political leadership aligned to the BJP, has failed. The population in the Valley is disaffected and sullen and the promise of development and jobs has been mostly belied. On the other hand, the scrutiny of the Modi government’s use of coercive instruments to enforce peace and stability in the troubled region has been under greater and adverse international scrutiny. The Biden administration’s emphasis on upholding democratic values and human rights in its external relations has put the Indian Government under mounting political pressure. Both the revival of ceasefire at the LoC and the attempt to bring about a degree of political normalcy in the Valley may be seen as a deflecting response to these external pressures.Closer home, the very real prospect of Afghanistan falling under unchallenged Taliban rule, complicates India’s geopolitical dilemma. We should be under no illusion that reaching out to the Taliban, as we appear to be doing, will diminish the heightened security threat they represent to Indian interests. Over the past two decades and more, Pakistan has been willing to pay the price of relative international isolation and even pariah status, economic hardship and internal security challenges, to keep its eyes fixed on the prize of Afghanistan as its client state under the Taliban. And Afghanistan has value for Pakistan, mainly in the context of its relations with India. Once the Americans leave and the Taliban establish their rule over the whole of Afghanistan, expect India to be sidelined in the country and its immense investment there to be diminished in value. We have already closed our consulates in Jalalabad and Herat. Kandahar may follow. Pakistan will use Afghanistan to recreate jihadi bases to target India with convenient deniability. To think that engagement with the Taliban will prevent Pakistan from using it for its nefarious purposes against India would be naïve.During the earlier round of Taliban rule in Kabul, India’s policy was to keep that regime destabilised by supporting the Northern Alliance and Ahmad Shah Masood in the Panjshir Valley. The Russians and Iranians worked in coordination with us. This time round, potential partners in undertaking such a policy are not visible.Our options are limited and the geopolitical environment is becoming more adversarial. Tactical moves such as the LoC ceasefire and relaxation of political tensions in J&K may be useful. They do not add up to an effective long-term strategy to address the unprecedented, multiple and serious security challenges India is facing. The drone attack in Jammu is a wake-up call.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/spotlight-back-on-jk-275356
