30-06-2021||---||Keep pace with tech advancements||In the age of the Almighty Computer, drones are the perfect warriors. They kill without remorse, obey without kidding around, and they never reveal the names of their masters.Eduardo Galeano, Uruguayan writerIN August 2017, aircraft carrier Queen Elizabeth of the UK Royal Navy was docked at Invergordon when an amateur photographer flew a drone close to the giant battleship. When the drone sensed a high wind risk, it landed itself on the ship. The pilot (with the remote) told BBC that he could easily have carried two kilograms of high explosives and left it on the deck.An assassination attempt was made on Venezuela President Nicolas Maduro on August 4, 2018, with a drone. Two drones loaded with one kilogram of explosives each were flown close to the president while he was addressing a military parade. They were detected by the alert security personnel. One drone was electronically diverted from its course and the second crashed against a wall.December 20, 2018, saw drones dramatically disrupt air travel after someone brought London’s Gatwick airport to a complete halt by flying drones intermittently over the airport’s lone runway. Air traffic at other London airports, including Heathrow, was also disrupted momentarily over fears of a coordinated drone assault against all five of London’s commercial airports.In December 2019, heavy-lifting drones were used by Pakistan to drop AK-47 rifles, counterfeit currency and narcotics in 10 sorties spanned over eight days in Punjab’s border districts More such incidents have been reported. Sunday’s drone attack on the Jammu Air Force base is new and extremely belligerent. This aggressiveness needs to be nipped in the bud to prevent further escalation. Clearly, the threat from the drones is a cause for serious concern. Contemporary drones cost little, and availability is aplenty. Drones today represent an asymmetric threat that can cause serious damage and create panic.Drones being small, silent and discreet are difficult to detect and bring down. They can be pre-programmed and/or remote controlled even with smart phones. Rapid miniaturisation of electronics and batteries are a boon to the growth of drones. Additional features like auto landing, dynamic homing and orientation control provide greater stability and effective control. High-end cameras with axis stabilisation provide a smooth and stable recording experience with high-quality videos. They are symmetric in shape and can fly in any direction. They can be armed with weapons, explosives and/or cameras. They can also carry hacking-capable devices, such as small on-board computers (e.g., a Raspberry Pi), Wi-Fi/Bluetooth dongles (to monitor and detect vulnerabilities in networks) and trigger an attack on the computer/network.Big investments in countermeasures are inescapable. Any control measure would necessarily be working under extreme capability of precision and real-time response. To observe, detect and analyse a rogue drone would require tracking its flight path precisely. An effective sensor system will monitor electronic radio data and the designated airspace with video cameras (quite like the CCTVs watching over a crowded marketplace). These devices would trigger alarms automatically on spotting and initiate the analysis process, identify control commands being transmitted to the drones by radio and register the drone type and characteristics to classify the threat.Once a hostile drone is identified, measures to bring it down commence. These may be the use of guns and explosives to destroy it or electronically jam it and force it to land. It is very desirable that the actions of detection, identification and destruction/disablement take place automatically. This would require all the participating defensive elements to be electronically integrated. The electronics used must not pose a threat to other friendly flying objects in the vicinity and cause collateral damage to infrastructure. The countermeasures will also have to be layered and gridded to provide an effective defence shield; any single point of failure is simply unacceptable.It is preferable that instead of destruction, the drone is brought down intact to allow forensic analysis and intelligence-gathering to eliminate threats and prevent future attacks. Some well-established physical countermeasure are: well-trained snipers to shoot them down with pellet guns, man-portable launchers to launch nets to physically capture drones and bring them down with a parachute. Electronic countermeasures take over remote control signals and the Global Positioning System (GPS) signals to disorient and capture the drone. Lasers are becoming a feasible option. However, directed energy weapons are still experimental from an operational standpoint.The detection and identification systems include contemporary technology devices like modular and fully configurable 3D radar sensor, MIMO (multiple-input multiple-output) radars to improve detection accuracy, radio frequency sensors and acoustic sensors. The electronic countermeasures include a fully integrated and automated directional or omnidirectional jammer for neutralisation of drones and a dedicated web application for controlling the system.As the concern surrounding drone safety continues to grow, fresh and innovative technologies will continue to evolve, and the trick lies in keeping pace. The time to prevent any future belligerence is now.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/keep-pace-with-tech-advancements-276031
30-06-2021||---||Avoid knee-jerk reaction||IN what can be classified as an escalation in violence, drones were used to cause at least two explosions in the technical area of Jammu airport, which is being used by the Air Force. Though it caused only minor injuries to two personnel, the incident could have been much worse. The drone could have hit a parked aircraft, resulting in a terror attack of no small proportion. This is a quantum jump in terrorist capability in India. No doubt about that at all. That said, it is not the drone itself that is the sole issue, but the intent and intelligence in how it is used.Commercial drones relatively available in India, like the DJI Phantom 4, with an added payload of explosives of up to a kilogram or more, would have an operational range of about a kilometre. Since the explosion was at night, the onboard camera was probably not of much use for targeting, explaining why it missed any worthwhile target.Even if coordinates were fed in, it is important to understand that commercial drones are simply not geared up for this kind of precision task. Showering flowers on a visiting VIP, yes; targeting a specific aircraft, no. If it was a commercial drone, then the operator was close to the airport, probably on the roof of a building, guiding the drone. Reports, however, seem to indicate that the drone flew across the border and back, a total of some 40 km, indicating a far more technology-intensive and probably larger machine, that raises a different set of possibilities.The Jammu airport is just about 14 km from the Pakistan border, which makes it vulnerable to such attacks. Islamabad has a vigorous (UAV unmanned aerial vehicle) programme that includes long-range ones of upwards of 1,000 km and tactical drones with a range of some 80 km. The ‘Bravo +’, for instance, has a wingspan of about 14 feet and a payload of some 145 kg. But it defies logic as to why Pakistan’s military would launch such a strike which could squarely implicate it, if shot down. By now, Islamabad knows full well that this is not a government that would hesitate to retaliate. Being Pakistan, there is always the possibility that a part of the armed forces don’t want even the beginnings of a rapprochement with India, that is reportedly on the cards, given sustained backdoor negotiations and apparent overtures by the Chief of Army Staff General Bajwa. But again, a Pak military drone would hardly miss a stationary target.The more likely possibility is apparent in reports of a spate of drone activity along the border. In October last year, a Chinese surveillance quadcopter was shot down by Indian troops in Kupwara, probably used by smugglers. In June, a rather strange-looking quadcopter was shot down, carrying an assault rifle and grenades. That’s quite a payload. Military sources say diverse such attempts have been intercepted in recent times in the Jammu sector. Available data seems to indicate that all these intrusions were by relatively small machines, that fall under a commercial type of drone, but improvised for its role. A day after the Jammu blasts, alert troops fired at drones over the Kaluchak military station, however, to little effect. The machines seem to have disappeared thereafter. There are no inputs of what these were, and what they were supposed to do. But it points to high confidence, and an intent to raise alarm, possibly to push the Air Force into retaliation in terms of deliberate flights close to the India- Pakistan border. That could raise bilateral temperatures very quickly.For terrorists, a small drone is a perfect weapon. Barbed wire, armed guards or even a radar can’t spot a weapon that has such a small cross-section, particularly in low altitudes where it can disappear in background ‘noise’. Drones have long been used by terrorists, delivering more psychological effect than actual damage. Hezbollah used drones supplied by Iran to target Syrian rebel strongholds in 2013. The Islamic State has a DIY capability that it has used to gain a strategic advantage, though not much of a battlefield weapon. What it did get was good intelligence and surveillance capability. Then there have been assassination attempts using commercial drones, such as the one against President Maduro of Venezuela in which seven soldiers were injured. The most spectacular use of drones was by Houthis against Saudi Arabia’s oil facilities, which resulted in upending world supplies as its production halted. But those were UAV-X military drones with long range and used ‘kamikaze style’ with warheads of some 18 kg of explosives, according to a UN report. With about 10 of these used, that was not terrorism, it was war. Few remember that Houthis also used Qasef-1 drones to little effect, even though these carry a large warhead. Small drones deliver more in terms of a spectacle, but cause little actual damage. True, in Jammu, one hit against a parked aircraft would have been damage enough. But the key here is not the vehicle. It’s the explosives expert. Find the explosive, and you’ll find the culprit.It is important, therefore, to separate the clearly military drones from the improvised vehicles used so far, in generating a response. One requires better border policing, the other a huge change in military doctrines. What is clear is that we need to up the alert, but guard against the usual knee-jerk reactions to swoop down on the commercial use of drones that have wide applications at a time of economic stress. There are already attempts to stifle the use of drones through the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) that will effectively prevent legitimate commercial activity. The DGCA’s present ‘Blue Sky’ parameters for instance, may be replaced with stringent KYC procedure, similar to banking systems for an effective oversight. Terror groups like the Lashkar-e-Toiba aim to create panic in an already paranoid bureaucracy, and thereby earn more publicity that increases their stature. It’s a fine line to walk. React with firmness against the real culprit who provides them with shelter and sustenance, but also show that the State is more than capable of protecting its own.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/avoid-knee-jerk-reaction-275946
30-06-2021||---||Age of instant enlightenment||It seems we are living in the age of instantaneity and quick consumption. Everything, be it a McDonald’s burger, a cup of Starbucks coffee, a twitter message, or even a political satire on YouTube, is produced and consumed as fast as you can imagine. There seems to be no end to the rapidly changing flow of commodities, symbolic goods, Facebook/Instagram images and messages. It seems we are only running, and eternally hungry for something ‘exciting’ and ‘new’. See the way this age of instantaneous consumption transforms even religiosity/spirituality into a product. From a quick look at a book by Osho while waiting in the airport to a three-day retreat in a fancy ashram for learning breathing exercises—the aspiring and mobile class transforms even the ‘alternative’ into a consumable product. Not surprisingly, in this media saturated world, YouTube is full of innumerable packages of instant enlightenment: ‘Zen Buddhism: The Easiest Spiritual Path on Earth’, ‘2 minutes to heal your upset mind’, or ‘If you do this 1 thing every day, God’s grace will find you’.How does one make sense of the flourishing business of the ‘spirituality industry’? Possibly, it requires a deep understanding of the inner emptiness of the newly emergent aspiring class — terribly busy and over-stressed professionals, or the bunch of celebrities — from film stars to cricketers — living with chronic anxiety of falling from their elevated positions. In a way, this is the dialectic of ‘success’. The more successful you are, the more fearful you become. And at times, this leads to a sense of fatigue and even meaninglessness. Yet, despite being burnt out, there seems to be no escape from this hyper-competitive game of social Darwinism. See the way the age of techno-capitalism with its obsession with productivity, limitless growth and conspicuous consumption has made many of us almost incapable of living in silence. Instead, as the clock time is measured, quantified and fragmented into hours/minutes/seconds, we get disciplined to use every fragment of it for ‘productive’ purposes. The tyranny of the time-table makes us restless. No wonder, we are always in a hurry. In fact, not to be busy is seen to be a sign of failure. And despite the availability of all sorts of time-saving gadgets, there seems to be no time to see a tiny blue flower, a sunset, or to echo with Walt Whitman—‘to me every inch of space is a miracle’. Instead, everything—even a morning walk—has to be measured in terms of its utility value (say, reducing blood sugar and hypertension). We are the prisoners of time. No wonder, like fast food, even love or religiosity has to be consumed quickly and instantly.There are moments when this class too feels a need for peace, tranquility and self-realisation. However, it is not easy to be free from the attachment to the comforts and privileges they are used to. Nor is it easy to be free from the mood of instantaneity. And herein lies the sociology of the arrival of all sorts of life coaches, motivational speakers, and new age spiritual messiahs. They come forward with packages of instant redemption — a ‘feel good’ moment for a couple of days before you go back to the old routine: working like robotic performers, earning, saving, consuming and buying all sorts of insurances. Hence, come back from your office, have a cup of coffee, open your laptop, spend five minutes, feel the miracle of YouTube, and listen to, say, a talk by Brahmakumari Shivani — ‘2 steps to think right always’, or a discourse by Sri Sri Ravi Shankar —‘15 minute morning meditation’.No, it is not easy to spend more than 15 minutes for spiritual redemption. Nor is it easy to be a wanderer, and give up the real source of inner emptiness—the craving for what Gautam Buddha regarded as temporal pleasures. These ‘new-age gurus’ and babas too are not interested in a fundamental psychic/existential/spiritual revolution. They just give you some capsules for quick consumption, and feeling ‘positive’ for an hour. No wonder, these days all these celebrity babas are continually speaking, and the companies they run are never tired of manufacturing innumerable videos conveying all sorts of healing practices for instant consumption — say, ‘how to detox and relax through breath’. Sometimes, I ask myself: Do these babas ever experience the depths of silence: the silence that takes one beyond life and death, or the silence that makes one see the emptiness of everything? Or is it that, like tape recorders, they are continually talking? Think of, for instance, Sadhguru. It seems he is compelled to speak on everything on earth—‘Why teenagers don’t get along with parents’; ‘how to stop overthinking’; or ‘one simple rule for success’. There is no end to the list. This is what the ‘spiritual industry’ does; it manufactures all sorts of products that, like other consumable items, promise instant gratification.This is not to deconstruct our spiritual quest and longing. Nor do I suggest that all these videos are necessarily trivial. I too watch Alan Watts or Jiddu Krishnamurti on YouTube; and at times, a Taoist discourse on ‘Be like water’ makes me spiritually musical. Yet, it is important to be cautious because in the age of instantaneity, the overproduction of ‘spiritual packages’ for hyper-modern consumers trivialises the very quest for what Rabindranath Tagore would have regarded as our surplus—the urge to see beyond the finitude of utilitarianism, and experience the glimpses of the infinite in the finite.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/age-of-instant-enlightenment-275924
