06-03-2020||World||Donald Trump set to sign $8.3B bill to combat coronavirus outbreak||President Donald Trump is expected to sign an $8.3 billion measure on Friday to help tackle the coronavirus outbreak. The legislation would provide federal public health agencies money for vaccines, tests and potential treatments, and help state and local governments prepare for and respond to the threat.The Senate passed the measure Thursday to help tackle the outbreak in hopes of reassuring a fearful public and accelerating the government’s response to the virus. Its rapid spread is threatening to upend everyday life in the U.S. and across the globe.The money would pay for a multifaceted attack on a virus that is spreading more widely every day, sending financial markets spiraling again Thursday, disrupting travel and potentially threatening the U.S. economy’s decade-long expansion.Thursday’s sweeping 96-1 vote sends the bill to the White House for President Donald Trump’s signature. Sen. Rand Paul, R-Ky., cast the sole “no” vote. The House passed the bill Wednesday by a 415-2 vote.The plan would more than triple the $2.5 billion amount outlined by the White House 10 days ago. The Trump proposal was immediately discarded by members of Congress from both parties. Instead, the bipartisan leadership of the House and Senate Appropriations committees negotiated the increased figure and other provisions of the legislation in a burst of bipartisan cooperation that’s common on the panel but increasingly rare elsewhere in Washington.“In situations like this, I believe no expense should be spared to protect the American people, and in crafting this package none was,” said Appropriations Committee Chairman Richard Shelby, R-Ala. “It’s an aggressive plan, a vigorous plan that has received an overwhelming positive reaction.”Trump was sure to sign the measure, which has almost universal support. It is intended to project confidence and calm as anxiety builds over the impact of the virus, which has claimed 12 lives in the U.S.“The American people are looking for leadership and want assurance that their government is up to the task of protecting their health and safety,” said Sen. Patrick Leahy, D-Vt.The impact of the outbreak continues to mount. The British government is considering suspending Parliament for five months in hope of limiting the spread of the virus in the United Kingdom.The legislation would provide federal public health agencies money for vaccines, tests and potential treatments, including $300 million to deliver such drugs to those who need it. More than $2 billion would go to help federal, state and local governments prepare for and respond to the coronavirus threat. An additional $1.3 billion would be used to help fight the virus overseas. There’s also funding to subsidize $7 billion in small business loans.Other dollars would be directed to help local officials prepare for the potential worsening of the outbreak and subsidize treatment by community health centers. Medicare rules would be loosened to enable remote “telehealth” consultations whereby sick people could to get treatment without visiting a doctor.Sen. Maria Cantwell, D-Wash., whose state is at the center of the crisis, praised the bill because it “will increase access for public lab testing, help pay for isolation and quarantine, help pay for sanitizing in public areas, better track the virus and those who might come into contact with it, help labs who are trying to identify hot spots, and limit exposure.”The legislation contains a hard-won compromise that aims to protect against potential price gouging by drug manufacturers for vaccines and other medicines developed with taxpayer funds. Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar would have the power to make sure commercial prices are reasonable. Azar is a former drug industry lobbyist.Democrats said other steps may be needed if the outbreak continues to worsen.“This may be a first step because we have issues that relate to unemployment insurance for people who are put out of work.” Pelosi said as she signed the bill to send it to Trump.“We have only about 27% of people in this country who have paid sick days. So if they have to go home what is going to happen to them and their families?” said Rep. Rosa DeLauro, D-Conn.DeLauro said Pence responded that he would raise the issue with the president.The bill seeks to restore $136 million that the Department of Health and Human Services cut from other accounts such as heating subsidies for the poor to battle the virus.The legislation comes as carping over the administration’s response to the outbreak is quieting down. Lawmakers in both parties had faulted a shortage of tests for the virus and contrasting messages from Trump and his subordinates. In an interview with Sean Hannity of Fox News on Wednesday, Trump downplayed the lethality of the virus, saying the World Health Organization’s updated estimate of a 3.4% death rate in coronavirus cases is “a false number.”“Now you’re starting to see rapid deployment of tests, which makes me feel better, quite honestly,” said Rep. Raul Ruiz, D-Calif., a doctor. “I think their communications are a little better. As long as the president doesn’t contradict the experts and the scientists who know what they’re doing, things will get better.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-set-to-sign-8-3b-bill-to-combat-coronavirus-outbreak/story-Un58lYz8JAXaJUaSQxitPO.html
06-03-2020||World||Iran warns it could use ‘force’ to halt travel amid coronavirus||Iran said Friday the new coronavirus has killed 124 people amid 4,747 confirmed cases in the Islamic Republic as authorities warned they may use “force” to limit travel between cities.Health Ministry spokesman Kianoush Jahanpour offered the figures at a televised news conference. He did not elaborate on the threat to use force, though he acknowledged the virus now was in all of Iran’s 31 provinces.The threat may be to stop people from using the closed schools and universities as an excuse to go to the Caspian Sea and other Iranian vacation spots. Semiofficial news agencies in Iran posted images of long lines of traffic of people trying to reach the Caspian coast from Tehran on Friday despite authorities earlier telling people to remain in their cities.Iran on Thursday announced it would put checkpoints in place to limit travel between major cities, hoping to stem the spread of the virus.Iran canceled Friday prayers across its major cities. Elsewhere in the region, Iraq canceled Friday prayers in Karbala, where a weekly sermon is delivered on behalf of the country’s top Shiite cleric. Authorities in the United Arab Emirates meanwhile limited prayers to two verses of the Quran so they lasted no longer than 10 minutes, over concerns about the virus.More than 4,990 cases of the virus, which causes the illness COVID-19, have been confirmed across the Middle East. Iran and Italy have the world’s highest death tolls outside of China.In Tehran, firefighters sprayed disinfectant on an 18-kilometer (11-mile) length of Tehran’s famous Valiasr Avenue, some from firetrucks and others walking along its sidewalks, spraying ATMs and storefronts.“It would be great if they did it every day,” grocery store owner Reza Razaienejad said after the firefighters sprayed outside his shop. “It should not be just a one-time thing and should be done frequently, especially in places like here where movement and traffic happens a lot.”But Iran offered some hope as well. Authorities reported a woman infected with the virus gave birth to a girl late Thursday night in Qom, the Shiite holy city particularly hard-hit by the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/iran-warns-it-could-use-force-to-halt-travel-amid-coronavirus/story-6sOgQuDfuKrLe2fXGid9TM.html
06-03-2020||World||Explosion near US Embassy in Tunisia wounds 5 police officers||Tunisian media are reporting that two people on a motorcycle set off a blast near the U.S. Embassy in the Tunisian capital, Tunis.The private Radio Mosaique said it was a suicide attack and reported that five police officers were wounded in the explosion Friday. That report could not be immediately confirmed.The station, which is usually reliable, said the two approached the police patrol as if to seek information before setting off an explosive device.Police taped off the area around the blast site, which was littered with debris. The flag of the United States could be seen fluttering in the background.Islamic extremists have targeted Tunisia in recent years, killing scores of people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/explosion-near-us-embassy-in-tunisia-wounds-5-police/story-UlcAmWewwNflS8T6wxcEMO.html
06-03-2020||World||Coronavirus epicentre Wuhan could see zero cases by March-end||The central Chinese city of Wuhan, the epicentre of the ongoing coronavirus outbreak could see zero new cases by the end of March, a leading government expert has said, though there was an increase in fresh cases for the second consecutive day.The national health commission (NHC) also announced on Friday that some vaccines against covid-19 could be put to clinical trials or emergency use in April.By the end of Thursday, Hubei reported 29 of the 30 new deaths and 126 of the 143 new infections reported from across China, national health commission (NHC) officials said.The death toll from covid-19 is now 3042 and total infections 80522 in China, the NHC said.All the new infections in Hubei were from Wuhan, and none were reported from other major cities in the province.Taking a cue from the trend, Zhang Boli from the Chinese Academy of Engineering and a member of the central government expert group in Wuhan said the provincial capital could see zero new infections by month-end and other cities are likely to report the same by the middle of the month.Zhang was quoted as saying by state media that outside Hubei, people could take off their masks and resume normal life by the end of April.“In Hubei and particularly in Wuhan, however, people will have to wait one additional month. Zero reported new cases is not absolute. Sporadic new cases will emerge,” he said. Two new areas of worry are emerging in China – new cases coming in from abroad and recovered patients relapsing.On Friday, Shanghai reported three new cases of covid-19 infections, all from Tehran, Iran, taking the total number of such cases to 39.The three infected persons, two from northwest China’s Ningxia and one from Gansu, are studying in Iran.As of Thursday, 16 new “imported” cases of novel coronavirus infection were reported on the mainland, including 11 in Gansu Province, four in Beijing and one in Shanghai. The cases in Beijing were tracked back to Italy.Doctors here are also carefully looking into the cases of relapsed patients.Residents of a building in Xi’an in northwest China’s Shaanxi province have been quarantined for two weeks since Thursday after a recovered COVID-19 patient living in the building again turned positive.A rehabilitation clinic for recovered patients has been opened in Wuhan.According to doctors, the facility is necessary as recovered patients, especially in severe cases, may continue to show symptoms like fatigue and lack of appetite. They are also prone to relapse as their immune system is low.Meanwhile, NHC’s Zheng Zhongwei said Friday that “eight institutions in China were working on developing vaccines along five technical routes”.“Many of them have entered animal trials and the development progress for vaccines in China is similar to somewhat ahead of those in foreign countries,” Zheng was quoted as saying by state-run China Daily.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/coronavirus-epicentre-wuhan-could-see-zero-cases-by-march-end/story-w165B8JGmv9VAWpgEE1usO.html
06-03-2020||World||Tokyo 2020 drops children from Olympic torch events as coronavirus precaution||Some 340 Japanese children will be unable to participate in the Olympic torch ceremonies for the handover in Greece and arrival in Japan due to precautions being taken against the spread of the coronavirus, Tokyo 2020 chief Yoshiro Mori said on Friday.Mori, a former prime minister who heads the Tokyo 2020 organizing committee, again rebuffed speculation that the Games might be cancelled due to the coronavirus outbreak.“Impossible,” Mori told reporters who asked about the potential cancellation. On Wednesday, when he was asked when the organizers could decide on any changes to the Olympics if the virus kept spreading he said: “I’m not a God so I don’t know.”Mori has said that the only plan right now was to hold the Games as scheduled, but emphasized that the organizers were listening to various opinions and would be flexible about the events in the run-up because the situation was evolving rapidly.The number of coronavirus cases in Japan stood at 1,057 as of Friday morning. The virus has killed 12 people in Japan and more than 3,000 globally since late last year. The Olympic torch will be lit in Olympia at a scaled-down ceremony on March 12 before a seven-day relay that will culminate with a handover ceremony in Greece on March 19, which 140 Japanese children had been slated to attend. Around 200 more were to have participated in the arrival ceremony in Japan on March 20.“The children practiced very hard for the ceremonies so we’re very sorry about that. We’ll try to make it up to them during the Games,” said Mori.Runners and staff involved in the relay carrying the torch after its arrival in Japan will have their temperature and health monitored and the number of people attending events could be restricted, the organisers said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/tokyo-2020-drops-children-from-olympic-torch-events-as-coronavirus-precaution/story-0bJD1iFLN2bOMNeYMVNYqJ.html
06-03-2020||World||As virus cases near 100,000, fear of ‘devastation’ for poor||The number of people infected with the new virus charged toward 100,000 Friday, with the global scare upending routines, threatening livelihoods and prompting quarantines in its spread.Asian and European shares were down following a rough day on Wall Street and the consequences of COVID-19, the disease caused by the virus, were becoming clear to people around the world. Halted travel and a broader economic downturn linked to the outbreak threatened to hit already-struggling communities for months to come.“Who is going to feed their families?” asked Elias al-Arja, the head of a hotel owners’ union in Bethlehem in the Israeli-occupied West Bank, where tourists have been banned and the storied Church of the Nativity shuttered.The head of the U.N.’s food agency, the World Food Program, warned of the potential of “absolute devastation” as the outbreak’s effects ripple through Africa and the Middle East.Across the West, there was a sense of déjà vu as the virus’ spread prompted scenes that already played out in Asia, with workers foregoing offices, vigorous sanitizing in public places and runs on household basics. Even the spectacle of a cruise ship ordered to stay at sea off the California coast over virus fears replicated ones weeks ago on the other side of the globe.“The Western world is now following some of China’s playbook,” said Chris Beauchamp, a market analyst at the financial firm IG.Signs of the virus’ shift away from its origins in China were becoming clearer each day.China reported 143 new cases Friday, the same as a day earlier and about one-third what the country was seeing a week ago. Just a month ago, China was reporting several thousand new cases a day, outnumbering infections elsewhere in the world about 120 to 1. The problem has now flipped, with the outbreak moving to Europe — where Italy, Germany and France had the most cases — and beyond.The second hardest-hit country, South Korea, was also registering a notable decline in new infections and the World Health Organization’s leader said he was seeing “encouraging signs” there.South Korea reported 505 additional cases Friday, down from a high of 851 on Tuesday. The country has touted its “remarkable diagnostic and treatment abilities” but its vice health minister, Kim Gang-lip, said, “It’s not easy to make predictions about how the situation ... would play out.”Cases were increasing in Germany and France, but Italy remained the center of Europe’s outbreak, particularly in its north. The country has had 148 fatalities, making it the deadliest site for the virus outside China.The Italian government restricted visits to nursing homes and assisted living facilities to protect older people who have been more vulnerable to succumbing to COVID-19. But with schools closed nationwide, many grandparents were called to duty as last-minute babysitters anyway.Even Vatican City was hit by the virus, with the tiny city-state confirming its first case Friday but not saying who was infected. The Vatican has insisted Pope Francis, who has been sick, only has a cold.The Vatican said it is working with Italian authorities to keep the coronavirus from spreading, with a suspension of Pope Francis’ weekly audiences seen likely.Iran’s government planned to set up checkpoints to limit travel and urged people to stop using paper money as the country has counted more than 3,500 cases and at least 107 deaths.And in the United States, more than 230 cases were stirring anxiety around the country, nowhere more than its northwestern corner in Washington state, where officials are so concerned about having space to care for the sick they were expected to close a $4 million deal Friday to take over a roadside motel.The plan to turn the 84-room EconoLodge into a quarantine facility was not sitting well with everyone, including the police chief in the town where it’s located, who called it “ill-advised and dangerous” and warned security would be needed to keep people from leaving the hotel and infecting others.To the south, on the Pacific coast, California National Guard paratroopers were hoisted down from a military helicopter to deliver virus test kits to the bow of the Grand Princess cruise ship.The vessel, with 3,500 aboard, was ordered to stay at sea after a traveler from its previous voyage died of the coronavirus and at least four others were infected. The cruise line said samples were collected from 45 passengers and crew members and results were expected later Friday.The Grand Princess is operated by the same line as the Diamond Princess, which was quarantined at a Japanese port last month. More than 700 people on board were infected.The 100,000 figure of infections — likely to be passed on Friday — is largely symbolic, but a milestone nonetheless. Other major outbreaks in recent decades, including SARS and MERS, affected far fewer people but had a higher mortality rate.The new virus has spread to around 90 countries, with the Netherlands and Cameroon each reporting their first cases Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/as-virus-cases-near-100-000-fear-of-devastation-for-poor/story-o3utPNorzdIcWY0a5IxUnN.html
06-03-2020||World||Iran says coronavirus toll jumps by 17 with 1,000-plus new infections||Iran’s death toll from coronavirus infections jumped on Friday to 124, as 17 died over the past 24 hours and more than 1,000 were additionally diagnosed with the disease, a health ministry spokesman said in Tehran.The number of infections rose to 4,747, he said.Iran had reported 3,513 infections on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/iran-says-coronavirus-toll-jumps-by-17-with-1-000-plus-new-infections/story-iGxe5F7LqRzjlJyiWlmWgO.html
06-03-2020||World||Cruise ship passengers ‘in limbo’ off San Francisco awaiting coronavirus tests||First, the food buffet was shut down as gloved staff scurried about wiping every surface in sight. Then the ocean liner’s gym, bar, casino and boutiques were closed, with passengers urged to keep to themselves. Finally, they were confined to their staterooms.Once the captain announced their vessel may be tainted with coronavirus, Grand Princess cruise ship guests like Kathleen Reid were left with little to do but contemplate the prospect of extended isolation at sea, or worse.“My first reaction was, ‘Oh, crap. We’re going to be quarantined, and maybe get sick,’“ Reid, 67, a retiree from Granbury, Texas said. “We don’t know what’s happening, so we’re just kind of in limbo, waiting.”Reid, who spoke to Reuters by cell phone on Thursday, was one of some 2,300 passengers stuck with about 1,100 crew members aboard the Grand Princess, idled off the coast of California a day after the ship was denied entry to its home port in San Francisco.Like the Diamond Princess, the liner held in quarantine off Japan last month, the Grand Princess is owned by a unit of Carnival Corp, the world’s largest cruise operator. Experts have criticized Japanese bureaucrats’ handling of the onboard quarantine, as ultimately about 700 people were infected and six have died in what was at the time the largest concentration of coronavirus cases outside China. California Governor Gavin Newsom insisted that the Grand Princess remain at sea until passengers and crew complaining of flu-like symptoms during a 15-day roundtrip cruise to Hawaii could be tested for possible coronavirus infection.On Thursday, the U.S. Coast Guard airlifted a batch of diagnostic kits to the ship via helicopter, and public health officials said samples collected would be flown back to a San Francisco Bay Area state laboratory for testing.FEWER THAN 100 TO BE TESTEDResults were expected in about 24 hours, said Mary Ellen Carroll, executive director of the city’s Department of Emergency Management.State and local officials acted after learning that 35 people aboard the ship had fallen ill, and that two passengers who had traveled on the same vessel for a voyage last month between San Francisco and Mexico later tested positive for coronavirus.One, an elderly man from Placer County near Sacramento with underlying health conditions, died this week, marking the first documented coronavirus fatality in California. The other, from the Bay area, was described by Newsom as gravely sick.Health officials say both individuals likely contracted the virus while they were aboard the ocean liner.The Princess cruise line said fewer than 100 passengers and crew from the Hawaii voyage of its Grand Princess have been identified for testing, including those who were ill.Tests will also be given to dozens of holdover passengers from the Mexico trip who stayed on the ship for the voyage to Hawaii, as well as “guests currently under care for respiratory illness,” the cruise line said in a statement. They will remain quarantined on the ship until cleared by medical staff.Specialists from the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) were working with local health authorities and the Coast Guard to coordinate the operation.They also were seeking to contact some 2,500 passengers who disembarked in San Francisco on Feb. 21 after the earlier cruise to Mexico. One of them, a Canadian woman from the province of Alberta, tested positive for the virus this week, health officials there said.‘SOCIAL DISTANCING’Princess Cruises has canceled the next scheduled departure of its Grand Princess Hawaii voyage from San Francisco, which had been set for March 7.Passengers on the current cruise, meanwhile, were forced to make do with a rapidly shrinking choice of amusements.Having already lost access to many of the ship’s favorite attractions - the bar, casino, shops, food buffet and gym - guests were also urged to practice “social distancing,” making an effort to keep at least 6 feet away from strangers on the ship, the company said. By midday on Thursday, they were asked to confine themselves to their staterooms until further notice.It was unclear what would occur should anyone now aboard the ship test positive for the respiratory virus, which has infected more than 95,000 people worldwide, most of them in China, where the outbreak originated.“Once we have results from the tests, the CDC and the state will determine the most appropriate location for the ship to berth, and the location needs to provide for the safety of the surrounding community as well as the passengers and crew,” Carroll told reporters on Thursday.She said the ship might be directed to an arrival point other than San Francisco.Reid, who is traveling with her husband, said the ship’s captain was keeping passengers informed of developments throughout the day with announcements every couple of hours, and that fellow guests seemed to be taking the uncertainty mostly in stride.“People are, I’m sure, a little anxious, but nobody has just gone screaming mad yet,” Reid said, adding she had seen no obvious signs of anyone being sick. “Hand-washing is a big deal,” she said, but “nobody is walking around sneezing or coughing.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/cruise-ship-passengers-in-limbo-off-san-francisco-awaiting-coronavirus-tests/story-YBnJ5rDGIXMCBFxyg8FevJ.html
06-03-2020||World||At least 27 killed in attack on Afghan political rally: Officials||The death toll in an attack on a ceremony in Kabul rose to 27, a ministry of health spokesman said on Friday. “Twenty-seven bodies and 29 wounded transported by ... ambulance so far,” Wahidullah Mayar, health ministry spokesman, told Reuters, adding that the number could increase.Gunmen attacked a ceremony in the Afghan capital Kabul on Friday where a top Afghan political leader, Abdullah Abdullah, was present but escaped unharmed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/at-least-27-killed-in-attack-on-afghan-political-rally-officials/story-mGiRUK0MZoXh5vzJ5SlKwI.html
06-03-2020||World||Afghan political leader Abdullah Abdullah escapes attack on Kabul ceremony||Gunmen attacked a ceremony in the Afghan capital Kabul on Friday where a top Afghan political leader, Abdullah Abdullah, was present but escaped unharmed.Two were killed and 18 wounded at the event, according to Afghan officials, the first big attack on the capital since a troop withdrawal agreement was signed in Doha between the United States and the Taliban Islamist militant group.The Taliban said in a statement they were not involved in the attack.“The attack started with a boom, apparently a rocket landed in the area, Abdullah and some other politicians ... escaped the attack unhurt,” Abdullah’s spokesman, Fraidoon Kwazoon, who was also present, told Reuters by telephone.The gathering marked the anniversary of the death of Abdul Ali Mazari, an ethnic Hazara leader who was killed in 1995 after being taken prisoner by the Taliban.Abdullah, runner-up in the last three Afghan presidential elections, each of which he disputed, has served as chief executive of a coalition government since 2014 and is also a former foreign minister.Broadcaster Tolo News showed live footage of people running for cover as gunfire was heard.President Ashraf Ghani tweeted that the attack was “a crime against humanity and against the national unity of Afghanistan”. He added he had telephoned Abdullah, his longtime political rival. Abdullah is contesting an Electoral Commission announcement last month declaring Ghani the winner of September’s presidential election. Several people were killed in a similar attack on the same commemoration last year. Islamic State militants claimed responsibility for that attack.Hazaras are mostly Shi’ite Muslims. Minority Shi’ites have been repeatedly attacked by Sunni Muslim militant groups in Afghanistan.The United States has been trying to spearhead efforts towards a lasting peace arrangement. Violence decreased during a seven-day hold-down agreement with the Taliban leading up to last Saturday’s deal, though the Taliban has since resumed attacks on Afghan forces. A senior Western security official said all checkpoints in Kabul were on high alert.“It’s too early to say but for now we are intensifying security,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/afghan-political-leader-abdullah-abdullah-escapes-attack-on-kabul-ceremony/story-wt9aOIwfmgSj7PZrYZXdQO.html
06-03-2020||World||China’s Hubei reports no new coronavirus cases outside city of Wuhan||China’s central province of Hubei, excluding the provincial capital Wuhan, has reported zero new cases of coronavirus over 24 hours for the first time in the outbreak, as authorities seek to stem imported infections in other areas. Wuhan, the centre of the epidemic, reported 126 new confirmed cases on Thursday but there were no new infections elsewhere in the province, the National Health Commission said on Friday. Elsewhere in China, schools in provinces reporting no new cases for a number of days started to set reopening dates.Qinghai, a northwesterly that had reported no new infections for 29 days as of March 5, said it would stagger the start date of different schools between March 11 and March 20, according to a notice posted on an official website. The southwesterly province of Guizhou has said its schools will start reopening from March 16. Outside of Hubei, there were 17 new confirmed cases, bringing the total new infections in mainland China to 143 on Thursday, up from 139 cases a day earlier. Of the 17 new cases, 16 were imported from outside of China - 11 in Gansu province, four in Beijing and one in Shanghai. A total of 311 passengers arriving at Gansu’s provincial capital Lanzhou from Iran were quarantined, state television reported late on Thursday.Beijing’s four new cases had come from Italy. On Friday, one of the city’s government officials described its epidemic control campaign as being at its most challenging period, adding that roughly 827,000 people who had returned to the capital from outside - most of them from extended Lunar New Year holidays - were currently undergoing home observation.Last month, Gansu became the first province to lower its emergency response measures from level I to level III, reflecting the lack of new infections.Tibet became the latest region to lower its emergency response level on Friday, announcing on an official website that some areas had eased to level II and others to level III.OPTIMISM FOR WUHANHealth authorities in Shanghai said that the city had recorded three new cases in the first 12 hours of Friday. All were Chinese nationals who had studied in Iran, state media reported.All three had been transferred by Shanghai customs to quarantine on March 3, a spokeswoman for the city’s health commission told a news briefing.Despite the fresh cases in Wuhan, senior Chinese government officials expressed optimism about its situation as the city shut its second makeshift hospital on Friday afternoon, state radio reported.“As the situation in Wuhan and Hubei improves, relevant authorities, with approvals, will make timely adjustments according to China’s Infectious Diseases Law and public health emergency regulations,” Ding Xiangyang, vice secretary general at the State Council, told a news briefing. “When I went out in the morning, the cherry blossoms were blooming in front of my door, telling us that winter has passed and spring has come. I think the day everyone has been looking forward to is not far away,” he said. As new cases dwindle in China, attention has turned to potential infections arriving from overseas.Authorities in Beijing, Shanghai and Guangdong have all vowed to quarantine travellers from countries hit the hardest by the coronavirus, which Beijing identified as South Korea, Japan, Iran and Italy. The overall accumulated number of confirmed cases in mainland China stood at 80,552 as of Thursday.The death toll from the outbreak in mainland China was 3,042 as of the end of Thursday, up by 30 from the previous day. Hubei reported 29 new deaths, while in Wuhan, 23 people died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-s-hubei-reports-no-new-coronavirus-cases-outside-city-of-wuhan/story-gjsAXNg7z8qrkNVp3vXT4I.html
06-03-2020||World||Pak doesn’t want any security role for India in Afghanistan: Report||Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi has said Pakistan does not want any security role for India in Afghanistan as he accused New Delhi of playing the role of a “spoiler” in the war-torn country, according to a media report.After months of negotiations, the US and Taliban signed a landmark peace deal in Qatari capital Doha on Saturday, effectively drawing curtains on the United States’ 18-year war in Afghanistan since 2001. Speaking in the Senate on Wednesday, Qureshi said that Pakistan neither desires “any security role of India in Afghanistan” nor wants presence of militant organisations — Al-Qaeda and the ISIS — in the landlocked country, The Nation reported.The foreign minister told the Upper House that India had always played role of a spoiler, the report said.“There were spoilers in the past and they are even today, within and outside Afghanistan, who want to get their own objectives,” Qureshi said. India has been a key stakeholder in Afghanistan as it had already spent around USD 2 billion in reconstruction of the war-ravaged country. India has been maintaining that care should be taken to ensure that any peace process does not lead to any “ungoverned spaces” where terrorists and their proxies can relocate. Ahead of the peace deal, India conveyed to the US that pressure on Pakistan to crack down on terror networks operating from its soil must be kept up though Islamabad’s cooperation for peace in Afghanistan is crucial. Qureshi on Sunday also warned that “spoilers” could try to sabotage the peace process in Afghanistan.He also said that Pakistan wanted to resolve all issues with Afghanistan bilaterally. Reiterating that Pakistan was never part of the peace talks and their role “has always been and will always be” that of a facilitator, the minister said Pakistan cannot give guarantee or take responsibility to peace in Afghanistan. “This is a shared responsibility, and all (stakeholders) will have to play their role. There are many powers, interests and motives (involved),” he said.He said that the true test of the Afghan leadership begins now as Afghan people want peace.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pak-doesn-t-want-any-security-role-for-india-in-afghanistan-report/story-LM71yjoAfE6g7QD3SiT6RI.html
06-03-2020||World||Trump says US economy could take hit from coronavirus||President Donald Trump said on Thursday the US economy might take a hit from the coronavirus outbreak but predicted the challenge would eventually pass and defended his handling of the crisis.Trump appeared at his first town hall meeting of the 2020 election season, an event conducted by Fox News Channel before an audience in Scranton, Pennsylvania, a battleground state that helped propel him to the White House in 2016.The spreading coronavirus has led to a steep downturn in the stock market and fanned fears of an economic dip just as the Republican president asks Americans for a second term.Asked if the coronavirus outbreak hurt the economy, Trump said: “It certainly might have an impact. At the same time, I have to say people are now staying in the United States spending their money in the U.S., and I like that.”“It’s going to all work out. Everybody has to be calm,” he said. “We have plans for every single possibility and I think that’s what we have to do. We hope it doesn’t last too long.”Trump repeated his assertion that the travel restrictions he imposed on China early in the crisis had helped limit the outbreak in the United States. The US death toll from the coronavirus rose to 12 on Thursday and 53 new cases broke out across the country.. More than 3,200 people worldwide have died from the respiratory illness that can lead to pneumonia.Trump has faced criticism from Democrats for not having the country properly prepared for the possibility of a pandemic.“I think people are viewing us as having done a very good job. What we have to do is do a professional job. Nobody is blaming us for the virus,” he said. “This started in China.”The US Senate on Thursday passed an $8.3 billion bill to combat the outbreak, a day after the House of Representatives overwhelmingly approved it. The bill now goes to Trump for his signature.Asked about his reputation as a germophobe and how he is responding to doctors’ recommendations to avoid shaking hands to guard against the spread of the coronavirus, Trump said nobody could operate as a politician without shaking people’s hands.“The bottom line is I shake anybody’s hand now. I’m proud of it,” Trump said. “You know, you’re hearing a lot of stuff about trying not to shake hands. ... It hasn’t stopped me at all.”‘WAS ALL SET FOR BERNIE’Trump also weighed in on the race for the Democratic presidential nomination to face him in the Nov. 3 election. That contest took a sharp turn on Super Tuesday this week, with former Vice President Joe Biden surging ahead of Senator Bernie Sanders in what has become a two-man battle.“I was all set for Bernie,” Trump said, adding that Sanders would have benefited if fellow liberal Senator Elizabeth Warren had dropped out sooner. She withdrew from the race on Thursday.Democratic moderates, including former presidential candidates Michael Bloomberg, Amy Klobuchar and Pete Buttigieg, have rallied behind Biden in recent days amid concerns that nominating Sanders, a self-avowed democratic socialist, would harm the party’s chances in November.Asked whether his polarizing style deepened the US political divide, Trump defended how he conducted his personal messaging through tweeting and the like.“When they hit us, we have to hit back. I really feel that. ... I wouldn’t be here if I had turned the other cheek,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-says-us-economy-could-take-hit-from-coronavirus/story-7O8jIg821M9nm6AzO0pTYP.html
06-03-2020||World||Bhutan confirms first coronavirus case||The isolated Himalayan kingdom of Bhutan has reported its first case of the coronavirus after a US tourist tested positive, the prime minister said Friday.The tiny, land-locked country, famous for measuring Gross National Happiness has emerged as a popular tourist destination in recent years.But the government immediately shut borders to foreign visitors for two weeks in an effort to limit the impact of a disease that has wreaked havoc in more developed countries around the world.The 76-year-old man arrived in Bhutan from India on March 2, and was admitted to hospital on March 5 with a fever, where he tested positive for COVID-19, the office of Prime Minister Lotay Tshering said in a Facebook post.The post added that there would be “two weeks’ restriction on all incoming tourists with immediate effect”.Schools in three areas -- including the capital Thimphu -- will be closed for two weeks from Friday.The patient, who has not been named, left Washington on February 10, touring India from February 21 to March 1.Health officials say they have traced roughly 90 people he came into contact with in Bhutan, with his 59-year-old partner, driver and guide all being placed in quarantine. None is currently showing symptoms.Eight Indian nationals who were on the flight to Bhutan have also been quarantined.More than 3,000 people have died from novel coronavirus, with nearly 100,000 confirmed infections globally.bur-rbu/hg/stu||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/bhutan-confirms-first-coronavirus-case/story-PcSzXGtlS7knArQeDdJLKP.html
06-03-2020||World||South Korea blasts Japan over virus entry restrictions||Seoul expressed “extreme regret” Friday over Japan’s ordering 14-day quarantines on all visitors from South Korea due to a surge in viral infections and warned of retaliation if Tokyo doesn’t withdraw the restrictions.The response came a day after Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe announced the quarantine, which also applies to visitors from China.“The Japanese government yesterday issued what’s realistically a full entry ban on our people,” South Korean Prime Minister Chung Se-kyun said during a government meeting on quarantine strategies. “(We) consider this as very regrettable and demand the excessive and irrational measure to be immediately withdrawn.”Japan’s move could further strain bilateral relations between the Asian U.S. allies, which sank to their lowest point in decades last year as they feuded over trade issues, wartime history and military cooperation.Chung Eui-yong, South Korea’s presidential national security director, presided over a national security council meeting where officials criticized Japan for enforcing the travel restrictions without consulting with Seoul first and agreed to review countermeasures.The officials said South Korea’s active quarantine efforts were in contrast to what is said was Japan’s “non-transparent and passive” approach to its own outbreak, the Blue House said in a statement.South Korea’s Foreign Ministry said its first vice minister, Choi Se-young, plans to summon Japanese Ambassador Koji Tomita on Friday to protest Japan’s move.In a text message sent to reporters, the ministry questioned whether Japan’s entry restrictions were politically motivated. It insisted that South Korea has started to see progress from its “transparent and active” quarantine efforts to contain the illness, which has so far sickened more than 6,000 people, the most in any country outside of China.The ministry said Seoul will consider “every possible” countermeasure, such as designating Japan as a risk area for infectious diseases and placing its own restrictions on travelers from Japan. However, South Korea has not taken any tit-for-tat steps against more than 90 other countries that banned or restricted visitors from the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/south-korea-blasts-japan-over-virus-entry-restrictions/story-nC1sgDZY1j5CplZOe0KZBO.html
06-03-2020||World||Coronavirus: How it is different from seasonal flu and common cold||As the number of coronavirus cases rise, some key differences set it apart from the seasonal flu and common cold - mainly the intensity of the symptoms and the recovery period. All three, however, are spread by air-borne respiratory droplets and contaminated surfaces.Here is a guide to identify the differences between the three conditions:In case of coronavirus, the onset is sudden. The symptoms are fever, dry cough, muscle ache and fatigue. Some of the infected people can also experience less common symptoms like headache, coughing up blood and diarrhoea.The incubation period for Covid-19 is between 1-14 days and may even go up to 24 days. The road to recovery is rather long - in mild cases it’s two weeks, but in sever cases, it may take six weeks to recover. No specific medicine or anti-viral drugs are available; only symptoms can be treated. When it comes to seasonal flu, the onset is abrupt with coronavirus-like symptom: fever, dry cough, muscle ache and fatigue. The other common symptoms include sore throat, runny or stuffy nose. The less common symptoms, however, include diarrhoea and vomiting. The incubation period for seasonal flu is between 1 and four days and recovery period if one week. Some of the severe cases may take two weeks to recover fully.An annual seasonal flu vaccine is available as cure.The common cold, meanwhile, sets is gradually and can last for a week. The symptoms are runny/stuffy nose, sneezing and sore throat. Some of the symptoms include low grade fever, muscle of body ache, headache and fatigue. The incubation period is 2-3 days, but some of the severe cases can last upto 10 days. There is no specific treatment, though some medicines are given for symptoms.An important point to note here is that having a stuffy/runny nose and sneezing doesn’t mean that a person has coronavirus.On Friday, China reported 143 new cases of infection and 30 new deaths, almost all in the epicentre of Wuhan and surrounding Hubei province. That brings China’s totals to 3,042 deaths and 80,552 cases, more than 80 per cent of the world’s cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/coronavirus-how-it-is-different-from-season-flu-and-common-cold/story-IBM6RCMVRhqEc5F8PB3PaL.html
06-03-2020||World||Indian on student visa in US pleads guilty to sexual enticement of minor||A 23-year-old Indian with a student visa in the US has pleaded guilty to sexual enticement of a minor girl, prosecutors have said.Sachin Aji Bhaskar faces a maximum penalty of life in prison.He pleaded guilty before Senior US District Judge William M Skretny to sexual enticement of a minor.The charge carries a minimum penalty of 10 years in prison, a maximum penalty of life in prison, a fine of USD 250,000 or both, US Attorney James P Kennedy said.Prosecutors alleged that Bhaskar communicated by text and email with an 11-year-old girl for the purpose of engaging in sexual activity.Through those communications, Bhaskar enticed the victim to engage in a sexual activity with him in August, 2018, they said.The sentencing in the case is scheduled for June 17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indian-on-student-visa-in-us-pleads-guilty-to-sexual-enticement-of-minor/story-Pe52P0GTa3TPasYF1jFPhN.html
06-03-2020||World||Pakistan struggles to combat devastating locust plague||Pakistan’s farmers are struggling to combat the worst locust plague in nearly three decades as insect swarms decimate entire harvests in the country’s agricultural heartlands and send food prices soaring.Heavy rains and cyclones sparked “unprecedented” breeding and the explosive growth of locust populations on the Arabian peninsula early last year, according to the United Nations.The insects have since fanned out and wreaked havoc on farms from East Africa to India before making their way into Pakistan from the desert on the country’s southwestern border with Iran. The crisis is so severe that the government has declared a nationwide emergency and urgently appealed for help from the international community. Officials in southern Sindh province fear the infestation will devastate the supply of cotton, the local cash crop, ahead of its harvest in the coming months. Local surveys of the damage are continuing, but the Sindh Chamber of Agriculture says nearly half of all crops have been destroyed near the port city of Karachi.“I have not seen an infestation like this one in my career,” said Shehbaz Akhtar, an agricultural official charged with locust eradication efforts in the village of Pipli Pahar in central Punjab province.‘Combat operation’Local authorities had “launched a combat operation” to clear the area of infestation with pesticide sprays, he said. Clouds of the noxious gas envelop the nearby fields each morning, where villagers gather the husks of dead insects for an official bounty of 20 rupees (13 cents) per kilogramme bag.“We spray twice a day here,” says Fayyaz Azeem, clad in a face mask and thick industrial gloves on top of a tractor discharging pesticide into rows of crops.But the process is slow and time-consuming, and by the time locusts are killed off in one field they have often already destroyed the next.The pesticides used by officials are also dangerous for consumption, so even when the locusts are dead the remaining crops have to be discarded.Some farmers have been forced to opt for more desperate solutions while waiting for their fields to be sprayed and have attempted to scare off the swarms by shouting and banging pots.A team of Chinese experts has arrived in Pakistan to survey the crisis, food security ministry chief Muhammad Hashim Popalzai told AFP.Beijing could also offer aerial spraying -- a much faster and more efficient method of pest control -- and Pakistan may also import pesticides from China.Earlier reports circulating online suggested China was planning to send thousands of ducks to Pakistan to devour the scourge. Pakistani officials said no such plans were being considered.The UN Food and Agriculture Organization has also set up meetings between India and Pakistan to prevent the swarms from spreading, Popalzai said.‘What can I do?’Agriculture accounts for 20 percent of Pakistan’s GDP but the sector has already struggled for years in the face of drought and dwindling water supplies.The country is also experiencing 12-year inflation highs, with the cost of sugar nearly doubling and flour prices jumping 15 percent in the past year.Years without a locust attack meant the government “had become complacent” about the risks of a new infestation, said Pakistan Farmers Bureau president Zafar Hayyat.Though he applauded the steps being taken to fight the plague, Hayyat warned of the risk that swarms would return mid-year after the next locust breeding season. For many farmers in Pipli Pahar, the extermination campaign has already come too late. Sitting in the corner of a wheat field with her cow, Rafiya Bibi watches the flurry of pesticide spraying around her. The locusts have already destroyed her crops of canola, sunflower, chili and tobacco, which she had bought after borrowing 45,000 rupees from the government.With no harvest, she has no way to repay the loan. “What can I do?” she said. “All I can do is cry, what else can I do?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistan-struggles-to-combat-devastating-locust-plague/story-fWDtmQKW6Iu31uCEG2OT1J.html
06-03-2020||World||‘Even with all this...’: Woman uses drone to look for son’s body in Mexico fields||Leticia Hidalgo smears her face with sunscreen and walks steadily across the weedy wasteland she has come to know as one of Mexico’s killing fields.Frustrated with a lack of response from authorities, retired school teacher Hidalgo has taken a years-long quest for her missing son into her own hands, learning to use a drone to search for traces of his body.Mexico has been overwhelmed by an escalation of narco violence that has left more than 60,000 people missing since 2006.Hidalgo’s son Roy is one of them, and she believes he could well be here, somewhere beneath the scrubland at her feet, in what she calls a likely “place of extermination.”Roy Rivera was kidnapped the morning of January 11, 2011, by armed men who came to the family home in the northeastern state of Nuevo Leon. Some of them wore police uniforms. He and his brother tried to fend off the men with a knife while Hidalgo called for help from a balcony.She sees that moment as the end of her innocence. Now this courageous 57-year-old has turned into an amateur detective, armed with a drone and a burning passion to find her son’s remains.Expert“We are going to first fly the drone to find points of interest,” she says to the man beside her, a special prosecutor for missing persons, Eduardo Saucedo. Police officers stand in the background, supervising the search of the four-hectare area of land at Salinas Victoria municipality.At 57, Hidalgo has become an expert in drone flying, because she has had to. Her plan here is to create an “orthomosaic map”-- a photo representation of the area that provides detailed information and helps identify variations in the surface, such as discolorations, depressions or small hills, which could indicate the presence of a body.She and Angelica Orozco, a volunteer from the United Forces for Our Disappeared organization in Nuevo Leon, will later be able to compare information from the drone with Google images to gauge recent activity at the site.‘Shy but affectionate’ sonRivera, who was studying philosophy and literature, was about to turn 19 when he was kidnapped. Hidalgo describes him as a “a shy but affectionate” young man. Before paying the ransom, Hidalgo managed to talk to her son on his cellphone, then use its GPS signal to track the phone on her computer.But one day, Roy’s signal went out. Fearing the worst, she decided to learn other sleuthing techniques, this time how to look for signs of shallow graves.She learned how to drive metal rods into the ground, pull them up and smell the hole in the earth to try to detect decaying corpses buried below.She even contacted a treasure hunter to teach her how to detect metals. “Sometimes we also find cartridges” of bullets, she said.In the end she teamed up with other victims’ relatives to buy the drone.In an initial review of more than 200 images taken by the drone, they discover some new clues.Clues“Here you see a path that leads to a clearing,” Hidalgo says, pointing to one of the images on her laptop screen. “This white area here might be rocks, but it is rare to see them in clusters,” said Hidalgo, who sighs from time to time as she looks at the photos.Thousands of calcified body parts have been discovered on the site in past searches, but this is the first time they have used a drone to look for clues as to what might lie under the surface.Hidalgo says this “was probably a place of extermination.”“The hundreds of thousands of body parts they have found here, have been on the surface,” she said.Thanks to the drone, the anthropologists will now “have a broader, sharper aerial vision... it is not necessary to spend hours, man, getting sunstroke by walking around.”Saucedo says there is evidence that kidnap gangs had killed their victims and disposed of their bodies here. They incinerated their corpses and scattered their remains or buried them in shallow graves, anything to complicate efforts to find and identify them.Fernando Gonzalez, an independent forensic anthropologist, suspects that a house on the property could have been the place where the bodies were incinerated.In Nuevo Leon, “nobody has ever looked for human remains as we are doing now,” said Hidalgo. “But it also gives me a feeling of helplessness to know that even with all this, we still cannot find Roy.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/even-with-all-this-woman-uses-drone-to-look-for-son-s-body-in-mexico-s-killing-fields/story-sfBFLf905xjessKSaxAlwL.html
06-03-2020||World||Coronavirus death toll hits 12 in US, helicopter flies test kits to stranded cruise ship||The death toll from coronavirus in the United States rose to 12 on Thursday with the latest fatality recorded in King County, Washington, and 53 new cases broke out across the country, striking for the first time in Colorado, Tennessee, Texas and San Francisco. A helicopter flew testing kits to a cruise liner idled off the coast of California and barred from docking in San Francisco after at least 35 people developed flu-like symptoms aboard the ship, which has been linked to two other confirmed cases of COVID-19.Twenty new cases of the virus were confirmed in King County, Washington, local health officials said, bringing the total in the county to 51 with 11 deaths. One death has been recorded in California.“This is a critical moment in the growing outbreak of COVID-19 in King County,” the county said in a written statement, referring to the respiratory disease caused by the virus.“All King County residents should follow public health recommendations. Together, we may potentially impact the spread of the disease in our community,” it said. Many of the cases in Washington state have been linked to an outbreak at a nursing facility in the Seattle suburb of Kirkland, including six deaths. Alphabet Inc’s Google on Thursday joined Amazon.com Inc, Facebook Inc and Microsoft Corp in recommending employees in the Seattle area work from home, after some were infected with the coronavirus. The companies’ work-from-home recommendation will affect more than 100,000 people in the area.New York Governor Andrew Cuomo said the number of cases in that state had doubled to 22 after the federal government approved its use of additional laboratories, boosting testing capacity. Cuomo told a press conference that total would likely “keep going up.”Also read | Immigration delayed as Delhi international airport steps up coronavirus screening processOf the new cases in New York, eight are connected to a Manhattan lawyer who lives in Westchester County and was previously diagnosed with the virus, two are in New York City and one in Nassau County.COLORADO, TENNESSEE AND TEXAS REPORT CASESTexas confirmed its first three coronavirus cases and Tennessee and Colorado each reported one, bringing the number of affected states to 16.More than 3,200 people worldwide have died from the respiratory illness that can lead to pneumonia.The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) early on Thursday reported 149 confirmed and presumed U.S. cases. Those numbers are presumed not to include the 53 new cases reported on Thursday. The U.S. Senate on Thursday passed an $8.3 billion bill to combat the outbreak 96-1, a day after the House of Representatives overwhelmingly approved it. The bill now goes to President Donald Trump for his signature.More than $3 billion of the approved funds would be devoted to research and development of coronavirus vaccines, test kits and treatments. There are currently no approved vaccines or treatments for the illness that began in China and has infected more than 95,000 people in some 80 countries and territories.Mayor Bill de Blasio told a news conference the new cases in New York City - a man in his 40s and a woman in her 80s - were critically ill and being treated in hospitals. Both had “substantial” pre-existing health conditions, he said.Neither person had recently visited any other affected countries or had any connection to other confirmed cases, suggesting the city is confronting local person-to-person spread. California, which has declared a statewide emergency in response to the outbreak, reported six new cases, including two in San Francisco also deemed likely to be a result of “community transmission,” local health officials said.Also read | Lot unknown about coronavirus, but rise in temperature may help1 MILLION TEST KITSU.S. health officials say they expect to be able to get enough privately manufactured coronavirus tests - around 1 million - to public laboratories this week with the capacity to test about 400,000 people.CDC official Anne Schuchat said her agency would also supply kits by the end of the week that could test around 75,000 people. “Right now, it is a challenge if you are a doctor wanting to get somebody tested,” U.S. Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar told reporters following a briefing with lawmakers.Vice President Mike Pence, who is leading the U.S. response, urged Americans not to purchase masks if they are healthy to free up supply for healthcare workers and people who are sick.“Unless you are ill, you have no need to buy a mask,” Pence said on a visit to Minnesota’s 3M Co
06-03-2020||World||Beijing reports 4 new coronavirus cases imported from Italy||Beijing reported four new cases of coronavirus on March 5, all imported from Italy, the city’s municipal health commission said in a statement on Friday.The city now has a total of 422 cases. Coronavirus cases are now rising across the globe at a more rapid rate than inside China.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/beijing-reports-4-new-coronavirus-cases-imported-from-italy/story-CUUMlSrkjL1IHuhGAtBZBI.html
06-03-2020||World||Cruise ship is held off California coast for coronavirus testing||Scrambling to keep the coronavirus at bay, officials ordered a cruise ship with 3,500 people aboard to stay back from the California coast Thursday until passengers and crew can be tested, after a traveler from its previous voyage died of the disease and at least three others became infected.A military helicopter lowered test kits onto the 951-foot (290-meter) Grand Princess by rope as the vessel lay at anchor off the coast of San Francisco, and authorities said the results would be available on Friday. Princess Cruise Lines said fewer than 100 people aboard had been identified for testing.“The ship will not come on shore until we appropriately assess the passengers,” California Gov. Gavin Newsom said.The precaution was prompted by the death of a Sacramento-area man who succumbed to the coronavirus after he had been on an earlier sailing of the ship, in February. Two other passengers from that voyage have been hospitalized with the virus in Northern California, and a Canadian man in his 60s who sailed aboard the ship last month tested positive after returning home to an area outside Toronto, officials said.Also read | Chinese province reports 11 new virus cases from Iran flights - state mediaMeanwhile, the U.S. death toll from the coronavirus climbed to 12 on Thursday, with all but one of the victims in Washington state, and the number of infections swelled to over 200, scattered across 18 states. Colorado and Nevada reported their first cases. Nine of the dead were from the same suburban Seattle nursing home, now under federal investigation.Families of nursing home residents voiced anger Thursday after receiving conflicting information about the condition of their loved ones. One woman was told her mother had died, then got another call from a staffer who said she was doing well, only to find out she had, in fact, died, said Kevin Connolly, whose father is also a resident of the facility.“This is the level of incompetence we’re dealing with,” Connolly said.Around the country, New York’s mayor implored the federal government to send more test kits to his state, which saw its caseload double overnight to 22, all of them in or near the city. In Rhode Island, about 200 people were quarantined because of their connections to a school trip to Italy that has so far resulted in three cases of the coronavirus. Amid four cases in Florida, Gov. Ron DeSantis said the risks remain low for most people planning trips to the state for spring break or baseball’s spring training.On Wall Street, fears about the outbreak led to a sharp selloff, with the Dow Jones Industrial Average falling 970 points, or 3.6 percent. The drop extended two weeks of wild swings in the market, with stocks fluctuating 2 percent or more for the fourth day in a row.Also read | Coronavirus could erase $211 billion from Asia-Pacific economies: S&PPrincess Cruise Lines said that no cases of the virus had been confirmed among those still on the ship. But dozens of passengers have had flu-like symptoms over the past two weeks or so, said Mary Ellen Carroll, executive director of San Francisco’s Department of Emergency Management.“Once we have results from the tests,” she said, authorities “will determine the best location for the ship to berth.”Video from the California National Guard showed the helicopter approaching the bow of the ship and lowering three helmeted paratroopers into an empty area with a swimming pool with what appeared to be a freezer chest and other items.The helicopter was scheduled to retrieve the kits later Thursday for delivery to a lab in Richmond, California, authorities said. The test results could be processed in a few hours.The ship was returning to San Francisco after visiting Hawaii. Some of the passengers remained on board after sailing on its previous voyage, to the Mexican ports of Puerto Vallarta, Manzanillo, Mazatlan and Cabo San Lucas.A passenger from the Mexico voyage, Judy Cadiz of Lodi, California, said she and her husband became ill afterward but did not given it much thought until learning a fellow traveler had died of the virus. Now they cannot get a straight answer about how to get tested, she said.With Mark Cadiz, 65, running a fever, the couple worries not only about themselves, but about the possibility that — if they contracted the infection — they could have passed it on to others.“They’re telling us to stay home, but nobody told me until yesterday to stay home. We were in Sacramento, we were in Martinez, we were in Oakland. We took a train home from the cruise,” Judy Cadiz said Thursday. “I really hope that we’re negative so nobody got infected.”The coronavirus has infected nearly 98,000 people worldwide and killed over 3,300, the vast majority of them in China.U.S. health officials said they expect a far lower death rate than the World Health Organization’s international estimate of 3.4% — a rate admittedly too high because it doesn’t account for mild cases that go uncounted.Assistant Health Secretary Brett Giroir cited a model that included mild cases to say the U.S. could expect a death rate somewhere between 0.1% — like seasonal flu — and 1%. The risk is highest for older people and anyone with conditions such as heart or lung disease, diabetes or suppressed immune systems, such as from cancer treatments.At least 70 coronavirus cases have been reported in Washington state, most them in the Seattle area, where researchers say the virus may have been circulating undetected for weeks.Some major Seattle-area businesses, including Microsoft, Amazon and outdoor gear manufacturer REI, have shut down some operations or urged employees to work from home, while the 22,000-student Northshore district announced it will close for up to two weeks as a precaution. The two tech giants together employ more than 100,000 people in the region.With many commuters off the road, traffic on the Seattle area’s notoriously congested freeways was much lighter Thursday.Seattle’s King County is buying a motel for $4 million to house coronavirus patients and hopes to have the first of them in place within days at the 84-room EconoLodge in Kent, about 20 miles (32 km) from Seattle. The rooms’ doors open to the outside rather than to a central hallway, reducing the likelihood of contact between patients.The plan ran into resistance from local leaders, including Kent Police Chief Rafael Padilla, who called it “ill-advised and dangerous” and warned: “At any point a patient can simply walk into our community and spread the virus.”Federal health authorities have launched an investigation of the nursing home at the epicenter of the nation’s worst outbreak, the Life Care Center in Kirkland, to determine whether it followed guidelines for preventing infections. Last April, the state fined it $67,000 over infection-control deficiencies after two flu outbreaks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/cruise-ship-is-held-off-california-coast-for-coronavirus-testing/story-QVrRfDTkdi008YmVmhvu7M.html
06-03-2020||World||‘This is not a drill, no time for excuses’: WHO’s appeal to combat coronavirus||The global march of the new virus triggered a vigorous appeal Thursday from the WHO for governments to pull out “all the stops” to slow the epidemic, as it drained colour from India’s spring festivities, closed Bethlehem’s Nativity Church and blocked Italians from visiting elderly relatives in nursing homes.As China, after many arduous weeks, appeared to be winning its epic, costly battle against the new virus, the fight was revving up in newly affected areas of the globe, unleashing disruptions that profoundly impacted billions of people.The UN health agency urged all countries to “push this virus back,” a call to action reinforced by figures showing about 17 times as many new infections outside China as in it. The virus has infected nearly 98,000 people and killed over 3,300.“This is not a drill. This is not the time for giving up. This is not a time for excuses. This is a time for pulling out all the stops,” WHO Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said in Geneva. “Countries have been planning for scenarios like this for decades. Now is the time to act on those plans.” As Chinese manufacturers gradually reopened their factories, anti-virus barriers went up elsewhere.Also read- Lot unknown about coronavirus, but rise in temperature may helpIn Italy, the epicentre of Europe’s outbreak, workers in latex gloves pinned “closed” notices on school gates, enforcing a 10-day shutdown of the education system. Italy’s sports-mad fans are also barred from stadiums until April 3.A government decree that took effect Thursday urged the country’s famously demonstrative citizens to stay at least 1 meter (3 feet) apart from each other, placed restrictions on visiting nursing homes and urged the elderly not to go outside unless absolutely necessary.That directive appeared to be widely ignored, as school closures nationwide left many Italian children in the care of their grandparents. Parks in Rome overflowed with young and old, undercutting government efforts to shield older Italians from the virus that hits the elderly harder than others. Italy has the world’s oldest population after Japan.“It’s an absolute paradox!” said Mauro Benedetti, a 73-year-old retiree called upon to watch his grandson. “They tell us to stay home. How can we help our kids and grandkids at the same time?” “Grandparents are now at risk,” he said.Italy’s death toll climbed Thursday to 148, and its confirmed cases to 3,858.Iran, which has registered 107 virus deaths, also closed schools and universities and introduced checkpoints to limit travel between major cities. Iranians were urged to reduce their use of paper money. Iranian state TV also reported that Hossein Sheikholeslam, a 68-year-old diplomat who was an adviser to Iran’s foreign minister, had died of the virus.Also read- 9,000 calls a day, tracking 4,500 travellers: Delhi steps up vigilAmid the string of bad news, Iranian President Hassan Rouhani urged state television to offer “happier” programs to entertain those stuck at home.Brian Hook, the US special representative for Iran, said the United States offered humanitarian assistance to help Iran deal with its outbreak but “the regime rejected the offer.” He said the offer would stand.Virus fears also affected the joyful celebration of Holi, in which Hindu revelers celebrate the arrival of spring with bursts of colour, including bright powders smeared on faces. Prime Minister Narendra and other leaders said they wouldn’t attend Holi events and the Holi Moo Festival in New Delhi was cancelled.In the United States, where 12 have died from the virus, hundreds were placed in self-quarantines due to cases in a New York suburb.A suburban Seattle school district with 22,000 students announced it would close for up to two weeks because of coronavirus concerns and Seattle’s normally clogged highways were nearly vacant for Thursday’s morning commute as large tech employers like Amazon encouraged employees to work from home.In Seattle, health officials recommended that the elderly and people with weak immune systems not attend games after an employee at the 72,000-seat football stadium tested positive for the coronavirus.Also read: Google, Facebook, Amazon ask employees to work from home in Seattle over coronavirus fearsOff the coast of California, a cruise ship carrying about 3,500 people was ordered to stay put until passengers and crew could be tested because a traveler from its previous voyage died and another three were infected.A helicopter delivered test kits to the ship, which has people aboard with flu-like symptoms — lowering the kits by rope to the 951-foot (290-meter) Grand Princess Financial markets remained volatile, as investors continued to weigh the size of the epidemic’s dent on the global economy.Outbreak fears led to a sharp US stock selloff, with the Dow Jones Industrial Average falling 969 points, or 3.6 percent, nearly wiping out gains from a day earlier. Analysts said more yo-yo moves on global markets are likely while new infections accelerate.The OPEC oil cartel called for a deep production cut to keep crude prices from falling further as disruption to global business from the coronavirus slashes demand from air travel and industry — deciding Thursday to push for a cut of 1.5 million barrels a day, or about 1.5% of total world supply.Across the globe, travellers faced ever-greater disruptions, as countries sought to keep the virus out. But South Africa confirmed its first case Thursday, becoming the seventh African nation to report infections. Britain and Switzerland reported their first coronavirus deaths.“The virus doesn’t care about race and belief or color. It is attacking us all, equally,” said Ian MacKay, who studies viruses at the University of Queensland in Australia.The outlook for the travel industry was increasingly grim. The International Air Transport Association said the outbreak could cost airlines as much as $113 billion in lost revenue. The struggling British airline Flybe collapsed Thursday amid sinking demand.Australia, Indonesia, and the United Arab Emirates were among the countries banning entry from people coming from countries that had outbreaks.Germany’s Lufthansa and its subsidiaries Austrian Airlines and Swiss said they will cancel all flights to and from Israel for three weeks starting Sunday after Israeli authorities announced tough restrictions on travelers from several countries because of the new virus.Palestinian officials closed the storied Church of the Nativity in the biblical city of Bethlehem indefinitely, weeks ahead of the busy Easter holiday.Japan said visitors from China and South Korea would face a two-week quarantine at a government facility and be barred from public transit. Sri Lankans arriving from Italy, South Korea and Iran will be quarantined at a hospital once used for leprosy patients.In China, where hospitals were releasing hundreds of recovered patients, officials reported 139 new infection cases and 31 more deaths. Overall, China has reported 80,409 cases and 3,012 deaths, and authorities say about 6,000 people remained hospitalized in serious condition.A state visit to Japan by Chinese President Xi Jinping was postponed. It was to have been the first for a Chinese leader since 2008.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/coronavirus-this-is-not-a-drill-who-urges-the-world-to-fight-coronavirus-as-toll-mounts-over-3-300/story-CGNkVY13nw2hydM2mmIWQO.html
06-03-2020||World||Chinese province reports 11 new virus cases from Iran flights - state media||The northwestern Chinese province of Gansu reported 11 new confirmed coronavirus patients, all of whom entered China on commercial flights from Iran, according to state media.A total of 311 passengers arriving at the provincial capital of Lanzhou from Iran have now been quarantined, state broadcaster CCTV reported late on Thursday.Before the new cases, Gansu had reported a total of 91 infections, with two deaths, it added.Last month, it became the first province to lower its emergency response measures from level I to level III, reflecting the lack of new infections.As the number of new cases dwindles in China, attention has turned to potential infections arriving from overseas.Iran has confirmed a total of 3,513 infections by March 5, with 107 deaths, its health ministry said on Thursday.Authorities in Beijing, Shanghai and the province of Guangdong have all promised to quarantine travellers from countries hit the hardest by the coronavirus, which Beijing identified as South Korea, Japan, Iran and Italy.Shanghai has also been tracing people who came into contact with a traveller from Iran who was found to be carrying the virus.Also read | Coronavirus outbreak: ACs may aid spread, outdoors safer||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinese-province-reports-11-new-virus-cases-from-iran-flights-state-media/story-yaru8ba03zajvHDyqgwhLI.html
06-03-2020||World||The holy grail of modern physics rediscovered in a library in Corsica||A first-edition copy of Isaac Newton’s groundbreaking book laying out his three laws of motion, which became the foundation for modern physics, has been found at a library on the French island of Corsica.Vannina Schirinsky-Schikhmatoff, director of conservation at the Fesch public heritage library in Ajaccio, said she discovered the copy of the 17th-century work while studying an index from the library’s founder Lucien Bonaparte -- one of Napoleon’s brothers.“I found the Holy Grail in the main room, hidden in the upper shelves,” she told AFP this week.“The cover has a little damage but inside it’s in excellent condition -- this is the cornerstone of modern mathematics,” she said.The Latin text, “Philosophiae Naturalis Principia Mathematica” (Mathematical Principles of Natural Philosophy) was first published by Newton in 1687.The renowned physicist was famously inspired by seeing an apple fall from a tree in his garden in Grantham, England, which sparked his elaborations of the classical laws of gravity, motion and optics.English translations were published later, but the original editions remain prized by collectors.“A Latin edition sold for $3.7 million at an auction held by Christie’s a few years ago, and that’s the one at the Ajaccio library,” Schirinsky-Schikhmatoff said, referring to a December 2016 sale in New York to an undisclosed buyer.It is not the first rare find at the Fesch library since an in-depth review of its holdings began a few years ago.In 2018, Schirinsky-Schikhmatoff unveiled a “Thesaurum Hyeroglyphicorum” study of Egyptian hieroglyphics dating from 1610 -- some 200 years before France’s Jean-Francois Champollion deciphered parts of the Rosetta Stone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/the-holy-grail-of-modern-physics-rediscovered-in-a-library-in-corsica/story-kHDHzW4bwBTqRyBJS9vt7M.html
06-03-2020||World||Google, Facebook, Amazon ask employees to work from home in Seattle over coronavirus fears||Alphabet Inc’s Google on Thursday joined Amazon.com Inc, Facebook Inc and Microsoft Corp in recommending employees in the Seattle area to work from home, after many were infected with the coronavirus in the region.Seattle in Washington state has been most affected by the virus in the United States. Ten people have died out of 39 cases of infections through community transmission of the virus.A Google spokesperson said the company made the decision after consulting with public health officials.Seattle-headquartered Amazon recommended employees in the area to work from home through the end of the month, after an employee at its South Lake Union office complex in the city tested positive for the virus on Tuesday. Facebook on Thursday said it would shut its Seattle office until March 9 after a contractor at the location was diagnosed with the coronavirus.The companies’ work-from-home recommendation will affect more than 100,000 people in the Seattle area, as both Microsoft and Amazon employ over 50,000 each. Facebook employs more than 5,000 in the area and Google about 4,500, according to media reports Seattle health authorities have urged companies to allow their employees to work from home as much as possible, stagger shifts to ease commuter congestion on public transportation, and avoid large work-related gatherings.The epidemic has shown no signs of slowing, and so far killed more than 3,000 people worldwide, mostly in China, where it originated in December. Separately, retailer Walmart Inc said on Thursday it was restricting all international travels to business-critical trips, and travels within the United States to essential operations for its associates.It also canceled its U.S. Customer Conference, scheduled for the following week in Dallas .Walmart said it expected travel guidelines to be in place for at least the months of March and April.Big tech companies have also been dropping out of several conferences and calling off corporate events as the virus spreads. The epidemic has led to the cancellation of major industry events including Mobile World Congress in Barcelona and Facebook’s F8 conference in San Jose.Microsoft said on Wednesday that some “essential” employees should continue to go to their work locations and that the company would follow government guidelines for disinfecting its sites for essential personnel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/google-facebook-amazon-ask-employees-to-work-from-home-in-seattle-over-coronavirus-fears/story-fODHCcuB71BngzVjoR7SkO.html
06-03-2020||World||The failed escape: Sheikha Latifa’s doomed flight from Dubai||Three years ago, in secluded corners of a sprawling mall in Dubai, Sheikha Latifa, the daughter of the emirate’s ruler, plotted with close friend Tiina Jauhiainen to escape her father’s clutches.Their eventual plan was like a plot from a movie: Latifa disguised her appearance as the pair fled Dubai by car to the coast, took a dinghy and rode jet skis to a waiting boat which was to take the princess and her companion to freedom.But it failed. They were captured off the coast of India after an operation by special forces and taken back to Dubai.“The last time (I saw her), she was kicking and screaming and she was dragged off the boat. Her pleas for asylum were ignored,” Jauhiainen told Reuters in an interview in London in late January.In a judgment published on Thursday, a British judge ruled that Dubai’s ruler Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid al-Maktoum had abducted Latifa - just as he had her elder sister Shamsa from England almost two decades earlier - and subjected her to inhuman treatment.Jauhiainen gave a witness statement as part of the case and briefly appeared in court in London to confirm it was true.“In making an overall assessment of the evidence relating to Latifa, I regard the evidence of Tiina Jauhiainen as being of singular importance,” the judge, Andrew McFarlane, said in his ruling, which described her as a “wholly impressive individual.”The fitness instructor first met Latifa in late 2010 when she started giving her lessons in capoeira, a martial art, about five times a week.They became close friends but she said Latifa was quiet and private. It was years before Latifa confided in her, revealing she had tried to escape Dubai in 2002 when she was a teenager and that she had subsequently spent three-and-a-half years in prison.Reuters was not able independently to confirm Jauhiainen’s version of events, which she has recounted to media before.“It was only around 2016 when she started telling me about her sister Shamsa and her escape and her own imprisonment,” said Jauhiainen, a Finnish national.“I think she was very scared. She could have been imprisoned again.”The government’s Dubai Media Office did not respond to a Reuters request for comment for this story.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/the-failed-escape-sheikha-latifa-s-doomed-flight-from-dubai/story-LgX4DxQtDUffywGqtlvnGJ.html
06-03-2020||World||Dubai runaway princess feared threats from ruler husband, found a gun on her bed||Dubai’s ruler Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum conducted a campaign aimed at “intimidating and frightening” his estranged wife Princess Haya Bint al-Hussein before she fled to the U.K., a London judge has ruled in a case over the welfare of their two young children.The princess said she feared for the safety of her family since she twice found a gun on her bed a year ago, with the muzzle pointing to the door and the safety catch off, Judge Andrew McFarlane wrote in a ruling released Thursday. He granted protective orders for the children as well as an interim injunction against Sheikh Mohammed barring threatening or violent conduct.The couple fought the case in London’s family courts after Princess Haya flew to the U.K. in April. The sheikh initially sought an order forcing the two children to return to Dubai before later dropping the attempt, McFarlane said.The 70-year-old sheikh is determined to re-establish “a viable, regular relationship with each of the children,” the judge said.The ruling from one of Britain’s most senior judges will be a huge embarrassment to the ruling family. It leaves questions about governance in Dubai after the princess’s attorney Charles Geekie argued that the sheikh deployed the full power of the state to “threaten, intimidate, mistreat and oppress.”McFarlane said he largely agreed with Geekie’s submissions.“These findings, taken together, demonstrate a consistent course of conduct over two decades where, if he deems it necessary to do so, the father will use the very substantial powers at his disposal to achieve his particular aims,” the judge said.Sheikh Mohammed is credited with turning Dubai into a major tourism and business hub. While Dubai’s government is treating the case as a private matter, the decision against its ruler contrasts with the image of openness and ease of doing business the emirate prides itself for.While the sheikh himself didn’t directly participate in the proceedings, even after being invited to do so by the judge, McFarlane conducted a “fact-finding” process as part of his ruling.But the most explosive allegation made by the princess wasn’t substantiated by the judge. The princess said that Sheikh Mohammed had sought to make arrangements for a marriage between his youngest daughter and the Crown Prince of Saudi Arabia, Mohammed bin Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud.The princess says she was told by a trusted police officer that a member of the sheikh’s family had visited Saudi Arabia in February last year to discuss a marriage. The allegation was “hearsay,” the judge said.The judge said that two older daughters by another marriage, Sheikha Latifa and Sheikha Shamsa, had themselves been detained in Dubai. Princess Haya described how in 2018 Latifa, who’s now 35, was abducted by an armed Indian commando team at sea -- allegations that were upheld by the judge.Princess Haya said that her relationship with Sheikh Mohammed deteriorated after she tried to help Shamsa and Latifa. The sheikh also became aware of an earlier affair that the princess had with one of her bodyguards, the judge said.She said she discovered Sheikh Mohammed divorced her under Shariah law in February 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/dubai-runaway-princess-feared-threats-from-ruler-husband-found-a-gun-on-her-bed/story-9tlgmvFfGg1QWOiE5PmAYO.html
06-03-2020||World||Elizabeth Warren drops out of 2020 Democratic presidential race after Super Tuesday rout||Elizabeth Warren, who electrified progressives with her “plan for everything” and strong message of economic populism, dropped out of the Democratic presidential race on Thursday, according to a person familiar with her plans. The exit came days after the onetime front-runner couldn’t win a single Super Tcuesday state, not even her own.The Massachusetts senator has spoken with Bernie Sanders and Joe Biden, the leading candidates in the race, according to their campaigns. She is assessing who would best uphold her agenda, according to another person who requested anonymity to discuss private conversations.Warren’s exit extinguished hopes that Democrats would get another try at putting a woman up against President Donald Trump.For much of the past year, her campaign had all the markers of success, robust poll numbers, impressive fund-raising and a sprawling political infrastructure that featured staffers on the ground across the country. She was squeezed out, though, by Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders, who had an immovable base of voters she needed to advance.Warren never finished higher than third in the first four states and was routed on Super Tuesday, failing to win any of the 14 states voting and placing an embarrassing third in Massachusetts, behind Biden and Sanders.Her exit from the race following Sen. Amy Klobuchar’s departure leaves the Democratic field with just one female candidate: Hawaii Rep. Tulsi Gabbard, who has collected only one delegate toward the nomination. It was an unexpected twist for a party that had used the votes and energy of women to retake control of the House, primarily with female candidates, just two years ago.Warren’s campaign began with enormous promise that she could carry that momentum into the presidential race. Last summer, she drew tens of thousands of supporters to Manhattan’s Washington Square Park, a scene that was repeated in places like Washington state and Minnesota.She had a compelling message, calling for “structural change” to the American political system to reorder the nation’s economy in the name of fairness. She had a signature populist proposal for a 2% wealth tax she wanted to impose on households worth more than $50 million that prompted chants of “Two cents! Two cents!” at rallies across the country.Warren, 70, began her White House bid polling near the back of an impossibly crowded field, used wonky policy prowess to rocket to front-runner status by the fall, then saw her support evaporate almost as quickly.Her candidacy appeared seriously damaged almost before it started after she released a DNA test in response to goading by Trump to prove she had Native American ancestry. Instead of quieting critics who had questioned her claims, however, the test offended many tribal leaders who rejected undergoing the genetic test as culturally insensitive, and it didn’t stop Trump and other Republicans from gleefully deriding her as “Pocahontas.”Warren also lost her finance director over her refusal to attend large fundraisers, long considered the financial life blood of national campaigns. Still, she distinguished herself by releasing dozens of detailed proposals on all sorts of policies from cancelling college debt to protecting oceans to containing the coronavirus. Warren also was able to build an impressive campaign war chest relying on mostly small donations that poured in from across the country -- erasing the deficit created by refusing to court big, traditional donors.As her polling began improving through the summer. Warren appeared to further hit her stride as she hammered the idea that more moderate Democratic candidates, including Biden, weren’t ambitious enough to roll back Trump’s policies and were too reliant on political consultants and fickle polling. And she drew strength in the #MeToo era, especially after a wave of female candidates helped Democrats take control of the U.S. House in 2018.But Warren couldn’t consolidate the support of the Democratic Party’s most liberal wing against the race’s other top progressive, Sanders. Both supported universal, government-sponsored health care under a “Medicare for All” program, tuition-free public college and aggressive climate change fighting measures as part of the “Green New Deal” while forgoing big fundraisers in favor of small donations fueled by the internet.Warren’s poll numbers began to slip after a series of debates when she repeatedly refused to answer direct questions about if she’d have to raise taxes on the middle class to pay for Medicare for All. Her top advisers were slow to catch on that not providing more details looked to voters like a major oversight for a candidate who proudly had so many other policy plans.When Warren finally moved to correct the problem, her support eroded further. She moved away from a full endorsement of Medicare for All, announcing that she’d work with Congress to transition the country to the program over three years. In the meantime, she said, many Americans could “choose” to remain with their current, private health insurance plans, which most people have through their employers. Biden and other rivals pounced, calling Warren a flip-flopper, and her standing with progressives sagged.Sanders, meanwhile, wasted little time capitalizing on the contrast by boasting that he would ship a full Medicare for All program for congressional approval during his first week in the White House. After long avoiding direct conflict, Warren and Sanders clashed in January after she said Sanders had suggested during a private meeting in 2018 that a woman couldn’t win the White House. Sanders denied that, and Warren refused to shake his outstretched hand after a debate in Iowa.Leaning hard into the gender issue only saw Warren’s support sink further heading into Iowa’s leadoff caucus, however. But even as her momentum was slipping away, Warren still boasted impressive campaign infrastructure in that state and well beyond. Her army of volunteers and staffers looked so formidable that even other presidential candidates were envious.Just before Iowa, her campaign released a memo detailing its 1,000-plus staffers nationwide and pledging a long-haul strategy that would lead to victories in the primary and the general election. Bracing for a poor finish in New Hampshire, her campaign issued another memo again urging supporters to stay focus on the long game — but also expressly spelling out the weaknesses of Sanders, Biden and Pete Buttigieg, the former mayor of South Bend, Indiana, in ways the senator herself rarely did.Warren got a foil for all of her opposition to powerful billionaires when former New York Mayor Mike Bloomberg entered the race. During a debate in Las Vegas just before Nevada’s caucus, Warren hammered Bloomberg and the mayor’s lackluster response touched off events that ended with him leaving the race on Wednesday.For Warren, That led to a sharp rise in fundraising, but didn’t translate to electoral success. She tried to stress her ability to unite the fractured Democratic party, but that message fell flat.By South Carolina, an outside political group began pouring more than $11 million into TV advertising on Warren’s behalf, forcing her to say that, although she rejected super PACs, she’d accept their help as long as other candidates did. Her campaign shifted strategy again, saying it was betting on a contested convention.Still the longer Warren stayed in the race, the more questions she faced about why she was doing so with little hope of winning — and she started to sound like a candidate who was slowly coming to terms with that.“I’m not somebody who has been looking at myself in the mirror since I was 12 years old saying, ‘You should run for president,’” Warren said aboard her campaign bus on the eve of the New Hampshire primary, previewing a ceasing of campaigning that wasn’t yet official. “I started running for office later than anyone who is in this, so it was never about the office — it was about what we could do to repair our economy, what we could do to mend a democracy that’s being pulled apart. That’s what I want to see happen, and I just want to see it happen.”She vowed to fight on saying, “I cannot say, for all those little girls, this got hard and I quit. My job is to persist.”But even that seemed impossible after a Super Tuesday drubbing that included her home state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/elizabeth-warren-drops-out-of-2020-democratic-presidential-race-after-super-tuesday-rout/story-XwA2ZPxQY1UzDhSDPXU8hL.html
06-03-2020||World||UK reports first death from coronavirus||Britain has recorded its first death in the new coronavirus outbreak, England’s chief medical officer Chris Whitty said on Thursday, as the total number of confirmed cases jumped to 115 .“I am very sorry to report a patient in England who tested positive for COVID-19 has sadly died,” he said, adding the victim was elderly and had “underlying health conditions”.The patient was being treated at the Royal Berkshire Hospital in Reading, west of London, and is believed to have contracted the virus in Britain, he added.The announcement came as the total number of confirmed cases in Britain rose to 115, after 25 more patients tested positive in England.Of those, 17 recently travelled from “recognised countries or from recognised clusters”, Whitty said in a separate statement earlier on Thursday.“Eight patients were identified in the UK where it is not yet clear whether they contracted it directly or indirectly from an individual who had recently returned from abroad,” he added. “This is being investigated and contact tracing has begun.”The government this week published contingency plans for a widespread outbreak of the virus, which has infected more than 96,000 people and seen over 3,300 die around the world.Whitty and Britain’s chief scientific adviser Patrick Vallance briefed Prime Minister Boris Johnson after emergency planning meetings.Johnson’s spokesman said “decisions will be taken, possibly as early as next week, to announce certain steps” to delay the spread of the virus.“We will continue to try to contain this virus, however it is now highly likely that the virus is going to spread in a significant way,” he told reporters. “Officials will therefore accelerate work on preparations for the delay phase of the government’s plan... This will include detailed work on the optimum time to introduce further measures.”Measures to be introduced when the virus peaks could include asking people to work from home, reducing large gatherings such as football matches and shutting schools.On Thursday, rugby union officials announced the postponement of England’s Six Nations match on March 14 with Italy, where 11 towns are under quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-reports-first-death-from-coronavirus/story-vKX8EHULbHROZR3erNE6ZP.html
06-03-2020||World||Dogs, cats can’t pass on coronavirus, but can test positive||Pet cats and dogs cannot pass the new coronavirus on to humans, but they can test positive for low levels of the pathogen if they catch it from their owners.That’s the conclusion of Hong Kong’s Agriculture, Fisheries and Conservation Department after a dog in quarantine tested weakly positive for the virus Feb. 27, Feb. 28 and March 2, using the canine’s nasal and oral cavity samples.A unidentified spokesman for the department was quoted in a news release as saying. “There is currently no evidence that pet animals can be a source of infection of COVID-19 or that they become sick.” Scientists suspect the virus known as SARS-CoV-2 that causes the disease originated in bats before passing it on to another species, possibly a small wild mammal, that passed it on to humans. However, experts from the School of Public Health of The University of Hong Kong, the College of Veterinary Medicine and Life Sciences of the City University of Hong Kong and the World Organisation for Animal Health (OIE) have unanimously agreed that the dog has a low-level of infection and it is “likely to be a case of human-to-animal transmission.”The dog, and another also in quarantine which has tested negative for the virus, will be tested again before being released. The department suggested any pets, including dogs and cats, from households where someone has tested positive for the virus should be put into quarantine.  In general, pet owners should maintain good hygiene, including washing hands before and after handling animals, their food and supplies and no kissing them. People who are sick should avoid contact with pets and a veterinarian’s advice should be sought if changes in a pet’s health conditions are detected.“Apart from maintaining good hygiene practices, pet owners need not be overly concerned and under no circumstances should they abandon their pets,” the spokesman said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/dogs-cats-can-t-pass-on-coronavirus-but-can-test-positive/story-cZ6b6KCt3RMRsK7DVSUlYO.html
06-03-2020||World||Wuhan doctor recounts fears and hope at coronavirus frontline||One month after makeshift hospitals opened to chaos and confusion at the epicentre of China’s coronavirus epidemic, frontline doctor Ma Yonggang is finally seeing more empty beds as fewer patients arrive.When 43-year-old Ma was first summoned to a sports stadium converted into a medical facility on February 4, it was a virtual construction site with electrical wiring and beds still being installed.Separated from his wife and young child who had returned to eastern Shandong province for Lunar New Year, Ma said he felt “scared and anxious” when the call from the jury-rigged Wuchang hospital came in the middle of the night.But the situation has slowly improved, with the number of patients receiving treatment in the improvised hospital declining from a high of 760 in mid-February to 320 earlier this week.“We had 30-40 patients being discharged per day, but the number of patients admitted was only a dozen or so. This was when the whole situation changed for us,” Ma, who is the hospital’s deputy director, told AFP in a video call from Wuhan. “Now, we admit very few new patients and about three to four recovered patients are discharged each day.”The situation Ma described tallies with officials’ accounts of a slowdown in new infections in Wuhan, an industrial city of 11 million people where the virus is believed to have emerged at a market that sold wild animals.It was not always like this.AFP saw people standing in line for hours to see doctors in Wuhan’s hospitals during the first weeks of the crisis, when the facilities lacked enough beds for the thousands of new patients.Conditions ‘were quite bad’ Hastily converted from sports stadiums, schools and cultural venues, Wuhan’s 16 makeshift “ark” hospitals were designed to ease the burden on the city’s overstretched healthcare system.But in the early stages of the outbreak, they also suffered from the same widespread shortages of medical protective supplies as the city’s designated hospitals, Ma said.The hospitals offer basic treatment and diagnosis for patients with mild to moderate symptoms, as well as simple recreational facilities. “When the hospital was opened, the facilities were only for controlling the outbreak, so the living conditions for patients and medical staff ... were quite bad,” he said in the interview arranged by the State Council’s information office.“Now, the conditions have improved a lot, for example now we have patient exercise areas and bathrooms, and we have indoor heating and catering services.” Ma admitted that conditions fell short of patients’ expectations and those hoping for small rooms to themselves were not prepared for the open-plan layout of the makeshift hospital.“Once they arrived, they realised that there were several patients in a large open room and began to doubt whether they could be treated successfully,” he said.Mourning fallen doctorsMore than 80,000 people have been infected and more than 3,000 killed by the new coronavirus in mainland China, with the majority in Wuhan.Chinese health authorities and a team of World Health Organization experts say that at least 3,000 Chinese medical workers have caught the virus -- mostly in Wuhan -- and at least 11 have lost their lives. But according to Ma, none of the medical workers at the city’s makeshift hospitals have been infected.The death last month of whistleblower Li Wenliang, a 34-year-old Wuhan ophthalmologist who was punished for trying to alert people to the outbreak in December, unleashed a torrent of grief and anger at the authorities.“We felt extremely sad at his death,” Ma said.“We will always mourn (Li and the other fallen doctors), and we must learn from them and dedicate ourselves even more to fighting the virus.”One of the latest victims was Li’s colleague, Mei Zhongming, who was deputy director of ophthalmology department at the central hospital and died from the virus on Tuesday.While Ma said he was nervous about the possibility of infection, he remained committed to his duties.“As Wuhan medical workers, this historic responsibility has fallen on our shoulders,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/wuhan-doctor-recounts-fears-and-hope-at-coronavirus-frontline/story-WCGC2tBkgtG4I6YsyPnpTO.html
