16-03-2020||World||‘Iron bro’ Pakistan’s Prez Arif Alvi in Beijing to show solidarity with covid-19-hit China||Pakistani President Arif Alvi arrived in Beijing late on Monday night, hours after Islamabad and Beijing confirmed his two-day visit, in an apparent show of his country’s solidarity with China amid the ongoing novel coronavirus outbreak.Alvi arrived in China in the backdrop of Pakistan reporting a sharp rise in the number of covid-19 cases on Monday with the total number of infections rising to 121, the highest in south Asia.Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson, Hua Chunying confirmed the visit on Monday evening.Hua’s colleague at the ministry, Zhao Lijian welcomed Alvi’s visit with a tweet, saying: “Pakistani President Alvi arrived in Beijing at a difficult time for the Chinese people to fight against novel coronavirus. This is his first visit to China as President. Long live China-Pakistan friendship! Chin-Pakistan dosti zindabad!”Both Chinese and Pakistani officials and media said the visit amid the outbreak is a show of Pakistan’s solidarity with China, which has registered more than 3100 deaths and nearly 81000 covid-19 infections.“This is the President’s first visit to China, which is specifically aimed at conveying strong support and solidarity of Pakistan towards the Government and the people of China in their battle against Covid-19,” Pakistani news agency, APP, report from Beijing.“Pakistan and China are the closest friends and staunch partners. The two countries are joined together in an “All-Weather Strategic Cooperative Partnership.” This time-tested friendship is based on unparalleled mutual trust, understanding and commonality of interests,” was how APP described bilateral tiesThe Pakistani President is likely to meet Chinese President Xi Jinping on Tuesday besides other top Chinese leaders.A number of MoUs are expected to be signed, according to a statement published on the Pakistani Foreign Ministry website. A “few ceremonial documents” including cooperation on battling the Covid-19 outbreak, fighting the locust plague in Pakistan and on the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor are likely to be signed, a Pakistani embassy official in Beijing told the state-controlled tabloid, Global Times on Monday. Alvi’s government has faced criticism back home for deciding not to evacuate the hundreds of Pakistani students who are studying in the Chinese province worst hit by the outbreak, Hubei, and it’s capital city, Wuhan.In February, the Prime Minister of close ally, Cambodia, Samdech Techo Hun Sen had visited Beijing as the outbreak raged in China.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/iron-bro-pakistan-s-prez-arif-alvi-in-beijing-to-show-solidarity-with-covid-19-hit-china/story-Stf4FUuOMdF4WFBYtH3oXI.html
16-03-2020||World||UK eases visa norms as India bans travel from UK over coronavirus outbreak||The Boris Johnson government has eased visa norms for Indian and other non-EU students and professionals who are in the country in view of the coronavirus challenge, while many British tourists have cancelled their trips to India.The Home Office said Indian and other international students and professionals with work visas may be prevented from attending their studies or employment due to illness and the need to serve a period of quarantine or the inability to travel due to travel restrictions caused by coronavirus.Student visas are tied to teaching and universities are obliged to report any absences by visa holders to the Home Office. The Indian high commission has a public response unit for citizens seeking help, and has widely publicised changes announced by New Delhi.The Home Office said absences of student from campuses or employee need not be reported. Universities and employers also do not need to withdraw sponsorship to their visas if they consider there are exceptional circumstances when a student will be unable to attend for more than 60 days.“The Home Office recognises the current situation is exceptional and will not take any compliance action against students or employees who are unable to attend their studies/work due to the coronavirus outbreak, or against sponsors which authorise absences and continue to sponsor students or employees despite absences for this reason”, it said.Meanwhile, Indian and other non-EU students have voiced concern over steps taken by several universities, such as receiving conflicting messages in some universities to “go home” ahead of Easter vacations next week.Sanam Arora of the National Indian Students & Alumni Union UK said: “Our observations and feedback received from Indian students so far is overwhelmingly positive towards teaching being made online. In cases where this hasn’t already been done petitions have been launched to make universities consider online teaching and assessments”.“Students tell us that they want to travel back to India but are concerned on the impact to their studies and whether they will be able to return or not. Our advice is to speak to their universities and seek authorised absence”, she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-eases-visa-norms-as-india-bans-travel-from-uk-over-coronavirus-outbreak/story-sTmi7ZXMyKDH2G9gE45DtJ.html
16-03-2020||World||Indian, non-EU students voice concern over changes in UK universities due to coronavirus||Indian and other non-EU students have voiced concern over steps taken by several universities due to the coronavirus challenge, such as receiving conflicting messages in some universities to “go home” ahead of Easter vacations next week.Sanam Arora of the National Indian Students & Alumni Union UK said: “Our observations and feedback received from Indian students so far is overwhelmingly positive towards teaching being made online. In cases where this hasn’t already been done petitions have been launched to make universities consider online teaching and assessments”.“Students tell us that they want to travel back to India but are concerned on the impact to their studies and whether they will be able to return or not. Our advice is to speak to their universities and seek authorised absence”, she added.The Home Office has eased norms related to student visas due to the changes. Student visas are tied to teaching and universities are obliged to report any absences by visa holders to the Home Office.A PhD student at Cambridge preferring anonymity said she was concerned the visa may be cancelled if there is no teaching and learning in the next term. Several students took to social media to say that the situation for international students is “incredibly stressful, hostile”.The Indian high commission has a public response unit for citizens needing help and advice.The Home Office said some international students may be prevented from attending their studies or employment due to illness, the need to serve a period of quarantine or the inability to travel due to travel restrictions caused by coronavirus.It added that universities do not need to report student or employee absences related to coronavirus which they have authorised. They also do not need to withdraw sponsorship if they consider there are exceptional circumstances when a student will be unable to attend for more than 60 days.“The Home Office recognises the current situation is exceptional and will not take any compliance action against students or employees who are unable to attend their studies/work due to the coronavirus outbreak, or against sponsors which authorise absences and continue to sponsor students or employees despite absences for this reason”, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indian-non-eu-students-voice-concern-over-changes-in-uk-universities-due-to-coronavirus/story-01J8lK56qs4FzSpRppXf6J.html
16-03-2020||World||Coronavirus update: White House moves to protect Donald Trump, staff against virus||The White House put in place new measures Monday to protect President Donald Trump and his staff during the coronavirus outbreak, including taking the temperature of anyone who enters the complex, including visitors and members of the press corps. The steps expanded on screenings the White House began on Saturday for anyone who gets close to Trump and Vice President Mike Pence, who is leading the administration’s response to the virus. Officials greeted staff, reporters and camera workers by swiping their foreheads with a temporal thermometer. Only those with a reading of 99.6 degrees Fahrenheit (37.6 degrees Celsius) or less were allowed entry into the complex. “In order to keep the entire White House complex safe and healthy, beginning Monday morning, temperature checks will be conducted on everyone who enters campus,” spokesman Judd Deere said. The average body temperature is about 98.6 degrees Fahrenheit (37 degrees Celsius), but it can range from a little lower to a little higher. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention says it considers a person to have a fever when he or she has a temperature of 100.4 degrees Fahrenheit (38 degrees Celsius) or higher. Inside the James S. Brady Press Briefing Room, an orange sign taped to the back of many seats let reporters know that it was to remain unoccupied during briefings to ensure social distancing. The White House Correspondents’ Association called on all members to stay home or work remotely if they could do so and to keep a bare level of staffing at the White House. “We understand these restrictions are deeply disruptive to our members and their ability to do their jobs. But we are forced to take these steps to do our part to ensure that there is a healthy pool available to cover the president and inform the public during this critical time,” the association’s board said in an overnight email to members. The White House on Saturday began taking the temperature of reporters attending a coronavirus briefing led by Trump and Pence. One reporter with a temperature above 100.4 degrees Fahrenheit was denied entry to the briefing room. Temperature checks were conducted before Sunday’s briefing, too. Trump has had contact with people who later tested positive for the coronavirus, including the press aide for Brazil’s president, but Trump initially refused to be tested. On Saturday, Trump said he had taken the test in response to questions at a Friday news conference. The White House doctor reported late Saturday that the test came back negative. Trump, 73, would be considered at risk because of his age. For most people, the new coronavirus causes only mild or moderate symptoms, such as fever and cough. For some, especially older adults and people with existing health problems, it can cause more severe illness, including pneumonia. The vast majority of people recover from the virus. Other precautionary steps the White House is taking: pausing its internship and volunteer programs, canceling public tours and canceling large events through the end of March. The White House also has closed its Navy Mess Dining Room, where many staffers get daily meals. The White House also has encouraged staffers to follow guidelines for telework issued by the Office of Management and Budget. To limit the number of journalists in the briefing room, television networks agreed to pool camera coverage so that just one crew would cover the briefings and share footage with all the other networks, instead of having multiple crews covering the same event. That system was in place for Sunday’s coronavirus briefing. “This is an important first step for us, but we all agree more action is needed to protect our members and the integrity of the press pool covering the president,” the White House Correspondents’ Association board said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/coronavirus-update-white-house-moves-to-protect-donald-trump-staff-against-virus/story-idHqfBp6jGpuOSo5PALw3K.html
16-03-2020||World||No proof that weather will impact coronavirus survival, says Chinese expert||The impact of weather on coronavirus infection rates has not been confirmed, a frontline medical expert stationed in Wuhan said on Monday.Cao Wei, deputy director of the department of infectious diseases at the prestigious Peking Union Medical College hospital added the coronavirus outbreak in China has almost “seen its end” but it will at least take a month to say to make a final judgement on the epidemic situation.With the pandemic raging outside China, imported cases are a concern but there is unlikely to be a second wave of the epidemic, which has killed 3213 and sickened as many as 80860 persons in China, she added.She added that the number of newly reported cases of Covid-19 in the country, including imported ones, might stay at a relatively low level, but it would last for a certain period of time as the imported cases have become an important source of the disease.“We all know that the status of pandemic has been declared by the double actual a few days ago, which means that the situation of the epidemic globally will not be solely dependent on the situations in China or any other single area or countries in the world,” Cao said.“Currently, after three months fights, the outbreak in China, which started last from last year’s December, has almost seen its end. I think we will still wait for another month to see and make the final judgment,” Cao said.When asked whether the weather getting warmer would reduce the number of infections, Cao said climatic factor in curbing COVID-19 has not been confirmed yet.“The peak of the outbreak in Wuhan came to an end. However, we should be observant to sporadic cases in the community, as well as the imported cases from other countries,” Du Bin professor and director of Medical ICU at the Peking Union Medical College Hospital said at the same press conference.The interaction between the doctors in Wuhan and journalists in Beijing took place via a live videolink.“Diagnosis and isolation of symptomatic cases and close contacts of confirmed patients are the predominant tasks in virus prevention that ultimately helped mitigate the outbreak in Wuhan,” Du added. Mainland China saw an overall drop in new infections on Sunday but major cities such as Beijing and Shanghai continued to wrestle with – and tighten restriction against -- cases involving infected travelers arriving from abroad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/no-proof-that-weather-will-impact-coronavirus-survival-says-chinese-expert/story-4VM2zZf8tL5nn82ZYBQS8H.html
16-03-2020||World||Nearly 1,000 new coronavirus cases in Spain in 24 hours||Spain has registered nearly 1,000 new COVID-19 infections over the past 24 hours, raising the total number of cases to 8,744, the health ministry said on Monday. Over the same period, the number of deaths rose by nine to 297, the ministry’s emergencies coordinator Fernando Simon said. The figure for new cases was lower than weekend numbers, when 2,000 infections were detected between Saturday and Sunday and the number of deaths rose by around 100.Also read: In 15 days, coronavirus epicentre shifts from China to Europe Of the total number, Madrid remains the worst-affected region, with 4,665 cases. In order to rein in the virus, Spain has declared a state of alert, shutting all but essential services and ordering its population of 46 million people to stay at home. People are only authorised to go out to buy food or medicine, to go to work or to get medical treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nearly-1-000-new-coronavirus-cases-in-spain-in-24-hours/story-a4hUPVLaKe3ieDOYp198LN.html
16-03-2020||World||Schools reopen in China; coronavirus mystery among kids set to deepen||As China begins a graded and cautious return to normalcy after the passing of the novel coronavirus outbreak peak in the country, one critical question among many is: What happens when children and young adults return to schools and universities?Will infection clusters mushroom? Or, as per current patterns, will children get only a milder form of covid-19, or not get infected at all?The simple answer: No one knows.Why? Partly because when covid-19 began to spread across China in middle to late January, schools here were already shut or beginning to shut, for the Chinese New Year (CNY) holidays.Most schools in China have remained shut since the third week of January.Only schools in the northwestern provinces of Xinjiang and Qinghai and in southwest China’s Guizhou have opened sending hundreds of thousands of students back to school.Possibly because of the closure of all schools until now, China hasn’t – yet -- experienced a school cluster infection. The WHO-China joint commission report released last month said the under-18s experience a “relatively low attack rate” of the virus, about 2.4%. The report added the virus to be “relatively mild” among individuals under 19 years old, with only 2.5% of the reported cases developing into a severe disease and 0.2% developing into a critical disease.Will that low rate change when schools reopen?Gauden Galea, WHO’s China head, told HT that among the many “unknowns” of this new virus strain is how the novel coronavirus could react when schools reopen and children begin to mingle in large clusters among themselves and with adults like teachers and support staff at educational institutions. “There are many unknowns (about the virus). For example, children: We know that children have been infected. There’s nothing to stop children being infected. This is very clear,” Galea told HT in an exclusive interview last weekend.“At the same time, they tend to have a milder form of the disease. So, that’s the pattern. Yes, there have been severe cases, even deaths among children, but they’re very tiny minority and, and in general, children seem to have a very mild form if they get it,” Galea said.“And indeed, many children have been found asymptomatic; because they’ve been in clusters in families where some adult has been infected…the child also gets the virus. So for the time being, that’s how children have experienced it by meeting the virus through an adult in the family,” the WHO chief said.Will the infection transmission route change after children gather in the thousands in schools?Galea added that there hasn’t yet been a school-based infection cluster because schools have not been open since the epidemic began in China.“So, one has to be extremely careful about the return to school because then the interaction of a lot of children together with the adults who are teaching them, the parents who are accompanying them: they create a new mode of interaction”.Galea said it was important to categorise the type of educations institutions.Like primary schools where children go back and forth from their homes to schools and universities where young adults live together in dormitories.“So opening schools doesn’t mean you open all of these at the same time. So you have to have this weaning back. That will result in a more manageable (situation): If a danger emerges you can more quickly stamp it out,” Galea said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/reopening-schools-in-china-remain-a-major-unknown-in-fight-against-coronavirus/story-EFtaOfwZuRVdPs0NJvskLM.html
16-03-2020||World||Joe Biden commits to picking woman running mate if he wins Democratic presidential nomination||Former Vice-President Joe Biden on Sunday committed to selecting a woman as his running mate if he won the Democratic presidential nomination and to appointing the first African American woman justice of the Supreme Court if he elected to the White House.Indian American Senator Kamala Harris has figured in many speculative lists of Biden’s running mate, along with Senator Amy Klobuchar, Georgia state politician Stacey Abrams; and former deputy attorney general Sally Yates, who first alerted the Trump White House to lying by former national security adviser Michael Flynn about his contacts with Russians.Biden’s announcement could also have implications for Republicans. Though President Donald Trump has declared he will stay with Vice-President Mike Pence for his 2020 re-election bid, speculation has continued about his former ambassador to the UN Nikki Haley, another Indian American.The US supreme court’s first African American justice was Thurgood Marshall who was appointed in 1967, and the top cout has several women on the bench, including three at present But there has never been an African American woman justice, which Biden promised to change if elected.“I will pick a woman to be vice president,” Biden said at a Democratic presidential debate , adding, “There are a number of women who are qualified to be president tomorrow.” He has spoken before about picking a woman running mate, and there are more women in the list of his probables than men. Sunday night, however, was a commitment.Biden, who appears to be the presumptive nominee, could pick someone else entirely. But whoever it is, she will not be the first running mate. Geraldine Ferraro ran with Democratic Presidential nominees Walter Mondale in 1984, and Sarah Palin with Republican nominee John MaCain in 2008. They all lost.Sanders hedged when asked by one of the moderators to respond to the vice-president’s announcement. “In all likelihood, I would,” Sanders said, adding, however, that progressive ideology more than gender would cut for him. But he checked himself in time to wrap up his matching commitment. “There are progressive women out there,” he said.The Sunday debate took place in CNN’s studios in Washington DC instead of Phoenix, Arizona where it was originally scheduled to be held, because of the coronavirus outbreak that has infected more than 3,500 Americans, killed at least 65, shut down schools and colleges and upended life.Both Biden and Sanders slammed the Trump administration’s response to the outbreak. “First thing we have got to do, whether or not I’m president, is to shut this president up right now,” said Sanders and went on to add, “It is unacceptable for him to be blabbering with un-factual information which is confusing the general public.”Biden and Sanders came to the Sunday debate as key rivals for the Democratic nomination even though Congresswoman Tulsi Gabbard remains in the race technically.The former vice-president is the clear frontrunner who, it is widely perceived, is wrapping up the nomination, building on his recent victories. He is expected to consolidate his gains in the upcoming primaries in Arizona, Florida, Illinois and Ohio coming Tuesday, which, some Democratic strategists are saying could be the last in the Democratic 2020 presidential primaries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-commits-to-picking-woman-running-mate-if-he-wins-democratic-presidential-nomination/story-sjuehhtmaXkEMLBiSC4eoJ.html
16-03-2020||World||Member of Iranian clerical assembly dies of coronavirus: Reports||A 78-year-old member of the Iranian clerical body that chooses the country’s supreme leader has died from the illness caused by the new coronavirus, news agencies reported Monday. He was the latest of several senior Iranian officials to have been infected in the worsening outbreak.The outbreak has infected nearly 14,000 people in Iran and killed more than 700, with the toll jumping by more than a hundred in the last 24 hours. The real numbers may be even higher, as some have questioned the government’s reporting.For most people, the new coronavirus causes only mild or moderate symptoms, such as fever and cough. For some, especially older adults and people with existing health problems, it can cause more severe illness, including pneumonia.The vast majority of people recover from the new virus. Those with mild illness recover in about two weeks, while those with more severe illness may take three to six weeks to recover.The semi-official Fars and Tasnim news agencies reported that Ayatollah Hashem Bathaei, a low-profile, moderate member of the Assembly of Experts, died from the COVID-19 illness.The clerical assembly has the authority to appoint or remove the supreme leader, who has the final say on all major policies.Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, who is 80 years old and has been in power since 1989, wore disposable gloves at a recent public event, apparently as a precaution.Cabinet ministers, members of parliament, Revolutionary Guard members and Health Ministry officials have been infected, compounding fears about Iran’s response to the global pandemic, which has infected nearly 170,000 people worldwide and killed more than 6,500.More than 77,000 people have recovered.The official leading Iran’s response to the virus on Sunday expressed concerns that health facilities could be overwhelmed if the rate of new cases continues to climb.“If the trend continues, there will not be enough capacity,” Ali Reza Zali, who is leading the campaign against the outbreak, was quoted as saying by the state-run IRNA news agency.Iran is believed to have around 110,000 hospital beds, including 30,000 in the capital, Tehran. Authorities have pledged to set up mobile clinics as needed.Despite the mounting toll, many Iranians are shrugging off concerns about the virus. The streets of Tehran were bustling on Sunday, with many people out shopping in stores with little evidence of panic-buying.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/member-of-iranian-clerical-assembly-dies-of-coronavirus-reports/story-IAUV5RhVholHN03pXkjR1N.html
16-03-2020||World||Army disinfects train stations as Spain’s coronavirus death toll doubles||Army specialists in protective suits sprayed disinfectant in train stations and police in surgical masks ordered casual strollers to go home on Sunday after Spain clamped down during a coronavirus outbreak that saw deaths more than double overnight.Spaniards, housebound by law since Saturday, emerged on balconies and stood at windows on Sunday evening to whoop and beep horns in appreciation of emergency services dealing with Europe’s second-worst outbreak after Italy.The government’s official coronavirus death toll rose by 152 overnight to 288. The number of infected rose by 2,000 cases to 7,753. Schools across the country are closed, keeping millions of children at home. Social gatherings are banned.The sudden Spanish lockdown, along with similarly abrupt moves to curtail public life in France, has astonished Western Europe this weekend, as countries follow Italy in imposing restrictions unseen in peacetime.Among the high-profile figures to test positive in Spain were the prime minister’s wife, two Cabinet ministers and five players of top-flight soccer club Valencia.Ford Motor Co said it would close its factory in Valencia for one week starting on Monday after three employees tested positive for the virus. The plant, one of Ford’s largest outside the United States, employs 7,000 to make vehicles including the Mondeo.Also on Sunday, Volkswagen said it would indefinitely close its plant in the northern region of Navarra, which makes the Polo and T-Cross models, as it struggled to staff the factory in the face of draconian safety measures. Public places from city streets to beaches across Spain were deserted, while police fined cyclists out for a spin on Sunday after the government decreed citizens could only leave their homes for essential outings like buying food. Police used drones to send public messages telling people to go home at one popular leisure spot, while the government ordered the army’s pharmacy specialists to produce disinfectant and generic medicines in bulk.Britain advised on Sunday against all but essential travel to Spain. Thousands of inbound flights have been cancelled and the country’s renowned Easter processions have been called off in one of the world’s most popular tourist destinations.Spain and Portugal will agree to restrict tourism between the two countries from Monday to curb the infection’s spread, Portuguese Prime Minister Antonio Costa said.Spaniards fretted about the economic consequences of a nationwide lockdown that has shuttered bars, restaurants and many shops.More than half of jobs in the country are dependent on small or medium-sized companies and Spain already has one of the developed world’s highest unemployment rates.“This city depends on tourism - what with all the bars and restaurants and shops - this is really going to economically damage many businesses,” said 52-year-old Leonel Sanchez, who was out to buy food on Madrid’s main thoroughfare, Gran Via.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/army-disinfects-train-stations-as-spain-s-coronavirus-death-toll-doubles/story-c2WbbIUD7iekU5QcfCN2cO.html
16-03-2020||World||Donald Trump, Dems and politics surrounding coronavirus pandemic in US||Americans normally hear from President Donald Trump when he is opining on Twitter, riffing from a rally stage or otherwise improvising. This past week was different as he sat in the Oval Office with a script laid out for him to read on a matter grave enough for a prime-time address to the nation.President Donald Trump addressed the coronavirus crisis that is spreading germs and fear. But his words were as factually fraught as many of his tweets.He addressed the coronavirus crisis that is spreading germs and fear. But his words were as factually fraught as many of his tweets.Most broadly, Trump hailed American exceptionalism in health care and science — “The virus will not have a chance against us” — even as the public health system failed in making diagnostic testing accessible to all who need it.It’s been more than a week now since Trump assured the country: “Anybody, right now, and yesterday, anybody that needs a test, gets a test. They’re there. They have the test. And the test is beautiful.”He persisted with that thought as recently as Thursday, a day after his Oval Office address, when he asserted “the testing has been going very smooth.” This, as the government’s top infection expert, Dr. Anthony Fauci, was telling lawmakers: “It is a failing, let’s admit it.”Meanwhile, in their first one-on-one debate matchup Sunday, Democratic presidential rivals Joe Biden and Bernie Sanders made their own questionable statements on topics including the pandemic, Social Security and more.A review of the recent rhetoric and reality:EXCEPTIONALISM?TRUMP: “No nation is more prepared or more resilient than the United States.” — Oval Office address Wednesday.THE FACTS: American resilience will be measured over time. But the U.S. is not more prepared than all other countries. Seven weeks since the first U.S. case of coronavirus was announced, the government cannot account for what could be thousands of additional infections because of continuing stumbles on testing.Nearly a month after U.S. health officials promised to tap into a national network of labs that monitor for flu, that system is only just getting started. Large-scale testing is a critical part of tracking the spread of infectious diseases and allocating resources for treatment. The lack of comprehensive figures means U.S. health providers could quickly be overwhelmed by undetected cases.Fauci told a congressional hearing that other countries grappling with the virus have been making it easy for people to get tested, but in the U.S., “the system is not really geared to what we need right now.”For most people, COVID-19 causes only mild or moderate symptoms, such as fever and cough. For some, especially older adults and people with health problems, it can cause more severe illness, including pneumonia. The vast majority of people recover from it.TRUMP: “If an American is coming back or anybody is coming back, we’re testing. We have a tremendous testing setup where people coming in have to be tested. ... We’re not putting them on planes if it shows positive, but if they do come here, we’re quarantining. There’s going to be a pretty strong enforcement of quarantine.” -- remarks Thursday.THE FACTS: That’s not true. All people coming to the U.S. are not subject to mandatory, universal testing, nor are they being forced to quarantine.As well, his proclamation detailing the broad travel restrictions that took effect midnight Friday night on visitors from most of Europe does not specify that everyone allowed in will have to be tested. Trump was probably referring to plans that are expected to be put in place soon to channel those arriving from many European countries to certain U.S. airports, where they will receive screening and be subjected to quarantine instructions, just like visitors from China.TRUMP: “Taking early intense action, we have seen dramatically fewer cases of the virus in the United States than are now present in Europe. “ — Oval Office address.THE FACTS: “Seen” so far may be true. But that does not mean Europe is being hit harder by infections than the United States. Because of test shortages in the U.S., many Americans with COVID-19 aren’t being diagnosed and counted.TRUMP: “The European Union failed to take the same precautions and restrict travel from China and other hot spots. As a result, a large number of new clusters in the United States were seeded by travelers from Europe.” — Oval Office address.THE FACTS: That’s a distorted account of travel restrictions in Europe.By the time U.S. travel restrictions were announced on Jan. 31, many major European airlines had already cut service to China. While restrictions in some European countries were not as widespread, others were much broader.The Czech Republic had stopped issuing visas to Chinese citizens. Germany issued a travel advisory urging citizens to postpone nonessential travel to China. Italy had declared a state of emergency for six months. Russia had shut down its land border with China, as well as almost all train traffic and most flights there.Trump on Jan. 31 signed an order that would temporarily bar entry to the U.S. of foreign nationals, other than immediate family of U.S. citizens and permanent residents, who have traveled in China within the last 14 days. The ban took effect Feb. 2.A recent study from the journal Science found China’s internal crackdown modestly delayed the spread of the virus but it cast doubt that travel restrictions elsewhere will do much compared with other preventive measures.Despite Trump’s boast of “early intense action,” his former homeland security adviser, Tom Bossert, said restrictions on entry into the U.S. from Europe came too late. “We have nearly as much disease here in the US as the countries in Europe,” he tweeted.WHAT’S COVEREDTRUMP: “Earlier this week, I met with the leaders of (the) health insurance industry, who have agreed to waive all co-payments for coronavirus treatments, extend insurance coverage to these treatments, and to prevent surprise medical billing.” — Oval Office address.THE FACTS: No, they did not say they will cover copays for treatment.As Vice President Mike Pence stated more accurately, the insurers agreed to cover coronavirus testing with no cost sharing — so no copays or deductibles. That assurance applies to tests that can confirm or rule out the virus, and doesn’t extend to treatment or to other tests that the patient’s doctor may order. Consumers should check with their insurance company because policies may vary on this. They should not count on the president’s word.What’s more, in the process of diagnosing COVID-19, other tests may be ordered. Insurers have not pledged to waive cost-sharing for those. Copays and deductibles may apply for imaging tests such as X-rays or CT scans of the chest, for example, and hospital stays are also subject to cost-sharing.Federal programs including Medicare, Medicaid, children’s health insurance and “Obamacare” all cover the coronavirus tests. Of particular importance, clinical diagnostic tests are covered under Medicare with no cost-sharing, a longstanding policy. But cost-sharing may apply for other tests, such as imaging.When people get sick from the coronavirus, there currently is no antiviral treatment that can cure the disease. Instead, the current treatment is geared to relieving patients’ symptoms and helping them to recover. For those who are very sick, that can involve using machinery to help them breathe. Insurers cover such treatment based on the terms of the individual’s health plan, including any applicable deductibles and copays.TESTS & TREATMENTTRUMP: “We are cutting massive amounts of red tape to make antiviral therapies available in record time. These treatments will significantly reduce the impact and reach of the virus.” — Oval Office address.THE FACTS: People with COVID-19 or those who get it in the outbreak should not expect those therapies to be available to them. Dr. Anthony Fauci of the National Institutes of Health told a congressional committee Wednesday that while antivirals are being tested, “we don’t know if it works. I don’t want to promise anything.”An antiviral is a medicine that specifically attacks a virus to hasten recovery. An experimental drug named remdesivir, which was being developed to fight Ebola, is being tested in COVID-19 patients in the U.S. and abroad. There also are studies underway using combinations of some HIV-attacking drugs.TRUMP: “For decades the @CDCgov looked at, and studied, its testing system, but did nothing about it. It would always be inadequate and slow for a large scale pandemic, but a pandemic would never happen, they hoped. President Obama made changes that only complicated things further..... Their response to H1N1 Swine Flu was a full scale disaster, with thousands dying, and nothing meaningful done to fix the testing problem, until now.” — tweets Friday.THE FACTS: His newfound disdain for the CDC’s actions and his criticisms of the Obama administration are based on a faulty description of what happened in the 2009 H1N1 pandemic, initially called “swine flu.”Then, the CDC’s flu surveillance network actually sounded the alarm, spotting two children in California who were the first diagnosed cases of the new flu strain. About two weeks later, the U.S. declared a public health emergency and the CDC began releasing anti-flu drugs from the national stockpile to help hospitals get ready. Trump declared a state of emergency Friday, nearly two months after the first COVID-19 case in the U.S. was announced.As for thousands dying, it actually turned out that the new H1N1 strain was less deadly than average seasonal flu. But even that comparison is problematic because regular flu years are deadliest for the elderly while H1N1 was riskiest for younger people.TRAVEL RESTRICTIONSTRUMP: “We will be suspending all travel from Europe, except the United Kingdom, for the next 30 days.” — Oval Office address.THE FACTS: He inaccurately described his own plan.First, the restriction does not apply to legal permanent residents of the U.S. or their families when they are returning from Europe. It also does not apply to U.S. citizens coming back from Europe, as Trump acknowledged.As well, it apparently does not apply to Ireland, Romania, Croatia, Ukraine and several other European states. The proclamation released by the White House says the travel ban affects the 26 European countries in the Schengen Area. That’s most of Europe, but not “all.”TRUMP: “These prohibitions will not only apply to the tremendous amount of trade and cargo, but various other things as we get approval.” — Oval Office address.THE FACTS: That is wrong. The White House quickly clarified that the restriction on movement from Europe “only applies to human beings, not goods and cargo.”CHEAP GASTRUMP: “Good for the consumer, gasoline prices coming down!” — tweet on March 9, after the price of oil fell nearly 20% and the stock market, already shaken by the coronavirus outbreak, took an even deeper dive.TRUMP: “So with gasoline prices coming down, that’s like a tax cut. Frankly, that’s like a big tax cut, not a little tax cut for the consumer. So there’s something about that that I like.” — remarks Thursday.THE FACTS: His affection for cheaper prices at the pump is widely shared. It’s just that cheaper gas increasingly comes at a cost. The price decline could hurt overall economic growth, which is probably a bigger negative on balance than saving at the pump.A drop in oil prices is not as helpful to the U.S. economy as it was when the country was massively dependent on foreign oil. That’s because the fracking revolution has made domestic oil and natural gas production a major part of the U.S. economy. A drop in prices hurts that domestic industry. It leads to less drilling, fewer jobs, cuts in factory orders and a host of aftershocks that could leave the nation as a whole worse off.The last time oil prices dropped by a comparable amount, in 2015-2016, it contributed to a slowing of economic growth from 2.9% to 1.6%.DEMOCRATIC DEBATESANDERS: “We’re the only major country on earth not to guarantee health (care for) all people. We’re spending so much money and yet we are not even prepared for this pandemic.”BIDEN: “It has nothing to do with ‘Medicare for All’ — that wouldn’t solve the problem at all.”THE FACTS: Biden has a point. The coronavirus pandemic has taken countries by surprise regardless of the type of health care system that they have. Spain has a single-payer system, known as “social security” in that country. Italy guarantees coverage for all through a regionally based system. But both countries have struggled to get control of the outbreak, and their governments have been forced to take stringent measures not yet seen in this country.BIDEN: “A Medicare option. We can do that now. I can get that passed. I can get that done, if I’m president of the United States of America.”THE FACTS: That’s no guarantee. It’s a promise. The health insurance industry is dead set against a public option — a government plan that would compete with private insurers — and would fight it. So would many Republicans and perhaps even some Democrats.Democrats originally sought a public plan as part of the Obama-era Affordable Care Act. But they lacked the votes to get it through the Senate, even when they held a commanding majority in that chamber. The same fight would play out again if Biden is elected president. Whether he’s able to secure a public plan depends on the composition of the Senate.SANDERS, to Biden: “You have been on the floor of the Senate time and time again talking about the need to cut Social Security, Medicare and veterans programs. Is that true or is that not true?”BIDEN: “That is not true.”THE FACTS: Sanders’ accusation is misleading. He suggests that Biden’s record shows that he would be hostile to preserving Social Security. In fact, Biden’s position has actually evolved over his long public career as a centrist senator. Cutting Social Security is not what he is proposing now.Biden’s campaign has pointed to a long list of legislation he supported that increased Social Security benefits. But as an influential legislator who had a hand in passing major bills, he also was willing to enter negotiations with Republicans by considering a reduction in cost-of-living increases.Often these changes were presented as a way to cut costs that would save the program.During a 1996 candidate debate, for example, he floated the possibility of reducing cost-of-living increases and raising the retirement age to 68.Sanders and his allies have also circulated video footage, news stories and transcripts of Biden’s past remarks. But in some cases, what appears to be a sweeping statement by Biden lack crucial context.One of the principal examples is a clip from a 2018 speech in which Biden appeared to discuss in favorable terms then-House Speaker Paul Ryan’s comments that a rising deficit demanded action on the popular entitlement programs. However, video, circulated on Twitter by a top Sanders adviser, used only a snippet of Biden’s remarks and avoided his larger criticism over how Ryan handled the 2017 tax cuts and subsequent budget debates.Other widely distributed videos of Biden as a U.S. senator from Delaware in 1995 and presidential candidate in 2007 show him explaining his support for a more austere federal budget, including putting Social Security and Medicare “on the table.”“When I argued that we should freeze federal spending, I meant Social Security, as well,” Biden said during a 1995 speech on the Senate floor. “I meant Medicare and Medicaid. I meant veterans’ benefits. ... And I not only tried it once, I tried it twice, I tried it a third time and I tried it a fourth time.”The remarks were delivered in support of a federal balanced budget amendment that ultimately failed to win approval and did not relate directly to legislation that would have cut or frozen Social Security spending — or any other specific program. Yet as Biden himself acknowledged at the time, Social Security would likely have faced cuts if such a measure had been approved.As the Democratic Party moved leftward — a development that tracks along ever-widening income and wealth inequality — Biden has moved with it. His 2020 campaign platform now calls for raising taxes on upper-income households to shore up Social Security and expanding benefits for some of the oldest seniors.“There will be no compromise on Medicare and Social Security, period,” Biden said Jan. 20 in Des Moines, Iowa.SANDERS: “I voted against the bailout because I believed that the illegal behavior being done by the people on Wall Street should not be rewarded by a bailout. ... The Fed gave trillions and trillions of dollars in zero interest loans to every financial institution in this country and central banks all over the world. That was essentially a grant.”THE FACTS: Sanders is mischaracterizing the steps taken by the Federal Reserve and the stimulus efforts by the Bush and Obama administrations as merely giveaways to banks and Wall Street. It’s true that banks disproportionately benefited from the bailout, but the layoffs and foreclosures of that time would have been even worse without the government’s fiscal and monetary intervention.First, the Fed cut the interest rate that banks charge each other for overnight loans to near-zero in late 2008 as the economy was cratering. It also bought government debt and mortgage-backed securities that expanded the central bank’s balance sheet to historic highs. These were not grants as Sanders suggests, but efforts to increase the flow of money into the U.S. economy in order to halt the downturn and boost hiring, business investment and consumer spending.Second, Sanders suggests that efforts such as the Troubled Asset Relief Program were in spirit rewarding bankers who should have been criminally prosecuted. But the loans and other initiatives stemming from TARP were about stabilizing the financial markets and other sectors of the economy. Biden correctly noted that failing to stabilize those institutions could have made the situation even bleaker for everyday Americans.BIDEN: “I’m taking all the precautions. I make sure I don’t touch my face.”THE FACTS: As many Americans have discovered, that’s easier said than done. He defied two recommended precautions during the debate, coughing into his hand, not his elbow, and touching his face several times, once with his hand on his chin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-dems-and-politics-surrounding-coronavirus-pandemic-in-us/story-MWkY7MsHkm44k8r7foHVfK.html
16-03-2020||World||Gulf nations on verge of lockdown as coronavirus spreads in the Middle East||Saudi Arabia closed public spaces on Sunday and announced a pause in most government operations while Qatar and Oman imposed entry restrictions as Gulf Arab states broadened efforts to contain the spread of coronavirus and support their economies.Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, Oman and Qatar reported new cases, raising the total number in the six-member Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) to 963, with no deaths reported.Qatar, which now has 401 cases, said it would ban non-Qatari passengers from entering the country for two weeks starting on Wednesday. It announced measures to shield its economy, including 75 billion riyals ($20.5 billion) in incentives for the private sector and more state investment in the local bourse.Oman said that as of Tuesday it would allow in only GCC citizens, and ordered the suspension of Friday prayers, social events such as weddings and closure of public parks.Saudi Arabia reported 15 more coronavirus cases, taking its total to 118. Local municipalities tweeted directives for the closure of malls, restaurants, coffee shops and public parks, while exempting supermarkets, pharmacies and food delivery. Al Arabiya TV said the measures would apply across the country.State news agency SPA reported that government operations were suspended for 16 days except for the health and security sectors. The justice ministry said earlier non-urgent judicial hearings were postponed indefinitely.Regional tourism and business hub Dubai joined the UAE capital Abu Dhabi in closing cinemas, arcades, spas, gyms and parks, prompting a rush on supermarkets where many shoppers wore masks and gloves, residents said. The Abu Dhabi Securities Exchange closed trading halls until further notice, a day after Kuwait’s bourse did the same.The UAE recorded 12 more travel-linked infections among various nationalities -- South African, Australian, Chinese, Filipino, Italian, Lebanese, British, Iranian, Emirati and three Indians -- raising its total to 98.DRASTIC MEASURES Kuwait and Saudi Arabia, which previously cancelled the Umrah pilgrimage and locked down its eastern Qatif region, have taken the most drastic steps among Gulf states by halting international passenger flights. The UAE and Qatar have restricted entry visas. Emirates airline suspended more flights.Saudi Arabia’s central bank will intervene to support the kingdom’s economy if liquidity is tight or credit is affected, its governor said, reiterating a commitment to the riyal’s dollar peg.An American living in the Saudi capital Riyadh said his parents cut short their visit ahead of the kingdom’s two-week flight ban which went into effect at 0800 GMT.“I’m glad that they’re off even though it means 24 hours in the airport hotel in Dubai,” he said.Two gated compounds in Riyadh housing hundreds of expatriates each reported one case among residents, according to internal emails seen by Reuters. Some compounds restricted residents’ movements and guest access.Citizens and residents in Kuwait, which went into virtual lockdown on Thursday, had their temperatures tested before entering bank branches, where long queues formed on Sunday.RIVALRIESMany cases in the Gulf are linked to travel with Iran, which on Sunday raised its toll to 724 dead and more than 13,900 infected.Iranian President Hassan Rouhani said on Sunday the government had no plans to quarantine cities, state TV reported.Saudi Arabia and Bahrain, both adversaries of Iran, have criticised the Islamic Republic for allowing their citizens to enter without stamping their passports.However, the outbreak has also seen rivalries sidelined.In a rare phone call, UAE Foreign Minister Abdullah bin Zayed Al Nahyan told his Iranian counterpart Mohammad Javad Zarif the UAE was ready to help, state media said on Sunday.Iranian media said Zarif thanked the UAE, which has facilitated medical supply shipments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/gulf-nations-on-verge-of-lockdown-as-coronavirus-spreads-in-the-middle-east/story-Y8CP9xqhec6duZabRYFnVL.html
16-03-2020||World||China sees fewer coronavirus cases, wary of international travellers||Mainland China reported an overall drop in new coronavirus infections on Sunday, but major cities such as Beijing and Shanghai continued to wrestle with cases involving infected travellers arriving from abroad.Mainland China had 16 new confirmed cases on Sunday, the National Health Commission said on Monday, down from 20 a day earlier. That brings the total number of confirmed cases in China so far to 80,860.Of the new figures, 12 were imported infections, exceeding locally transmitted cases for the third day.Beijing accounted for four of the cases, Guangdong province four, Shanghai two, Yunnan province one and Gansu province one. That brings the total number of imported cases to 123 so far.China has tightened checks on international travellers, with the capital of Beijing requiring anyone arriving from abroad to be transferred to city quarantine facilities for 14 days, starting Monday.Beijing has redirected all international flights that were scheduled to land at its new Daxing International Airport in the south to the older Beijing Capital International Airport in the northeast.Shanghai has designated hotels serving as quarantine venues for inbound international travellers, though the financial hub has not made it compulsory yet for all travellers to be quarantined at such venues on arrival.Mainland China’s only locally transmitted new infections on Sunday were in Wuhan, the epicentre of the outbreak and capital of Hubei province, with four cases.It was the 11th consecutive day that the central province recorded zero new infections outside of Wuhan.The death toll from the outbreak in China had reached 3,213 as of the end of Sunday, up by 14 from the previous day.In Hubei, there were 14 new deaths, with Wuhan accounting for 13 of the fatalities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-sees-fewer-coronavirus-cases-wary-of-international-travellers/story-avFSED6Zha9dqUTe5t62qN.html
16-03-2020||World||French voters shun elections, enjoy sunshine despite coronavirus restrictions||Voters turned out in low numbers in France’s mayoral elections on Sunday after the government imposed stringent restrictions on public life to curb the spread of the coronavirus, though many headed outdoors to enjoy the warm spring sunshine.Many expressed bemusement after Prime Minister Edouard Philippe’s announcement on Saturday that the vote would go ahead even as he declared all cafes, bars, cinemas and non-essential shops would close until further notice.In the race for Paris City Hall, an exit poll showed President Emmanuel Macron’s candidate, former health minister Agnes Buzyn, coming third behind the socialist incumbent Anne Hidalgo and a conservative challenger.Even after Macron pressed ahead with the first round, saying it was critical that democracy followed its course, some opponents questioned how a second round could be held in a week as the number of deaths and infections spirals higher.“I find the government position hypocritical. Keeping the local election going is pure nonsense,” said Laurence Koch, 38, who works at a city planning consulting firm.Fewer than 40 percent of registered voters had cast a ballot at 1600 GMT, when only an hour’s voting remained outside the big cities, confirming concerns that abstentions could eclipse the previous lowest turnout in 1971.Yet people appeared to ignore the health warnings when it came to their social life.In the gardens of the Louvre Museum and along the banks of the River Seine in the capital, hundreds of people strolled, picnicked and drank in the spring sunshine.Marseille’s old port was packed with people determined to enjoy the warm temperatures.“We’re worried like everybody, but it’s sunny. We’re not close to people and we’re not touching them,” said writer Marc Roger,62. There was concern among officials that the public was not heeding warnings. “Respect the strict social measures,” Health Minister Olivier Veran implored.The government was preparing an order that citizens stay at home, sources aware of the planning said, a move that would tighten further restrictions on public life to combat the epidemic.It was not clear whether the government had taken a final decision on a lockdown. Emmanuel Macron’s office said the president and his prime minister had already spoken when announcing earlier restrictions and would communicate again if the public health situation evolved.‘NOT SCARED’The number of deaths from the coronavirus in France increased by more than a third on Sunday to 127 and more than 5,423 have been infected.In polling stations across the country, people were visibly cautious, trying with difficulty to keep a safe distance from each other.One voter, Pascale, 59, who gave only her first name and who was wearing a mask and gloves after voting in Paris’ 7th district, said it seemed irresponsible to hold the vote.“I’ve got a lot of friends and family that will not go even if they usually carry out their civic duty,” she said.Poll clerks wore latex gloves, offered disinfectant and marked out lanes with arrows on the floor showing where people should stand while waiting for their turn. Some voters wore gloves and brought their own pens to sign off their vote.“I am going to vote and keep living my life no matter what. I am not scared of the virus,” said another voter, a 60-year-old woman who asked to be identified only as Martine as she entered a polling station in Paris’ 16th district.Philippe suggested on Saturday the election’s second round on March 22 could be pushed back. If the second round does not go ahead, the first round is likely to be annulled. The elections are an important test for Macron, whose presidency has been roiled by public unrest, first from the “yellow vest” protesters angered over the cost of living and more recently over his pension reform plans. His party is not expected to do well in the vote for France’s 35,000 city, town and village halls, and which is critical for anchoring power at a local level.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/french-voters-shun-elections-enjoy-sunshine-despite-coronavirus-restrictions/story-IcYIBxkUd70wZwbrXBm02J.html
16-03-2020||World||Germany tries to halt US interest in firm working on coronavirus vaccine: Report||Berlin is trying to stop Washington from persuading a German company seeking a coronavirus vaccine to move its research to the United States, prompting German politicians to insist no country should have a monopoly on any future vaccine.German government sources told Reuters on Sunday that the U.S. administration was looking into how it could gain access to a potential vaccine being developed by a German firm, CureVac.Earlier, the Welt am Sonntag German newspaper reported that U.S. President Donald Trump had offered funds to lure CureVac to the United States, and the German government was making counter-offers to tempt it to stay.Responding to the report, the U.S. ambassador to Germany, Richard Grenell, wrote on Twitter: “The Welt story was wrong.”A U.S. official said: “This story is wildly overplayed ... We will continue to talk to any company that claims to be able to help. And any solution found would be shared with the world.”A German Health Ministry spokeswoman, confirming a quote in the newspaper, said: “The German government is very interested in ensuring that vaccines and active substances against the new coronavirus are also developed in Germany and Europe.”“In this regard, the government is in intensive exchange with the company CureVac,” she added.Welt am Sonntag quoted an unidentified German government source as saying Trump was trying to secure the scientists’ work exclusively, and would do anything to get a vaccine for the United States, “but only for the United States.”German Interior Minister Horst Seehofer told a news conference that the government’s coronavirus crisis committee would discuss the CureVac case on Monday.CureVac issued a statement on Sunday, in which it said: “The company rejects current rumours of an acquisition”.CureVac’s main investor Dietmar Hopp said he was not selling and wanted CureVac to develop a coronavirus vaccine to “help people not just regionally but in solidarity across the world.”“I would be glad if this could be achieved through my long-term investments out of Germany,” he added.A German Economy Ministry spokeswoman said Berlin “has a great interest” in producing vaccines in Germany and Europe. She cited Germany’s foreign trade law, under which Berlin can examine takeover bids from non-EU, so-called third countries “if national or European security interests are at stake”. EXPERIMENTAL VACCINEFlorian von der Muelbe, CureVac’s chief production officer and co-founder, told Reuters last week the company had started with a multitude of coronavirus vaccine candidates and was now selecting the two best to go into clinical trials.The privately-held company based in Tuebingen, Germany hopes to have an experimental vaccine ready by June or July to then seek the go-ahead from regulators for testing on humans.On its website, CureVac said CEO Daniel Menichella early this month met Trump, Vice President Mike Pence, members of the White House Coronavirus Task Force and senior representatives of pharmaceutical and biotech companies to discuss a vaccine.CureVac in 2015 and 2018 secured financial backing for development projects from its investor the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, working on shots to prevent malaria and influenza.In the field of so-called mRNA therapeutics, CureVac competes with U.S. biotech firm Moderna and German rival BioNTech, which Pfizer has identified as a potential collaboration partner.Drugs based on mRNA provide a type of genetic blueprint that can be injected into the body to instruct cells to produce the desired therapeutic proteins. That contrasts with the conventional approach of making these proteins in labs and bio-reactors.In the case of vaccines, the mRNA prompts body cells to produce so-called antigens, the tell-tale molecules on the surface of viruses, that spur the immune system into action.Companies working on other coronavirus-vaccine approaches include Johnson & Johnson and INOVIO Pharmaceuticals, Inc..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/germany-tries-to-halt-us-interest-in-firm-working-on-coronavirus-vaccine-report/story-2vkXRNA8dwlT5dtf8PngJI.html
16-03-2020||World||Australia mulls second stimulus package to tackle coronavirus: Report||Australia is considering a second round of economic stimulus, three sources familiar with the deliberations told Reuters, as Canberra accelerated efforts to contain the spread of the coronavirus that has now killed five people in the country.Australia has recorded nearly 300 cases of coronavirus and authorities fear a rapid rise in the flu-like respiratory disease.The spread of the virus has roiled global markets despite pledges of stimulus packages, including Australia’s plan to inject A$17.6 billion ($11.4 billion) into its economy. As Australian markets slumped further on Monday, Prime Minister Scott Morrison will meet with senior Cabinet officials to discuss a potential “scaling-up” of its stimulus package, three sources told Reuters.Earlier, Australia’s central bank said it was ready to purchase local government bonds to support the smooth functioning of the market and will announce further policy measures later this week.The Reserve Bank of Australia also pumped extra liquidity into the banking system, part of a package of measures aimed at ensuring business and households have access to credit as travel and industry are disrupted.Australia’s corporate regulator asked some participants in the equity market to limit the number of trades they execute each day by up to 25% after a huge spike in volumes last week. The moves, however, did little to calm market jitters, with the local share market falling as much as 7% in morning trading.STATE OF EMERGENCYAs Australian financial policymakers and regulators moved to underpin its markets, Australia’s capital and the country’s second most populous state declared states of emergency to slow the spread of the outbreak. After a 77-year-old woman and a 90-year-old woman died in New South Wales, Victoria state and the Australian Capital Territory (ACT) - home to the capital city of Canberra - both declared a state of emergency that will give health officials sweeping powers. The proclamations allows the Victoria state and ACT’s chief health officers to issue fresh quarantine orders to cover entire suburbs, businesses or professions if deemed necessary.“These powers have never been used before,” Victorian Premier Daniel Andrews told reporters in Melbourne, the state capital of Victoria. “This, I hope provides a clear sense about the unprecedented nature of this public health emergency, this really significant challenge.” The Victoria state of emergency will run for four weeks, while the ACT declaration will be in force for at least a week.Western Australia state declared a state of emergency on Sunday.Nationally, Australia is tightening its borders, with Morrison on Sunday ordering everyone arriving from overseas to self-isolate for 14 days.Australia has also banned non-essential social gatherings of more than 500 people, though this not apply for public transport, work or schools.Still, many offices are asking employees to work from home and several leading universities on Monday shuttered for at least a week.Australia’s parliament, which is scheduled to sit next week has also restricted access to visitors, while Morrison said lawmakers will be asked to limit the number of staff members that come to Canberra next week.Hundreds of Australians have begun stockpiling goods, from staples to sanitizers, clearing supermarket shelves.The country’s biggest grocer, Woolworths Group, said on Monday it would open exclusively for an hour in the morning from Tuesday until at least Friday for elderly Australians and people with disabilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/australia-mulls-second-stimulus-package-to-tackle-coronavirus-report/story-QI6Pr8Xf292I0wQPOrTsGK.html
16-03-2020||World||Trump calls on Americans to cease hoarding food, supplies in the wake of coronavirus outbreak||President Donald Trump on Sunday called on people to stop hoarding groceries and other supplies as one of the nation’s most senior public health officials urged Americans to act with more urgency to protect themselves and others against the coronavirus. Dr. Anthony Fauci said he would like to see aggressive measures such as a 14-day national shutdown.“You don’t have to buy so much,” Trump said at a news conference. “Take it easy. Just relax.”Trump assured Americans, after speaking with leading grocery chain executives, that grocers would remain open and that the supply chain remained healthy. Speaking at the same White House news conference, Vice President Mike Pence urged Americans to buy only the groceries they need for the week ahead.The comments from the president came after the government’s top infectious disease expert said he would like to see Americans to hunker down even more to help slow the spread of the coronavirus.Still, Fauci said travel restrictions within the United States, such as to and from hard-hit Washington state and California, probably would not be needed anytime soon.Officials in Washington were preparing for what was expected to be a long-haul effort to try to stem the virus that has upended life around the globe.“The worst is yet ahead for us,” Fauci said. “It is how we respond to that challenge that is going to determine what the ultimate endpoint is going to be.”Trump, on the other hand, offered an optimistic outlook even as officials said the infection rate in the U.S. was surging. The president acknowledged that the virus was “very contagious” but asserted that his administration had “tremendous control” over the spread of the disease.Trump said expressed pleasure that the Federal Reserve announced Sunday it was taking emergency action to slash its benchmark interest rate to near zero. The move intended to help the economy withstand the coronavirus came a day after Trump once again threatened to fire or demote Fed Chairman Jerome Powell.“It’s really great for our country,” Trump said of the central bank’s actions.Earlier Sunday, Trump held a call with more than two dozen grocery store and supply chain executives to discuss their response to the coronavirus outbreak. Retailers have reported shoppers flocking to stores to stock up on food and other essentials. Consumers have expressed frustration that some items — such as hand sanitizer and toilet paper — are becoming more difficult to find.It wasn’t just supply shortages that had Americans frustrated — calls are mounting for better access to coronavirus tests.The Trump administration said millions of new coronavirus tests would be made available in the coming weeks, including tests that speed processing of samples, but it was encouraging Americans to exercise restraint in seeking to get tested.Dr. Deborah Birx, the White House coordinator for responding to the pandemic, said those most vulnerable to the respiratory disease and the healthcare providers treating them should go first.“We ask you to prioritize them and prioritize them in the lines,” she said.Birx cautioned there will be a “spike” in positive results as more people gain access to tests.Pence said that he and the president would brief the nation’s governors on Monday “specifically about our expanding testing to the American people.”Chad Wolf, the acting secretary of Homeland Security, acknowledged that many travelers were facing “unacceptable” long lines as they waited to be screened at U.S. airports this weekend. He said average wait time for screening was down to 30 minutes at most airports, but the problem had not been fixed for those arriving at Chicago’s O’Hare International Airport.Pence said the federal government on Monday will release updated guidance concerning restaurants, bars and other establishments. California and Illinois are among jurisdictions that have ordered restaurants and bars to close to help slow the spread of the virus.Asked whether restaurants and bars around the nation should close for the time being, Fauci said he wanted to wait for the guidance to come but allowed, “That could be.”Expanded protocols were also on the way to protect the president and his staff. Starting Monday, those who enter the White House complex will have their temperatures taken.House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., said Congress had started work on a new aid package after the one just approved by the House early Saturday, which provided direct relief to Americans with sick pay and other resources and was pending in Senate.“We have already begun work to develop a third emergency response package,” Pelosi wrote in a letter to colleagues.Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell said late Sunday the next package should have even more resources for Americans, the health care industry and “significant steps to secure our nation’s economy.”With the U.S. Capitol among the many iconic landmarks closed to tours, Pelosi also urged lawmakers to have most of their Washington staff telework from home, as health officials urge social distancing. House lawmakers are away on weeklong recess and many have already curtailed office visits at their local offices, as well.Fauci, the public face of the administration’s messaging during a round of morning TV interviews, said the country should do as much as “we possibly could,” even if officials were criticized for overreacting. He said he raised the issue of measures such as a shutdown with the Trump administration, and said officials were open to his ideas.“I think Americans should be prepared that they are going to have to hunker down significantly more than we as a country are doing,” said Fauci, who heads the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases at the National Institutes of Health.For most people, the new coronavirus causes only mild or moderate symptoms, such as fever and cough. For some, especially older adults and people with existing health problems, it can cause more severe illness, including pneumonia. The worldwide outbreak has sickened more than 156,000 people and left more than 5,800 dead. The death toll in the United States is more than 50, while infections neared 3,000 across 49 states and the District of Columbia.The vast majority of people recover. According to the World Health Organization, people with mild illness recover in about two weeks, while those with more severe illness may take three weeks to six weeks to recover.Trump in recent days has imposed sweeping travel restrictions for much of Europe. On Saturday, he added the United Kingdom and Ireland to a list of countries that would face travel restrictions over the next 30 days. The State Department on Sunday said it would allow U.S. personnel to leave their diplomatic or consular posts worldwide if they or family members were medically determined to be at a higher risk of falling very ill if exposed to the virus.Trump also has pledged broadened U.S. testing for the virus as major employers such as Apple Inc. have sent workers home to telework and several states and big cities, including Los Angeles and Boston, shuttered down schools for a week or more.Trump has suggested that restrictions on travel within the U.S. to areas hit hard by the coronavirus pandemic could be next. But Fauci on Sunday played down that or having major national lockdowns on the level now seen in European countries such as Italy and Spain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-calls-on-americans-to-cease-hoarding-food-supplies/story-U8xoMw8epTKJ7b1PnDKWgN.html
16-03-2020||World||Coronavirus vaccine trials begin today: US government official||The first participant in a clinical trial for a vaccine to protect against the new coronavirus will receive an experimental dose on Monday, according to a government official.The National Institutes of Health is funding the trial, which is taking place at the Kaiser Permanente Washington Health Research Institute in Seattle. The official who disclosed plans for the first participant spoke on condition of anonymity because the move has not been publicly announced.Public health officials say it will take a year to 18 months to fully validate any potential vaccine.Testing will begin with 45 young, healthy volunteers with different doses of shots co-developed by NIH and Moderna Inc. There’s no chance participants could get infected from the shots, because they don’t contain the virus itself. The goal is purely to check that the vaccines show no worrisome side effects, setting the stage for larger tests.Dozens of research groups around the world are racing to create a vaccine as COVID-19 cases continue to grow. Importantly, they’re pursuing different types of vaccines — shots developed from new technologies that not only are faster to produce than traditional inoculations but might prove more potent. Some researchers even aim for temporary vaccines, such as shots that might guard people’s health a month or two at a time while longer-lasting protection is developed.Inovio Pharmaceuticals aims to begin safety tests of its vaccine candidate next month in a few dozen volunteers at the University of Pennsylvania and a testing center in Kansas City, Missouri, followed by a similar study in China and South Korea.Even if initial safety tests go well, “you’re talking about a year to a year and a half” before any vaccine could be ready for widespread use, according to Dr. Anthony Fauci, director of NIH’s National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases.That still would be a record-setting pace. But manufacturers know the wait — required because it takes additional studies of thousands of people to tell if a vaccine truly protects and does no harm — is hard for a frightened public.President Donald Trump has been pushing for swift action on a vaccine, saying in recent days that the work is “moving along very quickly” and he hopes to see a vaccine “relatively soon.”Today, there are no proven treatments. In China, scientists have been testing a combination of HIV drugs against the new coronavirus, as well as an experimental drug named remdesivir that was in development to fight Ebola. In the U.S., the University of Nebraska Medical Center also began testing remdesivir in some Americans who were found to have COVID-19 after being evacuated from a cruise ship in Japan.For most people, the new coronavirus causes only mild or moderate symptoms, such as fever and cough. For some, especially older adults and people with existing health problems, it can cause more severe illness, including pneumonia. The worldwide outbreak has sickened more than 156,000 people and left more than 5,800 dead. The death toll in the United States is more than 50, while infections neared 3,000 across 49 states and the District of Columbia.The vast majority of people recover. According to the World Health Organization, people with mild illness recover in about two weeks, while those with more severe illness may take three weeks to six weeks to recover.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/coronavirus-vaccine-trials-begin-today-us-government-official/story-efSfPW3igL1Vw8tzMC09PM.html
16-03-2020||World||Biden, Sanders vow to fight coronavirus in first two-man debate||Joe Biden and Bernie Sanders sparred over how they would respond to the coronavirus in their first one-on-one debate, arguing about whether Medicare for All is the right solution to fight the health crisis as it explodes across the United States.The debate opened with the topic that has consumed America’s attention, the coronavirus.“We are the only major country on Earth not to guarantee healthcare to all people,” Sanders said, using the moment to make a sharp point about his signature policy proposal. He said all Americans should be able to get treatment when they are sick regardless of their income.Biden pushed back against the idea of Medicare for All, saying Italy has a similar system and it has not stopped the crisis there.“You have a single payer system in Italy,” he said. “It doesn’t work there. It has nothing to do with Medicare for All. That would not solve the problem at all.”Italy, with the oldest population in Europe, now has 1,809 deaths, an increase of 368 from Saturday, among more than 24,000 cases.The candidates agreed that working people who lose their jobs because of shutdowns during the crisis should get financial support from the federal government.Biden said he believes there will need to be a “major, major, major bailout” in which “we do not reward corporations, we reward individuals who in fact are really put to the test.”They disagreed on what economic reforms should come in response to the pandemic and debated the effectiveness of the 2008 economic bailout, which Biden supported and Sanders did not.“We need to stabilize the economy, but we can’t repeat what we did in 2008,” Sanders said. “Joe voted for that. I voted against it because we have got to do more than save the banks or the oil companies. Our job right now is to tell every working person in this country, no matter what your income is, you are not going to suffer as a result of this crisis over which you had no control.”Biden defended his support of the bailout, which he said saved the economy, avoided a depression and helped the poor.“Had those banks gone under, all those people would be in deep trouble. deep, deep trouble.” Biden said. “All those little folks, we would have gone out of business. They would find themselves in position where they would lose everything they had in that bank. Whether it was $10 or $300 or a savings account. This was about saving an economy, and it did save the economy.”Sunday’s debate, the first one-on-one debate between the two remaining contenders, was low-key compared to the group squabbles seen when as many as a dozen candidates crowded the stage in earlier settings. But the tone was also somber as the coronavirus crisis gripped America, with the Centers for Disease Control announcing that people should not gather in groups of more than 50.Still, primaries will go ahead as planned on Tuesday in Illinois, Ohio, Arizona and Florida. Biden has a 21.5 percentage point lead nationally in the RealClearPolitics polling average and a nearly insurmountable lead in delegates to the nominating convention.But Sanders knows that staying in the race is one way to keep pushing his progressive agenda and potentially move the party to the left. It may be working. Earlier Sunday, Biden adopted a version of Sanders’s plan for tuition-free public college.On the virus, Biden urged the Trump administration to ramp up testing and quickly build temporary hospitals.“This is bigger than any one of this. This calls for a national rallying,” Biden said.Sanders agreed about the need for additional testing and hospital beds but also pointed to problems coming straight from President Donald Trump.“The first thing we’ve got to do, whether or not I’m president, to shut this president up right now because he is undermining the doctors and the scientists who are trying to help the American people,” Sanders said. “It is unacceptable for him to be blabbering with unfactual information which is confusing the general public.”A series of primaries starting in February winnowed a historically large and diverse field down to two viable candidates, both white men in their 70s. Hawaii Represenative Tulsi Gabbard is also running, but has won only two of the 1,991 delegates needed to secure the nomination.Initially planned for a traditional format in front of a large studio audience in Phoenix, Arizona, the debate was moved to the CNN studio in Washington.Officials in all four of Tuesday’s primary states are counting on absentee and early voting to keep turnout up in the first round of balloting since people began avoiding public places out of fear of the virus. Louisiana, Georgia and Wyoming have delayed their contests.Last week, Biden won four of the of the six primaries, coming out on top in Missouri, Mississippi, Idaho and the biggest prize of Michigan. Those votes were just a week after Super Tuesday, when he surged to front-runner status with sweeping support from African-American voters around the country.Biden, who is poised to lock up the nomination in the coming primaries, made a surprise announcement on another topic that he would pick a woman to be his running mate.”I commit that I will, in fact, pick a woman to be vice president,” Biden said. “There are a number of women qualified to be president tomorrow. I would pick a woman to be my vice president.”Sanders said he would likely commit to picking a woman, but he did not guarantee it.“My very strong tendency is to move in that direction,” Sanders said.(Updates with Biden promise of female running mate beginning in second paragraph)To contact the reporters on this story: Jennifer Epstein in Washington at jepstein32@bloomberg.net;Tyler Pager in Washington at tpager1@bloomberg.netTo contact the editors responsible for this story: Wendy Benjaminson at wbenjaminson@bloomberg.net, Magan CraneFor more articles like this, please visit us at bloomberg.com©2020 Bloomberg L.P.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-sanders-vow-to-fight-coronavirus-in-first-two-man-debate/story-UuGiyUiVqkIJIMZfu99N3J.html
16-03-2020||World||Italy hit by 368 new coronavirus deaths, hospitals in crisis||Italy on Sunday reported a one-day record death toll and leaders warned of a bed and artificial respirator shortage in the European epicentre of the coronavirus pandemic.Official data showed the number of fatalities shooting up by 368 to 1,809 -- more than half of all the cases recorded outside China.The Vatican took the drastic step of cancelling Easter week celebrations that were set to begin on April 5 as the country of 60 million braced for an extended crisis.Only occasional joggers and a few locals carrying grocery bags could be seen on the streets of Rome on a sunny afternoon of Italy’s first weekend under effective lockdown.“I am not really interested in what people tell us about religion,” pensioner Roman said after the Vatican announced that its Easter observances “will take place without the physical presence of the faithful”.“I’m interested in what people tell us about our health.”Milan’s Lombardy region governor Attilio Fontana said the situation in areas around Italy’s financial capital was “getting worse”.“We are close to the point where we will no longer be able to resuscitate people because we will be out of intensive care unit beds,” Fontana told Italy’s Sky TG24 channel.“We need those machines (doctors) use to ventilate lungs, artificial respirators that unfortunately we cannot find,” Fontana said.“As soon as those respirators arrive from abroad, we will be ready to go on the attack.”The Lombardy region has recorded 1,218 of the deaths officially attributed to COVID-19 over the past three weeks -- more than the rest of Europe combined.The region of 10 million -- slightly smaller but more economically productive than neighbouring Switzerland to the north -- also has 13,272 reported infections and 767 people in intensive care.- ‘No more ambulances’ -Milan mayor Beppe Sala said he had managed to secure shipments of surgical masks from China to help cover a growing shortage.“Milan has always had excellent relations with the main Chinese cities and I made a few phone calls over the past few days in search of masks,” the Milan mayor said ai“The first shipment arrived (Friday) and we will now distribute them to doctors, to our staff.”European Commission also announced the imminent delivery of one million masks from Germany.Yet the situation remained critical despite Lombardy enjoying a world-class healthcare system that has been consistently praised by the World Health Organization for its level of equipment and organisation of staff.Lombardy welfare councillor Giulio told reporters Saturday that “there are no more ambulances” in areas around Milan.The governor of Venice’s Veneto region to the east also called on “everyone to remain in isolation” to avoid putting hospitals under further strain.“If you do not follow the rules, the health system will crash and I will have to impose a curfew,” Veneto governor Luca Zaia warned.Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte insisted on Sunday that his government was paying “maximum attention” to the situation in the north.His government was set to unveil a new crisis plan that reportedly includes family relief measures such as parental leave pay and help for the self-employed.The government said it was also in discussion with banks about a suspension of some family mortgage payments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/italy-hit-by-368-new-coronavirus-deaths-hospitals-in-crisis/story-0qyWktcM3U20zKosMoVehN.html
16-03-2020||World||60-year-old is second person to die of coronavirus in France||A 60-year-old man has become the first French victim of the coronavirus in the country, the health ministry announced Wednesday.The man died overnight after being rushed to a Paris hospital in serious condition on Tuesday evening, bringing the total death toll in the country to two, said the ministry’s deputy head Jerome Salomon.The first victim was an 80-year-old Chinese tourist, who died in mid-February.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/france-reports-first-french-death-from-coronavirus/story-d2NSpRAr7WzLrdCH9SorTO.html
