21-03-2020||World||Special flights to bring back Indians from coronavirus-affected countries||Special flights were expected to bring back Indians from France, the Netherlands and Italy before a week-long suspension of all international flights even as authorities provided support to 120 nationals stranded at the airport in Kuala Lumpur on Saturday.Early on Saturday, KLM flight 871 carrying some 100 Indians from Amsterdam was turned back because of confusion over the interpretation of travel advisories issued by the government.The aircraft was carrying mainly travellers stranded while in transit from destinations such as the US and Canada, but civil aviation authorities refused to allow it to land in New Delhi as the entry of all passengers from European countries had been banned. Approvals were subsequently obtained and the flight took off on Saturday.A total of 327 Indians who cleared medical screening were being flown back from Italy in a special Air India flight while more Indians stranded in transit in Paris were being brought back in a Qatar Airways flight via Doha, people familiar with developments said. All the flights were expected to reach India before the beginning of a week-long ban on all international flights from March 22.Hundreds of Indians stranded at the airport at Kuala Lumpur in Malaysian were taken to hotels, hostels and other facilities by the Indian high commission after being provided food and other provisions. The mission worked with local NGOs and diaspora organisations to provide food and shelter to the stranded travellers, the people cited above said on condition of anonymity. India’s envoy to Mridul Kumar and other officials interacted with the stranded Indians and urged them to follow the restrictions imposed by Malaysia under its Movement Control Order for their own safety, the people said.“The stranded travellers will have to stay put for now as these are very challenging times. Indian missions will try their best to help people who are facing problems,” said a person.At places with large numbers of stranded Indians, the envoys were reaching out to NRIs and disapora organisations to assist them, the people said.Reports continued to come in of Indian nationals stranded in several cities, including more than 50 students of British universities who were provided shelter at the high commission in London.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/special-flights-bringing-back-more-indians/story-UJjyER5K1fLQFWYI0O4O7J.html
21-03-2020||World||Iran reports 123 coronavirus deaths today, death toll at 1,556||Iran said Saturday that 123 more people had died from coronavirus, raising the official death toll to 1,556 in the Islamic republic, one of the world’s worst affected countries.Health ministry spokesman Kianoush Jahanpour said 966 more cases have been confirmed over the past 24 hours and 20,610 people are now known to have been infected in Iran.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/iran-reports-123-new-coronavirus-deaths-death-toll-at-1-556/story-8a2CXZJEnfklmP2eF693yH.html
21-03-2020||World||North Korea test fires missiles; Seoul thinks the timing is ‘inappropriate’ as world fights Covid-19||North Korea on Saturday fired two presumed short-range ballistic missiles into the sea, South Korea’s military said, as it continues to expand military capabilities amid deadlocked nuclear negotiations with the Trump administration and a crippling global health crisis.South Korea’s Joint Chiefs of Staff said the projectiles were fired around 6:45 and 6:50 am from an area around the county of Sonchon, western North Korea. They flew 410 kilometers (255 miles) cross-country on an apogee of 50 kilometers (31 miles) before landing in waters off the eastern coast.South Korea and the US were analyzing the launches. Seoul’s military urged the North to immediately stop its “very inappropriate” military demonstrations when the world is struggling to cope with the coronavirus pandemic.Japan’s Defense Ministry said the projectiles didn’t reach Japanese territory or its exclusive economic zone.The North conducted two previous rounds of similar short-range launches and other military exercises this month after leader Kim Jong Un entered the new year vowing to bolster his nuclear deterrent in face of “gangster-like” US sanctions and pressure.While the North is clearly determined to advance its missile capabilities, Japan’s Defense Minister Taro Kono said Pyongyang’s demonstrations could also be aimed at “bracing the regime together” amid the coronavirus crisis.It wasn’t immediately clear what North Korea tested. Flight data released by the South Korean and Japanese militaries suggest that the North could have tested one of its new mobile, solid-fuel missile systems it first demonstrated last year.Military analysts say such weapons, which are designed to overwhelm missile defense systems with their maneuverability and low-altitude flights, potentially strengthen the North’s ability to strike targets in South Korea and Japan, including US bases there.North Korea in recent months has also demonstrated what it described as a “super large” multiple rocket launcher, which experts say was likely tested earlier this month.North Korea’s state media earlier reported that Kim supervised an artillery firing competition between army units in the country’s west on Friday.The KCNA said Kim expressed satisfaction over the exercise that was aimed at evaluating combat readiness. The report didn’t mention any direct comments by Kim toward Washington or Seoul.Pyongyang’s official Korean Central News Agency also said on Saturday that the North has decided to hold a session of its rubber-stamp parliament on April 10. It wasn’t immediately clear what would be discussed.Nuclear talks have stalemated since the collapse of the second summit between Kim and President Donald Trump in early 2019, when the Americans rejected North Korean demands for major sanctions relief in exchange for a partial surrender of its nuclear capabilities.Following the breakdown in talks, the North ended a 17-month pause in ballistic activity and conducted at least 13 rounds of weapons launches last year while pressuring Washington and Seoul for concessions. Those weapons also included a developmental mid-range missile that could be launched from submarines.Some experts say the lull in North Korean launches between November and March could have been caused by the coronavirus pandemic, which started in mainland China in December.Although Kim has vowed to build up his nuclear arsenal and achieve a “frontal breakthrough” against sanctions while urging his nation to stay resilient in a struggle for economic “self-reliance,” some experts say North Korea’s self-imposed lockdown amid the coronavirus crisis could potentially hamper his ability to mobilize people for labor.North Korea has not publicly confirmed a single case of the COVID-19 illness, but state media have described anti-virus efforts as a matter of “national existence.” Experts say an epidemic in North Korea could have dire consequences due to the country’s poor health system and shortage of medical supplies.The country has banned foreign tourists, shut down nearly all cross-border traffic with China, intensified screening at entry points and mobilized health workers to monitor residents and isolate those with symptoms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/north-korea-test-fires-missiles-seoul-thinks-the-timing-is-inappropriate-as-world-fights-covid-19/story-s87eN5IvflwwQDb7MyyKsK.html
21-03-2020||World||US President Trump spars with nation’s top immunologist over covid-19 cure||In an extraordinary exchange, President Donald Trump and the government’s top infectious disease expert, Dr Anthony Fauci, publicly sparred Friday on whether a malaria drug would work to treat people with coronavirus disease.The scene played out on national television during the daily White House briefing on the outbreak. Anxious for answers, Americans heard conflicting ones from a just-the-facts scientist and a president who operates on gut instinct.Reporters asked both men — first Fauci then Trump — if a malaria drug called hydroxychloroquine could be used to prevent COVID-19, the disease caused by the virus. A day earlier, when Fauci wasn’t with him at that briefing, Trump had called attention to the drug.On Friday, Fauci took the reporter’s question and got right to the point.“No,” he said. “The answer ... is no.“The information that you’re referring to specifically is anecdotal,” Fauci added firmly. “It was not done in a controlled clinical trial, so you really can’t make any definitive statement about it.” He went on to explain that the Food and Drug Administration is looking for a way to make the drug available for emergency use, but in a manner that gives the government data about whether it’s safe and effective. Fauci is director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases at NIH and in more than 30 years has handled HIV, SARS, MERS, Ebola and now the new coronavirus.Currently, there is no medicine specifically approved for treating COVID-19.But Trump stuck to what his gut was telling him. As the two men took turns at the podium, Trump said he disagreed with the notion that there is no magic drug for the coronavirus disease. “Maybe and maybe not, ” he said. “Maybe there is, maybe there isn’t. We have to see.” He struck an upbeat note, while trying not to directly challenge Fauci.“I think without seeing too much, I’m probably more of a fan of that,” he said, referring to the malaria drug. “And we all understand what the doctor said is 100% correct.” Then the president added, “It’s a strong drug. So, we’ll see.” Hydroxychloroquine and a similar drug — chloroquine — are sold around the world under a variety of brand and generic names. They can be prescribed off-label by doctors in the United States. They may interfere with the coronavirus being able to enter cells, and some scientists have reported possible encouraging signs in test-tube and other small studies.Other scientists are skeptical that those promising test-tube results will translate to benefits for patients.Fauci has a track record of being the fact-based counterpoint to the Trump administration’s upbeat assessments of the coronavirus outbreak. For much longer than that, he’s specialized in the same calm and persistent repetition of the information he thinks his audience — whether the public or physicians — needs to know.Weeks ago, after Fauci said that even with all deliberate speed a vaccine could take a year to 18 months, Trump told a political rally one could be ready “relatively soon.” As administration officials repeatedly assured the public that coronavirus tests were rapidly becoming available, Fauci at a congressional hearing said the lack of widespread testing was “a failing” of the system.Although Fauci has publicly supported Trump’s travel restrictions to try to keep the virus out, he warned the worst was coming even as Trump suggested the crisis was under good control.Rather than fighting with Trump, he stepped up to the podium Friday to say he’s not ruling the drug out, but that it must be studied before making any promises.Trump wasn’t dialing back his enthusiasm.“Look, it may work and it may not work and I agree with the doctor,” Trump said. “I feel good about it. That’s all it is. Just a feeling. You know, I’m a smart guy. I feel good about it ... You’re going to see soon enough.” The two even debated the safety of the malaria drug, with Trump saying it has a proven record and Fauci cautioning that must be validated again for coronavirus disease.In the end, the scientist seemed to be trying to find a way to avoid a direct confrontation with the president.“You know, I’m not dismissing it at all, and I hope that that interpretation wasn’t widespread,” Fauci said later on Fox News. “What I said is that we don’t have definitive proof that it works.” It wasn’t just Trump with whom Fauci took issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-president-trump-spars-with-nation-s-top-immunologist-over-covid-19-cure/story-GfkfexgE3XtYBs2SzHq0oK.html
21-03-2020||World||China sends masks, experts abroad to reshape coronavirus narrative||As the fight against a new virus shifts to Europe and beyond, China is supplying millions of masks and other desperately needed items to struggling governments, hoping to build political ties and defuse criticism that it allowed the disease to spread early on.Serbia’s president plans to be at the airport this weekend to welcome a shipment of medical supplies from his “brother and friend,” Chinese leader Xi Jinping. Xi’s government has flown gloves and protective clothing to Liberia. It is sending 100,000 test kits to the Philippines. More than 10 flights carrying millions of masks and other supplies are bound for the Czech Republic this week.China, said Czech Interior Minister Jan Hamacek, is “the only country capable of supplying Europe with such amounts.”It’s part of an effort by the Communist Party to reshape the narrative, from one of early missteps to a nation that acted decisively to bring the outbreak under control. China is touting its deliveries of ventilators and masks overseas and dispatching its medical experts to share the lessons of its success.China hopes to benefit from a realization in the West of how difficult it is to bring the virus under control, said Julian Ku, a law professor at Hofstra University in New York.“The Chinese government’s failures ... will be less harshly viewed in light of the failures of other governments to respond effectively as well,” he said.Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic blasted the European Union and praised China for offering help when he announced a state of emergency to combat the outbreak. His country wants to join the EU, but his government has moved closer to Russia and China in a seesaw battle for influence.“I believe in my brother and friend Xi Jinping and I believe in China’s help,” Vucic said. “European solidarity,” he said, was just a fairy tale.EU officials denied they were stopping aid to Serbia, but said their first priority was EU members.China has given $20 million to the World Health Organization for COVID-19 efforts. While the EU and the U.S. have made larger pledges to combat the disease, they are now preoccupied by the crisis at home.The Chinese “are winning points,” said Theresa Fallon, the founder of the Center for Russia Europe Asia Studies in Brussels. “Serbia thinks that China is their savior.”Six weeks ago, Chinese authorities were trying to quell outrage at home and condemnation abroad. The critics said due to politically motivated foot-dragging, China had mishandled the viral outbreak racing through a major province and its capital, Wuhan.Now the criticism is raining down on governments from Tehran to Washington, D.C. A visiting Chinese Red Cross official chastised Italy on Thursday for letting so many people stroll the streets of Milan.“Right now we need to stop all economic activity, and we need to stop the mobility of people,” said Executive Chairman Sun Shuopeng.For most people, the new coronavirus causes only mild or moderate symptoms, such as fever and cough. For some, especially older adults and people with existing health problems, it can cause more severe illness, including pneumonia. The vast majority of people recover from the new virus.At one level, China is reciprocating assistance it received. Nearly 80 countries sent supplies to China, some on charter flights they sent to evacuate their citizens from Wuhan.“It is China’s traditional virtue to repay goodwill with greater kindness,” Chinese foreign ministry spokesman Geng Shuang said, citing an ancient Confucian saying: “You throw a peach to me, and I give you a white jade for friendship.”But at the same time, China is deepening ties with countries that have been receptive to its outreach as it assumes a larger international role. It is shipping supplies to Cambodia, whose Prime Minister Hun Sen has been an outspoken supporter of Xi and even visited him in Beijing last month as the outbreak raged.China moved quickly to send experts and equipment to Italy, which last year became the first western European country to join China’s Belt and Road Initiative. The massive program seeks to expand trade by building ports, roads and other transportation projects in a 21st century version of the fabled Silk Road.China is ready to work with Italy to contribute to international cooperation on epidemic control and to the building of a “Health Silk Road,” Xi was quoted as telling Italian Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte in a phone call Monday.“It’s not an accident that the heat map of where Xi Jinping is sending condolences and China is sending N95 masks overlaps pretty closely with those countries that have demonstrated a willingness to accommodate China,” said Daniel Russel, a former senior U.S. diplomat now with the Asia Society Policy Institute in New York.Opinions vary on the effectiveness of China’s efforts.“It’s an open question how far that’s going to get ... but they’re clearly giving it the old-school try,” Russel said. The Communist Party’s propaganda, he said, has been more successful at home than abroad.Clive Hamilton, author of “Silent Invasion: China’s Influence in Australia,” said that China has poured enormous resources into shaping the global discourse in recent years.“It would be a mistake to underestimate how effective” this “major international campaign to rewrite the history of the coronavirus” might be, he said.But Chu Yin, a professor of public administration at the University of International Relations in Beijing, said China lags the U.S. and Europe in its understanding of public diplomacy and has always struggled to convert humanitarian aid into diplomatic returns.“If people really expect a big boost of China’s influence through the aid, it will be difficult,” he said. “In my opinion, let’s just take the aid as doing a good deed, and it would help China’s economy if the epidemic situation in these countries is contained.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-sends-masks-and-experts-abroad-to-reshape-coronavirus-narrative/story-o6HySuRvrSoykffM0LvMIJ.html
21-03-2020||World||Covid-19 in Europe: Doctors shield themselves with trash bags||At some Spanish hospitals, doctors and nurses resort to taping garbage sacks to their arms to shield themselves while they work to save an avalanche of patients fighting for breath. They’ve run out of disposable coats.The plastic glasses they wear are of such poor quality that medics can barely see through them, so they find the pulses and veins of coronavirus patients by touch, said Samantha Gonzalez, a 52-year-old nurse who works in the emergency room at the Txagorritxu hospital in the Basque city of Vitoria.“This is not the first world anymore—it’s a war,” said Gonzalez.The main hospital in Bergamo, northern Italy, is struggling to keep up with the influx of patients as personnel fall sick themselves. Authorities are seeking to transfer the least serious virus patients to local retirement homes equipped with oxygen apparatus, after moving the elderly into hotels.“Just in the nephrology department, three out of 13 colleagues have fallen ill, one of them seriously,” said Giuseppe Remuzzi, a former head of the department of medicine at the Papa Giovanni XXIII hospital in Bergamo who has joined efforts to contain the outbreak. “This is a scary, terrible situation.”With Italy overtaking China as the most deadly center of the pandemic and Spain recording its grimmest day yet for fatalities, health care in the two countries is buckling in a way not seen in peacetime.How they are trying to cope with the crisis is already a worrying lesson for other European countries as the harried ranks of doctors and nurses become depleted by contagion and efforts to find space and breathing aids for patients look increasingly futile. Finding space for the dead is also tougher. Italy has brought in the army.Hospitals in Italy and now Spain have been overwhelmed by the scale of admissions but more importantly the speed. Staff have watched the number of known cases multiply five-fold or more in just a couple of weeks and are scrambling to dedicate wards previously used for geriatric care or dermatology to coronavirus sufferers.Across Europe, from the U.K. down to Greece, hospitals are limiting their intake, cancelling non-urgent procedures and appointments and in some cases keeping first-aid services to only the most serious emergencies. Governments have shut down schools, bars and restaurants in an attempt to keep people apart and halt the rapid contagion to take pressure off the health-care system.Italian authorities had not expected the speed with which the virus arrived from China, nor the pace at which it spreads, said Giovanni Rezza, head of the infectious diseases department at Rome’s Superior Health Institute, the country’s national health authority. The last influenza pandemic was in 2009, he said.“Like other European countries, Italy wasn’t completely prepared for the coronavirus,” said Rezza. It’s only in some two weeks that Italy will find out whether the government’s nationwide lockdown and social distancing rules have had an impact, said Rezza.“The lockdown is only delaying the spread of the epidemic, we expect that there will be new outbreaks in future,” said Rezza. “But in the meantime we have to equip hospitals with more intensive care beds, even in Lombardy which is one of the best-equipped regions in Europe.”The province of Bergamo, which saw its first virus case in late February, now has more than 3,000 cases, making it the most heavily-hit province in Lombardy, the most affected Italian region. Some patients are being transferred to other Italian regions and new treatment centers for virus cases are being set up in cities including Milan and Rome.“We’ve used up all the intensive care beds we’d stored for natural disasters, now we’ve reached the limit,” said Remuzzi, director of the Mario Negri research institute. “Patients come in after a stroke or a hemorrhage, and it’s only afterwards we find out they are positive for the virus.”That’s one of the biggest challenges facing hospital staff. Doctors say they are scared of becoming contaminated because patients who come into hospital for other illnesses are only later discovered to be infected. In Italy, 8% of Covid-19 cases are medical staff.With infected medics confined to their homes for four weeks, the Bergamo hospital has trained 1,500 people in seven days to give respiratory assistance, including oculists and dermatologists. Personnel are being given daily updated instructions on how to clothe themselves in protective gear, including masks which have to be replaced every four hours and splash guard goggles.The problem first is finding enough ventilators for them to deploy, said Lorenzo Leogrande, who heads the Italian society of clinical engineers.“Even if you create a giant new structure for patients now, the problem is that there could be a month-long wait for ventilators that have been ordered to arrive,” said Leogrande, who is in charge of technological equipment at Rome’s Policlinico Agostino Gemelli hospital. The ventilators come from Germany, China, Japan, the Netherlands and the U.S. and there’s no guarantee those countries won’t need them, he said.In Spain, authorities have gone in a matter of days from recommending people to wash their hands often to declaring a state of emergency and forbidding citizens from leaving their homes unless they really need to.The country’s main public hospitals are increasingly looking like field hospitals, fully focused on treating coronavirus patients. At Hospital Clinic in Barcelona, a new department is converted to treat coronavirus every day. At Txagorritxu Hospital in Vitoria, dormitories have become rooms for patients and staff are sleeping in management offices.“This thing blew up on us,” said Pelayo Pedrero, a doctor and the head of labor risk prevention at doctors’ union AMYTS in Madrid. “No one was ready for this. They didn’t buy the supplies, they didn’t prepare the hospitals to receive and treat all these patients. Not just in Madrid or Spain, but all over Europe.”Less than a month ago, the emergency room at Txagorritxu was receiving an average of about 15 people with severe pneumonia every night.At that time, the protocol was that only patients who had been abroad to countries such as Italy and China should be tested. So those infected with coronavirus were initially hospitalized together with other patients. The disease spread among workers too, to the point that Txagorritxu became one of Spain’s first focus of contagion.“When we started to wear marks outside we were told to stop to because people would be scared,” said Gonzalez, the emergency-room nurse. “Now that doesn’t matter because everyone is scared anyway.”In Catalonia, which has the second-largest amount of cases, 14% of the 2,702 people sick with coronavirus were healthcare workers, regional authorities said on Thursday. The same day, the first death of a medical worker infected with coronavirus in Spain was recorded, a 52-year-old nurse who had been hospitalized in the Basque city of Bilbao.“Many who have come in close contact with the disease are not going into isolation until they have symptoms,” said Pedrero. “They’re wearing masks and working to the point of exhaustion.”Like other hospitals in Spain, Hospital Clinic in Barcelona is making lists of retired medical personnel aged 65 to 69 and medical and nursing students in their final year. They will start calling them when they run short of personnel.While shortage of medical workers might still be a few days away, the shortage of supplies is already there. At the Barcelona hospital, doctors and nurses put two surgical masks on top of each other because of a dearth of the higher protection ones.Things at Txagorritxu change fast. Gonzalez, who has almost three decades’ experience as a nurse, has seen veteran intensive care doctors and nurses break down into tears when they come back to the hospital after a two-day break.The state of emergency has given medical services some respite. Fewer people in the street also means fewer accidents, and those with mild symptoms of other illnesses are more likely to stay home. But workers in Spain scrutinize the news for the latest developments in Italy.“We have a false feeling that we have things under control now, but I’ve seen this before in past days,” said Gonzalez. “This is like a tsunami. By the time you realize a wave is coming, it’s already on top of you and all you can do is run and run.”For more articles like this, please visit us at bloomberg.com©2020 Bloomberg L.P.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-in-europe-doctors-shield-themselves-with-trash-bags/story-MY39JcsKLuvXyN0cwTvMTJ.html
21-03-2020||World||US seeks comments on tariff cuts for Chinese imports to aid covid-19 battle||The Trump administration on Friday said it was soliciting public comments on lifting additional tariffs on Chinese imports that could help the United States battle the coronavirus pandemic, showing some flexibility in its trade war against Beijing.The US Trade Representative’s (USTR) office said it would allow members of the public, businesses and government agencies “to submit comments if they believe further modifications to the (Section) 301 tariffs may be necessary”It said the move was part of an effort “to keep current on developments in our national fight against the coronavirus pandemic.”The USTR has in recent weeks granted “Section 301” tariff exclusions for certain medical products from China, including medical masks, examination gloves and antiseptic wipes. But as it battles to try to keep the US economy from collapsing amid quarantine orders and halted commerce, the Trump administration so far has been resistant to broader removals of tariffs imposed over the past 20 months on some $370 billion worth of Chinese imports annually, despite calls from industry that this would be an instant tax cut worth tens of billions of dollars.Trump considers his trade pressure on China among the biggest achievements of his presidency and a top argument for re-election in November. The trade war has hit a vast range of Chinese goods with tariffs, from machinery and chemical feedstocks to semiconductors, printed circuit board and consumer goods.In return, China has hit US farm and other products with retaliatory tariffs, but has pledged to vastly increase purchases of these goods under a “Phase 1” trade deal that took effect Feb. 15.USTR did not specify a deadline for submitting comments to a federal website. “This comment process does not replace the current exclusion process and supplements that process,” USTR said. “Submissions are limited to comments on products subject to the tariff actions and relevant to the medical response to the coronavirus.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-seeks-comments-on-tariff-cuts-for-chinese-imports-to-aid-covid-19-battle/story-aVKJ3loQa1UItIkMY4YCQI.html
21-03-2020||World||US senators urge Twitter to ban Chinese Communist Party from platform||Two influential Republican lawmakers on Friday urged Twitter to ban the Chinese Communist Party from using its platform for spreading “propaganda and whitewash” the entire history of its alleged coronavirus cover-up. “While the coronavirus pandemic is afflicting families, governments, and markets around the world, the Chinese Communist Party is waging a massive propaganda campaign to rewrite the history of COVID-19 and whitewash the Party’s lies to the Chinese people and the world,” wrote Senators Ben Sasse and Congressman Mike Gallagher in a letter to Twitter CEO Jack Dorse. The widespread use of Twitter by communist officials of the People’s Republic of China (PRC) during this crisis emphasises the contradiction in officials from governments that deny their citizens access to social media platforms like Twitter having access to those same platforms, oftentimes to spread disinformation, they alleged. “By banning Twitter in China, the Chinese Communist Party is keeping its citizens in the dark,” the two lawmakers said. “By putting propaganda on Twitter, the Chinese Communist Party is lying to the rest of the world,” the Senators wrote. “We believe that the propaganda campaign Chinese government officials are currently waging on Twitter -- especially during the current global crisis -- merits the removal of these individual accounts from the platform,” the letter said. In an accompanying statement, Sasse and Gallagher said that it is clear that the Chinese Communist Party officials are using Twitter to “disseminate propaganda” in the midst of a dangerous global crisis. “Even worse, this propaganda obscures and confuses users over the origins of the COVID-19 pandemic and potentially undermines efforts to contain and control the outbreak. We believe this behaviour more than warrants their removal from the platform,” they said. “Additionally, given the humanitarian importance of free and open access to the internet, we believe that access to social media platforms should be denied to government officials from countries that prohibit their own populations from accessing this very content,” the two lawmakers wrote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-senators-urge-twitter-to-ban-chinese-communist-party-from-platform/story-8CYrGUPxV8VaAezJ5GPI3K.html
21-03-2020||World||Fake tweets about dolphins, swans in Italy’s Venice amid Covid-19 lockdown go viral||Tweets about swans, dolphins and elephants are being shared on social media in the last few days as the cases of Covid-19 have ballooned in countries across the globe.They talk about how animals and birds are making a comeback, and literally, in the world where humans are now going into self-quarantine and practising social distancing. One of the tweets was by Kaveri Ganapathy Ahuja as she talked about the swans that “returned” to the canals in Venice of Italy, which has been hit the hardest in Europe by the infection. Here's an unexpected side effect of the pandemic - the water's flowing through the canals of Venice is clear for the first time in forever. The fish are visible, the swans returned. pic.twitter.com/2egMGhJs7f“Here’s an unexpected side effect of the pandemic. The water flowing through the canals of Venice is clear for the first time in forever. The fish are visible, the swans returned,” Ahuja tweeted on March 17.Her tweet got hundreds of thousands of retweets and “likes”.Reports and some Twitter users, however, said the swans have always around in the canals of Burano, an island in the greater Venice metropolitan area.“Hello!! You actually posted a photograph of my hometown, Burano, the swans live in the lagoon and have actually been there for over 20 years and have never actually left, people feed them in the spring so they roam the lagoon with their cignets and you can often see the fish,” a user replied to Ahuja’s tweet.Ahuja has said she will not delete her tweet and posted news reports about cleaner waters in the canals to back her claim.“… No, I won’t delete my viral tweet. And it wasn’t fake, just that swans already existed in Venice (Burano, if you insist),” she said in another tweet.Another tweet was about dolphins and how they are swimming in Venetian canals.“Venice hasn’t seen clear canal water in a very long time. Dolphins showing up too. Nature just hit the reset button on us,” Gianluca De Santis posted with video clips of a dolphin.Venice hasn't seen clear canal water in a very long time. Dolphins showing up too. Nature just hit the reset button on us pic.twitter.com/RzqOq8ftCjReports said the video footage was taken in Sardinia, an Italian island in the Mediterranean Sea, which is hundreds of kilometres away from Venice.And, the water in the canals was cleaner because there are no motorboats.Then came a tweet about drunken elephants passed out in a field and it similarly was shared wildly on social media.“While humans carry out social distancing, a group of 14 elephants broke into a village in Yunan province, looking for corn and other food. They ended up drinking 30kg of corn wine and got so drunk that they fell asleep in a nearby tea garden,” a user,” a user, Corono she better don’t, tweeted.Local reports denied the viral posts.“Local authorities in Menghai County, Yunnan deny rumors that a herd of #elephants drank 30kg liquor and passed out in a tea garden. The fact is that elephants went downhill and intruded into villagers’ homes, causing damages,” The Paper, a Chinese digital media outlet, tweeted along with a video of images of rampaging tuskers.The death toll from the outbreak in Italy leapt by 627 to 4032 on Friday, the highest in any country, surpassing China, with 47,021 confirmed cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/fake-tweets-about-dolphins-swans-in-italy-s-venice-amid-covid-19-lockdown-go-viral/story-YfDpq19IvxHEkU1PZcE0OI.html
21-03-2020||World||First coronavirus positive infection in Donald Trump’s White House||A member of US vice-president Mike Pence’s staff has tested positive for the coronavirus, a statement from the White House on Friday confirmed, adding that neither the President nor the vice-president had a close contact with the staffer. “This evening we were notified that a member of the Office of the Vice President tested positive for the Coronavirus,” Pence’s spokesperson Katie Miller said in a statement, adding, significantly, “Neither President Trump nor Vice President Pence had close contact with the individual.”More states in the US have issued stay-at-home orders on Friday locking down their residents barring essential services workers and trips to grocery and drug stores as the country witnessed a surge in new infections and fatalities.President Donald Trump had himself tested last week for possible exposure to the virus after a member of a visiting delegation from Brazil that he had hosted for dinner tested positive for the coronavirus.Trump’s test turned up negative. But Pence, who heads the White House task force on the coronavirus outbreak, has not been tested yet.President Trump’s handling of the outbreak came under fresh scrutiny as The Washington Post reported he ignored repeated warnings from US intelligence agencies about growing threats to the country as the outbreak spread to countries outside China, the epicenter, and that his own aides were unable to convince him of the severity of the situation until recently.At least 236 people have died and thousands have been infected so far amidst worries about the health system’s capacity to cope with the outbreak.Illinois, Florida and Connecticut states joined California and New York Friday with stay-at-home and similar measures restricting movement of residents, non-essential businesses and workers.“I don’t come to this decision easily,” Illinois governor J B Pritzker, a member of the family that founded Hyatt group of hotels. said at a news conference. “I fully recognize that, in some cases, I am choosing between people’s lives and saving people’s livelihood. But ultimately, you can’t have a livelihood if you don’t have your life.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/first-coronavirus-positive-infection-in-donald-trump-s-white-house/story-sNfKqehCqEeBSZjfEpWPrJ.html
21-03-2020||World||Coronavirus update: Shops reopen in Wuhan, New Zealand fears local outbreak||The Latest on the coronavirus pandemic, which has infected more than 271,000 people and killed more than 11,000. The COVID-19 illness causes mild or moderate symptoms in most people, but severe symptoms are more likely in the elderly or those with existing health problems. More than 87,000 people have recovered so far, mostly in China.TOP OF THE HOUR:• Some stores in Wuhan allowed to re-open after no new virus cases for third straight day• Seattle closing playgrounds, ballfields to follow COVID-19 social distancing guidelines.• Health authorities say New Zealand could have first local outbreak• Pandemic taking toll on U.S. President Donald Trump’s personal businessesWUHAN’S STAGGERS SLOWLY BACK TO NORMALWhile entry and exit from Wuhan remains tightly restricted, businesses such as supermarkets, convenience stores and shops selling fresh fruit, vegetables and other daily necessities can re-open.Only one person per household bearing a special pass can go out each day, with shopping time limited to two hours.Wuhan, the virus outbreak’s epicenter, reported no new or suspected cases for a third straight day.Meanwhile, Premier Li Keqiang on Friday urged “efforts to stabilize and support market entities to strengthen the engines for economic recovery,” according to the official Xinhua News Agency. Li “stressed a stronger sense of urgency on the work and production resumption, as well as the recovery of economic and social order,” including financial assistance to small and medium-size enterprises that form a core source of employment and key links in supply chains.“Unreasonable restrictions that hinder the resumption of work” should be lifted, Li said. “With effective prevention and control measures, necessary health monitoring and emergency response forces in place, epidemic prevention and work resumption can be advanced in a synchronized way.”Among measures to help people find new jobs, the central government has launched a website that it hopes will help fill 10 million vacancies by the end of June.SEATTLE IMPOSES TOUGHER LOCKDOWN MEASURESThe city of Seattle and the surrounding King County are closing playgrounds, basketball and tennis courts, picnic shelters, ballfields and other active recreation areas in order to follow COVID-19 social distancing guidelines.Officials made the announcement Friday night, saying ballfields and playing fields will remain open for walking and other non-team activities. Parks, natural lands, regional trails, backcountry trails, and beaches where social distancing can be maintained remain open, officials said. Washington state has the most deaths in the U.S. from the coronavirus with at least 83.“With schools closed and people adapting to new work habits, our parks and open spaces can provide an important break in these stressful times. It is clear, however, that we must continue to be vigilant in these places, as well, and make sure all our residents put into practice Public Health directives,” King County Executive Dow Constantine said.WUHAN REPORTS ZERO CASES FOR 3 CONSECUTIVE DAYSThe virus outbreak’s epicenter of Wuhan reported no new or suspected cases again for a third consecutive day.Overall, China on Saturday reported 41 new cases detected over the previous 24 hours, all among people traveling from overseas, and another seven deaths, six in Wuhan. China now has a total of 81,008 cases and 3,255 deaths.A total of 71,740 people have been declared cured and released from hospital. Wuhan must go 14 straight days without a new case in order for draconian travel restrictions to be lifted.People are now better able to move around in the surrounding province of Hubei, although its provincial borders remain closed to the rest of the country. Beijing and other cities are increasingly vibrant as the government attempts to mitigate disastrous effects on the world’s second largest economy, but social distancing and quarantines for new arrivals remain the norm.NEW ZEALAND FEARS A LOCAL COVID-19 OUTBREAKFor the first time in New Zealand, health authorities say there might be a local outbreak.Health authorities on Saturday announced 13 new cases of COVID-19, bringing the number of confirmed cases to 52. They say two of the cases can’t be linked immediately to overseas travel, as has been the situation for all the previous cases.In a rare address to the nation, New Zealand’s Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern urged people aged over 70 to stay home and all other New Zealanders to avoid non-essential travel. She introduced a new alert system, placing the country at 2 on a scale where 4 is the highest. The country has already closed its borders to everybody but citizens and residents and placed restrictions on public gatherings. Ardern said most schools will remain open, for now.COVID-19 IMPACTS TRUMP’S BUSINESSESThe coronavirus pandemic is taking its toll on President Donald Trump’s personal businesses.Several of his golf clubs, hotels and resorts have scaled back operations or shut down entirely, the Trump Organization says. Among them is Mar-a-Lago, the Palm Beach, Florida, club where Trump spends many weekends during the winter months.Some are open, but adopting social distancing measures — like prohibiting golfers from sharing a golf cart.A spokesperson for the Trump Organization says: “Various facilities are temporarily closed given local, state and federal mandates. We anxiously await the day when this pandemic is over and our world-class facilities can reopen.”US EVACUATES NATIONALS FROM HONDURASAt the request of the U.S. State Department and at the direction of U.S. Southern Command, a U.S. Air Force C-130 is transporting 89 U.S. citizens who were previously unable to return home from Honduras, to Joint Base Charleston, S.C.The C-130 mission is the second Air Force mission supporting the U.S. State Department’s ongoing efforts to assist American citizens unable to return home from the Central American country.A U.S. Air Force C-17 flew the first mission out of Honduras’ Soto Cano Air Base, landing in the U.S. earlier today with passengers that included approximately half of the U.S. women’s football team.Both flights were the result of close coordination between U.S. Southern Command and the U.S. Embassy in Tegucigalpa.The C-130 is scheduled to arrive at Joint Base Charleston later today with the remaining players, as well as other U.S. citizens who made their journey home with help from the U.S. State Department and the U.S. Air Force.Through its Active, Reserve, and Air National Guard components, Air Mobility Command has been supporting the U.S. government’s ongoing COVID-19 mitigation response efforts and executing rapid global mobility operations in support of the DHHS-led, whole-of-government effort to combat the Coronavirus outbreak.WHITE HOUSE STAFFER TESTS POSITIVEThe White House says a member of Vice President Mike Pence’s staff has tested positive for coronavirus.Pence’s spokeswoman Katie Miller said Friday that the staff member, who is not being identified, did not have “close contact” to either the vice president or President Donald Trump.Miller said contact tracing, or contacting everyone the individual has been in contact with, is being conducted in accordance with guidelines issued by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.Miller says Pence’s office was notified Friday evening of the positive test result.CUBA BANS TOURISTSCuban President Miguel Díaz-Canel says the country is temporarily barring tourists in order to prevent the introduction of more cases of coronavirus.Díaz-Canel and Prime Minister Manuel Marrero Cruz said in an announcement on state television that only residents of the island would be allowed to enter for the next 30 days starting Tuesday.As of Friday, Cuba had announced 16 cases of COVID-19 and one death, all in people who had traveled overseas or been in direct contact with a traveler. Díaz-Canel and Marrero said exceptions would be made for people involved in commercial importation, like crews of merchant ships, and for tourism industry workers who need to help tourists leave the country.Marrero said there were about 60,000 tourists in Cuba as of Friday evening.The Cuban economy is heavily dependent on tourism, which had already slowed dramatically due to U.S. sanctions tightened by the Trump administration.8 DEAD DUE TO CORONAVIRUS FROM WASHINGTONWashington state health officials reported eight new coronavirus deaths on Friday, bringing the total to 83.Seven of those deaths were in King County, the epicenter of the outbreak in the state.More than 1,500 people have tested positive across Washington.GERMAN BAKER FEARS BUSINESS CLOSUREA German baker’s tearful appeal for customers not to abandon their local stores during the coronavirus outbreak has been met with a wave of sympathy.In a video posted on social media Friday, Gerhard Bosselmann said his bakery chain that employs more than 200 people at 20 stores in and around Hannover could collapse within weeks.Many small and medium-sized companies in Germany have expressed concerns about their future as customers stay at home, relying on deliveries or dashing to supermarkets for bulk buys.“We need a certain minimum revenue or our company will die within six to eight weeks,” Bosselmann said in the video, which drew more than 2 million views by late Friday.“You, our customers, can help us by standing by us in bad times, the way we do too,” he added, choking back tears.Germany had confirmed almost 20,000 coronavirus cases as of Friday, including 67 deaths, according to a tally by Johns Hopkins University.MEMPHIS SHUTS DOWN ELVIS PRESLEY MUSEUMElvis Presley’s Graceland is temporarily closing in response to the coronavirus outbreak.The Memphis, Tennessee-based tourist attraction said Friday that tours of Presley’s former home-turned-museum have been called off. Graceland said on its website that it will be temporarily closed from Saturday through April 3.The tourist attraction is centered on the life and career of the late singer and actor. Presley died in Memphis on Aug. 16, 1977. He was 42.About 500,000 people, including international travelers, visit Graceland each year. In addition to the museum, Graceland features restaurants, exhibition halls and a concert venue. Shelby County Health Department Director Alisa Haushalter said Friday that there are 30 confirmed cases, up from 10 the day before, in the area that includes Memphis.Shelby County Schools Superintendent Joris Ray said food preparations and community-wide food distribution have been suspended indefinitely in response to the rising number of cases, as well as a central nutrition services employee testing positive for the virus.Ray said the district has begun working to identify people the employee had been in contact with. In the interim, he asked for the help from the community, including food pantries, to feed children while schools are closed.WASHINGTON FACES SHORTAGE OF CORONAVIRUS TESTING KITSTesting supply shortages are the latest stumble in a botched effort to track the spread of coronavirus that has left the U.S. weeks behind many other developed countries.Dwindling supplies include both chemical components and basic swabs needed to collect patient samples.There are “acute, serious shortages across the board” for supplies needed to do the tests, said Eric Blank, of the Association of Public Health Laboratories, which represents state and local health labs.Late Friday, Blank’s group and two other public health organizations recommended that testing be scaled back due to “real, immediate, wide-scale shortages.” The groups said only patients with COVID-19 symptoms who are elderly, have high-risk medical conditions or are medical staff should be tested.“Testing for individuals who are not in these three groups is not recommended until sufficient testing supplies and capacity become more widely available,” said the joint statement, issued with the Association of State and Territorial Health Officials and the Council of State and Territorial Epidemiologists.Officials in the nation’s capital are extending at least through April restrictions that include school closures, closed movie theaters and gyms and restaurants and bars serving only takeout.District of Columbia Mayor Muriel Bowser made the announcement Friday as health officials confirmed the first coronavirus death in Washington, D.C.Dr. LaQuandra Nesbitt, the director of the district’s health department, said the 59-year-old man had a “complicated medical history” and was admitted to a hospital last week. She said the man tested positive for COVID-19 on March 18. Officials believe he potentially had contact with someone who had the virus.The district’s restrictions to stop the spread of the virus will remain in effect until April 25.That means all restaurants and bars will continue to able to offer to offer carry-out to customers or to food delivery services. All dining or drinking in the establishments is prohibited.Officials said DC public schools would remain closed and distance learning would take place until schools are scheduled to reopen on April 27.Bowser also loosened some restrictions for residents to apply for unemployment benefits and announced a $25 million recovery fund for local businesses.There are no immediate plans in Washington state to enact more stringent social distancing requirements to fight the spread of coronavirus like those imposed by California, New York and other states, Gov. Jay Inslee’s chief of staff said Friday.“We don’t feel it’s necessary to take that next step today,” David Postman told reporters.Washington has reported at least 74 deaths from COVID-19, the most in the United States, and more than 1,300 confirmed cases.The state has already closed schools through the late April, banned events and ordered bars to close and restaurants to serve only take out or delivery options.Gov. Jay Inslee asked President Donald Trump to declare Washington a state in major disaster. Such a declaration would enable additional federal assistance to residents affected by COVID-19.Those benefits include expanded unemployment assistance and basic food benefits.“The state urgently requires additional supplemental federal emergency assistance in order to save lives, protect public health and safety, and limit further spread of the disease,” Inslee wrote.MEXICO ANNOUNCES FINANCIAL MEASURES TO CURB ECONOMIC IMPACTMexico’s central bank has cut its benchmark interest rate from 7% to 6.5%, and reduced by about $2 billion (50 billion pesos) the amount of deposits that banks are required to keep at the Bank of Mexico.Both moves are aimed at loosening up credit in the face of the economic effects of the coronavirus pandemic. Mexico banks are currently required to keep reserve deposits of 320 billion pesos.Mexico’s elderly have long supplemented their meager pensions by working as baggers at grocery stores. But their income took a hit Friday when Walmart de Mexico, by far the nation’s largest retailer, sent them home.The chain said that because they were at greater risk from coronavirus, any bagger over 65 would no longer be allowed to work at their stores. It said that while the baggers are considered volunteers, not employees — they make their money from tips — the chain would provide them with an unspecified “economic assistance.”Mexico’s Social Security Institute also announced that high-risk employees — those over 65, or with underlying health conditions — would be allowed to work from home where possible.IN NEW YORK, COVID-19 TESTS ONLY FOR SEVERELY SICKNew York City health officials have directed medical providers to stop giving patients tests for COVID-19 except for those sick enough to require hospitalization. Widespread testing is exhausting supplies of protective equipment.In an advisory issued Friday, the health department said outpatient testing should stop unless results would impact treatment for the patient.“Persons with COVID-like illness not requiring hospitalization should be instructed to stay home. It is safer for the patients and health care workers,” the advisory said.It said demand for unnecessary testing is contributing to a national shortage of masks, gowns, collection swabs and other supplies, all of which need to be discarded by health care workers after each test.It also directed health care providers not test asymptomatic people, including health care workers or first responders.The order came amid a huge surge in testing in New York.After a slow start, testing sites have proliferated and many officials have said that widespread testing is a key to fighting the spread of the disease.As of Friday morning, more than 32,000 people had been tested in the state, almost a third of them in the last day, Gov. Andrew Cuomo said.More than 7,000 New Yorkers have tested positive. More than 1,200 have been hospitalized.ARKANSAS REPORTS 100 CASES OF CORONAVIRUSArkansas health officials say there are now nearly 100 cases of coronavirus in the state, including at least 13 residents and staff of a Little Rock nursing home.The state said the number of coronavirus cases had risen overnight from 62 to 96. The new cases include 13 residents and staff of the Briarwood Nursing Home and Rehab.The Health Department said there are also cases at a nursing home in Pine Bluff and another in Centerton.Arkansas has imposed sweeping restrictions because of the outbreak and closed its schools until April 17.5 NEW DEATHS REPORTED FROM TURKEYTurkey says five more people have died from the coronavirus outbreak, raising the number of deaths in the country to nine.The number of infections meanwhile, jumped to 670 on Friday, with 311 more cases detected in the past 24 hours, Health Minister Fahrettin Koca announced on Twitter. The surge comes as Turkey increased the number of tests to screen for COVID-19.Koca said the five who lost their lives on Friday were elderly with “weak resistance” to the virus.COVID-19 COULD BE DEVASTATING FOR PEOPLE LIVING IN WAR ZONES: UN The United Nations says consequences of the coronavirus could be devastating for the 100 million people living in war zones and other emergency settings.It noted many people are living in cramped conditions with little or no access to proper sanitation and basic health services.U.N. spokesman Stephane Dujarric said humanitarian officials are concerned people who depend on U.N. assistance are able to keep getting life-saving help while trying to avoid “the catastrophic impact that the COVID-19 outbreak could have on them.”He said relief agencies are also concerned “about the limited surveillance systems in countries with large numbers of vulnerable groups, while the additional burden of COVID-19 could mean that other current outbreaks such as cholera, measles and yellow fever receive less attention.”Dujarric said overcrowded camps for internally displaced persons in some of the world’s humanitarian hot spots are also high-risk areas for COVID-19.He said U.N. humanitarian officials will be launching an appeal for funds early next week to deal with the coronavirus threat. The U.N. has already released $15 million from its emergency fund to deal with the coronavirus in vulnerable areas, and U.N.-managed funds in Afghanistan, Sudan and Jordan have also been released to scale up preparedness.US STATE OF KANSAS IN DIRE NEED OF COVID-19 TESTING KITSThe top administrator at Kansas’ health department said it could run out of coronavirus testing kits over the weekend — forcing the state to rely on private labs and potentially delaying results.Dr. Lee Norman said that testing wouldn’t stop altogether because the agency would hold back a few of its tests for infected people who have been hospitalized.Norman also said four private lab companies already are doing some testing, but they typically take longer to report their results than the state’s one-day turnaround.Norman said the state has enough testing kits for about 300 patients, and it’s doing testing for between 150 and 300 a day. He said his agency has been providing free testing for local agencies and hospitals, and private lab tests will come with a cost of roughly $200.Kansas has had more than 40 cases of COVID-19, including one death, with 10 new confirmed cases reported Friday alone.ISRAEL REPORTS FIRST CORONAVIRUS DEATHIsrael has reported its first death from the coronavirus.Jerusalem’s Shaarei Tzedek Hospital said the 88-year-old man died late Friday, a week after he was hospitalized. The hospital said the man had a history of health problems.Israel has reported more than 700 cases of COVID-19.BOLSONARO TO GO FOR THIRD COVID-19 TESTBrazil President Jair Bolsonaro said he may receive a third coronavirus test even though he says he’s twice tested negative for the virus.Local paper O Globo reported 22 members of the committee that traveled with Bolsonaro to the U.S. earlier this month have tested positive for COVID-19.“Maybe I will do a third test, maybe, because I’m someone who has contact with a lot of people,” Bolsonaro said in Brasilia.TURKEY ENLISTS PRIVATE HOSPITALS TO FIGHT COVID-19Turkey is enlisting private hospitals to ease the burden on state hospitals and their staff in the fight against coronavirus.The Health Ministry designated all state, private or foundation hospitals with ICU units and at least two specialists in infectious diseases, microbiology, internal medicine and pulmonology as “pandemia hospitals” to treat COVID-19 patients.The virus has so far claimed four lives in Turkey, while the number of confirmed cases reached 359.OKLAHOMA ORDERS CLOSURE OF OFFICESThe state of Oklahoma will close the legislature to help stop the spread of the coronavirus.“Senators and our staff remain in constant contact with the governor and other executive branch officials in health care and education, our federal delegation and various leaders from key private sector industries as we work to address this serious health care crisis,” Senate President Pro Tem Greg Treat said in a statement.House staff will work from home, and representatives will return to their districts for “constituent work and identifying priorities that need to be addressed in this unusual year,” said John Estus, spokesman for House Speaker Charles McCall.Five additional coronavirus cases were confirmed Friday in Oklahoma, the state Department of Health reported, rising from 44 to 49.The number of deaths due to the virus remained at one, the department said.GERMANY REPORTS 9 DEATHS Authorities in southern Germany say nine residents of a nursing home in the Bavarian city of Wuerzburg have died from coronavirus.News agency dpa reported that officials at the facility said Friday all of the dead were over 80 and had previous illnesses. Of the 160 residents, five are sick with COVID-19 and are being treated at hospitals in the city. Another 10 are being cared for in isolation in their rooms after testing positive.In addition, 23 carers are quarantined at home after testing positive. It wasn’t clear what the source of the infections was. The home banned visitors last week.Germany had 19,711 confirmed coronavirus infections as of Friday, including 53 deaths, according to a tally by Johns Hopkins University.SEMINOLE TRIBE CLOSES DOWN FLORIDA CASINOSThe Seminole Tribe of Florida is closing its six casinos statewide Friday night. The casinos generate billions annually and employ 14,000 people.As a sovereign tribal nation, the Seminoles did not have to follow the governor’s orders to limit gatherings or close outright, but the tribe said in a statement it no longer felt operating the casinos was safe.At the tribe’s Hard Rock Casino near Fort Lauderdale on Friday afternoon, vacationers, gamblers and bored locals enjoyed the last few hours of play, but the noisy clangs from the machines were muted. Nearly half the machines were disabled to force players, some wearing gloves, to use machines feet apart.Dr. Brian Cheung, a 34-year-old Miami anesthesiologist, had planned a trip to Nashville this week, but when it got canceled he came to stay at the Hard Rock’s hotel and gamble in the casino. The hotel will remain open for now.“Hopefully the pool is still open,” Cheung said, walking down an empty hallway of shuttered restaurants.—-CHICAGO — Southwest says it has not canceled all flights out of Midway International Airport and instead has only scaled back traffic out of its Chicago hub.The limitations come after federal authorities closed the airport’s control tower after technicians tested positive for the coronavirus. Southwest Airlines spokeswoman Brandy King said the Dallas-based airline canceled about 170 of its roughly 250 daily flights in and out of Midway due to the airspace restrictions that followed the control tower’s closure.“We’ve had to pull that back by canceling around 170 flights. We’re averaging four to six flights per hour,” she said. “There are only so many flights they’re letting in and out of Chicago.”King said it’s not clear how long the airline will keep its reduced flight level in and out of Midway, and that decision is tied to how long the airspace restrictions continue.Earlier reports were that Southwest Airlines had canceled all flights in and out of Midway, which King denied.ILLINOIS DECLARES EMERGENCYGov. J.B. Pritzker is expected to add Illinois to the list of states ordering residents to remain in their homes except for essential needs to limit the spread of the coronavirus.Two government officials with knowledge of the directive told The Associated Press that Pritzker’s order will still allow the state’s 12.6 million residents to seek essentials including groceries and medicine. The officials spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to speak publicly ahead of the governor’s announcement expected Friday.The Chicago Tribune was the first news outlet to confirm the state shutdown that will come into force Saturday.PARIS SINGS AWAY LOCKDOWN BLUESTooting horns or playing ragtime, French people in lockdown added a musical touch to their nightly round of applause for medical professionals fighting the new virus.For the fourth straight night, Parisians opened apartment windows at exactly 8 p.m. and applauded and cheered.And to mark the first Friday night when all restaurants across France were closed, people played music or raised toasts from their balconies this time, too.Gloria Gaynor’s “I Will Survive” rang out from one neighborhood, church bells from another. A pianist played “The Entertainer,” while others enthusiastically blew horns.The evening applause is among gestures by people around Europe showing solidarity even when people can’t gather together.UKRAINE FACES TRANSPORTATION WOESThe mayor of Kharkiv says Ukraine’s second-largest city is suffering a transport collapse because of restrictions imposed by national authorities to prevent the spread of the coronavirus.Authorities this week ordered the subway systems in Kharkiv, Kyiv and Dnipro closed and limited the number of people who can ride on other mass-transit vehicles to 10.Kharkiv Mayor Hennadiy Kernes said in an open letter to the Ukrainian government released Friday that the restrictions have provoked widespread disorder in the city of 1.5 million, including people storming buses and beating drivers.Some drivers are refusing to work, he said and appealed to the government to allow limited use of the subway system.ROME INTENSIFIES SOCIAL DISTANCING PROTOCOLSAll parks, public gardens and playgrounds will be closed in Italy starting Saturday for at least five days.Health Minister Roberto Speranza signed an ordinance Friday that also aims to crack down on citizens who have ignored rules stipulating that exercise outside of one’s home must not be done in groups and that people must stay at least one-meter (yard) apart.The new measures says people who do outdoor exercise must now do it only near one’s home while practicing social-distancing. Rome had already banned exercise in parks and Turin’s mayor urged the government to do so nationwide.MICHIGAN POSTPONES NON ESSENTIAL MEDICAL PROCEDURESGov. Gretchen Whitmer ordered Michigan doctors and dentists to postpone all nonessential medical procedures Friday.Whitmer said procedures should be scratched by Saturday afternoon unless necessary to “preserve the health and safety of a patient.”“By postponing all nonessential medical and dental procedures, we expect to reduce the strain on the health care system and protect people,” the governor said.Whitmer also said the state has been flooded with claims for unemployment aid from residents suddenly out of work.DUTCH MONARCH GIVES EMOTIONAL SPEECHDutch King Willem-Alexander made an emotional televised speech to his 17 million subjects.The king made a rare speech to the nation aimed at praising and promoting unity and soothing fears. He praised health care workers battling the virus and other professions — from cleaners to teachers to police officers — while expressing concern for business owners facing possible financial ruin.Willem-Alexander, his wife Queen Maxima, and their three daughters have been practicing social distancing this week in their palace in The Hague because they recently took a skiing holiday in an Austrian village where a number of people later tested positive.The king’s speech came hours after the country’s public health institute reported that 30 people had died in the previous 24 hours, bringing the country’s death toll in the outbreak to 106. There have been 2,994 positive tests.PENTAGON CONFIRMS CORONAVIRUS CASESThe Pentagon has its first two confirmed coronavirus cases.The Air Force confirmed Friday an active duty airman who works at the Defense Health Agency in Falls Church, Virginia and had been inside the Pentagon on Monday has tested positive.The individual has received medical treatment and has self-quarantined at home.Also, an Air Force defense contractor who works in the Pentagon has tested positive for the virus and has been self-quarantined since March 7, the Air Force said.OREGON GOVERNOR APPREHENSIVE OF SOCIAL DISTANCINGGov. Kate Brown wants a statewide eviction moratorium, to suspend enforcement on expired automobile tabs and driver licenses and has asked the federal government for a one-year extension for compliance the REAL ID act.Brown said she is not ready to enact more stringent social distancing requirements like those imposed by California and New York this week. Brown has already ordered a six-week statewide school closure, a ban on gatherings of more than 25 people and shutdowns of bar and restaurant operations other than takeout and delivery for at least four weeks.SOUTHWEST CANCELS 173 FLIGHTSSouthwest Airlines has canceled all of its fights in and out of Midway International Airport after federal authorities closed the airport’s control tower because technicians tested positive for the coronavirus.The airline’s move resulted in more than 173 canceled flights on Friday.The Federal Aviation Administration closed Midway’s control tower on Tuesday after the federal agency said “several” technicians tested positive for coronavirus.The FAA said in a statement that the airport remained open and operations would continue at a reduced rate until controllers and technicians have a safe working environment.MISSISSIPPI POSTPONES PRIMARIESMississippi Gov. Tate Reeves announced postponing the upcoming Republican primary runoff in the state’s 2nd Congressional District to June 23rd.Mississippi joins a number of other states that have postponed elections amid the global pandemic.The Republican runoff originally scheduled for March 31 is between Thomas L. Carey and Brian Flowers, who are running low-budget campaigns.The winner will advance to the November general election to face Democratic U.S. Rep. Bennie Thompson, who is chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee.ALASKA CEASES CLIMBING PERMITSOfficials at Denali National Park and Preserve have suspended issuing climbing permits for the tallest mountain in North America.No permits have been issued to climb either Denali or Mount Foraker, another Alaska Range peak, this year. The climbing season in the Alaska national park about 180 miles (290 kilometers) north of Anchorage usually begins in late April and ends in mid-July.No permits have yet been issued for this year’s climbing season, and refunds will be issued to those who have started the registration process.“Considering the anticipated longevity of the international coronavirus response, social distancing protocols, and travel restrictions, park managers have determined the most appropriate course of action is to suspend all 2020 permitting,” Denali officials said in a statement.CARIBBEAN NATION EXEMPTS CITIZENS OF WATER BILLThe British Virgin Islands won’t bill for water for the next month.Officials also have closed schools and limited air and sea travel to certain passengers seeking to enter the British Caribbean territory.The BVI is one of only a handful of islands in the Caribbean with no confirmed cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/coronavirus-update-shops-reopen-in-wuhan-new-zealand-fears-local-outbreak/story-gmx9RPGq5OcNIVN7poGAmL.html
21-03-2020||World||US defence secretary Esper, defence minister Rajnath Singh India’s covid-19 initiative||US Defence Secretary Mark Esper on Friday held a telephonic conversation with Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and praised India’s COVID-19 initiative for SAARC countries, the Pentagon said. The two leaders discussed the COVID-19 pandemic and underscored their commitment to close communication during this period in order to maintain momentum on initiatives that reinforce their comprehensive global partnership, the Pentagon said in a readout of the call. “During the call, the two leaders also discussed bilateral defense priorities, including the ongoing regional cooperation and initiatives to enhance military-to-military engagement and defense trade,” it said. Esper expressed his appreciation for India’s leadership in coordinating COVID-19 related relief efforts among South Asian countries and conveyed his intent to visit India at the earliest opportunity, the Pentagon said. In the wake of the coronavirus crisis, Esper had postponed his scheduled travel to India this month. He has been roped in by President Donald Trump to combat the coronavirus that has so far infected more than 13,000 Americans claimed 230 lives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-defence-secretary-esper-defence-minister-rajnath-singh-india-s-covid-19-initiative/story-Q02E2T4ZvrmOtYxHL168yH.html
21-03-2020||World||Taiwan says WHO ignored December warning on Coronavirus’s person-to-person transmission||Taiwan has said the World Health Organization (WHO) ignored an alert it shared with the international health agency in December about person-to-person transmission of the new virus in China, which indicates that the infection is highly contagious, and slowed the global response to the pandemic, according to Financial Times.The WHO has been charged with praising China’s handling of the coronavirus pandemic despite accusations of an initial cover up, which included threatening whistleblowers with arrest on account of talking about the pandemic that has since then infected around 250,000 people and killed at least 10,000. According to FT, Taiwan vice-president Chen Chien-jen said its doctors had heard from mainland colleagues about medical staff getting ill, which is a sign of human-to-human transmission, and Taipei officials reported this on December 31 to both China and International Health Regulations (IHR), a WHO framework for exchange of epidemic prevention and response data between 196 countries. The alert was ignored. China’s health ministry confirmed human-to-human transmission of Covid-19 on January 20.“While the IHR’s internal website provides a platform for all countries to share information on the epidemic and their response, none of the information shared by our country’s [Centers for Disease Control] is being put up there,” Chen Chien-jen, vice-president of Taiwan, told FT. Taiwan is not a part of the WHO because China claims it as part of its territory and does not want it treated as an independent state.As late as January 14, just two weeks before WHO declared Covid-19 a global health emergency, the global health agency tweeted that “preliminary investigations conducted by the Chinese authorities have found no clear evidence of human-to-human transmission of the novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV) identified in #Wuhan, #China.” Since then, the novel coronavirus has been named Covid-19.The first case of someone in China suffering from Covid-19, the disease caused by the Sars-Cov2, can be traced back to November 17, according to government data seen by the Hong Kong-based South China Morning Post. Chinese authorities have identified at least 266 people who were infected last year, all of whom came under medical surveillance at some point, it said.HT reached out to the spokesperson of the embassy of China in New Delhi, who said, “Taiwan is a part of China. There is no Vice President there.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taiwan-says-who-ignored-dec-warning/story-6lNAqGPyopB9BhbxpoOjVJ.html
21-03-2020||World||Tata-owned JLR suspends production||The Tata-owned Jaguar Land Rover on Friday confirmed that it is temporarily suspending production at its manufacturing facilities in the United Kingdom over the course of next week due to the coronavirus pandemic.A company release said production will resume in the week beginning April 20 subject to a review of what it called “rapidly-changing circumstances”.JLR is among several companies that have halted or are in the process of suspending operations.The company said its manufacturing plants in Brazil and India are continuing to operate. Its joint venture plant in China reopened in the week of February 24, as life begins to get back to normal in the country.“As a responsible business, Jaguar Land Rover is operating in line with advice from the NHS and Public Health England to minimise the spread of the coronavirus, whilst implementing plans to safeguard its business continuity”, the company said.“The company will work towards an orderly return to production once conditions permit. Although the company’s focus must be on its business and responsibilities to employees, Jaguar Land Rover is doing whatever it can to support its communities through the current situation”, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/tata-owned-jlr-suspends-production/story-QkHilvf8wHGnyqjfBXPRrN.html
21-03-2020||World||Covid-19: Don’t come here, UK rural areas tell Londoners||Residents in the growing coronavirus hotspots of London who are leaving or considering leaving for picturesque rural areas in the UK to avoid being infected have been asked not to come, in appeals similar to those to Parisians recently leaving for rural France.Rural areas in various European countries have seen a flood of people from capitals and major cities, intending to stay there while the virus challenge is overcome or blows over. This has generated some resentment in the rural areas in France, UK and elsewhere.Several London boroughs have reported large number of cases and deaths. Latest figures show 144 people have died in the UK, besides 3,269 cases as of Thursday morning. Rural areas have reported less number of cases across the country.Devon and Cornwall in south-west England are among popular rural destinations that attract a large number of domestic tourists. But their increasing numbers of London and other city-dwellers in recent days has prompted concerns over the impact on local services.Julian German, leader of Cornwall council, and Cornish MP Steve Double asked people not to travel to the south-west of England, as local leaders fear an influx of people from London and other cities.In an open letter, German and Double said: “It is important that everyone follows the advice laid out by the government to slow and stop the spread of this virus and do everything we can to support our essential public services, especially our NHS”.“That includes avoiding non-essential travel. By anyone’s assessment a holiday at this time is not essential. So therefore, regrettably we are asking people not to come on holiday to Cornwall at this time”.“We need to stop the spread of this virus and also need to protect our NHS and keep our supermarket shelves stocked. An influx of thousands of tourists in the coming weeks will put unnecessary pressure on our services”.A statement from tourism body Visit Cornwall added: “We urge anyone considering travelling to Cornwall in the coming days and weeks to think carefully about the implications of being removed from your normal social network during the coronavirus period, the risk of not being able to travel back home as planned, to be aware that supermarkets are experiencing the same pressures here as elsewhere, and consider the added pressure on public services in a rural area which this travel may cause”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-don-t-come-here-uk-rural-areas-tell-londoners/story-eTlL5WVOtPXDzsnC84RbDO.html
21-03-2020||World||Stay-at-home orders in California, New York ‘on pause’||Stay-at-home orders have been issued in California, America’s most populous state with 40 million people, and for all non-essential workers in New York state putting it “on pause” as the United States grappled with a surge in the number of coronavirus infections and fatalities amidst concerns about medical supplies.The United States also closed its southern border with Mexico for all non-essential travels, effective Friday night, by mutual consent as with Canada in the north.A White House official said new data from Italy, where more people have died of the coronavirus than in the epicenter in China, show mortality rate among men is higher than among women.Also, two Senators of President Donald Trump’s ruling Republican party dumped stocks ahead of the spread of coronavirus and its impact on the markets, according to two newsreports. They allegedly dumped millions in stocks after a coronavirus-specific hearing for senators. Richard Burr, chairman of the senate intelligence committee, is reported to sold $$628,000 and $1.72 million worth of stock and and Kelly Loffler, the newest member of the senate, sold between $1.27 million and $3.1 million.California governor Gavin Newsom announced the stay-at-home orders in an online news briefing Thursday. This is a moment we need to make tough decisions,” he said, adding, “This is not a permanent state, this is a moment in time. We will look back at these decisions as pivotal.”The governor had earlier said he feared 58% of the the state’s 40 million people would be infected by the virus, but he has since tried to dial it down saying he hopes to prevent that new measure and others. California had reported 675 confirmed cases of COVID-19 and 16 deaths as of Wednesday. At least 12,392 people have been infected across the country and at least 195 have died, according to the New York Times tracker (10,442 infected and 150 dead, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).Residents are exempted for essential outings, to get grocery or medical supplies, help and attention New York governor Andrew Cuomo ordered all non-essential to stay home at the news briefing Friday morning. He said these are “the most drastic measure we can take” and the entire state was now “on pause”.“This is not life as usual. Accept it. Realize it. And deal with it,” he added.New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio had earlier considered similar measure, and asked New Yorkers earlier in the week to be prepared for, “shelter-in-place”, saying the city was in danger of running out of medical supplies needed to deal with the outbreak. But New York governor Andrew Cuomo disagrees with his fellow Democrat and has publicly ruled it out.Other cities hit hard by the outbreak have imposed night-time curfew. Such as Hoboken, a New Jersey city across the river from New York City. Residents are prohibited from venturing out between 10 pm and 5 am the next day, except to get food or medical suppliesIn Washington state, which has been hit the hardest with 75 coronavirus deaths, all restaurants, bars, dance halls, clubs, theaters, health and fitness clubs, and other similar indoor social or recreational venues have been shut since Monday. Restaurants are only allowed take-out and delivery orders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/stay-at-home-orders-in-california-new-york-on-pause/story-YucP56i63qd1EwCeZW3AYM.html
