25-03-2020||World||US set to clear $2 trillion Covid-19 relief package||US Sensate and White House reached an agreement early Wednesday on a $2 trillion rescue package for the American economy battered by the coronavirus outbreak that has killed more than 700 people and shut down large parts of the country, including businesses, leading to a spike in unemployment.The rescue package, which is the largest so far in modern American history, includes direct payments of $1,200 checks to some American adults and $500 to children, $367 billion in loans to small businesses and $500 billion for companies, cities and states — $3 billion for New York state, for instance, which has been the hardest hit with more than 17,000 cases and 210 deaths. It is also expected to provide unemployment benefit for gig workers such as Uber drivers.“This is a very important bipartisan piece of legislation that is going to be very important to help American workers, American business and people across America,” treasury secretary Steven Mnuchin, who led the White House team at the negotiations, told reporters early Wednesday morning. “We couldn’t be more pleased,” he added.The agreement, which followed five days of long and protracted negotiations that played out publicly in acrimonious congressional debate exchange of blame outside, is expected to be legislated expeditiously in view of the ongoing and worsening situation around the country.Businesses have been hit, large and small, especially airlines, hospitality and travel, and job losses have shot up; a senior Trump administration official has said the unemployment rate could rise as high as to 20%. At around 1 am Wednesday, the White House and US senate leaders announced they had reached an agreement. The senate is expected to pass the legislation later Wednesday.“This is a wartime level of investment into our nation,” said Mitch McConnell, the senate’s Republican leader, on the floor of the chamber after the agreement was reached.“The men and women of the greatest country on Earth are going to defeat this coronavirus and reclaim our future,” he said.The next steps are not clear now. To be sent to the White House for the president’s signature, the legislation will have to be passed by the Democratic-controlled House of Representatives, which is not in session. It can, however, clear the legislation by unanimous consent, by passing a vote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-set-to-clear-2-trillion-covid-19-relief-package/story-cJyiDUkl95mzswvqb2xX2I.html
25-03-2020||World||Retired doctors, nurses, medical students in UK join Covid-19 fight||Thousands of retired doctors and nurses have returned ‘to the frontline’ to deal with the coronavirus challenge, besides nearly 19,000 final year medical students, as the UK grapples with staff and equipment shortage and spike in deaths and new cases.The ExCel Centre in east London, spread over 100 acres, is being converted into a hospital for 4,000 patients. A call for volunteers to perform non-medical tasks in the National Health Service (NHS) was immediately responded to by over 170,000 people within 24 hours.Stephen Powis of NHS England described the response as “outbreaks of altruism,” adding that he is “bowled over” by medical professionals returning ‘to the frontline’ of treatment of the virus that has claimed at least 422 lives in the UK.The Boris Johnson government intends to recruit 250,000 volunteers, who must be over 18 and in good health. They will help 1.5 million people with underlying health conditions who have been asked to shield themselves from the virus by staying at home for 12 weeks.However, reports suggest that the massive NHS recruitment drive risks being undermined by the prospect of doctors quitting over fears of inadequate protective equipment. The British military is helping reach such equipment to hospitals across the UK.Rinesh Parmar, chair of the Doctors’ Association UK, told The Guardian: “The longer this epidemic goes on for, if doctors feel that there is a widespread lack of personal protective equipment (PPE), then some doctors may feel they have no choice but to give up the profession they love, because they feel so abandoned by not being given the PPE that the World Health Organization recommends”.“That’s the travesty of this situation, that the government needs to protect frontline health workers and in return they will give 100%. But the government hasn’t kept its side of the bargain with NHS staff by not having enough PPE available to safeguard the health of doctors and nurses,” he said.The Royal College of Nursing, also reflected the concerns of nurses who may be forced to choose between jobs and safety.A spokesperson said: “Our priority is to make sure nursing staff in frontline care have the masks and equipment they need but the government and NHS must be able to offer reasonable protection and assurances to those who lend a hand in these times”.“Nursing staff should never be forced to choose between their safety and their livelihood - this equipment must desperately reach the frontline”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/retired-doctors-nurses-medical-students-in-uk-join-covid-19-fight/story-4WWeopSlhRO4Q6RSyQtxJI.html
25-03-2020||World||Coronavirus fight at risk as world’s medical glove capital struggles with lockdown||Disposable rubber gloves are indispensable in the global fight against the new coronavirus, yet a month’s lockdown in stricken Malaysia where three of every five gloves are made has upended the supply chain and threatens to hamstring hospitals worldwide.The world’s biggest maker of medical gloves by volume, Top Glove Corp Bhd
25-03-2020||World||Spain overtakes China virus toll with 3,434 deaths: Report||Spain’s coronavirus death toll overtook that of China on Wednesday, rising to 3,434 after 738 people died over the past 24 hours, the government said. Across the world, only Italy now has a higher death toll than that of Spain. In China, where the virus emerged late last year, 3,281 people have died. The spiralling number of deaths came as Spain entered the 11th day of an unprecedented lockdown to try and rein in the COVID-19 epidemic that has now infected 47,610 people, the health ministry said.As the authorities stepped up testing, the number of cases showed a 20 percent increase on the figures for Tuesday, while the death toll showed a 27 percent rise over the same period.Despite the national lockdown imposed on March 14, which is to be extended until April 11, both deaths and infections have continued to mount, with officials warning this week would be particularly bad. “We are approaching the peak,” the ministry’s emergencies coordinator Fernando Simon said in announcing the figures.Health authorities are hoping it will soon become clear whether the lockdown is having the desired effect.The Madrid region has suffered the brunt of the epidemic with 14,597 infections -- just under a third of the total -- and 1,825 deaths, or 53 percent of the national figure. With hospitals on the brink of collapse from the surge in patients, troops have set up a massive field hospital in Madrid’s vast IFEMA exhibition centre which currently has 1,500 beds but which could be expanded to take in up to 5,500 people -- making it the largest hospital in Spain.And with the city’s funeral services overwhelmed, officials have commandeered the Palacio de Hielo ice skating rink to serve as a temporary morgue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/spain-overtakes-china-virus-toll-with-3-434-deaths-repor/story-mCFuY2D32V4q76Nb1RtMAK.html
25-03-2020||World||25 killed in Kabul gurdwara attack; Islamic State claims responsibility||Gunmen stormed a religious gathering of Afghanistan’s minority Sikhs in their place of worship (gurdwara) in the heart of Kabul’s old city on Wednesday, killing 25 people.Within hours, the Islamic State group claimed responsibility for the attack. Those killed included a child whose body was brought to a Kabul hospital, the emergency services and the hospital said. At least 15 people were injured.The attackers targeted a ‘dharamshala’ in Shor Bazar area of Kabul, which has a sizeable population of the Hindu and Sikh minorities. Some reports said the attack began at 7.45 am Afghan time.India strongly condemned the terror attack, saying targeting of a religious place in the midst of the Covid-19 outbreak reflects the “diabolical mindset” of the perpetrators and their backers.Watch l India condemns ISIS attack on Kabul gurudwara which killed 25 “India stands ready to extend all possible assistance to the affected families of the Hindu and Sikh community of Afghanistan,” it said.Afghanistan’s Interior Ministry said police responded promptly to the attack on gurdwara, and shooting was still underway. Afghanistan-based Tolo News said there were three attackers - one of them has been killed, the other one escaped and the third one shot.Photos posted on social media by Afghan journalists showed security forces and local residents evacuating the injured in ambulances.The Afghan security forces had cleared the first floor of the Sikh place of worship and rescued a “number of people” who were trapped inside the building, interior ministry spokesman Tariq Arian said.Media reports said dozens of people were still trapped in the building.The Shor Bazar area of Kabul was once home to several gurdwaras but they were destroyed during the fighting in the 1980s. Many Hindus and Sikhs living in the area also migrated to other countries. Kabul is still home to several thousand Hindus and Sikhs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/25-killed-in-kabul-gurdwara-attack-islamic-state-claims-responsibility/story-qMhKalWLFt3GnjJpjPOdRN.html
25-03-2020||World||Faster, higher, stronger... later||The Tokyo Olympics were postponed on Tuesday to next year, the first such delay in the Games’ 124-year modern history, as the Covid-19 crisis wrecked the biggest global sporting showpiece. New dates have not been discussed yet.Though a huge blow to Japan, which has invested $12 billion in the run-up, the decision was a relief to thousands of athletes fretting over how to train as the world headed into lockdown to fight a disease that has claimed more than 18,000 lives.Pressure had been building on the International Olympic Committee (IOC) and its German president, Thomas Bach, with some athletes and sports bodies angry that a seemingly inevitable decision had taken so long. The decision came a day after Canada and Australia announced they would not take part if the Games was held on its original dates---July 24 to August 9.After telephone discussions between Bach and Japanese prime minister Shinzo Abe, a historic joint decision was taken to delay the Olympics—the first time that has been done in peacetime. Olympics were not held in 1916, 1940 and 1944 because of the World Wars. IOC announced the Olympics will be staged no later than the summer of 2021.‘BEACON OF HOPE’Abe said Bach was in “100 percent agreement” when Japan asked IOC to push back the Games. In a joint statement, they said the Games “must be rescheduled to a date beyond 2020 but not later than summer 2021.“The leaders agreed that the Olympics in Tokyo could stand as a beacon of hope to the world during these troubled times and that the Olympic flame could become the light at the end of the tunnel in which the world finds itself at present.“Therefore, it was agreed that the Olympic flame will stay in Japan. It was also agreed that the Games will keep the name Olympic and Paralympic Games Tokyo 2020,” the statement said.Olympic officials regularly lauded Tokyo as the best prepared host city they had seen. But no one could have planned for the pandemic.The Olympics, which has experienced boycotts, terrorist attacks and protests but has been held every four years since 1948, is the highest-profile event affected by the virus that has forced the closure of sports competitions worldwide.SAVING EVERY LIFEBach said the decision to postpone was “about protecting human life”. Squeezing in the 16-day Games into what will already be a hugely crowded 2021 calendar is another major headache, with arguably the two biggest sports, swimming and athletics, due to hold world championships that summer. World Athletics has already said it was prepared to shift its event scheduled in Eugene, Oregon from August 6-15 to 2022. World Athletics, whose president Sebastian Coe had backed a postponement, welcomed Tuesday’s decision.British sprinter Dina Asher-Smith, the world 200m champion and rising star of women’s athletics, posted on Instagram: “#Tokyo2021, Same fire, new dates. Stay at home and stay safe everyone.”Swimming world body said it would also work with local organisers “to determine flexibility” for their scheduled July 16-August 1 world championships next year in Fukuoka, Japan.MASSIVE LOSSESThe postponement will be a massive blow for the city of Tokyo. British Olympic Association chairman Hugh Robertson said it was “heartbreaking news for our many friends in Japan who have done superbly well to prepare for what I know will be an outstanding Games”.The IOC came under increasing pressure to postpone the Games, with billions of people across the planet in lockdown to prevent the further spread of Covid-19. Training had become impossible for many athletes and exposed them to the risk of contracting or spreading the disease. Competitions and qualifying events were scrapped while international travel is severely limited. On Sunday, IOC had given itself a deadline of four weeks to come up with a proposal to postpone the Games, a Herculean task that touches on every aspect of planning from venues to security to ticketing. But after Canada and Australia withdrew their teams and the powerful US Olympic Committee and World Athletics called for a postponement, the writing was on the wall.Tokyo was spending some $12.6 billion to host the Games, according to its latest budget. Experts believe a postponement could cost it some $6 billion in the short-term before recouping it when they eventually go ahead.Tennis player Kei Nishikori promptly sent a simple tweet of four pairs of hands held together in prayer, an emoji for ‘thank you’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/faster-higher-stronger-later/story-gk7Y5UxcoHx5e2FNaxUPUI.html
25-03-2020||World||Virus torments US, Europe as global case count crosses 400k||While Italy and Spain recorded huge spikes in deaths from Covid-19 on Tuesday, the US witnessed a staggering 10,000 new cases and more than 130 deaths in just one day.The coronavirus pandemic, which has now infected more than 400,000 people worldwide and killed more than 18,000 people, has clearly tightened its grip across the Atlantic - both in the US as well as across the European continent.With more than 600 fatalities in all, the US is now among the top six worst-hit nations in terms of death toll.Italy reported 743 deaths, surging to break a two-day trend, while Spanish authorities recorded a further 514 deaths, the worst for a single day, as the country struggled to contain the outbreak despite strict rules that are keeping people in their homes. The daily toll on Tuesday was the second highest recorded in Italy.There’s no sign yet of the pandemic peaking, and different countries are at varying stages of trying to cope with the sheer influx of patients to hospitals and the effects on economies as a result of keeping people indoors.The French and German governments are looking at further measures to keep companies afloat and pump money into the system once the virus risk eases, on top of aid already committed.Italy passed China last week to become the epicentre of Covid-19, yet the focus on Tuesday was on Spain, where fatalities increased to 2,696 from 2,182 the day before. The number of confirmed cases rose to just shy of 40,000.Spain is already in the second week of a lockdown set to continue until April 11, with severe restrictions on mobility, as police patrol the streets and the army helps to move patients.Italy’s government may now impose fines of up to 3,000 euros ($3,260) for violations of the lockdown. A cabinet meeting chaired by Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte on Tuesday is expected to approve the fines, and give police powers to seize vehicles of anyone caught violating the restrictions, according to people familiar with the matter.In Germany, Chancellor Angela Merkel is evaluating an additional stimulus programme to help revive the economy.The pandemic has reached Ecuador’s Galapagos Islands, a Unesco World Heritage site, an official source said. Four people contracted the disease.The four permanent residents of the archipelago had returned to the islands from the port of Guayaquil with more than half of its near 1,000 confirmed cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/virus-torments-us-europe-as-global-case-count-crosses-400k/story-qb0aotFXKz0fqUOSipEFUM.html
25-03-2020||World||Pakistan Covid-19 positive cases rise to 1000, but PM Imran won’t impose lockdown||Pakistan announced halting of domestic flight operations after number of cases infected with coronavirus disease Covid-19 rose to 1000 in the country. The government said that seven people have died of the disease.The domestic flight ban will begin on Thursday, civil aviation spokesman Abdul Sattar Khokhar said on Wednesday. Islamabad had previously cut train service and international flights.Initially, most of those infected were Pakistani pilgrims returning from neighboring hard-hit Iran, which has seen the Middle East’s worst outbreak of the virus. Now, the virus is being reported in people with no travel history, officials say.More than 400 of the infected people are in the southern province of Sindh. The eastern province of Punjab has the second highest number of cases (296), the northwestern province of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa has 78 cases, Balochistan has 110, while capital Islamabad has 15, as per media reports.More on Covid-19:• Your guide to staying safe• What you need to know today• What to keep in mind for your money• How coronavirus is different from seasonal flu and common coldThe Sindh provincial government has imposed a lockdown to contain the spread of the virus, but Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan has said he will not impose a country-wide lockdown and urged people to go in self-quarantine to fight the Sars-CoV-2 virus.Khan said that the impact of a countrywide curfew on Pakistan’s economy would be immense.“Twenty-five percent of the population of our country lives under the poverty line. Putting the country under lockdown would mean that my daily-wage workers, street vendors, small shop-owners would be locked inside their homes. How would they earn then?” he said in his address to the nation.The country had reported its seventh death on Tuesday, involving a 57-year-old patient who was undergoing treatment at Mayo Hospital in Lahore.Six civil servants were, meanwhile, suspended on Tuesday after they posed for a selfie with a coronavirus patient in a quarantine centre, an official said.The selfie - widely shared on social media - pictured a group of men around the apparent patient, several of them smiling broadly and none wearing face masks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistan-covid-19-positive-cases-rise-to-1000-but-pm-imran-won-t-impose-lockdown/story-8QEz0IKcT7SaTuW0WAEm0J.html
25-03-2020||World||25 killed in terror attack in Kabul; 4 gunman killed||Twenty-five people were killed and around 10 injured when suicide attackers stormed a Sikh place of worship in the Afghan capital on Wednesday, triggering a six-hour standoff with security forces.The Islamic State claimed the attack, with a statement issued by the group to the Afghan media saying its members carried out the assault.The attackers targeted a ‘dharamshala’ in Shor Bazar area of Kabul, which has a sizeable population of the Hindu and Sikh minorities. Reports said the attack began at 7.45 am Afghan time.All four attackers were killed by Afghan and foreign forces, ending the face-off at the place of worship. Afghan interior ministry spokesman Tariq Arian confirmed 25 people were killed and eight others injured.Arian said more than 80 people, including women and children, were rescued by Afghan special forces. Afghan MP Narender Singh Khalsa said up to 150 people were praying at the ‘dharamshala’ when the attack began. Images of the shrine posted on social media showed bloodstains on its floor. Other photos showed security forces and local residents evacuating the injured in ambulances. Witnesses said they heard several explosions during the gun battle.Arian told the media that the suicide attackers entered the ‘dharamshala’ and began exchanging fire with security forces.The Taliban denied involvement in the attack in messages sent to the Afghan media. Afghan officials said information obtained by security agencies suggested the Haqqani Network, which has close ties to Pakistan’s security establishment, could have been behind the attack.India condemned the attack and said it was ready to extend all possible assistance to the affected families from the Hindu and Sikh communities.“Such cowardly attacks on the places of religious worship of the minority community, especially at this time of Covid-19 pandemic, are reflective of the diabolical mindset of the perpetrators and their backers,” the external affairs ministry said in a statement.The statement commended the Afghan security forces for their “valorous response to the attack and their exemplary courage and dedication”. The statement added: “India stands in solidarity with the people, the government and the security forces of Afghanistan in their efforts for bringing peace and security to the country.”The attack was also condemned by Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri. “These killings are a grim reminder of atrocities that continue to be inflicted upon religious minorities in some countries & the urgency with which their lives & religious freedom have to be safeguarded,” he tweeted.The Shor Bazar area of Kabul was once home to several gurdwaras but they were destroyed during the fighting in the 1980s. Many Hindus and Sikhs living in the area also migrated to other countries. Kabul is still home to several thousand Hindus and Sikhs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/suicide-bombers-attack-sikh-place-of-worship-in-kabul/story-2AeJCiydRKVdrQE1YwictK.html
25-03-2020||World||Tokyo Olympics pushed, Australia bans overseas travel: Covid-19 updates from across the world||European nations like Italy and Spain have now become the epicentre of coronavirus outbreak outside China. Iran is also one of the countries to have reported a large number of Covid-19 infections and related deaths. Earlier this week, the World Health Organisation said that the pandemic is “accelerating”. With over 500 coronavirus cases and 10 deaths, India has also decided to up its ante against the virus and has put the nation under a 3-week lockdown. According to the WHO figures, the virus has infected 375,498 people globally and claimed 16,362 lives.Here’s taking a quick look at coronavirus latest developments from across the globe. 1. Tokyo Olympics has been pushed to 2021.2. Over 100 people died in the US on Tuesday. The WHO warned the country could be the next epicentre of coronavirus. White House authorities warn those who have travelled in and out of New York should self-quarantine for 14 days. Authorities are also expecting a steep surge in cases in New York.3. US President Donald Trump said he wants the US “opened up and raring to go by Easter” hinting at lifting lockdown restrictions which have been enforced in New York, Los Angeles and other areas.4. Australia has banned overseas travel and extended social restrictions to tackle Covid-19.5. The UK has extended visa of stranded Indians till May 31.6. Amazon has decided to stop non-essential sales in India in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak. Walmart Inc’s Flipkart has suspended services, a notice on the Indian e-commerce firm’s website said on Wednesday, as India began a 21-day lockdown to fight the spread of the coronavirus pandemic.7. Italy recorded 602 deaths on Monday taking the total death toll to 6,820. There is no decline in infection or deaths.8. Financial markets rebound due to the US Federal Reserve’s offer of unlimited bond-buying.9. Doctors are hoarding medications for Covid-19 by writing prescriptions for themselves and family members, according to pharmacy boards in the US.10. Gilead Science’s has registered its experimental drug Remdesivir as rare disease treatment in the US, a status which could provide millions in tax breaks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/tokyo-olympics-pushed-uk-extends-visas-for-stranded-indians-covid-19-updates-from-across-the-world/story-gWq1EpxTatslwBAUDychcP.html
25-03-2020||World||Hantavirus treatment: What patients should do||China is grappling with a new virus, which led to the death of a man in Yunnan province on Monday. The hantavirus spreads mainly by rodents and can cause varied disease syndromes in people worldwide.It causes hantavirus pulmonary syndrome or HPS which causes fever, muscle aches, fatigue and shortness of breath. “Diagnosing HPS in an individual who has only been infected a few days is difficult, because these early symptoms are easily confused with influenza,” said Centres for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), the leading national public health institute of the United States.If the individual has a history of potential rural rodent exposure, together with shortness of breath, it would be strongly suggestive of HPS, the CDC further said. “They should see their physician immediately and mention their potential rodent exposure.”The CDC further said that there is no specific treatment, cure, or vaccine for hantavirus infection. “Treatment of patients with HPS remains supportive in nature. Patients should receive appropriate, broad-spectrum antibiotic therapy while awaiting confirmation of a diagnosis of HPS. Care during the initial stages of the disease should include antipyretics and analgesia as needed,” the public health institute said.“We do know that if infected individuals are recognised early and receive medical care in an intensive care unit, they may do better. In intensive care, patients are intubated and given oxygen therapy to help them through the period of severe respiratory distress,” it added.Ribavirin, which is often used to treat some related haemorrhagic fevers, is not effective in treating HPS, the CDC said.“The earlier the patient is brought in to intensive care, the better. If a patient is experiencing full distress, it is less likely the treatment will be effective,” the CDC said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hantavirus-treatment-what-patients-should-do/story-qiVrlwOSfGMb8vjQTmGrwM.html
25-03-2020||World||Coronavirus update: India bans exports of Trump-backed virus drug as global demand surges||India’s government banned exports of hydroxychloroquine, as global demand surges for the malaria drug touted by U.S. President Donald Trump as a potential coronavirus treatment.Exports will be limited to fulfilling existing contracts, while certain shipments on humanitarian grounds may also be allowed on a case-by-case basis, according to a statement issued Wednesday by the Directorate General of Foreign Trade.Trump has vowed to make the medication widely available to fight the pandemic, calling the drug a “game changer” in the treatment of the coronavirus.Though there is no conclusive scientific evidence that hydroxychloroquine can treat the infection from the novel pathogen, U.S. hospitals and consumers have begun stockpiling the drug after reports of its efficacy in some small clinical studies -- but not in others -- began circulating online and in the media. In India, the government is recommending health-care workers take the drug regularly as a preventive measure to avoid contracting the infection while treating Covid-19 patients.Cadila Healthcare Ltd., the world’s largest maker of an anti-malarial drug, has said it plans to boost capacity more than ten-fold to meet the surging global demand. Sharvil Patel, the Ahmedabad-based company’s managing director, said the company will increase production of hydroxychloroquine sulphate to as much as 35 tons, or about 200 million individual doses per month, from about 3 tons per month currently.The rush to make this cheap and decades-old medicine easily accessible led the U.S. Food & Drug Administration to lift import restrictions on three plants of another Indian pharmaceutical company, Ipca Laboratories Ltd., on March 20.For more articles like this, please visit us at bloomberg.com©2020 Bloomberg L.P.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-update-india-bans-exports-of-donald-trump-backed-coronavirus-drug-as-global-demand-for-malaria-medicine-surges/story-sbhXVP7zyMuX1QBMt9ZMcJ.html
25-03-2020||World||Symptoms, fatality, outbreak: All you need to know about hantavirus||A man in China died after contracting the hantavirus on Monday. He was on his way back to the eastern Shandong province for work on a chartered bus, reports in Chinese media said.The other 32 people present in the bus were also tested.So, what is hantavirus?Hantavirus belongs to a family of viruses spread mainly by rodents and can cause varied disease syndromes in people worldwide, according to the Centres for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), the leading national public health institute of the United States.Hantaviruses in the Americas are known as “New World” hantaviruses and may cause hantavirus pulmonary syndrome (HPS). Other hantaviruses, known as “Old World” hantaviruses, are found mostly in Europe and Asia and may cause haemorrhagic fever with renal syndrome (HFRS).How does the hantavirus spread?“Each hantavirus serotype has a specific rodent host species and is spread to people via aerosolized virus that is shed in urine, faeces, and saliva, and less frequently by a bite from an infected host,” the CDC said.So far, the transmission of hantavirus in the US has not transferred from human-to-human contact.What are the symptoms?Early symptoms include fatigue, fever and muscle aches, especially in the large muscle groups - thighs, hips, back, and sometimes shoulders. These symptoms are universal.There may also be headaches, dizziness, chills, and abdominal problems, such as nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, and abdominal pain. About half of all HPS patients experience these symptoms.Four to 10 days after the initial phase of illness, the late symptoms of HPS appear. These include coughing and shortness of breath.Is it a new virus?According to the CDC, hantavirus disease surveillance in the United States began in 1993 during an outbreak of severe respiratory illness in the “Four Corners” region in the southwestern US, in an area shared by Arizona, New Mexico, Colorado and Utah. The HPS became a nationally notifiable disease in 1995.On November 1, 2012 the National Park Service (NPS) in the US announced a total of 10 confirmed cases of hantavirus infection in people who recently visited Yosemite National Park.Is the disease caused by hantavirus fatal?Yes. According to CDC, the mortality rate of HPS if 38 per cent.The hantavirus report came as China is currently grappling with coronavirus which has resulted in the death of 3,277 people in the country, mostly in its epicentre Hubei province and its capital Wuhan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/symptoms-fatality-outbreak-all-you-need-to-know-about-hantavirus/story-aOrNbCmdzPxhSfSQcoxGNM.html
25-03-2020||World||Is Greta Thunberg Covid-19 positive? Likely, she says after Europe trip||Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg said Tuesday that it was “extremely likely” that she had contracted the new coronavirus, after experiencing several symptoms following a trip to central Europe.“Around ten days ago I started feeling some symptoms... I was feeling tired, had shivers, a sore throat and coughed,” the teenage climate champion said in an Instagram post.Thunberg said the symptoms emerged after she returned from a trip around central Europe, and that she and her father had isolated themselves as a precaution.As of Tuesday, Sweden had reported 2,272 confirmed cases, but only those with severe symptoms in need of hospital care and staff working with at risk groups are tested.Therefore, Thunberg said she had not been tested, but said “it’s extremely likely” that she had it, “given the combined symptoms and circumstances.” The 17-year-old also said she had now “basically recovered,” but cautioned others, saying she “almost didn’t feel ill.”  The last two weeks I’ve stayed inside. When I returned from my trip around Central Europe I isolated myself (in a borrowed apartment away from my mother and sister) since the number of cases of COVID-19 (in Germany for instance) were similar to Italy in the beginning. Around ten days ago I started feeling some symptoms, exactly the same time as my father - who traveled with me from Brussels. I was feeling tired, had shivers, a sore throat and coughed. My dad experienced the same symptoms, but much more intense and with a fever. In Sweden you can not test yourself for COVID-19 unless you’re in need of emergent medical treatment. Everyone feeling ill are told to stay at home and isolate themselves. I have therefore not been tested for COVID-19, but it’s extremely likely that I’ve had it, given the combined symptoms and circumstances. Now I’ve basically recovered, but - AND THIS IS THE BOTTOM LINE: I almost didn’t feel ill. My last cold was much worse than this! Had it not been for someone else having the virus simultainously I might not even have suspected anything. Then I would just have thought I was feeling unusually tired with a bit of a cough. And this it what makes it so much more dangerous. Many (especially young people) might not notice any symptoms at all, or very mild symptoms. Then they don’t know they have the virus and can pass it on to people in risk groups. We who don’t belong to a risk group have an enormous responsibility, our actions can be the difference between life and death for many others. Please keep that in mind, follow the advice from experts and your local authorities and #StayAtHome to slow the spread of the virus. And remember to always take care of each other and help those in need. #COVID #flattenthecurveA post shared by  Greta Thunberg (@gretathunberg) on Mar 24, 2020 at 8:22am PDTShe warned that others, especially young people, only experiencing mild symptoms might not know “they have the virus and can pass it on to people in risk groups.” “We who don’t belong to a risk group have an enormous responsibility, our actions can be the difference between life and death for many others,” she said.In early March, Thunberg, who spearheaded the “school strike for climate” movement, called for a digital protest so as to avoid large gatherings that could exacerbate the spread of the new coronavirus.She had invited activists to post photos of themselves with the word #ClimateStrikeOnline every Friday instead of attending demonstrations in the streets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-outbreak-update-swedish-climate-activist-greta-thunberg-says-extremely-likely-that-she-had-coronavirus/story-odLTDMZJ0c9aKnT504uFxK.html
25-03-2020||World||Donald Trump declares coronavirus fight close to end, but cases rise||President Donald Trump declared the beginning of the end of the coronavirus crisis in the United States on Tuesday and called for a quick end to social distancing, even as New York’s governor compared the growing pandemic to a “bullet train.”Trump, who is keen to get his reelection campaign back on track, said that social distancing has caused too much pain to the US economy, prompting Congress to debate a historic rescue package.“Our country -- it’s not built to shut down,” he said on Fox News. “You can destroy a country this way by closing it down.”“I would love to have the country opened up and just raring to go by Easter,” said Trump, declaring he could see “light at the end of the tunnel.”The president said he looked forward to “packed” churches on Easter, which is on April 12 -- less than three weeks away.Social distancing and quarantine measures have been instituted across much of the United States, with stay-at-home orders for more than a third of the population, bringing the world’s biggest economy to an abrupt halt.An Ipsos/Axios poll released Tuesday found that 74 percent of Americans have stopped attending large gatherings, while 48 percent have canceled travel plans, leaving airports deserted.Another significant casualty of the shutdown has been the presidential campaign, with Trump having to halt a relentless series of big rallies around the country.Health experts have advised the measures as the foundation for preventing the easily transmitted, potentially fatal illness from multiplying uncontrollably.The administration on March 16 declared “15 Days to Slow the Spread,” a period which expires early next week.But Trump made clear Tuesday that he thinks the response to coronavirus deaths has been blown out of proportion, saying “we lose much more than that to automobile accidents. We didn’t call up the automobile companies to say, ‘Stop making cars.’“Later, Trump appeared to retreat from his Easter goal at a press conference alongside the renowned government infectious diseases specialist Anthony Fauci.“We’ll only do it if it’s good,” Trump said, adding that the reopening could be limited to a “portion” of the nation. He mentioned areas like farm country, Texas and the west, often sparsely populated.His own press secretary, Stephanie Grisham, quarantined since coming into contact with Brazilian officials almost two weeks ago, has tested negative, the White House said Tuesday.- $2 trillion -The plunge in activity and warnings of recession or even depression are a brutal reversal for what was until a few weeks ago a humming economy, with record low unemployment.Congressional leaders said Tuesday they were getting closer all the time to delivering a major boost by passing a nearly $2 trillion rescue package for businesses, ordinary Americans and hospitals reeling from the shutdown.Republicans and Democrats have been wrangling over the bill for several days but news that they were nearing a deal sent battered stock prices on Wall Street soaring.This would be the biggest emergency injection of money into the economy in history, dwarfing even the bailouts of 2008, when a worldwide financial crisis sent the US economy into a tailspin.- ‘We are not slowing it’ -More than 700 people have died from the new coronavirus in the United States, while the number of confirmed cases is near 54,000, a tracker maintained by Johns Hopkins University showed Tuesday.The US has the third-highest number of confirmed cases globally, behind China and Italy.And despite Trump’s relentless optimism, New York Governor Andrew Cuomo warned of “astronomical numbers” in the state and the nation’s biggest city.“We are not slowing it. And it is accelerating on its own,” he said, comparing the spread of the disease to “a bullet train.”- Politics vs health? -With his reelection campaign temporarily knocked off track, Trump is now seeking to turn the coronavirus calamity into a dramatic comeback story that will deliver him a second term in November.One of his main claims to a second term, prior to the coronavirus outbreak, was the strong economy.“We can’t lose a Boeing, we can’t lose some of these companies,” he said on the Fox News broadcast from the White House. “If we lose those companies we’re talking about hundreds of thousands of jobs, millions of jobs.”However, his push for a quick reopening of the economy carries the risk that some will see it as putting wealth over the survival of the sick, especially the vulnerable elderly.Texas Lieutenant Governor Dan Patrick said as much, urging those over 70 “not to sacrifice the country.”Cuomo, whose daily news conferences have made him a major national voice during the crisis, shot back at those calling for rapid economic reopening, saying “my mother is not expendable.” sms/itBOEINGIPSOS||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-updates-donald-trump-declares-coronavirus-fight-close-to-end-but-cases-rise/story-MzvmqbMKD119Rw7SWEWN2L.html
25-03-2020||World||Can blood from coronavirus survivors treat the newly ill?||Hospitals are gearing up to test if a century-old treatment used to fight off flu and measles outbreaks in the days before vaccines, and tried more recently against SARS and Ebola, just might work for COVID-19, too: using blood donated from patients who’ve recovered.Doctors in China attempted the first COVID-19 treatments using what the history books call “convalescent serum” -- today, known as donated plasma -- from survivors of the new virus.Now a network of U.S. hospitals is waiting on permission from the Food and Drug Administration to begin large studies of the infusions both as a possible treatment for the sick and as vaccine-like temporary protection for people at high risk of infection.There’s no guarantee it will work.“We won’t know until we do it, but the historical evidence is encouraging,” Dr. Arturo Casadevall of Johns Hopkins University’s school of public health told The Associated Press.Casadevall drew on that history in filing the FDA application. The FDA is “working expeditiously to facilitate the development and availability of convalescent plasma” a spokesman said.Here are some questions and answers about this latest quest for a treatment.WHAT EXACTLY IS THIS POSSIBLE THERAPY?It may sound like “back to the Stone Age,” but there’s good scientific reason to try using survivors’ blood, said Dr. Jeffrey Henderson of Washington University School of Medicine in St. Louis, who coauthored the FDA application with Casadevall and another colleague at the Mayo Clinic.When a person gets infected by a particular germ, the body starts making specially designed proteins called antibodies to fight the infection. After the person recovers, those antibodies float in survivors’ blood -- specifically plasma, the liquid part of blood — for months, even years.One of the planned studies would test if giving infusions of survivors’ antibody-rich plasma to newly ill COVID-19 patients would boost their own body’s attempts to fight off the virus. To see if it works, researchers would measure if the treatment gave patients a better chance of living or reduced the need for breathing machines.One caution: While regular plasma transfusions are a mainstay of medicine, very rarely they can cause a lung-damaging side effect.COULD IT ALSO ACT LIKE A VACCINE?Sort of, but unlike a vaccine, any protection would only be temporary.A vaccine trains people’s immune systems to make their own antibodies against a target germ. The plasma infusion approach would give people a temporary shot of someone else’s antibodies that are short-lived and require repeated doses.Still, if FDA agrees, a second study would give antibody-rich plasma infusions to certain people at high risk from repeated exposures to COVID-19, such as hospital workers or first responders, said Dr. Liise-anne Pirofski of New York’s Montefiore Health System and Albert Einstein College of Medicine. That also might include nursing homes when a resident becomes ill, in hopes of giving the other people in the home some protection, she said.“We need both things desperately,” Pirofski said. “We need to be able to break the cycle of transmission and we also need to be able to help people who are ill.”WHAT’S THE HISTORY?These plasma infusions were used most famously during the 1918 flu pandemic, and against numerous other infections, such as measles and bacterial pneumonia, before vaccines and modern medicines came along. Long-ago research is sketchy. But in the Journal of Clinical Investigation earlier this month, Casadevall and Pirofski cited evidence that 1918 flu patients given the infusions were less likely to die. And a 1935 medical report detailed how doctors stopped a measles outbreak from sweeping through a boarding school using “serum” from prior patients.The old-fashioned approach still is dusted off every so often to tackle surprise outbreaks such as SARS in 2002, and in 2014 when Ebola survivors’ plasma was used to treat other patients during the West Africa epidemic. Even during those recent outbreaks, strict studies of the technique were not done, but Casadevall said there were clues that the plasma helped.Casadevall thinks that when it didn’t work, it may have been used too late. “Somebody at the end of their lives, it’s very hard to affect” any disease at that point, he cautioned.A more modern approach is to brew this type of antibody in the lab, something Regeneron Pharmaceuticals and other companies are working on. Using blood from COVID-19 survivors is a decidedly more labor-intensive approach — but researchers could start banking the plasma as soon as regulators give the OK.HOW WOULD DOCTORS GET THE PLASMA?Blood banks take plasma donations much like they take donations of whole blood; regular plasma is used in hospitals and emergency rooms every day. If someone’s donating only plasma, their blood is drawn through a tube, the plasma is separated and the rest infused back into the donor’s body. Then that plasma is tested and purified to be sure it doesn’t harbor any blood-borne viruses and is safe to use.For COVID-19 research, the difference would be who does the donating -- people who have recovered from the coronavirus. Scientists would measure how many antibodies are in a unit of donated plasma — tests just now being developed that aren’t available to the general public — as they figure out what’s a good dose, and how often a survivor could donate.Researchers aren’t worried about finding volunteer donors but caution it will take some time to build up a stock.“I get multiple emails a day from people saying, ‘Can I help, can I give my plasma?’” Pirofski said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/can-blood-from-coronavirus-survivors-treat-the-newly-ill/story-S60dIGc7CwzdnMZLFHo3eM.html
25-03-2020||World||Hantavirus kills man in China, 32 co-passengers in bus being tested||A person from south China’s Yunnan province died of hantavirus infection, or the hantavirus pulmonary syndrome (HPS) while on his way to eastern China’s Shandong province, the tabloid Global Times reported in a tweet on Monday.“He was tested positive for hantavirus. Other 32 people on the bus were tested,” the GT tweet said without elaborating.According to the World Health Organisation, HPS is a zoonotic (which could spread from animals to human) viral respiratory disease, which could spread from rodents.The disease symptoms are headache, dizziness, chills fever, muscle pain, and stomach problems, such as nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, and abdominal pain, followed by sudden onset of respiratory distress and low blood pressure.Also Watch l How COVID-19 is different from & deadlier than SARS: Dr. Naresh Trehan explains “The infection (in humans) is acquired primarily through inhalation of aerosols or contact with infected rodent excreta, droppings, or saliva of infected rodents,” the WHO said in a report on the spread of the disease in Argentina in 2018.“Cases of human hantavirus infection usually occur in rural areas (e.g. forests, fields, and farms) where sylvatic rodents hosting the virus might be found and where persons may be exposed to the virus,” the WHO report said.According to the WHO, between 2013 and 2018, 114 confirmed deaths from hantavirus were reported in Argentina, with a case-fatality rate of 18.6%, though this figure was close to “...40% for some provinces in the southern region of the country.”According to the United States’ Centres for Disease Control and Prevention, hantaviruses are a family of viruses spread mainly by rodents and can cause varied disease syndromes in people worldwide. Infection with any hantavirus can produce hantavirus disease in people. Hantaviruses in the Americas are known as “New World” hantaviruses while other hantavirus, mostly in Europe and Asia, are known as “Old World” hantaviruses.Mumbai had reported one death linked to the hantavirus infection in 2016 when a 12-year-old died. Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation had then linked the death to the lung infection caused by viruses in the saliva, urine, and droppings of rodents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hantavirus-kills-man-in-china-32-co-passengers-in-bus-being-tested/story-mEnTTxgCifuuHT2ijJaoEJ.html
