29-03-2020||World||Covid-19 update: Brazil court orders government to stop advising against coronavirus isolation||A federal court in Rio de Janeiro on Saturday banned the government from disseminating propaganda against confinement measures aimed at controlling the coronavirus pandemic.On Thursday night, President Jair Bolsonaro shared a video on Facebook showing a caravan of vehicles celebrating the reopening of businesses and schools in the southern state of Santa Catarina.His son and senator Flavio Bolsonaro also shared on Facebook a government campaign with the slogan: “Brazil cannot stop.”That provoked the attorney general’s office to petition the federal court to stop that campaign.The campaign video encourages people not to stop their normal lives, despite health ministry figures claiming that COVID-19 has claimed almost 100 lives and affected close to 3,500 people in Brazil.The court also ordered people linked to the government to “stop sharing or fomenting the spread of information that is not strictly founded on scientific evidence.”Judge Laura Bastos Carvalho gave the government 24 hours to publish an official statement explaining that its “Brazil cannot stop” campaign does not adhere to scientific criteria and therefore cannot be followed.It was the second court blow for Bolsonaro in as many days.On Friday, Rio’s federal court blocked a decree by the president that exempted places of worship from coronavirus confinement orders.“Churches and other places of worship lead to large crowds and the movement of people,” wrote Judge Marcio Santoro Rocha of the Duque de Caxias court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-update-brazil-court-orders-government-to-stop-advising-against-coronavirus-isolation/story-Y0xDxttQHEocLwptMXXmvO.html
29-03-2020||World||Age is not the only risk for severe coronavirus disease||Older people remain most at risk of dying as the new coronavirus continues its rampage around the globe, but they’re far from the only ones vulnerable. One of many mysteries: Men seem to be faring worse than women.And as cases skyrocket in the U.S. and Europe, it’s becoming more clear that how healthy you were before the pandemic began plays a key role in how you fare regardless of how old you are.The majority of people who get COVID-19 have mild or moderate symptoms. But “majority” doesn’t mean “all,” and that raises an important question: Who should worry most that they’ll be among the seriously ill? While it will be months before scientists have enough data to say for sure who is most at risk and why, preliminary numbers from early cases around the world are starting to offer hints.NOT JUST THE OLD WHO GET SICKSenior citizens undoubtedly are the hardest hit by COVID-19. In China, 80% of deaths were among people in their 60s or older, and that general trend is playing out elsewhere.The graying of the population means some countries face particular risk. Italy has the world’s second oldest population after Japan. While death rates fluctuate wildly early in an outbreak, Italy has reported more than 80% of deaths so far were among those 70 or older.But, “the idea that this is purely a disease that causes death in older people we need to be very, very careful with,” Dr. Mike Ryan, the World Health Organization’s emergencies chief, warned.As much as 10% to 15% of people under 50 have moderate to severe infection, he said Friday.Even if they survive, the middle-aged can spend weeks in the hospital. In France, more than half of the first 300 people admitted to intensive care units were under 60.“Young people are not invincible,” WHO’s Maria Van Kerkhove added, saying more information is needed about the disease in all age groups.Italy reported that a quarter of its cases so far were among people ages 19 to 50. In Spain, a third are under age 44. In the U.S., the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s first snapshot of cases found 29% were ages 20 to 44.Then there’s the puzzle of children, who have made up a small fraction of the world’s case counts to date. But while most appear only mildly ill, in the journal Pediatrics researchers traced 2,100 infected children in China and noted one death, a 14-year-old, and that nearly 6% were seriously ill.Another question is what role kids have in spreading the virus: “There is an urgent need for further investigation of the role children have in the chain of transmission,” researchers at Canada’s Dalhousie University wrote in The Lancet Infectious Diseases.THE RISKIEST HEALTH CONDITIONSPut aside age: Underlying health plays a big role. In China, 40% of people who required critical care had other chronic health problems. And there, deaths were highest among people who had heart disease, diabetes or chronic lung diseases before they got COVID-19.Preexisting health problems also can increase risk of infection, such as people who have weak immune systems including from cancer treatment.Other countries now are seeing how pre-pandemic health plays a role, and more such threats are likely to be discovered. Italy reported that of the first nine people younger than 40 who died of COVID-19, seven were confirmed to have “grave pathologies” such as heart disease.The more health problems, the worse they fare. Italy also reports about half of people who died with COVID-19 had three or more underlying conditions, while just 2% of deaths were in people with no preexisting ailments.Heart disease is a very broad term, but so far it looks like those most at risk have significant cardiovascular diseases such as congestive heart failure or severely stiffened and clogged arteries, said Dr. Trish Perl, infectious disease chief at UT Southwestern Medical Center.Any sort of infection tends to make diabetes harder to control, but it’s not clear why diabetics appear to be at particular risk with COVID-19.Risks in the less healthy may have something to do with how they hold up if their immune systems overreact to the virus. Patients who die often seemed to have been improving after a week or so only to suddenly deteriorate — experiencing organ-damaging inflammation.As for preexisting lung problems, “this is really happening in people who have less lung capacity,” Perl said, because of diseases such as COPD -- chronic obstructive pulmonary disease -- or cystic fibrosis.Asthma also is on the worry list. No one really knows about the risk from very mild asthma, although even routine respiratory infections often leave patients using their inhalers more often and they’ll need monitoring with COVID-19, she said. What about a prior bout of pneumonia? Unless it was severe enough to put you on a ventilator, that alone shouldn’t have caused any significant lingering damage, she said.THE GENDER MYSTERYPerhaps the gender imbalance shouldn’t be a surprise: During previous outbreaks of SARS and MERS -- cousins to COVID-19 -- scientists noticed men seemed more susceptible than women.This time around, slightly more than half the COVID-19 deaths in China were among men. Other parts of Asia saw similar numbers. Then Europe, too, spotted what Dr. Deborah Birx, the White House coronavirus coordinator, labeled a concerning trend.In Italy, where men so far make up 58% of infections, male deaths are outpacing female deaths and the increased risk starts at age 50, according to a report from Italy’s COVID-19 surveillance group.The U.S. CDC hasn’t yet released details. But one report about the first nearly 200 British patients admitted to critical care found about two-thirds were male.One suspect: Globally, men are more likely to have smoked more heavily and for longer periods than women. The European Center for Disease Prevention and Control is urging research into smoking’s connection to COVID-19.Hormones may play a role, too. In 2017, University of Iowa researchers infected mice with SARS and, just like had happened in people, males were more likely to die. Estrogen seemed protective — when their ovaries were removed, deaths among female mice jumped, the team reported in the Journal of Immunology.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/age-is-not-the-only-risk-for-severe-coronavirus-disease/story-GjraNF0biG5YbqHBQcIMyO.html
29-03-2020||World||US could face 200,000 coronavirus deaths, millions of cases, Fauci warns||US deaths from coronavirus could reach 200,000 with millions of cases, the government’s top infectious diseases expert warned on Sunday as New York, New Orleans and other major cities pleaded for more medical supplies.Dr. Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, estimated in an interview with CNN that the pandemic could cause between 100,000 and 200,000 deaths in the United States.Since 2010, the flu has killed between 12,000 and 61,000 Americans a year, according to the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The 1918-19 flu pandemic killed 675,000 in the United States, according to the CDC https://www.cdc.gov/flu/pandemic-resources/1918-commemoration/pandemic-preparedness.htm.The US coronavirus death toll topped 2,300 on Sunday, after deaths on Saturday more than doubled from the level two days prior. The United States has now recorded more than 130,000 cases of COVID-19, the disease caused by the virus, the most of any country in the world.Jason Brown, who was laid off from his job in digital media due to the pandemic, said Fauci’s estimate was scary.“I feel like it’s just growing, growing, growing,” said Brown, who is 27 and lives in Los Angeles, one of the epicenters of the outbreak. “There’s no vaccine. It seems like a lot of people don’t take it seriously in the US so it makes me believe that this would become more drastic and drastic.”Erika Andrade, a teacher who lives in Trumbull, Connecticut, said she was already expecting widespread deaths from the virus before Fauci’s estimate on Sunday.“I wasn’t surprised that he said the numbers were coming. They were lower than what I actually expected,” said Andrade, 49. “I’m worried for my mother. I’m worried for the people I love.”New York state reported nearly 60,000 cases and a total of 965 deaths on Sunday, up 237 in the past 24 hours with one person dying in the state every six minutes. The number of patients hospitalized is slowing, doubling every six days instead of every four, Governor Andrew Cuomo said.One bright spot on Sunday was Florida reporting about 200 more cases but no new deaths, with its toll staying at 56.President Donald Trump has talked about reopening the country by Easter Sunday, April 12, despite many states such as New York ordering residents to stay home past that date. On Saturday, he seemed to play down those expectations, saying only “We’ll see what happens.”Tests to track the disease’s progress also remain in short supply, despite repeated White House promises that they would be widely available.Trump is due to hold a news conference at 5 p.m. ET (2100 GMT).VENTILATOR SHORTAGEMichigan Governor Gretchen Whitmer, whose state has become one the fastest growing areas for the virus, especially in the county that includes Detroit, called the rapid spread “gut-wrenching.”“We have nurses wearing the same mask from the beginning of their shift until the end, masks that are supposed to for one patient at one point in your shift. We need some assistance and we’re going to need thousands of ventilators,” Whitmer told CNN.New York City will need hundreds more ventilators in a few days and more masks, gowns and other supplies by April 5, Mayor Bill de Blasio told CNN on Sunday.New Orleans will run out of ventilators around April 4 and officials in Louisiana still do not know whether they will receive any ventilators from the national stockpile, the governor said.Louisiana has tried to order 12,000 ventilators from commercial vendors and has received 192, Governor John Bel Edwards said on CBS’ “Face the Nation.”“We haven’t yet been approved for ventilators out of the national stockpile. I continue to press that case and I hope we will be cut in for a slice of what they have left,” Edwards said. “It is the one thing that really keeps me up at night.”Doctors are also especially concerned about a shortage of ventilators, breathing machines needed by many of those suffering from the pneumonia-like respiratory ailment.Dr. Arabia Mollette, an emergency medicine physician at Brookdale and St. Barnabas Hospital in the Bronx, has started praying during the cab ride to work in the morning before she enters what she describes as a “medical warzone.” At the end of her shift, which often runs much longer than the scheduled 12 hours, she sometimes cannot hold back tears.“We’re trying to keep our heads above water without drowning,” Mollette said. “We are scared. We’re trying to fight for everyone else’s life, but we also fight for our lives as well.”(Reporting by Sarah N. Lynch, Doina Chiacu and Chris Sanders in Washington, Karen Freifeld in New York, Tom Polansek in Chicago and Dan Trotta; Writing by Lisa Shumaker; Editing by Daniel Wallis)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-could-face-200-000-coronavirus-deaths-millions-of-cases-fauci-warns/story-yXqccimF3tuygvuaph0YrN.html
29-03-2020||World||Covid-19 update: Indian mission in UK refutes claims of evacuation flights||The Indian high commission on Sunday refuted claims in several social media groups that Air India will evacuate stranded Indians in the UK in early April, reiterating that the travel ban imposed by New Delhi will last at least until April 14.Many Indians on business and other categories of UK visa are unable to return home. The Boris Johnson government has extended until May 31 the visa period of Indians whose visa has expired or is due to expire due to the situation created by the coronavirus pandemic.Click here for the latest updates on the coronavirus pandemicThe mission tweeted: “High Commission notes with dismay that some rumours are being spread even in such trying times. We request all not to pay attention to rumours. Stay connected with us for updates”.The mission and officials received a large number of calls on its emergency number and personal numbers in recent days about the purported evacuation. Officials insisted that “there is no such plan”, and urged journalists and others to dispel such rumours.Click here for a complete coverage of the coronavirus pandemicSome of those stranded pointed out that New Delhi had evacuated Indians from Rome and other places, and appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to arrange similar flights from the UK. They would rather be in India and face the virus situation than in the UK, they said.The mission referred inquiring Indians to a list of frequently asked questions it uploaded on March 27, asking those affected to remain in touch for updates. It has also provided assistance to those needing accommodation and food.“These are trying times. The world is in uncharted waters. We can come out of this challenge only if we act responsibly and help each other…Indians citizens in the UK should adhere to the advice of the NHS and Public Health England for their safety and well-being”, the mission said.Besides the mission, diaspora and student groups such as the National Indian Students and Alumni Union UK and the Indian National Students Association have been providing assistance to the stranded Indians.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-update-indian-mission-in-uk-refutes-claims-of-evacuation-flights/story-ULgba2IYqbC6cpuK8R2noO.html
29-03-2020||World||Coronavirus update: Spain, Italy demand EU help; New Yorkers avoid travel||Spain and Italy demanded more European help as they fight still-surging coronavirus infections amid the continent’s worst crisis since World War II. In the U.S., authorities urged millions in the hard-hit New York City region to stop traveling to keep the virus contained.From Milan to Madrid to Michigan, medics are making tough choices about which patients to save with the limited breathing machines they have. The confirmed global death surpassed 30,000 and new virus epicenters emerged in key U.S. cities like Detroit, New Orleans and Chicago. Even rural American has not been immune, as virus hotspots erupt in Midwestern towns and in Rocky Mountain ski havens.Spain and Italy alone account for more than half of the world’s death toll and are still seeing over 800 deaths a day each.Experts say, however, that virus toll numbers across the world are being seriously under-represented due to limited testing and political decisions about which bodies are being counted. Unlike the U.S., France still does not count deaths that take place in nursing homes or in homes among its virus numbers — even though nursing homes are known to be a key coronavirus hotspot around the world.‘’Europe must demonstrate that it is able to respond to this historic call,’’ Italian Premier Giuseppe Conte said late Saturday.The crisis “involves all of the economic and social systems of the member states,” he said. “I will fight until the last drop of sweat, until the last gram of energy, to obtain a strong, vigorous, cohesive European response.”President Donald Trump backtracked on a threat to quarantine New York and neighboring states amid criticism and questions about the legality of such a move. But the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention issued a travel advisory urging all residents of New York City and others in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut to avoid all non-essential travel for 14 days.Shocking as that is for Americans, that stopped short of the restrictions imposed in Europe or elsewhere. Parisians are fined if they try to leave the city and South Africans can’t even walk their dog or buy liquor. In Italy, coffins are piling up despite three weeks of strict confinement and burials are being held with only one family member.Spain’s government moved to tighten its lockdown and ban all non-essential work Sunday as it hit another daily record of 838 dead. The country’s overall official toll is nearly 6,000.Spain’s emergencies chief expressed hope that “the outbreak is stabilizing and may be reaching its peak in some areas.”But the crisis is pummeling world economies and putting huge strains on national health care systems. Spanish Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez called for a more vigorous response from the 27-nation European Union.“It is the most difficult moment for the EU since its foundation and it has to be ready to rise to the challenge,” Sanchez said.Spain, Italy, France and six other EU members have asked the union to share the burden of European debt, dubbed coronabonds in the media, to help fight the virus. But the idea has met resistance from other members, led by Germany and the Netherlands.European countries have also resisted sharing masks or other medical equipment with their neighbors for fear that they, too, will need them in mass quantities soon. Many countries have turned to China, where the outbreak is easing, flying in cargo planes to get masks and other protective medical equipment.Worldwide infections surpassed 660,000 mark, according to a tally by Johns Hopkins University. The United States leads the world with more than 120,000 reported cases but five other countries have higher death tolls: Italy, Spain, China, Iran and France.Italy has more than 10,000 deaths, the most of any country.Egypt shut its beaches as cases in the Mideast surpassed 50,000. Poland is considering delaying its May 10 presidential election, and Russian Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin ordered his country’s borders closed on Monday.Vietnam cut back domestic airline flights and closed restaurants and other businesses for two weeks. Vietnam has already quarantined nearly 60,000 people who entered from virus-infected nations.For most people, the coronavirus causes mild or moderate symptoms, such as fever and cough that clear up in two to three weeks. But for others, especially older adults and people with existing health problems, the virus can cause more severe illness, including pneumonia, and lead to death.More than 142,000 people have recovered, according to Johns Hopkins University.New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo said defeating the virus will take “weeks and weeks and weeks.”Health officials around the world have been urging people to keep a social distance of 2 meters (6 feet) from others to slow the spread of the virus but a new report from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology says that might not be enough.It says a sneeze or cough from an infected person can expel microscopic virus droplets as far as 7-8 meters (23-27 feet) and those droplets can be suspended in the air for hours. The researchers said they wanted to warn the public about “the distance, timescale and persistence over which this cloud and its pathological payload can travel.”In Detroit, which has a large low-income population, the death toll rose to 31 with 1,381 infections.“The trajectory of Detroit is unfortunately even more steep than that of New York,” said Dr. Teena Chopra, medical director of infection prevention and hospital epidemiology at the Detroit Medical Center.“This is off the charts,” she said. “We are seeing a lot of patients that are presenting to us with severe disease, rather than minor disease.”Some U.S. states began to try to limit exposure from visitors from harder-hit areas. Rhode Island National Guard troops were going door-to-door in coastal communities to find New Yorkers and warn them about a mandatory 14-day quarantine for them.Florida is setting up checkpoints to screen visitors from Louisiana. Chicago closed popular lakeshore parks after people ignored orders to stay home.As others tightened controls, China eased more restrictions following the ruling Communist Party’s declaration of victory over the coronavirus. Subway and bus service resumed Saturday in Wuhan, the city of 11 million people at the center of the outbreak. Restrictions that bar Wuhan residents from leaving Hubei province end April 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/coronavirus-update-spain-italy-demand-eu-help-new-yorkers-avoid-travel/story-2urMkTH4yiPZRrb9q7X9VM.html
29-03-2020||World||WHO says following Taiwan virus response closely, after complaints||The World Health Organization (WHO) is closely following the development of the coronavirus in Taiwan and is learning lessons from how they are fighting it, the body said on Sunday, after complaints from Taiwan it was being intentionally ignored.Taiwan is not a member of the WHO due to the objections of China, which claims the democratic and separately-ruled island as its own. Taiwan’s government has said that keeping it out of the WHO during the outbreak amounts to playing politics with Taiwanese lives. Both the WHO and China say Taiwan has been provided with the help it needs.Taiwan last week said the WHO ignored its questions at the start of the coronavirus outbreak, part of what it has long described as a pattern that puts it at risk because of Chinese pressure to exclude it from international bodies.Taiwan has reported 298 cases, far lower than many of its neighbours, and has won plaudits from health experts for its early response and measures to keep the numbers low.On Sunday, Taiwan Foreign Minister Joseph Wu tweeted a complaint to the WHO, following an interview WHO Assistant Director-General Bruce Aylward did with a Hong Kong reporter in which he declined to answer questions about Taiwan and whether it should be a WHO member.“Wow, can’t even utter ‘Taiwan’ in the WHO? You should set politics aside in dealing with a pandemic,” Wu wrote. In an emailed statement, the WHO said the question of Taiwan’s membership is up to member states not its own staff.“However, WHO is working closely with all health authorities who are facing the current coronavirus pandemic, including Taiwanese health experts,” it said. “The Taiwanese caseload is low relative to population. We continue to follow developments closely. WHO is taking lessons learned from all areas, including Taiwanese health authorities, to share best practises globally.”The WHO has been working with Taiwanese health experts and authorities during the virus outbreak “following established procedures to facilitate a fast and effective response and ensure connection and information flow”.Taiwan gets access to information under the International Health Regulations and two Taiwanese health experts took part in a WHO-organised forum last month along other scientists from around the world on how to tackle the coronavirus, it added.“WHO staff work around the world to respond to this pandemic with the best evidence-based guidance and operational support available for all people, based on public health needs.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-says-following-taiwan-virus-response-closely-after-complaints/story-a0rp9pUzuQEPeyfhUxt1hJ.html
29-03-2020||World||Irate Britons stuck in India demand repatriation amid coronavirus lockdown||The plight of many Indians stuck in the UK, unable to return home, is reflected in similar narratives from India, where Britons are facing problems in hotels and hospitals in Goa, Kerala, Punjab and other states.A petition calling on the Boris Johnson government to arrange repatriation flights to India quickly attracted nearly 30,000 signatures, as the issue is widely reported by British news media. The stranded Britons allege they have been ‘abandoned’ with ‘no help whatsoever’ from the UK government.Those stranded in India due to the curbs triggered by the coronavirus pandemic include many British citizens of Indian origin, who were visiting family or were on holiday. Councillor Brian Sangha from Kent is among many reportedly stuck in Punjab. The Foreign Office says it is working “around the clock” to support the Britons and help them return home, but recognised many found it difficult to return due to “unprecedented international travel and domestic restrictions”.Gravesham MP Adam Holloway said in a statement to his affected constituents in Kent: “We do appreciate that this is a time of great anxiety for those individuals and for those who have relatives stuck in India - particularly the elderly. I know of a 91-year-old resident who is stuck”.“Scenes of panic buying overnight and descriptions of the lockdown in India have been well documented by British news outlets. I do hope that those affected remain in good health, although I do note your point about medication which many of them require”.“With the ban on domestic travel in India too, it will undoubtedly be extremely challenging for international governments to negotiate with the Indian government although the UK government has indicated that they are actively doing so,” he addedSome Britons in Goa told British news outlets that they had been subjected to hostility from the local people and found it difficult to find hotels to stay and get medicines. Others reportedly confined in a Kerala hospital described difficult conditions.Jan Thompson, acting British high commissioner to India, tweeted on Friday: “India has extended the ban on international flights until 14 April. The UK government is in discussions with airlines & Government of India on various flight options. We are urgently working towards a solution”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/irate-britons-stuck-in-india-demand-repatriation-amid-coronavirus-lockdown/story-GfZvOSNykANGD2YTfmWIcM.html
29-03-2020||World||Princess Maria Teresa of Spain becomes first royal to die from COVID-19||Spanish Princess Maria Teresa of Bourbon-Parma has become the first royal to pass away due to coronavirus complications.According to Fox News, the 86-year-old was a cousin of Spain’s King Felipe VI. Her brother Prince Sixto Enrique de Borbon, the Duke of Aranjuez, announced on Facebook that she died after contracting COVID-19. The post reads, “On this afternoon... our sister Maria Teresa de Borbon Parma and Borbon Busset, a victim of the coronavirus COVID-19, died in Paris at the age of eighty-six.”Princess Teresa’s death comes weeks after King Felipe VI of Spain tested negative for the virus.According to People magazine, Born on July 28, 1933, Princess Maria Teresa studied in France and became a professor at Paris’ Sorbonne as well as a professor of Sociology at Madrid’s Complutense University.She was known for her outspoken views and activist work, which led to her nickname the “Red Princess.”A funeral service for the princess was held on Friday in Madrid.Meanwhile, Prince Charles became the first British royal to be tested positive for the coronavirus, earlier this week. The Clarence House confirmed the same to Fox News in a statement issued on Wednesday morning that reads, “The Prince of Wales has tested positive for Coronavirus. He has been displaying mild symptoms but otherwise remains in good health and has been working from home throughout the last few days as usual.”A Buckingham Palace spokesperson told Fox News, that Prince Charles’ mother, Queen Elizabeth II, remains in a healthy condition despite her son testing positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/princess-maria-teresa-of-spain-becomes-first-royal-to-die-from-covid-19/story-onyCw9uidGN4MmNdUm0T9K.html
29-03-2020||World||108-yr-old woman, who survived Spanish flu pandemic, becomes oldest in UK to die from coronavirus||A 108-year-old woman, who survived two world wars and the 1918 Spanish flu pandemic, has become the UK’s oldest coronavirus victim after she died within hours of testing positive for the deadly virus, according to a media report. Hilda Churchill, who was to celebrate her birthday on April 5, started showing mild symptoms of the virus on Tuesday, the Sun reported. She passed away on Saturday at her care home in Salford city - less than 24 hours after testing positive for COVID-19, the daily said.She is believed to be the oldest British victim of coronavirus, which has so far killed over 1,000 people in the UK and infected over 17,000.Her grandson Anthony Churchill said, “The most devastating thing is that we were not able to be there with her in her time of need, when she’s been with us through all of ours.” “It’s heartbreaking for us. Her birthday was just weeks away and we were all so excited.” Anthony said Hilda moved to Salford during the recession to find work as a seamstress after surviving the Spanish flu as a child.But the pandemic, which spread across the world in 1918 killing 50 million people, killed Hilda’s 12-month-old sister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/108-yr-old-woman-who-survived-spanish-flu-pandemic-becomes-oldest-in-uk-to-die-from-coronavirus/story-gJjhIZUERHlkWLoJ6P5p8H.html
29-03-2020||World||British govt ‘very concerned’ over coronavirus crisis, Wuhan eases travel curbs: Top global Covid-19 updates||According to the World Health Organisation, the coronavirus pandemic has infected nearly 600,000 people across the globe while over 26,000 people succumbed to death.The virus has badly battered the United States, which is rising as the new epicentre of the infection in the world. European nations like Italy, Spain, France and Germany are also struggling to contain the rising number of new cases and fatalities.Here are key Covid-19 developments from across the globe.1. The US leads with 121,478 Covid-19 cases followed by Italy, China and Spain.2. The death toll in America has crossed 2,000, doubling in three days. President Trump said he might impose a quarantine on New York, parts of New Jersey and Connecticut to protect other states.3. Italy’s death toll surges to 889 in 24 hours, highest since the beginning of the outbreak.4. New York City’s 911 emergency call system overwhelmed by calls from suspected Covid-19 patients5. Experts say lack of extensive testing and isolation may have led to exponentially high Covid 19 cases in NYC6. Brazil President Jair Bolsonaro says Brazilians natural immunity will protect them against Covid-19. He said protecting economy more important than social distancing7. Travel restrictions are being eased in Wuhan in China.8. A prominent US hospital in Houston has infused the blood of a patient, who has recovered from Covid-19, into a critically ill patient, becoming the first medical facility in the country to try the experimental therapy.9. The British government said it is “very concerned” following the latest figures which show more than 1,000 people had died after testing positive for coronavirus, senior minister Michael Gove said on Sunday.10. Sophie Gregoire-Trudeau, the wife of Canada’s Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, has recovered from novel coronavirus, she said Saturday. “I am feeling so much better and have received the all-clear from my physician and Ottawa Public Health,” she wrote on her Facebook page.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/british-govt-very-concerned-over-coronavirus-crisis-wuhan-eases-travel-curbs-top-global-covid-19-updates/story-8TKj8Bf6F54WWqLq18iHtJ.html
29-03-2020||World||For introverts, quarantine can be a liberation||Quarantine during a pandemic can be traumatic, it goes without saying. But like all difficult times, it’s not equally harrowing for everybody, and potentially even liberating for some. That includes many in the large minority of the population who happen to be introverts.The modern world in normal times — that is, without pandemics and quarantines — belongs indubitably to extroverts. In a buzzing economy, the outgoing salesperson is seen to be doing better than the reclusive boffin. In our open-plan offices, the butterfly who “brainstorms” in the pantry is regarded as a better team player than the taciturn steppenwolf punching at his keyboard. And so forth.But introverts have in recent years begun a campaign to change that narrative: not to seize power from the extroverts, mind you, but simply to be accepted as also having something valuable to offer. Because they do. The campaign started with a now classic essay by my former Economist colleague Jonathan Rauch. It continued with a bestseller and TED talk by the author Susan Cain.There’s a lot of confusion about what introversion and extroversion are. The definitions of these personality types, which originated in the work of Carl Jung, have nothing to do with being shy or being a leader (introverts may or may not be, just like anybody else). Instead, the difference lies in what, cognitively, somebody finds stimulating as opposed to exhausting.Extroverts need other people and their chitchat to get energy. When they’re alone they soon feel deflated or isolated. Solitude easily becomes loneliness.Introverts are the opposite. They’re drained by the random noise of small talk, fatigued by the fluid kinetics of a cocktail party, dazed by people speaking before they think in allegedly creative brainstorming sessions. To recharge their batteries, introverts need to be alone, or with a few people whom they know intimately. They like thinking, reading, tinkering or discussing something in depth. And good things can be found when going deep.Now what is the essence of quarantine? “Social distancing,” of course. To an extrovert, that’s an oxymoron. To an introvert, it’s the ideal state. To put it flippantly, it’s the near-complete cessation of small talk, and a rare opportunity to concentrate. Moreover, social distancing doesn’t necessarily mean disconnection, certainly not in the age of Zoom. But unlike an open-plan office, Zoom can be turned off. Introverts in quarantine are thus less likely than extroverts to feel deflated, isolated or bored, and more likely to be energized, perhaps welcoming the lack of distraction to go deep into, well, whatever. Solitude can make people creative.Take John Keats, one of England’s greatest poets. Apparently an introvert, he was already sick from tuberculosis in 1820 at the age of 24, when during a trip to Naples typhoid broke out. Keats was quarantined on a boat offshore for 10 days. He spent the time writing moving letters and a memoir of his childhood.Or consider another introvert, Isaac Newton (who later in life rarely mingled with students, or anybody). He was at Cambridge University when, in 1665-66, the bubonic plague broke out. Like schools and universities today, Cambridge closed and sent its students home. Newton was stuck on his family estate in rural Lincolnshire.Except that “stuck” isn’t the word. “Liberated” seems more like it. Young Newton spent endless hours alone in nature, in pensive absorption. Once he saw an apple fall from a tree, and realized that it responded to the same force as the moon orbiting the earth, which led him to a theory of gravity. He also observed light in its many colors and began thinking about optics. And he applied his logic to nature in a way that led him to pioneer calculus. What was actually a quarantine historians now call Newton’s annus mirabilis, or miracle year.Mind you, I’m not planning to discover new branches of physics or math in this anxious time of Covid-19. Being introverted, unfortunately, doesn’t also mean being a genius. Nonetheless, I suspect that during these lockdowns across the world, there’s an introvert here and there who’s right now applying her undivided attention, creativity and productivity to composing a symphony, conceiving an algorithm, painting a canvas or writing a book. Or simply spending uninterrupted time with a child or spouse.Better yet, extroverts can be doing the same thing, for as Jung always emphasized, nobody is purely one type or the other. At some point — the sooner the better — the coronavirus will recede, leaving all of us, introverts and extroverts, in peace again to mingle. Until then, we might as well assume that something good may yet come out of this time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/for-introverts-quarantine-can-be-a-liberation/story-y2nk3ccPObpdsF8dL3g3zK.html
29-03-2020||World||Canadian PM Justin Trudeau’s wife has recovered from coronavirus||Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau’s wife said Saturday that she has recovered from being ill from COVID-19 disease caused by the new coronavirus.“I am feeling so much better,” Sophie Gregoire Trudeau said in a statement on social media. She said she received the clearance from her doctor and Ottawa Public Health.Trudeau’s office announced on March 12 that she had tested positive for the coronavirus after she fell ill upon returning from a trip to London.The prime minister and his family have been in self isolation at home since then. He and their three children didn’t show symptoms.Justin Trudeau has been giving daily news conferences outside his residence. He said earlier Saturday that his wife was in in fine form.“From the bottom of my heart, I want to say thank you to everyone who reached out to me with their well wishes. And to everyone who is suffering right now, I send you all my love,” she said.The prime minister suggested Saturday that he would continue to work from home to set an example for Canadians who are being asked to stay at home.Ontario, Canada’s most populous province, meanwhile, said Saturday that it is prohibiting gatherings of five people or more. The order was effective immediately and replaced one that prohibited public events of over 50 people. It does not apply to households with five or more people, and funerals will be permitted with up to 10 people at one time.Ontario Premier Doug Ford said if the virus is to be stopped, extraordinary measures are needed to ensure physical distancing. The province has already closed all nonessential services.Quebec announced police checkpoints in eight regions outside the province’s major cities where the population is deemed more at risk. Quebec Deputy Premier Genevieve Guilbault said that only essential travel will be allowed in those areas and that provincial police have also set up checkpoints near the Canada-U.S. border to intercept snowbirds coming back to Quebec to ensure they understand there is a 14-day quarantine.Canada has more than 5,616 confirmed coronavirus cases, including 61 deaths. About 445 people have recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/canadian-pm-justin-trudeau-s-wife-has-recovered-from-coronavirus/story-ymXIzCxpyrVRLTaCaAIVvN.html
29-03-2020||World||North Korea fires more missiles than ever amid coronavirus outbreak||North Korea fired what appeared to be two short-range ballistic missiles into the ocean off its east coast on Sunday, the latest in an unprecedented flurry of launches that South Korea decried as “inappropriate” amid the global coronavirus pandemic. Two “short-range projectiles” were launched from the coastal Wonsan area, and flew 230 kilometres (143 miles) at a maximum altitude of 30 kilometres (19 miles), South Korea’s Joint Chiefs of Staff reported.“In a situation where the entire world is experiencing difficulties due to COVID-19, this kind of military act by North Korea is very inappropriate and we call for an immediate halt,” South Korea’s JCS said in a statement, according to Yonhap news agency. Japan’s Ministry of Defense said they appeared to be ballistic missiles, and they did not land in Japanese territory or its exclusive economic zone. They would be the eighth and ninth missiles launched in four rounds of tests this month as North Korean troops conduct ongoing military drills, usually personally overseen by leader Kim Jong Un.That would be the most missiles ever fired in a single month by North Korea, according to a tally by Shea Cotton, senior researcher at the James Martin Center for Nonproliferation Studies.“Coming this early in the year, the only time we’ve seen tests this frequently were in 2016 and 2017, both of which were huge years for North Korea’s missile program,” he said in a post on Twitter.All of the missiles fired so far this year have been small, short-range weapons, such as the KN-24 fired during the last launch on March 21. But Kim has warned that North Korea is developing a new “strategic weapon” to be unveiled this year, with analysts speculating that it could be a new long-range ballistic missile, or a submarine capable of launching such missiles.United Nations Security Council resolutions bar North Korea from testing ballistic missiles, and the country has been heavily sanctioned over its missile and nuclear weapons programmes.MILITARY DRILLS CONTINUEThis month’s military drills have been conducted despite a border lockdown and quarantine measures imposed in North Korea in an effort to prevent an outbreak of the new coronavirus.South Korea and the United States have postponed some of their joint military exercises because of the coronavirus outbreak in South Korea.Politically and economically isolated, North Korea has not reported any confirmed cases, though some foreign experts have expressed doubts.In the past, North Korea has typically conducted military drills, including tests of its ballistic missiles, in March as the wintry weather turns warmer. For the previous two years, however, it had avoided such springtime launches amid denuclearisation talks with the United States.Those talks have since stalled, and this year’s string of tests and military drills appear aimed at underscoring North Korea’s return to a more hard-line policy, said Ankit Panda, a senior fellow at the Washington-based Federation of American Scientists.“There is an element of projecting a business-as-usual image amid the COVID-19 situation, but I think it’s not overriding,” he said. “These tests do allow Kim Jong Un to show that he’s sticking to the hard-line policy he laid out in December 2019.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/north-korea-fires-more-missiles-than-ever-amid-coronavirus-outbreak/story-yalgcXhG2BM3SuxQqyWDZO.html
29-03-2020||World||Canadian PM Justin Trudeau to remain in self-isolation even after wife recovers from Covid-19||Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau’s wife Sophie Gregoire is now officially in the clear after undergoing treatment for COVID-19 for the last two weeks. However, Trudeau will remain in self-isolation despite the end of the 14-day quarantine period dictated by his wife testing positive for COVID-19.That period ended on Friday, but Trudeau said he and his family plan on remaining at home while his wife is “feeling great.” In a social media post later in the evening, his wife announced, “I am feeling so much better and have received the all clear from my physician and Ottawa Public Health.”She was diagnosed on March 12 and since then there has been a spate of positive cases, and she had words of empathy for other suffering from the virus: “And to everyone who is suffering right now, I send you all my love.” She contracted the illness after attending a WE Day event in London on March 4.Addressing the media from Rideau Cottage in Ottawa, the Canadian capital, where the family remains, Trudeau said, “Sophie is feeling great. My family is doing well. My kids and myself — we’re all doing well.”“We continue to follow the direct advice of health professionals on what next steps are. We’ve asked people to stay at home and work from home as much as possible, not go out if they shouldn’t, don’t have to. And that certainly is something that we’re doing and encouraging everyone to do,” he added.Trudeau also announced a series of additional measures related to the efforts at combating the spread of the disease in Canada. These include a travel ban by air or rail for any person exhibiting symptoms of COVID-19. That measure will come into force on Monday and Transport Canada will bar such persons from travelling within the country for a period of 14 days or till they provide a medical certificate clearing them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/coronavirus-update-canadian-prime-minister-justin-trudeau-to-remain-in-self-isolation-after-ending-14-day-quarantine/story-mSDvlLHPOTjxgO4gukkqhL.html
29-03-2020||World||No quarantine, but strong travel advisory to be issued, says Prez Donald Trump||President Donald Trump backed away from calling for a quarantine for coronavirus hotspots in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut, instead directing Saturday night that a “strong Travel Advisory” be issued to stem the spread of the outbreak.Vice President Mike Pence tweeted that the CDC was urging residents of the three states “to refrain from non-essential travel for the next 14 days.”The notion of a quarantine had been advocated by governors, including Republican Gov. Ron DeSantis of Florida, who sought to halt travelers from the heavily affected areas to their states. But it drew swift criticism from the leaders of the states in question, who warned it would spark panic in a populace already suffering under the virus.Trump announced he reached the decision after consulting with the White House task force leading the federal response and the governors of the three states. He said he had directed the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention “to issue a strong Travel Advisory, to be administered by the Governors, in consultation with the Federal Government.”He added: “A quarantine will not be necessary.”New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo, who has criticized the federal government’s response as his state became the country’s virus epicenter, said roping off states would amount to “a federal declaration of war.” Cuomo said the prospect of a quarantine didn’t come up when he spoke with Trump earlier Saturday, adding that he believed it would be illegal, economically catastrophic, “preposterous” and shortsighted when other parts of the U.S. are seeing cases rise, too.“If you start walling off areas all across the country, it would be totally bizarre, counterproductive, anti-American, anti-social,” Cuomo told CNN. He added that locking down the nation’s financial capital would shock the stock market and “paralyze the economy” at a time when Trump has indicated he’s itching to get the economy back on track.Trump made his initial remarks while on a trip to Norfolk, Virginia, to see off a U.S. Navy hospital ship heading to New York City to help with the pandemic. At the event, he spoke to a sparse crowd at the naval base and cautioned Americans to take virus protections, even though he himself, at 73, is in a high-risk category and among those who have been advised to refrain from all non-essential travel.The federal government is empowered to take measures to prevent the spread of communicable diseases between states, but it’s not clear that means Trump can ban people from leaving their state. It has never been tested in the modern era — and in rare cases when any quarantine was challenged, the courts generally sided with public health officials.Courts have ruled consistently for years that the authority to order quarantines inside states rests almost entirely with the states, under provisions in the Constitution ceding power not explicitly delegated to the federal government to states. The federal government, though, would have power under constitutional clauses regulating commerce to quarantine international travelers or those traveling state to state who might be carriers of deadly diseases.Still, “it is entirely unprecedented that governors or the president would prevent people from traveling from one state to another during an infectious disease outbreak,” said Lawrence Gostin, a Georgetown University law professor and public health specialist who questioned Trump’s ability to order a quarantine on states.But as Trump traveled to Norfolk, he tweeted: “I am giving consideration to a QUARANTINE of developing “hot spots”, New York, New Jersey, and Connecticut. A decision will be made, one way or another, shortly.”“A lot of the states that are infected but don’t have a big problem, they’ve asked me if I’ll look at it, so we’re going to look at it,” Trump said.When asked about legal authority for quarantine, the incoming White House chief of staff, Mark Meadows, said officials are “evaluating all the options right now.”Administration officials were discussing less-stringent measures as well. One idea under consideration would be to tell residents of the hard-hit areas to isolate themselves and not travel for two weeks, just as the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has instructed anyone who recently left New York to self-quarantine for 14 days, according to one person familiar with the negotiations who spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss ongoing deliberations.The measure wouldn’t necessarily come with any legal force or penalty, just the hope that people would comply in an effort to try to contain the virus spread.The governors of Florida, Maryland, South Carolina and Texas already have ordered people arriving from the New York area to self-quarantine for at least 14 days upon arrival. In a more dramatic step, Rhode Island police have begun pulling over drivers with New York plates so that the National Guard can collect contact information and inform them of a mandatory, 14-day quarantine.Trump said the idea of isolating many in the trio of Democratic strongholds in the Northeast was pushed by DeSantis, one of the president’s most outspoken supporters. It came a day after Trump made clear he wanted governors to be grateful when asking for federal support for the pandemic.Trump said people “go to Florida and a lot of people don’t want that. So we’ll see what happens.” He later clarified it would not affect truckers or people transiting through, and would not affect trade.Florida is a perennial swing state, and one Trump must win come November — plus he recently moved his residence from New York to Florida. It also has a population of 21 million with a large percentage of old people, who are particularly vulnerable to the virus.DeSantis confirmed he had spoken with the president about the possibility of a quarantine for the New York City area. Speaking Saturday to reporters, DeSantis said Florida will soon set up a checkpoint along Interstate 95 to screen travelers from that area, similar to one already in place along Interstate 10 to screen people from Louisiana. Many airports in Florida also are screening travelers from certain areas, requiring them to self-isolate for 14 days.The U.S. leads the world in reported cases with more than 121,000. There were roughly 2,000 deaths recorded by Saturday night, according to John Hopkins University.New Jersey Gov. Phil Murphy, a Democrat, said he did not talk about quarantining the tri-state area in his recent conversation with Trump, and learned of the president’s comments as he walked into Saturday’s daily briefing.“Until further notified we’re going to keep doing exactly what we’re doing, because we believe the data and the facts are on our side in terms of this aggressive, as aggressive as any American state right now, in terms of social distancing and flattening the curve,” he said.Connecticut Gov. Ned Lamont, also a Democrat, said at a news conference that Trump’s words about a quarantine have created a “certain amount of confusion” and that “confusion can lead to panic.” He said such a quarantine order would be “impossible to enforce given the spider web of roads” and that he hoped the White House would clarify what it wants.After speaking in Norfolk, Trump watched as the USS Comfort slowly made its way out of port. The 1,000-bed hospital ship had been undergoing planned maintenance, but was rushed back into service to aid the city.It is scheduled to arrive Monday at a Manhattan pier days after its sister ship, the USNS Mercy, arrived in Los Angeles to perform a similar duty on the West Coast.For most people, the new coronavirus causes mild or moderate symptoms, such as fever and cough that clear up in two to three weeks. For some, especially older adults and people with existing health problems, it can cause more severe illness, including pneumonia, or death. The vast majority of people recover.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/no-quarantine-but-strong-travel-advisory-to-be-issued-says-prez-donald-trump/story-whFIneWMcO9QmmT0cRFoCN.html
29-03-2020||World||At home with coronavirus, British Prime Minister Boris Johnson writes to the nation||British Prime Minister Boris Johnson, who is self-isolating at 10 Downing Street after testing positive for coronavirus, will write to every UK household to urge people to stay at home.Johnson, who has described his symptoms as mild, is leading the government’s response to the crisis, chairing meetings by video conference. The health minister, Matt Hancock, has also tested positive and is working from home.“We know things will get worse before they get better,” Johnson will write in his letter, which will be sent to 30 million households across the United Kingdom starting from next week.“But we are making the right preparations, and the more we all follow the rules, the fewer lives will be lost and the sooner life can return to normal,” he will say, according to a statement from Downing Street.Also read: After Prince Charles, PM Boris Johnson hit by coronavirusBritain has reported 17,089 confirmed cases of coronavirus and 1,019 deaths. The peak of the epidemic in the country is expected to come in a few weeks.After initially taking relatively modest steps compared with other European nations, Johnson ramped up his response to coronavirus in the past week, ordering pubs, cafes, restaurants and shops to close and making social distancing compulsory.In his letter, he will thank all those working for the state-funded National Health Service (NHS), which provides free healthcare to everyone living in the United Kingdom and inspires huge respect across society.“It has been truly inspirational to see our doctors, nurses and other carers rise magnificently to the needs of the hour,” Johnson will say.“Thousands of retired doctors and nurses are returning to the NHS – and hundreds of thousands of citizens are volunteering to help the most vulnerable.“That is why, at this moment of national emergency, I urge you, please, to stay at home, protect the NHS and save lives.”The letter will come with a leaflet containing the government’s advice on hand washing, rules on leaving the house, guidance for those self-isolating with symptoms or shielding vulnerable people, and explanations of symptoms.The letter and leaflet are part of the government’s public information campaign on coronavirus, and are expected to cost 5.8 million pounds ($7 million) to print and distribute.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/at-home-with-coronavirus-british-prime-minister-boris-johnson-writes-to-the-nation/story-Ql04N7N1y8ZJrZoQW6akKP.html
29-03-2020||World||UK death toll crosses 1,000; mega hospitals coming up||The death toll crossed 1,000 on Saturday with the latest figures showing 1,019 dead and 17,089 cases, as the coronavirus pandemic struck at the heart of the Boris Johnson government with another cabinet minister going into self isolation.The death toll rose by 260 in a single day from 759, and the number of cases by 2,546 from 14,543 on Friday. Alister Jack, secretary for Scotland in the Boris Johnson government, also announced his symptoms and self-isolation.Jack joins Prime Minister Johnson, health secretary Matt Hancock and chief medical officer of England Chris Whitty who revealed their affliction from the virus on Friday. Prince Charles tested positive on Monday and has since been in isolation in Scotland.Jack said: “In the past 24 hours, I have developed mild symptoms associated with coronavirus. In line with medical guidance, I am self-isolating and working from home”. Officials said he has not been tested for the virus.Anticipating a surge in the number of patients in the coming weeks, the government announced the conversion of at least three large conference and exhibition centres into hospitals, equipped to treat at least 4,000 patients each.The first of the three – the ExCel Centre near Canary Wharf in east London – will open next week. The other two sites are Birmingham’s National Exhibition Centre and Manchester Central Conference Centre – both spread over a large area, due to open in mid-April.“Further such hospitals will follow,” said Simon Stevens, head of the National Health Service in England. The ExCel Centre facility is called NHS Nightingale Hospital.Stevens said: “We have reconfigured hospital services so that 33,000 hospital beds are available to treat further coronavrius patients. It is also why we are taking the extraordinary action to build new hospitals in very short order, starting with the NHS Nightingale hospital.”Since the issue is not confined to London, he added: “I have given the go-ahead to the building of two further NHS Nightingale hospitals... with further such hospitals to follow.” He also announced immediate testing of health professionals after facing intense criticism over lack of such testing.“It is urgently important to test frontline staff who are off sick or are self-isolating. The number of tests carried out will be doubled by the end of next week compared to this week”, Stevens added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-death-toll-crosses-1-000-mega-hospitals-coming-up/story-aBNzQfPhMyffpJ8QdxcYiI.html
29-03-2020||World||Coronavirus-related deaths in US surge past 2,000: Report||Deaths from new coronavirus in the United States surged past 2,000 Saturday, doubling in just three days, according to a tally by Johns Hopkins University. The number of deaths late Saturday was 2,010, about a quarter of them in New York City, the country’s hardest hit region, Johns Hopkins reported. Confirmed cases in the United States topped 121,000, according to the tally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/coronavirus-related-deaths-in-us-surge-past-2-000-report/story-Iv4Lc6H8ATcZbiconFQpWM.html
29-03-2020||World||Coronavirus update: US hit hardest, New Orleans, Chicago suffer||The sum of known coronavirus cases in the US soared well past 100,000, with more than 1,800 dead, as weary doctors and nurses coping with shortages resorted to extremes ranging from hiding scarce medical supplies to buying them on the black market.New York remained the worst-hit US city, with governor Andrew Cuomo saying that the struggle to defeat the virus will take “weeks and weeks and weeks”. Americans braced for worsening conditions elsewhere, with worrisome infection numbers being reported in New Orleans, Chicago and Detroit.As shortages of key medical supplies abounded, desperate physicians and nurses were forced to take matters into their own hands. New York-area doctors said they have had to recycle some protective gear, or even resort to bootleg suppliers.An emergency room doctor in Michigan, an emerging epicentre of the pandemic, said he was wearing one paper face mask for an entire shift due to a shortage and that hospitals in the Detroit area would soon run out of ventilators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/coronavirus-update-us-hit-hardest-new-orleans-chicago-suffer/story-GGWWbDfMZAkkzlDsB2h1QJ.html
29-03-2020||World||Covid-19 update: Spike in Italy deaths pushes up Europe coronavirus toll||Italy’s coronavirus deaths surpassed 10,000 on Saturday even as the pandemic’s spread remained substantially stable. Europe’s hardest-hit country had 889 new fatalities in the last 24 hours, health authorities said, with a slight decline compared to Friday’s record. New cases rose marginally to 5,974, bringing the total count of patients in the country to 92,472.The government is set to extend its drastic containment measures until the middle of April and will more than double the amount of financial stimulus for the paralysed economy.Lombardy, the region around Milan which is at the epicentre of Italy’s outbreak, reported 542 deaths on Saturday and 2,117 new cases, according Lombardy’s top health official Giulio Gallera.The pandemic has killed more than 20,000 people in Europe, according to a tally of official figures gathered by AFP on Saturday. Europe is now the most affected continent with well more than 20,000 deaths from a total of over 337,000 cases. The deadly coronavirus outbreak has killed 9,134 in Italy and 5,690 in Spain - the two hardest-hit countries in the world, accounting for three quarters of all deaths across the European continent.Earlier on Saturday, Spain announced a record 832 deaths in just 24 hours, as officials said the epidemic appeared to be close to the peak. Although Spain’s latest figures showed a daily increase of more than 8,000 cases, raising the overall number to 72,248, the rate of new infections appeared to be slowing, with officials saying the epidemic could be nearing its peak. “The increase is slowing or stabilising little-by-little,” said Fernando Simon, the health ministry’s emergencies coordinator, indicating the figures were “very, very close” to peaking.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-update-spike-in-italy-deaths-pushes-up-europe-coronavirus-toll/story-QNPW9fAxmlEySCld5A4KQK.html
29-03-2020||World||Covid-19 update: US lab comes up with 5-minute coronavirus test kit||A US-based lab has unveiled a portable test that can tell if someone has Covid-19 in as little as five minutes, it said in a statement.Abbot Laboratories said the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) had given it emergency authoriSation to begin making the test available to healthcare providers as early as next week.The test, which is the size of a small toaster and uses molecular technology, also shows negative results within 13 minutes, the company said. “The Covid-19 pandemic will be fought on multiple fronts, and a portable molecular test that offers results in minutes adds to the broad range of diagnostic solutions needed to combat this virus,” said Abbot president Robert Ford. The test’s small size means it can be deployed outside the “traditional four walls of a hospital in outbreak hotspots,” Ford said, and Abbott is working with the FDA to send it to virus epicenters.The test has not been cleared or approved by the FDA, and has only been authorised for emergency use by approved labs and healthcare providers, the company said even as doctors and nurses on the front lines pleaded on Friday for more protective gear and equipment to treat waves of patients expected to overwhelm hospitals.Physicians have called particular attention to a desperate need for additional ventilators. Hospitals in New York City, New Orleans, Detroit and other virus hot spots have also sounded the alarm about scarcities of drugs, medical supplies and trained staff.“We are scared,” said Dr. Arabia Mollette of Brookdale University Hospital and Medical Center in Brooklyn. “We’re trying to fight for everyone else’s life, but we also fight for our lives as well, because we’re also at the highest risk of exposure.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-update-us-lab-comes-up-with-5-minute-coronavirus-test-kit/story-krdc9QJswnpqsBUu2TuMqJ.html
29-03-2020||World||Covid-19 update: US coronavirus cases top 100,000, Donald Trump considers quarantine for New Yorkers||The US on Friday became the first country to report 100,000 confirmed coronavirus cases as the number of infections globally crossed 600,000.With the crisis escalating, US President Donald Trump signed into law a $2.2 trillion emergency spending bill aimed at protecting American families and businesses from the economic hardships caused by the pandemic.Later, Trump said he’s considering an enforced quarantine for parts of New York and New Jersey to curb the outbreak.Trump told reporters he had spoken with New York governor Andrew Cuomo and Florida governor Ron Desantis.Also on Friday, Trump invoked the Korean War-era 1950 Defense Production Act to compel General Motors to ramp up production of ventilators desperately required to treat severely ill patients.The number of confirmed coronavirus cases continued to climb aggressively, finishing on Friday at 113,677 - up by well more than 20,000 over the previous day. The number of US deaths also kept rising, hitting 1,903 - about 500 more than Thursday. New York state drove the surge with at least 728 fatalities and over 52,318 confirmed cases. Other US states with high fatalities are Washington, New Jersey and California. “We didn’t choose it, but we are going to defeat it together because we’re going to work together,” Trump said of the emergency facing the country as he signed the stimulus package bill into law, flanked by top officials and Republican lawmakers.The $2.2 trillion relief package includes direct payments to a third of all Americans, ramped up unemployment benefits, and loans for small and large businesses hit by the outbreak.In Los Angeles, a giant US Navy hospital ship arrived in port on Friday, where it will be used to ease the strain on the city’s coronavirus-swamped emergency rooms.The USNS Mercy, which has docked in the LA port, will quickly become the city’s largest hospital with 1,000 beds.It will not receive coronavirus patients, but instead take patients with other conditions or injuries in order to free up facilities on land. The Mercy has 15-patient wards and blood bank capacity of 5,000 units.Governor Gavin Newsom, speaking at a joint press conference after touring the vessel with mayor Eric Garcetti, said the ship will play a key role as California braces for a surge in Covid-19 infections that could require 50,000 hospital beds statewide in the next six to 10 weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-update-us-coronavirus-cases-top-100-000-donald-trump-considers-quarantine-for-new-yorkers/story-yM6gbgUzxp90AFz5mhCUuK.html
