01-09-2020||West Bengal||Mirati mourns its tallest son, Pranab Mukherjee||Hundreds of villagers in Mirati village started gathering in the courtyard of Durga temple of the Mukherjee Bhavan on Monday evening after they learnt that their Kakababu, Mamababu or Poltuda was no more. Former President Pranab Mukherjee, a Bharat Ratna, was among the tallest political leaders in the country for decades. But he was an ordinary village boy for the people of Mirati, his ancestral village, around 220km from Calcutta. “This courtyard is the place where people used to come during Durga Puja and meet him.... Today, this same courtyard is full of people but they have come to bid him goodbye,” said Goutam Sarkar, a caretaker at Mukherjee Bhavan for over two decades. “I never saw him miss a single Durga Puja in Mirati during my stint here.... He rose so high in public life, but never forgot his roots. That’s why people love him,” said Sarkar. Like other years, the Mukherjee household had started preparations for the autumnal festival that pulled the famous son back to the village. Villagers that this correspondent spoke to on Monday evening recalled Mukherjee’s Chandipath session, the main draw of the Durga Puja festivities at Mukherjee Bhavan. Some villagers recounted stories of how Mukherjee would reach Mirati despite flooded roads or pressing political engagements and hold fort at the Puja from the evening of Saptami to Vijaya Dashami. “He was a strict disciplinarian, he fasted on Puja days...This year will be the first when he will not be present during Durga Puja,” said Rabi Chattaraj, a close aide of the Mukherjee family. These last three weeks, nerves were taut in Mirati as Mukherjee was fighting for his life. Chattaraj said that he and at least 100 other people organised pujas and yajnas for his speedy recovery. “We organised a seven-day yajna in Jubutia Shiva temple for our Mamababu,” sighed Jayanta Chakraborty, a priest in the temple. “I have such fond memories of him. When he became the President, several security curbs had to be in place, but he told the police that no one should be stopped from visiting his house.” “I have been attached with Pranabda since 1978 as a doctor and and party colleague. It is difficult to believe that he has left us,” said Sushovan Banerjee, a doctor in Bolpur and Padma Shri awardee. Apart from Durga Puja, Mukherjee visited the district on several occasions, including twice when he came to Visva-Bharati as President and a visitor of the central university. He also attended the convocation of the varsity in 2013. Prabhakar Bandopadhyay, a teacher and son of Mukherjee’s classmate, recalled his sharp memory. “After he became the President, his alma mater Kirnahar Shibchandra High School organised a felicitation. There, he asked me about my father’s health. He never forgot his classmates. I heard from my father that he was a very bright student and a born leader,” said Bandopadhyay, now a Bengali teacher at the same school where Mukherjee studied. Mukherjee had studied in Suri Vidyasagar College, which he visited in 2012 to attend a felicitation. “I met him in 1952 as an undergraduate student in Suri Vidyasagar College. I remember the days of student protests,” said Sasthi Kinkar Das, a classmate of Mukherjee who lives in Suri.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-392
01-09-2020||West Bengal||North Bengal starts plasma therapy for Covid-19 patients||North Bengal Medical College and Hospital (NBMCH) started its first plasma collection drive on Monday in Siliguri. With this, north Bengal started the process of plasma therapy to treat Covid-19 patients. “There are 15 donors on the first day of plasma collection. I am glad that so many people came forward for plasma donation,” said S. Punnambalam, the district magistrate of Darjeeling district. In Malda Medical College and Hospital (MMCH), too, officials along with employees of its blood bank will start awareness camps in villages of the district to get blood from people who have recently recovered from Covid-19. The move comes in the wake of assistant superintendent of the MMCH Dr Mohammed Ismail, who recovered from Covid-19 five weeks ago, donating blood in presence of hospital superintendent Dr Amit Dan on Monday. “There is a myth that a person would fall ill again if he donates blood after recovering from Covid. We have to junk such baseless beliefs. If a cured person donates blood, that plasma helps in treating other Covid patients,” Dr Dan said. To this end, MMCH will hold camps from Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-392
01-09-2020||West Bengal||BJP MP Raju Bista backs GTA workers’ union pen-down||The United Employees’ Union of Gorkhaland Territorial Administration’s pen-down strike from Tuesday to demand permanency of over 4,000 casual employees has received the support of Raju Bista, the BJP MP of Darjeeling. “I stand in solidarity and support with the thousands of GTA pay band and asthayi karmacharis, who are seeking permanency of their post. Nowhere else in West Bengal or rest of India, I have heard of a government body being run by temporary employees for over 30 years, other than in the Darjeeling and Kalimpong hills and Terai region,” Bista said in an official release on Monday. These employees, who form over 90 per cent of the GTA workforce, will continue their pen-down till September 10. Anil Rai, president of UEU (GTA), promised another round of agitation if the pen-down did not work out. The Darjeeling MP in his release pointed out the non-permanency of staff working for a government body since 1988. He also alleged that by not establishing subordinate and other selection boards since 2012, the TMC government ensured that “GTA remains non-functional” and educated youths were denied job opportunities. The state government needs to ensure that GTA workers are absorbed in the local administration with due seniority, full pay-scale and associated facilities at the earliest, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-392
01-09-2020||West Bengal||Kolaghat TMC youth leaders accuse area president of selling party office||Trinamul youth leaders in East Midnapore’s Kolaghat have accused an area committee president of the ruling party of selling off a party office, allegedly built on irrigation department land, at the tourist town’s Ganga More area. The youth leaders filed a formal complaint with the party’s block president Asit Bandopadhyay against area committee president Manab Kumar Samanta in connection with the alleged sale of the party office last week. Samanta, who is also a former panchayat samiti chief, countered that the office had been his “personal property”. Trinamul youth workers from Gokulnagar said that on Friday evening they found all party banners gone from the 1,000sqft one-storey office. On asking why, they were told that the building had been purchased by trader Sheikh Raja for Rs 8.3 lakh. “This office was built on irrigation department land two years ago. It was the party’s election office during the 2019 Lok Sabha elections and 2018 panchayat polls. Now, Samanta has sold it off as if it had been his personal property,” said youth leader Sayyad Aslam. Explaining that the office had been built with “contributions by party members”, Aslam added: “Samanta merely had the keys to the building. He has betrayed our trust.” Aslam said that several youth leaders had urged Bandopadhyay to take action against Samanta. Asked about the allegations, Samanta presented his version. “I have constructed this building. I may have allowed the party to use it, but it was always my property,” Samanta said, adding that he had transferred the property to Raja through a notarised agreement. Samanta said that “several private homes” had been constructed on irrigation department land in the past as well and that he was unaware “if rules against such constructions had changed recently”. Asked why the irrigation department did not take action against the Trinamul Congress for building a party office on land owned by them, executive engineer of the department Anirban Bhattacharya said he would inquire into the issue. Trinamul block president Bandopadhyay said on Monday that he had received the complaint from the party’s youth workers and an “inquiry committee” would look into the allegations. “A meeting will be convened next week on the issue. We are looking into the legal details regarding the property,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-393
01-09-2020||West Bengal||Rental cars too expensive for district JEE aspirants ||Hundreds of students from Bengal districts will be forced to skip the JEE Main exam scheduled from Tuesday, amid the fear of contracting the novel coronavirus coupled with lack of affordable transport options to respective exam centres. The Centre has fixed dates for JEE-Main from September 1 to 6 and the NEET (National Entrance-cum-Eligibility Test) on September 13 amid objections from many state governments, including Bengal, when state education minister Partha Chatterjee asked his Union counterpart Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank why he wanted to “jeopardise” the future of students by forcing them to write the JEE-Main and NEET exams during the pandemic. Sources said that around 1.5 lakh students from Bengal are set to sit for the JEE Main and NEET exams this year. But many students in districts are wary of sitting for the JEE Main exam. Asif Haque, an engineering aspirant who completed his higher secondary examination from Birbhum Zilla School, said on Monday that he and at least 12 of his friends had decided to skip the JEE Main exam as it was tough to arrange a private car for “hygienic transport” to the exam centre amid the pandemic. “We are afraid...Our exam centre is in Durgapur. Right now, it is tough to arrange a private car from Birbhum to Durgapur. I will try to sit for NEET on September 13,” Haque added. His father Riyajul Haque, a primary schoolteacher and resident of Birbhum’s Suri, said: “The government had to think about the future of our children. We had no communication on how the exam would be held till it was too late.” Dolon Mondal, a girl from Bajitpur village of Mayureswar, whose father is an oil mill worker, said she could not take the test as it was beyond her father’s means to hire a private car to take her to the exam centre in Asansol. “We don’t have money to hire a private car to reach Asansol, my examination centre. But I will try to sit for NEET as I have managed to contact a few more friends and we would all pool in the money to pay for the car,” said Dolon. Several students in remote parts of central and south Bengal districts complained that private car owners were asking exorbitant fares to take them to JEE Main examination centres in Calcutta, Burdwan or Durgapur. Sushnat Chapadar, an engineering aspirant of Mathurapur in South 24-Parganas, said he knew that his father’s earnings had dipped drastically during the lockdown. “I know what my father is going through. I can’t force him to pay Rs 15,000 as car fare to Calcutta so that I can answer my JEE Main,” he said. Chandan Maity, the headmaster of Sushnat’s school, the Krishnachandrapur High School, said that at least two dozen students from his school would not be able to take the test as the centres in Calcutta are at least 150km away. “It is tough to hire a car to take these youngsters to exam centres for two reasons. One, the pandemic has left many families afraid at a time most parents are facing economic constraints. That’s why a large number of students from the districts are skipping the JEE Main exam,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-393
01-09-2020||West Bengal||Bengal sticks to September lockdown schedule||The Bengal government on Monday issued a notification to clarify that complete lockdown would be observed in the state on September 7,11 and 12 as announced earlier. The notification, a source said, was issued to clear the confusion created after the Centre’s Unlock 4 guidelines — to come into effect from September 1 — that bar any state from announcing a lockdown outside its containment zones without consulting the Centre. Sources in Nabanna said top government officials discussed Bengal’s proposed lockdown days in September with the ministry of home affairs on Monday morning after an approval from chief minister Mamata Banerjee. Top bureaucrats convinced the Centre that complete lockdown on certain days across Bengal helped the state in containing the spread of Covid 19 to some extent. It was also pointed out that three complete lockdown dates in September would help the state arrest the spread, sources said. “We followed the protocol,” a senior state government official told The Telegraph. The state government, sources said, presented a set of numbers to establish this claim of occasional lockdown days arresting the spread of Covid-19 in Bengal. The sources said that the state compared figures of daily positive cases between the last week of July, from when the state started observing complete lockdown on certain dates, with the last week of August to establish that complete lockdown on certain days in the past month helped the state contain the spread of Covid-19. On 23 July, the daily positive case in Calcutta was 795 and the total number for the state was 2,436. On August 30, the daily positive case in Calcutta came down to 428 and the total positive cases for the entire state on that day was 3,019. “While the number of daily positive cases have come down significantly in Calcutta, the daily positive cases did not jump out of proportion despite the fact that the number of tests witnessed a three-fold jump by this period (from 14,558 to 43,436 per day). The Centre agreed to give a go-ahead with the announced complete lockdown days in September,” said a source. The state government also mentioned in its notification that on the complete lockdown days in September, no passenger flight and train would be allowed to operate. The state’s notification on Monday also said that schools, colleges, educational and coaching institutions would remain closed till September 30. In addition, cinema halls, swimming pools, entertainment parks and theatres would also remain closed till September 30. The state has announced that open-air theatres would reopen from September 21 and Metro Railway services in a graded manner from September 8.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-393
01-09-2020||West Bengal||August ends with dip in active cases in state||Bengal on Monday recorded a fall its total active Covid-19 cases, across an unprecedented eight-day stretch, as 3,318 recoveries in 24 hours once again outweighed the 2,993 new cases. Bengal’s recovery rate went up to 82.49 per cent, far ahead of the national rate of 76.93 per cent. Fifty-two deaths were also reported on Monday, of which 10 were from Calcutta. With this, Bengal now has over 1.34 lakh recoveries of the 1.62 lakh total cases since the onset of the pandemic, besides 3,228 deaths in all. In August, by far the most eventful month for Bengal since the first Covid-19 case was reported on March 17, the state logged over 92,000 cases and 1,647 deaths, besides 86,000 recoveries and over 9.94 lakh tests. In the month, the state saw a rise by 14 per cent in recovery rate. Bengal’s overall mortality rate dipped further to 1.98 per cent, though the national rate is still lower at 1.77 per cent. Of the 3,228 deaths, 2,803 (or 86.8 per cent) were reported comorbid by the government. “In a month, we reduced our active ratio (percentage of total active cases to total cases) from 29 to 15. At the end of July, we were somewhere in the top 10 among states or Union territories with the highest active ratio. On Monday, we are 30th,” said a minister. “After August 9, the 67,224 cases were matched by a remarkable total of 67,150 recoveries. There were also 7.8 lakh tests in that period,” he added. Over the past eight days, he pointed out, the state’s total active cases fell from 28,069 to 25,280, as the five most high-incidence states of Bengal — Calcutta, North and South 24-Parganas, Howrah and Hooghly — collectively kept recording a fall in their total of active cases. The state on Monday reported 42,239 tests, taking the total past 18.87 lakh, at 20,974 tests per million people. “The World Health Organisation’s advisory specifies a daily minimum of 140 tests per million. Bengal was at 211 a month ago. Now, we are around 485, getting past 500 in a matter of days,” said the minister. Because of the turnaround, positive confirmation rate improved in 10 days from 8.9 per cent to 8.62 per cent. Bengal also reported 32.14 per cent occupancy of 12,045 Covid-19 beds in 87 hospitals, besides 15.46 in the 11,507 beds in the 200 safe homes. Telemedicine services have been provided to over 1.49 lakh, 4,237 of them in the past 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-393
01-09-2020||West Bengal||140kg of smuggled Hilsa seized by BSF in Murshidabad||A patrolling team of the BSF’s 117 battalion seized 140kg hilsa, worth Rs 2.35 lakh, from smugglers in Murshidabad’s Bamnabad on Monday morning, said a BSF official. According to the forces guarding the border with Bangladesh, they have, over the past two months, thwarted repeated attempts of hilsa being smuggled to Bengal, seizing some 1,000kg fish from various places under its South Bengal Frontier. On Monday’s attempt, DIG (G) of BSF’s South Bengal Frontier S.S. Guleria said: “Our troops spotted an Indian farmer while examining his mechanised boat. They found fish hidden in the boat under jute plants.” Market sources said attempts to smuggle hilsa into Bengal from Bangladesh increased on two counts — low yield of the fish in Bengal and embargo on the supply of the delicacy from the neighbouring country since 2012. Earlier this month, around 800 trawlers had set out to catch hilsa in coastal Bengal in August but almost all returned empty. The gross amount of the catch has so far been around 25 per cent of the projected catch estimated during August. This has created a huge demand in markets and come as an opportunity for smugglers desperate to exploit the shortfall. On August 5, the BSF had seized 126kg hilsa from Petrapole. On August 21, BSF seized 600kg of hilsa when smugglers were trying to push the consignment into Indian waters by packing them in polythene concealed inside bundles of jute. Sources said the Bangladesh government in 2012 had banned the export of hilsa to India owing to “low availability” and for “price control” measures demanded by business associations in the neighbouring country. Last year, an exception was made to the ban by the Sheikh Hasina government as a one-time Durga Puja gift. The Bangladesh government allowed an export of 500 tonne of the hilsa to India last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-393
01-09-2020||West Bengal||TMC attack on CPM leader in Nandigram||An area committee secretary of the CPM East Midnapore’s Mohammedpur unit was beaten up on Monday by alleged Trinamul activists during a event to observe the martyrdom of those killed by the police during the 1959 Food Movement in Bengal. The CPM’s Nandigram unit had organised 12 events in the region to mark the 1959 Food Movement on Monday. CPM sources said that on Monday afternoon, CPM’s Mohammedpur area committee secretary Mahadeb Bhunia was addressing a gathering of 20 persons at a private space after offering tribute at a martyrs’ column when a group of 50 party workers allegedly from Trinamul stormed the venue. The attack with sticks left Bhunia’s left arm fractured, sources said. “A group of 50 Trinamul goons stormed the area and began beating us with sticks,” Bhunia said later. Trinamul block president Meghnad Pal denied the allegations, saying: “Villagers had protested against them for violating the Monday’s statewide lockdown imposed to curb the spike in Covid-19 cases.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-393
