02-09-2020||West Bengal||TMC MP writes to Mark Zuckerberg, alleges Facebook bias towards BJP||The Trinamool Congress has written to Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg to raise the issue of alleged bias of the social media giant towards the BJP, and claimed that there is enough evidence in the public domain to substantiate this charge.

Party MP Derek O'Brien, who has written the letter to Zuckerberg, also refers to an earlier meeting between the two, where some of these concerns were raised.

Sources in the party said that O'Brien met Zuckerberg in Delhi during October 2015.

"We, the All India Trinamool Congress (AITC), India's second-largest opposition party, have had serious concerns about Facebook's role during the 2014 and 2019 general elections in India," O'Brien wrote in the letter dated August 31, accessed by the PTI.

"With the elections in the Indian state of West Bengal just months away, your company's recent blocking of Facebook pages and accounts in Bengal also points to the link between Facebook and the BJP. There is enough material now in the public domain, including internal memos of senior Facebook management, to substantiate the bias," he wrote.

The Rajya Sabha MP also informed the CEO of Facebook that the matter was raised by the party in Parliament in June last year.

"This was done during the discussion on the Motion of Thanks to the President's Address. We are enclosing the relevant portion (video) of that Parliamentary speech, along with this letter.

"We were optimistic that the issues and concerns we raised on the floor of Parliament 14 months ago would empower other political parties and the media to also address this substantive issue, he said in the letter. "The recent series of articles that appeared in the BBC, Wall Street Journal, Reuters, Time Magazine and others, vindicate our stand,” he added.

O'Brien also states that he had met Zuckerberg a few years ago and expressed his concerns over some of these issues and urged him "in the interest of transparency, to investigate these serious charges against Facebook's senior management in India".

"Please do all it takes to urgently work towards maintaining the integrity of your platform in the Indian electoral process," the letter states.

Earlier, the Congress party had written to Zuckerberg, demanding a probe into the alleged bias and interference of the social media giant's India leadership team in the country's electoral democracy, even as the BJP had taken a swipe at the opposition party, saying any organisation that does not work to its liking is accused of acting under BJP-RSS pressure.

A massive political row broke out after a report by the Wall Street Journal (WSJ) last week alleged that senior Facebook executives had opposed applying hate speech rules to posts by certain BJP leaders.

Last month, a Facebook spokesperson had said, "We prohibit hate speech and content that incites violence and we enforce these policies globally without regard to anyone's political position or party affiliation.

"While we know there is more to do, we're making progress on enforcement and conduct regular audits of our process to ensure fairness and accuracy,” they said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-390
02-09-2020||West Bengal||Plywood unit shuts, owner blames trade union  ||The management of a plywood factory in Dhupguri block of Jalpaiguri announced suspension of work on Monday evening, alleging that some local trade union leaders of Inttuc, the workers’ front of Trinamul, were creating problems in the unit and asking money from them at regular intervals. This is the second time in the past three months that the factory has shut. The trade union leaders have denied the charges and said the management’s decision has left around 800 workers jobless. Sources said on Tuesday morning, when the workers arrived at the unit, they found the notice of suspension of work at the entrance. Sattar Ali, who owns the factory, said some Inttuc leaders of the area were trying to extort money from him. “In the name of trade union activities, they often ask us for money. We have paid them on some occasions but this trend has to stop. Also, these leaders resort to protests on flimsy grounds. This affects regular activities at the factory. That is why we are forced to take such a decision,” said the owner. Azizul Rehman, an Inttuc leader of the area, brushed aside the charges. “The management’s allegations are baseless. We have our trade union’s unit in the plywood factory and the workers are with us. But we have never asked for any money from the management,” Rehman said. “Basically, the management does not want to pay bonus to workers ahead of Durga Puja. That is why they have taken this decision,” the trade union leader added. Both the management and union leaders are, however, trying to resolve the issue and have sought the intervention of district Inttuc leaders of Jalpaiguri. “We want the factory to reopen at the earliest. There are certain differences among the management and the local trade union leaders that led to the situation. We will hold talks with them and hope to resolve the issues,” said a senior Inttuc leader in Jalpaiguri. A source said that in June this year, the management had shut the factory. It reopened on July 1 after talks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-390
02-09-2020||West Bengal||Ghani’s kin recall Pranab ||Members of Kotowali, the ancestral home of Congress stalwart A.B.A. Ghani Khan Choudhury’s family, offered prayers in memory of Pranab Mukherjee on Tuesday. As party supporters and family members turned up, the discussion veered towards the former President’s special bond with the first political family in the district. Mukherjee died on Monday, Khan Choudhury, who was a few years older, in 2006. In their heydays, Khan Choudhury and Mukherjee — both from Bengal and central ministers — had political rivalries and belonged to different camps, but Kotowali residents said they could not recall a single instance of public altercation between them. “I had always seen that Pranab Mukherjee, whom I addressed as Pranab Mama (maternal uncle), had respect for Barkat Mama (Khan Choudhury). They used to discuss politics and other national and state affairs whenever they got the chance to meet,” recalled Mausam Benazir Noor, Trinamul Rajya Sabha MP and resident of Kotowali House. Mukherjee did have bitter memories from Malda as in 1977, he lost Lok Sabha polls from the district. But the defeat didn’t come in the way of his intimate relationship with Malda and Khan Choudhury. “Even on a brief visit to the district, Pranab Mama used to visit Kotowali. He was equally keen to meet Barkat Mama and all his relatives, including my mother Rubi Noor. Pranab Mama used to consider my mother as his sister. The demise of my mother had made him extra protective of me, and after I became MLA and MP consecutively, he volunteered to teach me the norms of Parliament...His death is a personal loss,” Noor said. She added the family organised a small prayer in Mukherjee’s memory. Isha Khan Choudhury, a Congress MLA and nephew of Ghani Khan, said Mukherjee was accessible to Kotowali people even after becoming the President. “My uncles, my father and aunt, all were very dear to him.... People used to tell us about the rivalry between him and my uncle, but we never felt anything like that in his behaviour,” Isha said. He added that Hasem and Naser, Khan Choudhury’s brothers, were also shocked by Mukherjee’s demise. Like Malda, residents neighbouring Murshidabad district also recalled memories of Mukherjee, who was elected from Jangipur in the Lok Sabha elections. From 2004 to 2012, he managed to bring in institutions to the area, including the Murshidabad campus of Aligarh Muslim University, a management institute, a regional passport office, an army recruitment office, an office of the Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation and a number of branches of nationalised banks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-391
02-09-2020||West Bengal||School displays memorabilia||Pranab Mukherjee’s alma mater — Kirnahar Shibchandra High School — made an exception on Tuesday and kept its doors open for visitors to visit the museum inside the school with memorabilia giving a peep into the former President’s life. “Pranabbabu was our renowned alumnus and pride of our area. As many local people wanted to visit the museum, we decided to open it today (Tuesday),” said Amit Kumar Bhattacharya, president of the school managing committee. The school had remained closed ever since the lockdown in March. “The museum was closed since the lockdown. This is the first time we opened it today (Tuesday),” said Prabhakar Bandopadhyay, English teacher and alumnus of the school, who along with security guard Dhananjoy Ghosh took care of visitors. When miles away Mukherjee was being consigned to flames at the New Delhi’s Lodhi Road crematorium in New Delhi, people in Kirnahar, Parota and Nimre remembered their very own Poltuda, Kakababu or Mamababu as they saw exhibits at the museum. Hundreds turned up to pay floral tributes at the portrait kept at the Mukherjee ancestral home in Mirati. At the school museum, which Mukherjee had inaugurated in 2013, people looked at the photographs of the register with his name, his admission book and exam results. Apart from pictures of personal testimonials, Mukherjee had gifted the museum hundreds of mementos and certificates he had received in his political and administrative career spanning over four decades. The museum was set up at the request of the school authorities as they had wanted to preserve for posterity the memorabilia of their renowned alumnus, who had helmed many key Union ministries before becoming the President of India. Moving from one exhibit to another, Subhajit Das, a Class X student of the school, said: “I heard he (Mukherjee) was a student of our school. I came here with my two friends to revisit the museum and see his photographs and awards.” Parjanya Bandopadhyay, an alumnus and now a student of Visva-Bharati, said: “I was a student when I saw him inaugurating the museum in 2013.” Eighty-two-year-old Sitansu Ray, a year junior to the former President in his school and Suri Vidyasagar College, reflected on his association with “Pranabda”. “Pranabda’s talents were multifaceted. I saw him participate in debates on political history and the history and contribution of National Congress when he was a student of Class VIII. He never stood first in his class but there was no one who could defeat him in debate,” said Ray, a retired professor of Rabindra Sangeet in Visva-Bharati now settled in Santiniketan. It was the young Mukherjee’s duty to collect the newspaper from the railway station as no vendor supplied it at his home in Mirati, Ray said. “Pranabda used to read the newspaper while walking on the mud road. I used to tell him that his habit could lead to an accident, but his argument was that he also had an eye on the road,” said Ray. “I met Pranabda in 2012 for lunch in Uttarayan complex when he had come for the convocation (of Visva-Bharati). He used to call me Situ and that day he jocularly said — tumi to chul sab pakiye felle (you’ve turned all your hair grey).” In 2013, Ray learnt that the President (Mukherjee) had nominated him as a member of the selection committee of BHU. “I never imagined that he would nominate me,” Ray said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-391
02-09-2020||West Bengal||Delhi calls Saumitra after row with Dilip ||The news of Bengal BJP’s recent internal row over the selection of office-bearers for the party’s youth wing has reached Delhi. Saumitra Khan, the state chief of the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha, has received a call to the capital for a meeting with the party’s national leaders. Multiple sources in the state BJP confirmed that national leaders were unhappy with the row between Khan and Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh over the formation of the state committee of the youth wing. “I’ve been called to Delhi by Kailashji and Shivprakashji. They want to inquire about the new committee in detail,” Khan told The Telegraph. Kailash Vijayvargiya is the BJP’s national general secretary and in-charge for Bengal, while Shivprakash is the party’s national joint general secretary (organisation). Since June, when Khan assumed office as state president of the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha, he and Ghosh have been at loggerheads over forming the new state committee of the youth wing, with both pushing for candidates of their choice. “The bitterness peaked over the selection of two general secretaries of the youth wing... The candidate for the general secretary post for north Bengal was chosen by the RSS, which left both the leaders fighting over the general secretary South Bengal’s post,” a source close to Khan said. Then, last week, Khan was forced, after a prod from Ghosh, to remove a list of district presidents of the youth wing that he had circulated on social media. Ghosh had said publicly that the final call on the list was his prerogative as the state party president. “Saumitrada followed Dilipda’s instruction then, but it didn’t go down well with him. He is going to express his discontent in front of national leaders,” the source added. Ghosh said he was not aware of Khan’s trip to Delhi. “Meetings of the parliamentary standing committees are being held. Many of our MPs are in Delhi,” Ghosh added quickly. Party sources said that much should not be read into Khan’s Delhi visit as the central party leaders were firmly behind Ghosh. Khan, a Trinamul MP from the Bishnupur constituency in Bankura district, defected to the BJP in early 2019, and was re-elected. Bengal BJP insiders have said in the past too that Ghosh seems to have problems with Trinamul turncoats.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-391
02-09-2020||West Bengal||Red pandas await radio collars||Bengal forest department is waiting for an approval from the Centre to put radio collars on four Himalayan red pandas, which the department intends to release in the Singalila National Park of Darjeeling hills. The radio collars, fitted with transmitters accessed through iridium satellites, will enable foresters to know more about the species, their numbers and health of their habitat. Singalila, on the upper reaches of Darjeeling close to the India-Nepal border, is a habitat of pandas. The species is also found at the Neora Valley National Park in Kalimpong. To know the status of wild habitats of the Himalayan red pandas, the state forest department has received approval from the Union ministry of forests and environment on a five-year-long project. As part of a recent survey in both parks, the forest staff could collect the scat of around 65 pandas. The samples have been sent to a research institute to know the exact population of the species. “As a part of the project, it has been decided to release two male and two female pandas, in Singalila. These animals have been identified at the Padmaja Naidu Himalayan Zoological Park in Darjeeling. All four will be fitted with radio collars. To monitor them and collect data on their habitat, we need to use radio collars with sophisticated transmitters that can be tracked by iridium satellites. For this, we need approval from the Union ministry of science and technology,” said Rajendra Jakhar, chief conservator of forests (wildlife, north Bengal). The department will also fix trap cameras in both parks to gather data about the species and their habitat. “We plan to fix the cameras in March next year. Two watchtowers would be built in remote locations in Singalila to augment our vigilance,” Jakhar said. “As cellphone networks are not available (inside the forest), we will use high-frequency radio transmission networks to keep in contact with our men posted in watchtowers,” he added. Based on the data collected, the department will take steps to improve the habitat and food stock for pandas in these parks, the forester said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-391
02-09-2020||West Bengal||Courts to reopen on Sept 8||Calcutta High Court and 206 subordinate courts in Bengal are set to return to normal activities from September 8 after a gap of five months. Rai Chattopadhyay, the registrar general of the high court, on Tuesday issued the notification announcing resumption of normal activities following Chief Justice T.B.N Radhakrishnan’s approval of the proposal by judges’ committee. The committee had been tasked to recommend to the high court administration the actions required in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The judges’ committee had said in a recent recommendation that since the Covid-19 situation had been improving gradually, the courts should slowly return to normal functioning. The three-page notification stated that as the situation was apparently improving, every effort should be made to increase judicial activities in district courts as well as the high court. The notification states that the Chief Justice has directed the administration of district courts to start criminal trials which had been stalled following the outbreak of Covid-19. “In criminal trials, both the accused and the witnesses have to present themselves in the respective courts. But it had become impossible for the witnesses to present themselves before the courts. Even the jail authorities were not in position to produce the accused persons in the court. So, the system of criminal trials had been virtually stalled,” a senior officer of Calcutta High Court said. Since the last week of March, only very urgent matters were being heard by the high court through video-conferencing. Very few cases have been heard in recent times in the presence of both judges and lawyers. The notification, however, states that the Chief Justice has made it clear that overcrowding by people on court premises will not be allowed and norms set up by the government to combat the disease will be followed strictly. “Entry of the litigants will have to be restricted. Till normal train services resume, chance of crowding in courts is less,” said a court officer. Several lawyers have welcomed the decision by the high court administration. However, members of the High Court Bar Association said a large number of junior lawyers living outside the city would not be able to join the court till train services resumed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-391
02-09-2020||West Bengal||Stakeholders appeal for tourist inflow  ||Tourism industry stakeholders in north Bengal held “silent demonstrations” on Tuesday for tourist movement to resume immediately in the hills and plains. The Bagdogra airport, a Siliguri park and two national parks in the Dooars were some venues for these events where stakeholders also promised to adhere to safety protocols for tourists amid the pandemic. In north Bengal, other than the tea industry, tourism gives jobs to lakhs, but it has been badly hit amid the pandemic. Raj Basu, an advisor of the Himalayan Hospitality & Tourism Development Network (HHTDN), who came with some others at Baghajatin Park here, said that in the past five months, they had hardly seen  any tourist inflow. “Hoteliers and transporters are not in a position to pay installments (EMIs), taxes or other expenses to maintain their properties and vehicles,” he said. “We lost almost 70 per cent of our total annual business in the current year. That is why we felt it necessary to tell the state and Centre that we are ready to abide by all the SOPs and want them to encourage people to start paying visits.” Samrat Sanyal, general secretary of HHTDN, said they wanted the state to come up with a specific policy on tourist movement in this “new normal”. “Also, the state should waive transport taxes and other allied charges till December,” he said. Members of Eastern Himalaya Travel & Tour Operators Association (EHTTOA) held a similar event at Bagdogra airport, asking for a special financial package from the Centre for stakeholders. “In the hills, hotel and homestay owners could not open their properties as there is apprehension among some residents that inflow of tourists can increase the scale of the pandemic. We want to assure everyone that all such accommodations will follow health protocols,” said Debasish Maitra, president of the EHTTOA. Demand for a specific set of rules was also raised by the resort owners of Lataguri, a popular destination in the Dooars. “There are indications that forests would open up for visitors from September 16. We want the state to issue specific guidelines for resort owners, cab drivers, guides and others,” Dibyendu Deb, the president of Lataguri Resort Owners Association, said. In Madarihat of Alipurduar, resort owners said many of them send tourists to Bhutan, but right now there is a bar on non-Bhutanese people in the neighbouring country. “In such a situation, we want tourism activities to resume at least in the Dooars,” said Biswajit Saha, secretary, Jaldapara Lodge Owners’ Association. Additional inputs by our correspondents in Alipurduar & Jalpaiguri||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-391
02-09-2020||West Bengal||Toy Train trial run from Siliguri Junction to Tindharia||The Darjeeling Himalayan Railway (DHR) authorities held a trial run of its Toy Train from Siliguri Junction to Tindharia on Tuesday to check the condition of tracks. “We conducted the trial run as a part of our preparedness as the central government is coming up with relaxations in different sectors during these days (as a part of the gradual unlock process). If any decision is made over resumption of normal train services, we will have to resume our services,” said an official of the DHR. During Tuesday’s trial run, the Toy Train covered around 35km, which is almost half the total length of the tracks from New Jalpaiguri (NJP) to Darjeeling. On August 24, a similar trial run was conducted, but on a shorter route, from Siliguri Junction to Rongtong. Asked about the tracks, the DHR officials said the entire stretch appeared fine. However, on June 29, there was a landslide on NH55 that runs parallel to the tracks, near Paglajhora (between Tindharia and Kurseong). “The tracks narrowly escaped the slide but the adjacent stretch of the road caved in. It is risky to run the train through this stretch. Once the road is repaired, we will conduct the trial run from Tindharia to Kurseong and beyond,” said an official. Because of the nationwide lockdown in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic and suspension of regular trains — only some special trains are running in these days across the country — the services of the DHR have been held up for over five months now. In the hills, tourist arrivals have halted since March, too. “We hope tourists start coming during the upcoming Durga Puja holidays. There is a chance that our services would open by then. We will obviously follow all the SOPs (standard operating protocols) to ensure the health and safety of the passengers. The trial run was needed to ensure that once we get a go-ahead to resume our services, there is no delay for any technical reasons,” the official added. The heritage railway service is one of the main attractions for visitors to Darjeeling. Over the past few years, the number of passengers has only increased. In the immediate past fiscal, for the first time in its history, over one lakh passengers had boarded the Toy Train. More passengers had also prompted the railways to come up with new services and introduce vista dome coaches — with transparent plexi-glass roofs and wide picture windows — as well as air-conditioned coaches to make the services more popular among tourists.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-391
02-09-2020||West Bengal||New high in daily Covid tests and recoveries||Bengal on Tuesday recorded a 24-hour high in Covid-19 tests at 43,738 as the state went past 19 lakh total tests and 21,000 tests per million people. In one month, the state logged over 10 lakh tests. Bengal, which had 9.13 lakh tests on August 1, reported more than 19.31 lakh tests on September 1. For the ninth consecutive day, Bengal on Tuesday reported a fall in the total number of active patients with more recoveries than new cases being reported in 24 hours. The total active cases on August 23 were 28,069 and on Tuesday, the figure was 24,822. Bengal also recorded a new 24-hour high in recoveries at 3,346 as 1.37 lakh out of the total 1.65 lakh patients were cured of the disease. The recovery rate surged further to 83.04, far ahead of the national rate of 76.96 per cent. In the 24-hour period ending at 9am on Tuesday, the state reported 2,943 new cases. Yet again, the five most high-incidence districts of Bengal — Calcutta, North 24-Parganas, South 24-Parganas, Howrah and Hooghly — collectively recorded a fall of 205 in the total number of active cases. Since the 7,041 active cases of August 9, Calcutta improved to 4,690 on Tuesday. Of the 55 deaths reported on Tuesday, 11 were from the city. Bengal began testing in early February and took over three-and-a-half months to complete 1 lakh tests on May 19. On Tuesday, 105 days later, the number of tests crossed 19 lakh. The latest lakh was achieved in three days. “We covered 13-16 lakh in three days each. Then, we covered 17 and 18 lakh in just two days each. Getting past 19 lakh took us three days, yes, but 20 lakh will again take only two days,” said a Bengal minister. In the past seven days, Bengal conducted over 2.97 lakh tests. “We are also looking to cross the 50,000 mark in daily testing in a matter of days,” he added. The positive confirmation rate improved from 8.9 to 8.58 with the surge in testing and the relatively less new cases found over the past nine days. Of the 3,283 deaths in total, 2,847 (86.7 per cent) were reported as comorbid by the government. The overall mortality rate stayed at 1.98, while the national rate is 1.76 per cent. Bengal reported 33.08 per cent occupancy on 12,045 Covid-19 beds at 87 hospitals, besides 15.29 on 11,507 beds at 200 safe homes. Telemedicine services have been provided to nearly 1.54 lakh people, of whom 4,279 availed themselves of the facility in the past 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-391
02-09-2020||West Bengal||Hint at focus on small Bengal projects||The Mamata Banerjee government has posted Arup Roy Choudhury, former MD of NTPC Ltd, as the state’s new principal adviser (infrastructure) with the appointment in a position that was vacant for more than a year bearing hints that the ruling establishment plans to lay special emphasis on infrastructure creation ahead of the 2021 Assembly polls. “The position had been lying vacant for over the past one year or so. The state government brought in Roy Choudhury in the position in the midst of a pandemic even though he was serving as the chief commissioner of Public Services Act. There is a definite plan behind the move,” a senior state government official told The Telegraph. Sources aware of the development said the chief minister was laying stress on taking up “small infrastructure” projects in her recent meetings with top government officials and district authorities and appointing a new principal adviser (infrastructure) appeared to be a step forward to implement the idea. The state had identified several small projects in addition to some large infrastructure projects way back in 2017 and planned to invest Rs 18,000 crore to complete them, but dearth of funds had pressed a pause button on the initiative. “Now it seems the government is ready to revive the initiative by taking up small projects with only a few months to go before the 2021 Assembly polls,” said a bureaucrat. The state government, sources said, is aiming to develop several small projects like linking of small roads by constructing culverts and small bridges to improve connectivity in the rural areas, beside setting up irrigation facilities by taking up minor irrigation projects in the dry zones like the Jungle Mahal. “The prime focus would be Jungle Mahal districts and north Bengal, where the ruling party had put up a poor show during the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. By improving connectivity and irrigation facilities, the chief minister wants to ensure visible development,” said an official. As a majority of the projects are very small in nature, these could come up in the next four-five months if proper monitoring is done. “The principal adviser (infrastructure) can do the job while making it sure that funds are released by departments concerned on time by taking up the issue with top officials. The projects might be small in nature but these would have a big impact in the backward areas,” added the official. Although the state government is ready to take up the projects without a delay, arranging funds would be easier said than done. “It would require at least Rs 3,000 crore immediately to kick off the projects. I am not sure whether the state can arrange it at a time when its own revenue generation has dried up significantly because of the pandemic,” said a source. While admitting that arranging funds would be a headache for the state government, sources in the finance department said they were trying to release funds for important and small projects by cutting down unnecessary expenditures.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-391
02-09-2020||West Bengal||Cost to reach JEE centre: Rs 25,000||Anup Roy Mahapatra had to spend Rs 25,000 to travel from Malda so that his son Ayan could appear for the JEE Main in Salt Lake on Tuesday. The Roy Mahapatras were among several families that had to shell out steep amounts so that their children could appear for the exam that the Centre insisted should begin on Tuesday in spite of reservations by several state governments because of Covid-19. Father and son had to start out a day in advance than would have been usual as vehicles were not ready to move on Monday because of the complete lockdown in Bengal. Roy Mahapatra and his son left Malda on Sunday morning by a hired car, stayed at a hotel in Kestopur in Calcutta and will return by the same vehicle on Wednesday. Although Ayan’s exam was in the second half, Roy Mahapatra did not want to take the chance of travelling on the day of the exam. “It’s a distance of more than 300km and it takes eight to nine hours of travel. What if the car had broken down on the way or there was heavy traffic?” asked Roy Mahapatra. Several parents chose to hire private vehicles even at the cost of a pinch in their pocket because of the fear of the coronavirus and to maintain social distance. “Rs 25,000 is what I had to spend for one public exam,” said Roy Mahapatra, who stood with his son outside the examination centre while it kept drizzling. “This is what we have spent on transport alone. I am not taking into account the hotel bookings or what we spend on food because that expense we would have had to make in any case,” said Roy Mahapatra. They will have to come back again to the city on September 13 for the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET). “Don’t know how much we will have to spend again,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-391
02-09-2020||West Bengal||Cops help victims of erosion save items||A group of policemen posted at the Baishnabnagar police station in Malda district observed the Police Day in a different manner on Tuesday and dedicated their services to people who were affected by the recent erosion by the Ganga on its left bank in Kaliachak 3 block of the district. The policemen, along with civic volunteers, went beyond the call of their duty and helped the residents shift their belongings and whatever they could salvage from their huts to safer places. The homes of these people are standing precariously on land, chunks of which have been regularly gobbled by the raging river in the past few days. The philanthropy of the policemen that provided the affected people with a sense of assurance has come at such a time of distress. Since the morning of August 30, the Ganga has been eroding vast areas in the Kaliachak 3 block. It has so far swallowed over a kilometre long land where hundreds had their homes. In total, over 100 families have lost their land and houses so far. The erosion, sources said, has turned acute at some villages under Birnagar 2 panchayat, particularly at China Bazar and Sarkarpara. As the erosion started, the residents realised that it was just a matter of time before their huts would be guzzled by the river. This made them dismantle the structures and carry away whatever they could — bricks, tiles, bamboos, piles of straw — along with their other belongings. With the residents trying to shift such items to safer places in panic, the policemen turned up in the area and extended their help. “As we found people moving away with different items, we stood by them and helped them shift those to safer places. We are concerned about maintenance of law and order on a day-to-day basis. But how can we stand mute when so many people are in trouble?” asked Tridip Pramanik, the inspector-in-charge of Baishnabnagar police station. The cooperation from the police brought some solace to the erosion victims. “We have been fighting against the Covid-19 pandemic for the past six months. Regular earnings of many of these families have become uncertain. Now the curse of the erosion has made life harder. The compassionate touch of the police made us feel better at least,” said Manik Mandal, a local panchayat member and also a victim of the erosion. Such an initiative by the police team has also earned appreciation from senior cops. “The humanitarian act by our men at Baishnabnagar made us proud. In Malda, we have been trying to build a bond with citizens. The way Baishnabnagar police have served the people in distress is significant on the occasion of the Police Day,” said Alok Rajoria, the superintendent of police, Malda.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-392
02-09-2020||West Bengal||Lightning kills 4,  rain floods hospital||A sudden thunderstorm in parts of East Midnapore and West Midnapore early on Tuesday morning claimed four lives, all agricultural workers, as they were struck by lightning. At Dubda village in East Midnapore’s Egra, farmer Aurobindo Bera, 40, was killed on the spot when lightning struck him, while his wife Mira was seriously injured. The couple were working at their agricultural plot when the accident happened. Mira was rushed to Egra Super Speciality hospital for treatment. “The incident occurred when a group of farmers was running for cover at the onset of the sudden storm,” said an eyewitness. At Kanpur village in Potashpur station area, Ramkrishna Paikhara, 38, was killed under similar circumstances when farmers were working in an open field. While Paikhara was killed on the spot, his companions suffered injuries and were rushed to the block health centre for treatment. In West Midnapore’s Debra station area, two women were killed by lightning strikes while working in the fields. Mithu Singh, 31, was killed at Hathiberia village whereas Ruma Bera, 23, died at Sundarnagar. The storm also caused severe waterlogging in parts of Tamluk town, with the town’s district hospital being the worst hit. All the wards, including the pharmacy, on the ground floor of the Tamluk district hospital were flooded waist-high. The rainfall also led to Tamluk and its surrounding areas remaining without power till noon. Disruption at the Tamluk district hospital lasted for several hours owing to waist-high flood waters on the ground floor level. Sources said an operation theatre, the male surgical ward, and the isolation ward all got flooded leaving several patients and their kin without medical attention. “We have told the health department repeatedly to clean the hospital’s choked drains. But neither they nor the municipality paid any heed,” said West Bengal State Workers’ Federation (health) district secretary Nilkanta Nayak. Asked, hospital superintendent Gopal Das declined comment, whereas municipality administrator Rabindranath Sen blamed the hospital. “We have told them repeatedly to monitor hazardous waste from the medical college premises. But they have not cooperated,” he said, referring to the college campus located on the hospital grounds. Sources said strong winds led to over 100 coconut trees getting uprooted in the area and several high-tension wires snapped. WBSEDCL regional manager Shyamal Hazra said the damage was “minor” and repairs would be completed soon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-392
02-09-2020||West Bengal||Web aid to apply for government doles ||The realisation that poor people miss out on several government schemes for “sheer lack of awareness” has prompted a group of social activists belonging to diverse professions, who are led by a professor at a university in Canada, to launch a web portal and mobile application to help them avail themselves of the same. The group consisting of teachers, government employees, authors, journalists and social activists launched a Bengal-specific, web-based community information service to educate people about schemes commissioned by the central and state governments that they could be entitled to. The group has developed a mobile application, titled “Sachetonata”, and a web site with the same name (https://sachetonata.org.in/) containing information about all social and welfare programmes, in particular the direct benefit transfer (DBT) schemes of the state and the central governments, and details on eligibility and application procedures. People behind the Sachetonata initiative claimed that since no individual or organisation could be a substitute for welfare programmes of the governments, it was “important” to ensure that government-sponsored benefits found their way to the “targeted” people. “But the coveted 
objective often fails for lack of awareness among people,” said a source in the organisation. Sachetonata president and founder Kanchan Sarker is a professor of sociology at the University of British Columbia-Okanagan in Canada. Asked about his motivation, the Krishnagar native said: “It is an effort to empower people with their rights through awareness. Lack of awareness caused helplessness. People in rural areas in particular suffer from such helplessness during crises and face exploitation. Our aim is to sensitise people to their rights.” “Recently, we were shocked to know from a block development officer that relatives of snakebite victims or those who die from lightning strikes seldom appeal for compensation whereas the Bengal Government has a provision to pay Rs 5 lakh each to them within 24 hours. But people are not aware of the scheme and the funds largely remain unutilised,” Sarker said. Members of Sachetonata claimed that they were “surprised” by the extent of lack of awareness when they went on a research campaign and distribution effort in the areas struck by Cyclone Amphan earlier this year. The vice-president of Sachetonata, Basu Acharya, who is also an author and social activist, said: “Our experience during the post-Amphan period and the subsequent Covid-19 situation were instrumental in taking up this initiative. While delivering relief to people, we noticed that they are mostly not aware of the existing social welfare schemes. So, we discussed it with our friends and eventually decided to offer a voluntary initiative for them.” “It is not an easy job and we know just a website or mobile application is not enough to bridge the gap, considering the barriers of communication, illiteracy and other factors,” Acharya added. “Earlier, rural libraries used to work for the dissemination of government programmes. But such libraries are now defunct owing to the absence of staff. So, we have planned to rope in social organisations, NGOs, clubs and interested individuals who can bridge the gap and help poor people use the web site and mobile application. At the same time, we will also launch a physical drive of awareness across the state,” Acharya added. Asked how to handle a programme that had the “potential” of “creating controversy from differing claims between central and state bodies, a member of the team said: “For obvious reasons, we will advise people to appeal for state-sponsored schemes.” The Android-based bi-lingual mobile application will be made available on Google Play in English and Bengali and team members will offer voluntary interpretative services to people to explain “eligibility” in addition to conducting awareness programs on the ground.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-392
02-09-2020||West Bengal||Varsity exam parleys||The Visva-Bharati authorities on Tuesday asked all departments to hold discussions to find a way out to conduct terminal examination as soon as possible as the varsity has to complete the process by September 30 following a Supreme Court order. The vice-chancellor, Bidyut Chakrabarty, conducted a meeting with the heads and principals of different departments where it was decided to give the responsibility of the examinations to the principals of different Bhavanas. Varsity officials said most of the departments would prefer to take the exams online as it was impossible for the students to visit the campus as the public transportation system was yet to be normalised.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-392
02-09-2020||West Bengal||CPM launches clinic for consultation at Rs 50||The CPM on Tuesday launched a public health centre in south Calcutta to offer doctor consultation at Rs 50 and plans similar clinics across the state as part of a outreach attempt ahead of the 2021 Assembly polls. “The Covid-19 pandemic has led to an unforeseen situation. Health facilities have been seriously disrupted. These centres will be set up with the motive of providing relief to the people in these trying times,” said Dr Fuad Halim, a CPM member. According to him, several such clinics — the number would depend on availability of doctors — will be opened in different districts in the next few months as the party is keen on taking healthcare closer to the people. “We have a pool of doctors... Besides, we will request local doctors to help us at these clinics, which will operate twice a week,” said Halim. Halim, who had recently recovered from Covid-19, had gained popularity for providing dialysis at Rs 50 to the poor and the deprived before he fell ill. He inaugurated the new centre in the presence of another doctor and filmmaker, Kamaleswar Mukherjee. Halim, who is also the general secretary of the CPM’s People’s Relief Committee (PRC), explained that the centres — such as the one inaugurated on Rasbehari Avenue in Calcutta on Tuesday — would work in a hub-and-spoke model. “For instance, patients who might be prescribed for an X-Ray at this centre can avail themselves of the service from a PRC unit at a low cost,” he said. The PRC itself runs nine health centres across Bengal, including one at Calcutta’s Park Circus, where the cost of consulting a doctor is Rs 5. It also offers X-Ray and Ultrasound diagnosis at affordable rates. During the lockdown, the CPM had also started community canteens to provide food to the underprivileged. At present, more than 100 such canteens are being operated across the state. While many of these canteens provide food for free, some charge a token amount. Party sources said the canteens had helped in establishing a better connection with the electorate and had encouraged similar initiatives. “We’ve been mocked by the BJP and the Trinamul Congress for securing only 7 per cent votes in the 2019 elections. But these canteens and the health centres are proof that only we care about the people’s problems,” said a source in the CPM. “Hundreds of families have taken food from these canteens. We believe such initiatives will help us bring more people towards us,” the source added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-392
