03-09-2020||West Bengal||ED's drive at city markets to check potato prices ||Amid a rise in potato prices in Bengal, the state government's enforcement department officials visited several markets in the city and warned of action if retail traders are found selling the tuber above Rs 27 a kg from Friday. At present, the Jyoti variety of potato is being sold at Rs 32-34 per kg. The margin between potato prices at cold storage and retail market should not be more than Rs 5 per kg, an official of the enforcement department said. "You cannot sell Jyoti variety potato over Rs 27 per kg from tomorrow and action will be taken if you do not follow this," an official told a trader while visiting a market. He also asked potato sellers to maintain proper accounts of purchase as these documents could be scrutinised if required. Traders, however, pointed out they cannot sell at the ceiling price of Rs 27 a kg when their procurement cost is "higher" than that. Last week, the government had asked traders to ensure that the retail price of the tuber is brought down to Rs 25 a kg. The state government, in a meeting with potato trade bodies and cold storages, had decided that a maximum of seven days would be allowed to ensure that the retail price of potato becomes Rs 25 a kg. A meeting of the market task force may be held during the day to assess the demand-supply situation of potato in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-389
03-09-2020||West Bengal||Siliguri teen makes no-touch sanitiser dispenser||When life gives you a pandemic, make a sanitiser dispensing machine. At least, that’s what Sheikh Monirul Islam, a class XI student of Siliguri Boys’ High School, has done. As school closed in March with the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown, Monirul, who lives with his parents at Vivekanandanagar in ward 7 of Siliguri, managed to take time out from his studies to design and make an automated sanitiser dispensing machine. “As the pandemic broke out and people started following health safety protocols, I found many people pressing or pumping bottles to get the sanitiser out. What worried me is that if we all touch the bottle each time, the chances of infection is high. This made me think of a machine that can automatically release the sanitiser without having to touch the bottle,” said Monirul. Deciding on an automatic sanitiser dispenser, Monirul collected some items, which include a nano board (a microcontroller board), a motherboard, an infrared sensor module, a small pump and a rechargeable battery unit. “I assembled these items, mostly bought second-hand, and also created a space (cavity) for filling the liquid sanitiser. The machine needs to be put on a charger like a cellphone and then it works for hours,” said Monirul. “Once we put our hand under the machine, the sensor reads it and releases the sanitiser,” he said. Both water-based and gel-based sanitisers can be used in the machine. Monirul comes from a modest home — his father Sheikh Nasiruddin is a jewellery worker who runs a six-member family. But his family backs him in his inventive endeavours, said the boy. Dispenser apart, he has also made an automated dustbin that works with sensors. “He has never taken any training and yet he makes such things. I try to motivate him and despite financial constraints, try my best to meet his needs,” the dad said. “Altogether, I spent some Rs 250 to make this machine,” Monirul said. “My father helped me with the money. I am now trying to make an automated full-body sanitising machine that can work with sensors without touch.” But before that, he’s making two prototypes of the automatic hand sanitiser dispenser. “Two of my teachers have asked me to make the device for them,” he smiled. “If I get more orders, I plan to sell the machine for Rs 300,” added the inventive boy with an entrepreneurial mindset.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-389
03-09-2020||West Bengal||Farmers near border cry crop damage in Jalpaiguri||Some farmers of South Berubari, under Jalpaiguri’s Sadar block close to the India-Bangladesh border, reached the office of the district magistrate here on Wednesday with the allegation that some Bangladeshi residents were damaging their crops. In South Berubari, there are around 60 farmers with around 156 bighas of farmland beyond the barbed fences of the border, within 150 yards on the Indian side and till “zero point”. They are residents of villages like Baruipara, Bhutiapara, Daspara and Chawshpara, all under Jalpaiguri’s block Sadar block. “For past few months, some Bangladeshis are damaging our crops on a regular basis. I had a tea plantation spread over an area of eight bighas. These people have uprooted around 5,000 tea bushes from the land and now they are not allowing us to plant fresh tea bushes. I had brought in the seedlings but those have also been damaged. We have informed local officials of the BSF and the police but nothing has been done to help us so far,” said farmer Bappa Roy. The farmers, accompanied by district leaders of All India Forward Bloc, filed a complaint with district magistrate Abhishek Kumar Tiwary and sought his intervention. Gobinda Roy, a former MLA and a state secretariat member of Forward Bloc, said these farmers were facing problems on a regular basis. “The tea plantation that was on an Indian land has been turned into a football playing field by the Bangladeshis. The administration should raise the issue to appropriate levels so that these people can farm on their land,” Roy said. Along the India-Bangladesh border, there are hundreds of Indian farmers who cross fences through gates guarded by the BSF to reach in their fields beyond the fences. Some districts like Cooch Behar even have Indian villages located beyond the fences. “We want to make it clear that if the problem persists, we would be forced to launch a sit-in with the affected farmers on the border. Many of them are entirely dependent on the agricultural produce from the land they own for years now. If they cannot farm or cultivate tea bushes on their own land, it is tough for them to run their families,” Saradaprasad Roy, the Jalpaiguri district Forward Bloc president, said. The farmers said the BSF allowed them to move through the gates from 8am onwards. By 4pm, they return to their villages. “The Bangladeshi miscreants on a number of occasions take away our crop ready for harvest, either early in the morning or after we return from the field,” said Harishchandra Roy, a South Berubari resident. DM Tiwary said he had been apprised about the issue. “We will soon speak with officials of BSF and the police. All necessary steps will be taken in this regard,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-390
03-09-2020||West Bengal||Rural unrest in two border districts ||Four civic volunteers and an elected panchayat member of BJP were thrashed by a Border Security Force (BSF) officer at Bijol village under Habibpur police station of Malda on Tuesday night, police sources said. The incident created a sensation in the locality with people demanding that the police deal with the matter sternly following the course of law. Police sources said an officer of the BSF moving in a vehicle suddenly got into an altercation with two on-duty civic volunteers. Two other civic volunteers, who were returning home from the local police station on bicycles after their duty, were also there. “The BSF officer was questioning them as to what they are doing there though he had no business to do so. He suddenly got agitated and assaulted two civic volunteers. As the other two protested, they were also roughed up. Hearing the commotion, Santosh Soren, a member of Baidyapur gram panchayat, went there and tried to mediate. Though he introduced himself to the officer, he too, was manhandled,” a senior police officer said. After the incident, the BSF officer dragged one of the civic volunteers into his vehicle and left the spot. As the news spread, Purnendu Mukherjee, the inspector-in-charge of Habibpur police station, went to the spot himself. “I picked up the other injured civic volunteers and the panchayat member and was on way to a local hospital. After some time, the other civic volunteer was found on the road. Later, all of them were admitted at a hospital for treatment,” said Mukherjee. The incident has made all four civic volunteers file a common complaint against the BSF officer. The panchayat member has filed a separate complaint with the police, said sources. “Cases have been registered and the necessary legal steps have been initiated,” a senior police officer said. Malda district police chief Alok Rajoria said: “Whatever happened on Tuesday night is undesirable. We have already spoken with the BSF officials. The police and BSF maintain a strong coordination in Malda to curb crime along the borders. We believe that the incident would not affect our coordination with the BSF.” No one from the BSF was ready to comment on the issue. A source said they identified the officer and were talking to him to know what led to the incident. Joel Murmu, the BJP MLA of Habibpur, condemned the incident. “It is quite unfortunate. I would take up the matter with our state leadership,” Murmu said. Trinamul leaders have also raised questions over the alleged highhandedness of the BSF in bordering areas. They pointed to a recent incident when a BSF team had entered a village in Cooch Behar and opened fire that had led to the death of a youth.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-390
03-09-2020||West Bengal||‘Illegal’ resort sparks tribal protest in Santiniketan||A group of tribal residents of Banerpukurdanga village in Santiniketan took out a protest rally on Wednesday and lodged a complaint against a promoter for allegedly constructing an illegal resort by obstructing an irrigation canal at Sonajhuri forest. Protestors said the resort was one of at least hundred such constructions coming up illegally in Santiniketan. “The resort was being built on land belonging to the irrigation department. We protested against it and decided to raise our voice against all such illegal constructions. In most cases, promoters have targeted land belonging to tribal people and the government,” said villager Ram Soren. Resort owner Tanmoy Ghosh, however, said: “I have necessary land papers to undertake the project. I have leased a part of the land from the irrigation department. If there is any dispute over construction near the canal, I will demolish it.” The protest began on Tuesday after tribal outfit Birbhum Adivasi Gaonta joined hands with villagers. The villagers said a month ago Ghosh started building the resort by obstructing the irrigation canal. Villagers, mostly farmers, said they were forced to protest against the construction as it would reduce the flow of water from the canal to their fields. Ghosh alleged the protest started after he did not meet a demand of a group of youths to cough up Rs 3 lakh. Bolpur SDO Abhra Adhikary said he had received the complaint over the resort. Many blamed Trinamul leaders for being hand-in-glove with those building illegal resorts in Sonajhuri. Denying this, Trinamul leader Ranendranath Sarkar said they were against such encroachments. Rabin Soren, the secretary of Birbhum Adivasi Gaonta, said: “The livelihood of the tribal people is at stake in Santiniketan because of mushrooming illegal constructions. We will continue our protests against such resorts and hotels.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-390
03-09-2020||West Bengal||GI tag on Sikkim’s red chilli||“Dalle khursani” or the red cherry pepper chilli, which is grown in Sikkim and considered as one among hottest varieties in the world, has earned a geographical indication (GI) tag from the Union department of industry promotion and internal trade. Although the plant is cultivated in the neighbouring Darjeeling hills also, it was included in the Geographical Indications Registry of the Government of India on the basis of an application filed by the Guwahati-headquartered North Eastern Regional Agricultural Marketing Corporation Limited (Neramac) on behalf of Sikkim. A GI is a name or a sign given to a certain product that relates to a specific geographical location or origin like a region, town or country. The tag is part of intellectual property rights that come under the Paris Convention for the Protection of Industrial Property. The August 31 issue of the Geographical Indications Journal, published by the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade, mentioned the tag for dalle khursani. The chilli is known to have a Scoville scale at the range of 1,00,000 to 3,50,000 SHU (Scoville Heat Units). The Scoville scale is a measurement used to trace the spiciness of chilli peppers across the world. “The granting of GI tag certifies that dalle khursani is endemic to Sikkim and the neighbouring areas of the Darjeeling hills as it has been mentioned in the journal,” said a government official. For north Bengal and Sikkim, this is the third product of the region to earn a GI tag. Earlier, GI was conferred on a large cardamom cultivated in Sikkim. Also, the Darjeeling Tea was the first Indian product to get a GI tag. However, it is not clear if the red cherry pepper chilli will be known in the name of a region. Last year, Sikkim had produced around 250 tonnes of dalle khursani. “The figure is certain to go up this year. Government intervention by way of providing seeds, nutrients and other items will definitely boost production,” said M.T. Sherpa, secretary, Sikkim horticulture department. The largest manufacturer of dalle khursani products is the state government-owned Sikkim Supreme, which alone procured about 50 tonnes of the chilli last year to make pickles and pastes. “Around 60 per cent of tonnes are sold in the state. Our other major markets are the Northeast and north Bengal,” said an official. The August journal also revealed the news of GI tags for some other products which include Rataul Mango of Uttar Pradesh and Tamenglong Orange of Manipur. “Red Cherry Pepper (Capsicum annum var cerasiforme), locally known as Dalle khursani in Sikkim is well known for its unique flavour and high pungency. The crop belongs to the family Solanaceae and genus Capsicum. Plant grows up to 100-130 cm height under open field and 150-180 cm height in green house condition,” said the journal. The cherry-size red chillies are eaten in various forms, most famously as sauce to go with the region’s equally famous momos. They are also used to make pickles and pastes. The red hot chilli, which was retailing at about Rs 400 per kilogram in Gangtok markets on Wednesday, are also known to have medicinal properties. “It is high in vitamin A, vitamin E, and potassium, and low in sodium. One hundred grams of fresh dalle khursani have 240 mg of vitamin C (five times higher than an orange), 11,000 IU of vitamin A, and 0.7 mg of vitamin E,” the journal said. The conferment of GI tag on the chilli, which is also liked by tourists visiting Darjeeling, Kalimpong or Sikkim, has also made the locals react with glee. “Finally, the GI registration is approved for Dalle Khursani or our Cherry pepper chilli. Great job NERAMAC. This is landmark for an important produce of #Sikkim,” tweeted P. D. Rai, a two-time Parliamentarian from Sikkim.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-390
03-09-2020||West Bengal||Suri alma mater plans Pranab Mukherjee museum||Authorities of Suri Vidyasagar College have decided to build a museum in memory of its most famous alumnus, former President Pranab Mukherjee. Mukherjee, who passed away on Monday aged 84, had completed his graduation with Bengali honours from Suri Vidyasagar College in 1956. Two of his old classrooms will be turned into a museum, college authorities said. Principal Tapan Kumar Parichha said: “We are proud of our alumnus (Mukherjee) who went on to occupy the highest office in the country. We have in our possession documents from his college days and old photographs of Pranabbabu as a student.” A college source said they had copies of Mukherjee’s registration certificate, attendance register of his batch, and other old documents. “We have the chair on which Mukherjee sat during his visit to the college in 2012 as the President,” the source added. “During a visit, team members of NAAC (National Assessment and Accreditation Council) suggested we keep the original look of classrooms where the former President used to attend classes,” said Parichha. “To bring back the old look of the classrooms, we have sought the services of an architect.” After finishing his school in Kirnahar, Mukherjee moved to Suri in 1952 and took admission at the Suri Vidyasagar College. He spent four years of his student life in Suri before going on to study at Calcutta University. Mukherjee had fond memories of his college days. “I took admission to the ISc course here in 1952 and it seems like yesterday. My registration number was 5,057 and registration fee was Rs 2,” Mukherjee had recalled in his speech at the felicitation ceremony his college had organised for him in 2012 after he became the President. College sources said the authorities had planned a museum after Mukherjee’s visit to the college in 2012. The idea took a backseat over lack of planning. Sources said that the original building was made of lime and bricks and had a tin roof. The two classrooms are from the time the college was set up in 1942. Some officials said it would be tough to restore the brick and mortar look of the classrooms of Mukherjee’s time “The rooms were in such a dilapidated state that they could have collapsed any moment. So, we had to use cement to keep the walls standing,” said an official. However, a college teacher said: “We have already spoken to an architect who said the original look could be restored by removing the outer layer of cement.” Apart from the classrooms, the hostel building where Mukherjee used to stay and an old banyan tree that bears his memory would also be preserved, said a college teacher. On Wednesday, around 300 villagers of Mirati and adjoining areas took out two rallies to pay tributes to the son of the soil who passed away on Monday evening. “The villagers mourned the demise of their very own Kakababu who loved everyone and used to meet us during Durga Puja,” said Mirati resident Jadab Ghosh. The Visva-Bharati authorities have decided to hold a special memorial service on Friday in honour of the former President.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-390
03-09-2020||West Bengal||NEET: ‘Quiet’ aspirant from Belghoria missing||A 20-year-old from Belghoria went traceless on Tuesday morning when he left home to visit a temple on the extreme northern fringes of Calcutta. His two-wheeler and helmet were found on Wednesday morning nearly 172km away at Beldanga in Murshidabad district. Rakshit Mittal was to appear for NEET on September 13 for admission to medical colleges. His family said the youth would visit the temple every day and return home between 10.30 and 11 in the morning before settling down for his final leg of preparations. On Tuesday, Rakshit, who returned from Kota (in Rajasthan) six months ago after a preparatory course to crack NEET, was last seen at Sree Shyam Mandir in Ashokgarh, a few kilometres off his residence near Rathtala in Dunlop, around 10.18am. “We have set up a team to probe into the disappearance of the youth based on a missing diary filed by his parents. The team left for Beldanga on Wednesday afternoon,” said an officer of Barrackpore police commissionerate. The eldest of two brothers, Rakshit left home for the temple around 9.30am on Tuesday riding the scooter that his father had bought barely 20 days back. The vehicle didn’t have a registration number. Police have collected CCTV footage that show Rakshit in a striped tee and trousers inside the temple around 10am on Tuesday. What happened thereafter is unknown. Family members feared that Rakshit may have been abducted, but police sources said that the complaint lodged at Belghoria police station around 2pm on Tuesday did not mention it. After the complaint was lodged, the police informed all police stations with details of Rakshit’s build, the clothes he had on, and his mobile number. The police also started tracking his phone location. The police of Beldanga, where Rakshit’s scooter and helmet were found, said they found the buyer’s name, Belghoria address and a phone number from the documents in the vehicle. Rakshit’s parents Ashok and Kabita have told police they had no relatives in Beldanga and it was nearly impossible for their son to drive down such a long distance alone. He had only recently got his driving licence, the parents said. “Rakshit used to keep to himself and did not have too many friends with whom he would mingle. He was a very quiet boy,” Kavita told police. His father Ashok Mittal said: “He was in a happy mood preparing for the upcoming medical entrance test. On Tuesday, he took one of his regular breaks, but did not return home.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-390
03-09-2020||West Bengal||Trinamul Birbhum chief sees red over road||Trinamul district chief in Birbhum Anubrata Mondal was stumped by a party colleague on Wednesday with his plainspeak when the latter during a public meeting said that a road was better in his area during the Left regime. The Birbhum strongman had convened a meeting with the booth committee members of Suri II block areas in Purandarpur village on Wednesday. During the meeting, he asked why the party had lagged behind the BJP in two booths of Majhigram village under Damdama gram panchayat. Ganesh Roy, acting booth committee president, stood up with a microphone, blaming the poor condition of the 4km long mud road from Majhigram to Hatora. “The road is very bad and no one can even cycle along this stretch... The local people have lost faith in the party due to that road only,” said Roy, adding that a young man had asked him whether villagers should start fishing in the flooded road. A rattled Mondal tried to deflect the criticism by comparing the Trinamul regime with that of the Left. “Weren't they fishing in the road during the Left rule?" asked Mondal. The local leader replied: “During that time (Left’s tenure), it was possible at least to ride a cycle through the stretch. But now that’s not possible.” “You mean, the road was better in the Left regime?” Mondal asked. Pat came the reply: “Yes, the road was better.” Such plainspeak was clearly difficult for Mondal to digest, who reeled off all schemes like Kanyashree, Yuvashree and rice at Rs 2 a kg that the Mamata Banerjee government had rolled out after coming to power. “What else do you want?" Mondal asked. Roy said: “Yes, we got the benefits of all these schemes... But we need roads, well-lit lamp posts..” Mondal, aware that the interaction was getting recorded, finally lost his cool. “We don’'t need people like you... You could have said that Mamata Banerjee did a lot, but people in our village demand a proper road,” he said before asking his followers to immediately remove Roy from the booth committee. As Roy’s followers started leaving the venue, party district vice-president Abhijit Sinha calmed them down. Later, Mondal said: “It was a small misunderstanding. The road has been sanctioned. We will build it.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-390
03-09-2020||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee: GST legal opinion  ‘subterfuge’||Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, alleging that his government’s act of adding attorney-general K.K. Venugopal’s opinion to the discourse over the GST compensation impasse was apparently “an act of subterfuge” to undermine the faith of states in cooperative federalism. With her four-page missive to Modi, the Bengal chief minister made it clear she thought the Centre’s proposal that the state governments could borrow to meet the compensation deficit was a “betrayal of trust” and “violated the very premise of federalism”. In the letter, she expressed her objection to Venugopal being brought in, contrary to the spirit of dialogue. “… there was no legalistic approach taken by bringing in the AG, since it was a matter of trust with full cooperation between the states and the Centre,” she wrote, referring to the Centre referring to Venugopal’s view — brought up by the Centre last week — that the Union government was not legally bound to compensate from its coffers a shortfall in GST revenues of states. Her counterparts in Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Chhattisgarh and Delhi raised similar concerns. “… AG has been brought in, who seemed to opine that it is not the responsibility of the government of India to compensate the states for GST shortfall in the pandemic situation. This appears to be an act of subterfuge to undermine the trust reposed by the states in the spirit of cooperative federalism,” added the Trinamul Congress chief, who in a meeting of several non-BJP chief ministers convened by Congress chief Sonia Gandhi on August 26 fiercely defended the states’ right to the compensation. Sources close to Mamata said that she mentioned the AG’s opinion as she thought that his opinion was part of a plan to deny the states their legitimate dues. According to the Centre’s estimates, the compensation requirement of states in the current fiscal would be Rs 3 lakh crore, of which Rs 65,000 crore would come from levy of cess. Of the Rs 2.35 lakh crore shortfall, Rs 97,000 crore is for GST implementation and the remaining amount is to cover Covid-19-related expenses and losses. The Centre gave the states two options: borrow Rs 2.35 lakh crore or borrow Rs 97,000 crore through an RBI-provided window. The Mamata government has already rejected the twin formula, with state finance minister Amit Mitra claiming it neither has any headroom to borrow nor the ability to pay interest. Initial estimates suggest Bengal alone will face a shortfall of Rs 15,000 crore in GST collection this year as the economy faces headwinds from the Covid-19 pandemic. If the state plans to recoup the loss, which translates into 1.5 per cent of state GDP, entirely by market borrowing, it would hit the debt ceiling limit under the FRBM Act. “Why should we accept this deprivation from the Centre? In my letter, I spoke on behalf of all (including BJP-ruled) states,” Mamata said on Wednesday. “Why will you budge from a commitment? Commitments must always be honoured. There cannot be such a breach of trust. At this time, we think, it will only weaken federalism. There will be conflict between the states and the Centre. That is not correct,” she added. Expressing “deep anguish” by the GST impasse, which she called a “betrayal” of the trust and moral responsibility of the Centre towards the states, Mamata wrote: “This is a travesty and an abrogation of the fundamental basis on which the states gave up 70 per cent of their taxing powers, including the entire VAT regime, to usher in the GST regime.” Reminding Modi of his stand on the GST while he was the chief minister of Gujarat and the view of his party while in the national Opposition, placed on record by deceased leader Arun Jaitley in 2013, she asked the Prime Minister not to “belie the trust” between the states and the Centre. “I further urge you not to allow an insufferable blow to the federalist policy of our nation,” she added. Mamata’s party has planned extensive protest programmes on September 8, 14 and 20 across Bengal against the alleged deprivation of the state by the Centre. Announcing the decision, Trinamul secretary-general Partha Chatterjee said it was not only about the GST impasse but also Rs 53,000 crore in dues from the Centre, besides Cyclone Amphan relief.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-390
03-09-2020||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal 4th in recovery rate||Bengal on Wednesday recorded a new 24-hour high of 44,120 Covid-19 tests and a drop in active cases for the 10th consecutive day from 28,069 on August 23 to 24,445. The state reported 2,976 new cases in 24 hours till Wednesday 9am, fewer than the 3,297 recoveries in the same time. However, 56 deaths were reported on Wednesday, of which 17 are from Calcutta, taking the total toll to 3,339. Of the 1.68 lakh Covid-19 cases reported in Bengal since the first detected on March 17, nearly 1.41 lakh are recoveries. The state’s recovery rate is 83.53 now, far ahead of the national rate of 77.08 per cent. “Bengal is now fourth among states (after Delhi, Bihar and Tamil Nadu) in terms of recovery rate. With an active ratio (total active cases among total cases) of 14.49 per cent now, Bengal is third from bottom, with only Bihar and Delhi doing better,” said a minister. The state’s tests per million count is now 21,950, which was 10,384 a month ago. “The World Health Organisation’s advisory specifies a daily minimum of 140 tests per million. A month ago, Bengal was at 234. On Wednesday, it reported 490. Getting past 500 requires reaching 45,000 in daily testing, which will take a day or two,” the minister said. With more tests, and relatively fewer new cases in the past 10 days, positive confirmation rate improved from 8.9 to 8.54 per cent. Five most high-incidence districts Calcutta, North and South 24-Parganas, Howrah and Hooghly continued recording a collective fall in their total active cases — by 184 on Wednesday. Of 3,339 deaths, 2,892 (86.6 per cent) were reported comorbid. The state’s mortality rate improved to 1.97 per cent, while the national rate is 1.75. “We are trying to catch up with the national rate and expect to do so by mid-September,” said the minister. Bengal reported 32.75 per cent occupancy of 12,045 Covid-19 beds in 87 hospitals. Telemedicine services have been provided to nearly 1.58 lakh, 4,236 of them in the past 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-390
03-09-2020||West Bengal||Alipurduar earns praise for Covid control||The district health department of Alipurduar and the administration as a whole have earned appreciation from a team of senior officials of the state health department on a visit to north Bengal to take stock of the Covid-19 pandemic situation. The team, comprising the mission director of National Health Mission in Bengal Saumitra Mohan, the director of health services (DHS) Ajoy Kumar Chakroborty and director of medical education (DME) of the state Debasish Bhattacharya, have appreciated the manner in which the situation has been dealt with in the district, sources said. Unlike most parts of the state where the number of Covid-19 deaths are on the rise, the toll in Alipurduar remained relatively low at 13 so far. So far, 2,019 people have been detected with the infection in the district. Among them, 920 have cured and another 1,162 are still under observation and treatment. On Wednesday, a high-level meeting was held at Dooars Kanya, the district collectorate here, where the officials from Calcutta were briefed about the current Covid situation of the district. “The way this pandemic has been handled in Alipurduar district has made it a model in the state. There had been excellent teamwork across all tiers of the administration and district health department, coupled with proactive decisions and arrangements. That is why the pandemic could be controlled here,” said Chakraborty, the DHS of the state. Sources in the district health department said Alipurduar was the first district in the state to initiate preventive measures and safety protocols. Since January, steps like training health staff, making arrangements for medical inventories were taken. Also, the administration moved into the tea belt early, keeping in mind the vulnerability of the tea population as it is a common trend in tea estates to work in groups, whether in plantations or in factories. “The tea population, managerial staff and others concerned were apprised in detail about the pandemic and the ways and means to prevent it from spreading in the gardens. This campaign turned out to be effective and so far, the rate of infection has remained low in tea estates. Also, even if we find some people flouting the safety norms in towns, those in gardens strictly adhere to norms,” said an official. The health department took the task to set up health check-up camps at Jaigaon in the Indo-Bhutan border and Pakhriguri on the Bengal-Assam border to prevent the entry of any suspected Covid patient. This apart, questions were raised over the transfers of Puran Sharma, the immediate past chief medical officer of health (CMOH), and Subarno Goswami, a deputy CMOH, from the district. “Both were instrumental in checking the spread of the contagion, yet they were transferred. The decisions have not gone down well with those who are associated with government healthcare in Alipurduar district and those who visited from Calcutta are aware of it,” said a source. On Wednesday, a number of doctor organisations sent letters to chief minister Mamata Banerjee, requesting her to revoke the transfer order of these two health officials. The director of health services, when asked on the issue, dodged a direct reply. “One or two players can be changed in a team but that does not prevent the team from performing time and again,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-390
