04-09-2020||West Bengal||No Question Hour in the upcoming monsoon session of Bengal Assembly, says Speaker||There will be no Question Hour during the upcoming two-day monsoon session of the Bengal Assembly due to "paucity of time and the Covid-19 situation", Speaker Biman Banerjee said on Friday. The BJP has termed it as "double standard" of the Trinamool Congress, which had earlier called the decision to not have Question Hour during the upcoming Parliament session a "murder of democracy". Other major opposition parties in the state, the Congress and the CPI(M), however, said they will comment on the decision only after they are officially informed about it. "We have decided that there will be no Question Hour during the two-day monsoon session, scheduled to begin on September 9, due to paucity of time and the Covid-19 situation. "Having Question Hour will mean prolonging the session for which the MLAs will have to stay back for a longer period. We do not want that during this pandemic situation," Banerjee said. Senior Congress leader Abdul Mannan, also the leader of the Opposition in the Assembly, said he will comment only after he is officially informed about it. BJP Legislative Party leader Manoj Tigga said the decision reflects the "double standard of the TMC". "The TMC is demanding Question Hour during the upcoming Parliament session, scheduled to be held from September 14 to October 1, but it has decided not to include it in the Assembly proceedings in Bengal. This is nothing but double standard of the party," he said. The speaker had earlier announced that the monsoon session of the Assembly will be held from September 9 in strict compliance with the ICMR's guidelines and every person entering the premises during the period, including lawmakers, journalists and House staffers, will have to undergo Covid-19 tests. The seating arrangement for the MLAs has been made in adherence to social distancing norms and no visitor will be allowed inside the House during the two-day session, he had said. The state government had last week sent a proposal to the speaker to convene the monsoon session either from the first or the second week of September, sources said. "As per the norms, there cannot be a gap of more than six months between two Assembly sessions. The previous session was adjourned sine die in March. So, the next session will have to be held by September," a senior TMC leader said. The 294-member Bengal Assembly was adjourned on March 17, when the budget session was curtailed due to the Covid-19 outbreak.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-388
04-09-2020||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly session on September 9 and 10||The Bengal Assembly will meet for a short duration on September 9 and 10, Speaker Biman Banerjee said on Thursday. Every individual entering the Assembly premises will have to undergo a rapid antigen test for coronavirus, Banerjee added. The last session of the Assembly was adjourned on March 17 because of the outbreak of Covid-19. “However, in the constitutional framework, a House has to meet once in six months. After much deliberations, the Speaker decided to call for a ‘token session’ before the six months of time span expires,” said a source. An all-party session and the meeting of the Business Advisory committee will be held on September 8, when a decision will be taken on what issues will be discussed in the Assembly. Banerjee emphasised that the session would be held abiding by all kinds of social distancing protocol. Lawmakers, employees and journalists will be tested for Covid-19. “We have arranged for these tests on September 8 and 9. If there are still some people left, they will be tested on the 10th. Only those testing negative will be allowed on the premises,” Banerjee said. The test results will be out in half an hour. “We have estimated that around 250 to 300 people will be coming to the Assembly on these two days,” Banerjee told The Telegraph. “All 294 MLAs don’t turn up every day. The number of lawmakers is 140 maximum,” he added. MLAs will be allowed to enter 10 minutes in advance so that they can locate their seats. Sources said the seating arrangement inside the House would be rearranged to leave a considerable gap between two lawmakers. There are plans to use the audience and gallery areas as well. However, Opposition leaders expressed concern over the short span of time for the Assembly session. “Technically, the session will be of a single day since the first day will be spent to pay tributes to departed souls,” said CPM lawmaker Sujan Chakraborty reminding that the Assembly normally sat for three weeks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-388
04-09-2020||West Bengal||Bar on sea bathing in Digha||A five-day bar on sea bathing as a precaution against the rough sea has been clamped in East Midnapore’s Digha where tourist rush has given lockdown-weary hoteliers a reason to smile. The department of disaster management and civil defence on September 1 alerted the administration of seven south Bengal districts, including East Midnapore, to high tidal waves exceeding 19 feet — about the height of a double-storey building — lashing the coastal belt between Wednesday and Sunday. The administration barred tourists from venturing into the sea till September 6. Ever since Unlock 1 rolled out on May 31, tourists have been flocking to seaside resorts in East Midnapore. The rush increased since August 15. As high tidal waves, which usually occur during full moon and new moon nights, are likely to lash the coastal belt over the weekend because of the full moon, the administration did not want to take chances. “The state disaster management department has alerted us that the sea is expected to remain rough till September 6. The rush of tourists to the sea resorts increases during the weekends. To avoid any loss of lives, we have imposed a ban on bathing in the sea till September 6. We are conducting a campaign to alert tourists to the dangers of venturing into the sea,” said Ramnagar-I BDO Bishnupada Roy. “Every monsoon at least 25-30 tourists die as they try to be adventurous and venture into the rough sea. This year there has been only one death at Tajpur. We do not want unnecessary loss of lives,” said officer-in-charge of Digha police station Krishnendu Pradhan. He said as Digha was slowly getting back to its normal self, the administration was extra careful about safety. Hoteliers are also concerned about tourist safety. Joint secretary of the Digha-Shankarpur Hoteliers’ Association Bipradas Chakrabarty said: “All hotels are up and running because of the rush of tourists since mid-August. As more buses have been running on the route since Unlock 4 was announced, we expected a rush this weekend. People tend to love a rough sea. As far as bookings go, this weekend will be no different. We want to make the most of the situation as we have suffered because of the lockdown. However, we want people to stay safe.” Schoolteacher Soumen Konar, walking on the seaside with his family, said: “We have come to enjoy the beauty of a rough sea. But we need to be safe. Too much adventure may end in tragedy.” As a government vehicle zipped past telling people about the sea bathing ban, he said: “That’s good.” Fishermen have been asked to stay away from the rough sea, deputy director, department of fisheries (marine), Surajit Bagh said. The administration is also evacuating people from the low-lying areas near the sea.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-388
04-09-2020||West Bengal||Calcutta High Court case on animal killings||Calcutta High Court on Thursday started a suo motu case on killings of elephants, bison and birds in north Bengal forests. A division bench headed by Chief Justice T.B.N. Radhakrishnan observed that such incidents would have to be stopped immediately. The court directed the registrar general of the court to make principal secretary, forest, chief conservator of forests and all other officers concerned parties to the case. The forest department was also asked to file a comprehensive report on the killings and the problems it was facing in tackling the issue. As a few elephants had been electrocuted in the recent past, the bench also directed that the West Bengal State Electricity Distribution Corporation be made a party to the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-388
04-09-2020||West Bengal||NEET: Missing boy back home, kin blame stress||The NEET aspirant who had gone missing two days ago from Belghoria returned home on Thursday morning. Rakshit Mittal, 20, had disappeared from his Belghoria home on Tuesday on a two-wheeler that was found in Murshidabad’s Beldanga on Wednesday, sparking kidnap fears. He was just stressed because of his medical entrance test on September 13, his family members said on Thursday. Late on Wednesday, the youth called up his parents to tell them that he was in Siliguri and had boarded a Calcutta-bound bus, police sources said. His family received him as he alighted from the bus near the airport on Thursday morning. His uncle Dinesh Mittal said: “His father wants him to study medicine. As he had failed to clear the exam twice, he was under stress. He left home unable to bear the burden of his father’s expectations.” An officer of Barrackpore police commissionerate said: “He only had Rs 1,500 on him. Reaching Siliguri, he feared running out of money and decided to inform his mother.” Rakshit’s family took him to Barrackpore police commissioner Manoj Verma, who offered the youth chocolates and advised him not to leave home again and share his concerns with his parents.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-388
04-09-2020||West Bengal||Deadline to issue 8 lakh farm credit cards||The Bengal government has asked banks to issue 7.89 lakh kisan credit cards (KCC) by September 15 as part of its bid to stand by small and marginal farmers in the midst of the Covid-19 pandemic. State finance and industry minister Amit Mitra said on Thursday that the target had been given to the banks — both public and private sector — as the state government was keen on issuing 20 lakh KCCs by September 15 this year. “Already 12.11 lakh cards were issued between June 1 and August 31 because of consistent efforts by the state government as well as the banks. We have asked the PSU banks, cooperative banks and regional rural banks (RRBs) during an SLBC (state level bankers committee) meeting on Thursday to issue remaining cards by September 15,” said Mitra. Issuance of over 12 lakh KCCs in three months — a record if compared with past numbers maintained in the agriculture department — during the pandemic holds significance for two reasons, said the economist-turned-politician. First, it would ensure that lakhs of farmers don’t face trouble to invest in the kharif season as they would be eligible for bank loans and it would minimise their dependence on local money lenders, who often lend money at a much higher rate during the pandemic. Second, it would ensure that employment opportunities don’t shrink in the agriculture sector at a time when earning a livelihood has become a problem for many in the rural areas because of the pandemic. “Before June 1 this year, a total of 35 lakh KCCs were issued in the state so far. With the issuance of 12.11 lakh KCCs, the figure has reached 47.11 lakh. If we achieve the target of issuing 20 lakh cards by September 15, a total of 55 lakh farmers would have KCCs, which will be a success,” said a senior official. If 55 lakh farmers have KCCs, officials said, majority of the small and marginal farmers in the state would be covered. “The state has a total of 72 lakh farmers. About 10 lakh farmers don’t need bank loans as they are financially stable. If 55 lakh farmers are covered by KCC, it will be an achievement and it would leave a positive impact on the agriculture sector,” said an official. The agriculture department officials believe that if the majority of the farmers are eligible for bank loans, they could be encouraged to go for diversification like cultivation of pulses, instead of potato surplus production of which often leaves farmers in trouble. Diversification boosts farmers’ earnings and creates a direct impact in the rural economy, which further boosts aggregate demand and results in higher growth numbers. The finance minister said achieving the target of issuing a total of 20 lakh cards by September 15 was not difficult. “It is very much possible as 5.5 lakh applications are pending with the banks. Another 2.6 lakh applications have been rejected citing lack of documentations. The district magistrates would look after the rejected applications and the banks have been asked to clear the pending applications by September 15,” said Mitra. As part of augmenting rural income, the state government is also laying stress on bringing farmers associated with pisciculture and animal resources development under the KCC net. Sources said the state government monitored the process of issuing KCCs during the pandemic with due seriousness to ensure that the rural economy did not face the brunt of the economic slowdown that has become a nation-wide phenomenon. “If many of the farmers, particularly the small and marginal ones, were unable to cultivate plots, it would have spelt a disaster in the rural economy. No ruling party would like to face a situation like this ahead of the Assembly polls, as 72 lakh families directly associated with farming holds the key to electoral success in Bengal,” a source said. The finance minister also said that a sum of Rs 15,404 crore had been disbursed as loan to MSME sector between April 1 and June 30, which is also an achievement as a large part of the period fell during the nation-wide lockdown. Besides, the state government has set a target for the banks to disburse loans of Rs 15,000 crore to the self-help groups in the ongoing financial year, while a total of Rs 9,225 crore was disbursed last year. “All these are efforts to help the downtrodden people during the pandemic. The target is to ensure that the rural economy does not take a hit because of the pandemic,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-388
04-09-2020||West Bengal||Over 45,000 tests in a day, active cases fall||Bengal on Thursday went past 20 lakh tests with a record 45,291 tests in 24 hours, taking the state past 500 tests per million people in a day. Bengal logged 3,335 recoveries in 24 hours till 9am on Thursday, much more than the 2,984 new infections in the same span. The toll, however, rose by 55, and 15 of those deaths occurred in Calcutta. With this, total number of cases in Bengal is 1.71 lakh, of which recoveries are over 1.44 lakh and deaths 3,394. Bengal’s recovery rate is 84.02 now, much ahead of the national rate of 77.21 per cent. Having begun testing in early February, it took Bengal six months to get to 10 lakh tests on August 5, and from there, crossing 20 lakh took 29 days, the latest lakh in two days. The tests per million is now 22,453, which was 10,630 even a month ago. “This is a tremendous achievement. Till August 5, we had 10.03 lakh tests. Today, we have nearly 20.21 lakh. Our daily testing is past 45,000,” said a minister. “The World Health Organisation’s advisory specifies a daily minimum of 140 tests per million. A month ago, Bengal was at 245. Today, it is at 503.” With more testing, and relatively fewer new cases found over the past 11 days, positive confirmation rate improved from 8.9 to 8.5 per cent. For the 11th consecutive day, the state reported a fall in total active cases, with more recoveries than new cases. The total active cases on August 23 was 28,069, and on Thursday it was 24,039. The five most high-incidence districts of Bengal — Calcutta, North and South 24-Parganas, Howrah and Hooghly — collectively recorded a fall, this time of 372, in their total of active cases. From 7,041 active cases of August 9, Calcutta improved to 4,178 on Thursday. Of the total deaths, 2,938 (86.6 per cent) were reported comorbid by the state government. The overall mortality rate stayed at 1.97, while the national rate is 1.74 per cent. Bengal reported 32.36 per cent occupancy of 12,275 Covid-19 beds in 90 hospitals. Telemedicine services have been provided to over 1.62 lakh, 4,257 of them in the past 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-388
04-09-2020||West Bengal||Bhutan’s phased unlock spells hope||The Bhutan government has decided to start relaxing the nationwide lockdown, prompting loud cheers among traders on the Indian side of the border. The neighbouring country’s move signals that cross-border trade, which had come to a grinding halt since August 11 when it clamped a total lockdown amid a sudden spike in Covid-19 cases, will resume. In Bhutan, the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) announced on August 31 — after 21 days of lockdown — that the government would initiate the unlock process from September 1 in three phases over 10 days, that is, till September 10. Curbs will continue in Phuentsholing, Gelephu, Sandrupjonkhar and Samtse, near the Indian border. “As of now, only a few trucks carrying petro fuels are entering Bhutan. There has been an improvement in the Covid situation in Bhutan and we hope unlocking will soon start in Phuentsholing that has been marked as a red zone,” said Rakesh Pandey, secretary, Jaigaon Hardware & Electrical Goods Merchants’ Association. “This would bring some respite for us as we can resume supplying goods to the country. There has been a decline in supplies in the hospitality sector as tourist movement stopped. But even then, supplies that the Bhutanese population need can at least help us survive.” Ramashankar Gupta, secretary of Jaigaon Merchants’ Association, pointed that easing of Bhutan lockdown could help them in another way. “Because of the lockdown, we could not deposit Bhutanese currency we have with us in the banks in Bhutan. Many of us are sitting with hordes of Bhutanese notes and cannot use them to make payments (in India). Now that there are indications of relaxation, we feel we can get over this problem,” said Gupta. According to trade statistics of Bhutan, goods worth over Rs 8,000 crore are traded between the countries in a year, and if electricity is included, the sum is over Rs 9,000 crore. “Of the total imports of Bhutan, 84 per cent is sent from India, and 74 per cent of Bhutan’s total exports are sent to India. This indicates the mutual dependence of both the nations,” said a trade expert. The release issued by the PMO in Bhutan states: “We will strengthen vigilance along our borders and ensure augmented safety for trading interactions. Special and additional measures will be introduced in the high risk areas to protect the community. Additional tier of protection to avoid spillage of the disease from high risk to lesser risk communities will be ensured.” Travel trade stakeholders are keeping fingers crossed. “We don’t know what is in store for us in this year,” said Biswajit Saha, secretary, Jaldapara Lodge Owners’ Association. The Tourism Council of Bhutan says over 2.3 lakh Indians had been to Bhutan last year. This is 73 per cent of the total number of tourists who visited the country from other nations, says the data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-388
04-09-2020||West Bengal||Fixed by villagers, road awaits fitness report ||A 20km-long stretch of Jibanti-Sherpur road, repaired for Rs 80 lakh raised by villagers, remains closed over an administrative bottleneck. Murshidabad district administration has refused to allow traffic there, citing the lack of an “inspection report”. The road that links the district to Rampurhat in Birbhum was closed to traffic since June 3 as the administration felt allowing traffic on the crater-ridden stretch would lead to accidents. The decision inconvenienced more than 1 lakh residents of the Jibanti-Sherpur area. When repeated pleas for repairs went in vain, villagers raised funds on their own, and repaired the road over a month ago. “The government was supposed to do what the people have done with their own funds,” a government official had admitted. But asked why the administration was not allowing the road to reopen, district police chief, Murshidabad, K. Sabari Rajkumar said: “We don’t have an engineer in police to certify whether the road is fit for movement of vehicles. We can’t allow heavy vehicles on the road without a (fitness) report.” Atanu Sen, executive engineer of the public works department, which usually issues fitness certificates after roads are repaired, declined to comment. “The administration has restricted movement of vehicles on that road. I have nothing to comment regarding Jibanti-Sherpur road,” said Sen. But people are livid. “Though the villagers spent Rs 80 lakh from their pockets, hired earthmoving machines and gave labour to repair the road a month ago, the stretch is closed because of administrative apathy,” said a member of the Jibanti-Sherpur Sarak Unnayan Committee, formed to raise funds and facilitate the repairs. Syed Mehboob Alam, secretary of the committee,  added: “Movement of vehicles was stopped as the road was full of potholes. Villagers repaired it with their own money, but a reluctant administration is not allowing vehicles to ply on the road. They can’t even cite a proper reason for the delay.” The villagers are livid as the administration sits on road inspection. “We met the executive engineer of the public works department and district police chief on Wednesday. They assured us that the road would be opened after an inspection. It is over a month since we finished repairing the road, but the dilemma over an inspection continues,” Alam added. Some villagers also accused the police of extorting from truck drivers at points from where vehicles are being diverted towards Moregram and Berhampore. “The delay to open the road is to ensure that the business of extortion can continue. The extortion amount ranges from Rs 4,000 to Rs 5,000 per truck,” said Komal Sheikh, a lorry owner and resident of Mahalandi village in Khargram.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-388
04-09-2020||West Bengal||Enforcement Directorate team visits Visva-Bharati ||A two-member team of the Enforcement Directorate on Thursday came here for a two-hour closed-door meeting with Visva-Bharati vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty and officiating registrar Ashok Mahato. The central agency that deals with economic offences was asked to probe the source of funds that had apparently been mobilised for the vandalism on varsity campus on August 17 over protests against a boundary wall on Pous Mela ground. “It was a closed-door meeting of ED officials with the VC and officiating registrar. They held preliminary discussions and said they would visit the campus again,” said a varsity official. Many see the involvement of the ED as an attempt by the Centre to nail the Trinamul, whose leaders, including MLA Naresh Bauri, were accused by the central varsity authorities of mobilising the mob on campus. ED sources in Calcutta said the team, consisting of officers of assistant director rank, visited Santiniketan to find out if there was a cognisable offence that merited a probe by the central agency. On their way back to Calcutta, the ED sleuths went to see the vandalised gate and the Pous Mela ground. However, the officials did not get down from their car. District police officers said the team did not inform them about the visit and neither did they meet cops of Santiniketan police station. The incident of vandalism happened in an area under the jurisdiction of the Santiniketan police station. Earlier, the ED had sent a letter to Birbhum police seeking copies of five FIRs lodged over the incident of vandalism and construction of a wall on Pous Mela ground. They had also sought action-taken reports in all the five complaints. Police sources said they were yet to send any such document to the central agency. “We have not sent any document related to the case as we are carrying out our own investigation,” said a senior police officer. Leaders of Bolpur Traders’ Association, who have been accused by Visva-Bharati of taking part in the vandalism, said the ED should find out whether the tender process to construct the boundary wall had been done properly. “If ED officials talk to us, we will request them to inquire into the tender process that was issued to construct the wall on the Pous Mela ground. The Rs 90-lakh tender was done without going through the stipulated process of e-tendering process. We will request the ED to look into the role of the varsity authorities, including its VC who is yet to return the security deposits worth Rs 1 crore of around 1,500 traders,” said Subrata Bhakat, treasurer of the traders’ association. The varsity had taken security deposits from traders for taking part in last year’s Pous Mela. In a related development, the contractor assigned to build the wall has submitted a report that he had suffered a loss of Rs 6 lakh because of the vandalism. The ED team of officers from the agency’s Calcutta office reached the varsity’s central office at 11.45am. After the meeting, they went to the Ratan Kuthi guest house and stayed there for an hour. The team left Santiniketan around 3pm. “After refreshments at the guest house, the team left Santiniketan and the varsity’s security personnel escorted the team up to the Birbhum border,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-388
04-09-2020||West Bengal||Acid splashed on Cooch Behar official||A former ration dealer walked into the office of the Cooch Behar district food controller and splashed acid on him on Thursday afternoon to avenge an old legal setback. Food controller Dawa Wangel Lama suffered serious burn injuries on his cheek and is under treatment now at the Cooch Behar Government Medical College & Hospital. Police arrested the attacker, Ashok Kumar Bansal, 60. Initial probe revealed Bansal, in the late 1980s, was a ration shop owner in Binnaguri of Jalpaiguri, and Lama the sub-controller of food in the district. Bansal then had run into problems with the state food and supplies department. Sources said that on Thursday Lama was working in his chamber when Bansal, who is from Hissar in Haryana, came to meet him. As Bansal entered Lama’s chamber, he asked the latter if he was “Mr Lama”. When the official nodded, Bansal immediately splashed acid on him and tried to escape. Lama raised an alert, prompting other employees to rush and intercept Bansal. A police team led by Soumyajit Roy, the inspector-in-charge of Kotwali police station, reached the spot and took Bansal into custody. Lama was rushed to the CGMCH. A police officer said that Bansal, as a ration dealer back in the 1980s, had filed a case against the state food and supplies department at Calcutta High Court. He lost the case against the department and filed another case in Punjab & Haryana High Court. He lost again. As the district food controller, who was a sub-controller of food then, was instrumental in getting the cases quashed, Lama became revengeful against the officer and took this step, the police officer added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-389
04-09-2020||West Bengal||Fatal mishap, suicide in Jalpaiguri||Sunil Roy, a 67-year-old resident of Karjipara village in Rajganj block of Jalpaiguri, hanged himself on Wednesday night, hours after his son Bikash, 46, died in a road accident. Sources said that Bikash had been walking home on a village road when he was hit by a pick-up van. He died on the spot. When his father heard the news, he rushed to the mishap site. After seeing his son dead, Sunil returned home and then hanged himself, sources said. The van is yet to be traced, police said. Wednesday’s double tragedy led to a protest by around 100 residents of the locality on Thursday, who demanded that civic volunteers should be engaged in the area to monitor traffic and speed-breakers placed to prevent such mishaps from recurring on the stretch. Around 1.30pm, Khageshwar Roy, the area’s Trinamul MLA, as well as the Rajganj block development officer and police station officer-in-charge pacified the crowd, and assured them that the demands would be looked into.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-389
04-09-2020||West Bengal||Binay camp writes to PM, CM on hill demands||Two top leaders of the Binay Tamang faction of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha have written separately to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee seeking their intervention for meeting two long-standing demands in the Darjeeling hills. The letters are being viewed as the Tamang camp’s attempt to establish itself as the voice of the people in the hills in the run up to the Bengal polls. Tamang has sent a letter to Modi seeking conferment of Scheduled Caste status on 11 communities in the hills. Anit Thapa, the general secretary of the faction and chairperson of the Board of Administrators of the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration, has sent a letter to Mamata requesting her to look into the demand raised by the contractual employees of GTA who want their jobs to be made permanent. “This approach is balanced... They can now claim that they take up the issues of the hills not only with the Centre but also with the Trinamul government. Trinamul and the Tamang camp are allies,” said an observer. In his letter to Modi, Tamang has mentioned that the demand to include the communities, namely, Bhujel, Gurung, Mangar, Newar, Jogi, Khas, Rai, Sunwar, Thami, Yakhha (Dewan) and Dhimal in the list of the ST according to The Constitutional (Scheduled Tribes) Order, 1950 under Article 342 of the Indian Constitution had been raised time and again. He has also pointed out that back in 2016, a committee was formed by the Union ministry of tribal affairs to look into the demand but what it did thereafter was not known to the people in the hills. For the past few years, the issue was time and again raised by hill parties before the BJP MPs who have been representing Darjeeling since 2009. The sudden missive from the Morcha to the Prime Minister is being considered as a strategy to put pressure on the BJP. “Like permanent political solution, this issue had also earned assurance from different quarters of the BJP. Now that the BJP is focussing on the Bengal Assembly elections, it seems the Tamang faction is trying to mount pressure on the party,” said a veteran in hill politics. Anit has told the Trinamul government that the demand of GTA employees should be considered. “In his letter, he has mentioned that since the days of the DGHC, temporary employees have been recruited by different departments. Their demand to make them permanent is old. The GTA has informed the state that it intends to give such appointments to them. However, no decision has reached the GTA from the state so far,” said a Morcha insider. In total, over 4,000 temporary employees work in four categories at the GTA and since Wednesday, they have been on a pen-down strike and it will continue till September 10 over the demand. The letter to Mamata, political analysts said, indicates that the Tamang faction also wants to prove that it, too, can mount pressure on its ally. Civic employees’ plea A group of casual employees of Darjeeling municipality met L.B. Rai, the president of Trinamul’s Darjeeling district committee (hills), requesting him to approach the state to make their jobs permanent. Rai said on Thursday that he had decided to meet Firhad Hakim, the state minister for municipal affairs and urban development in Calcutta, with a delegation of these employees. Additional reporting by Bireswar Banerjee||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-389
04-09-2020||West Bengal||Protests by BJP union in tea gardens||The Bharatiya Terai Dooars Workers’ Union (BTDWU), which is backed by the BJP, organised demonstrations in over 200 tea gardens in the plains of north Bengal on Thursday and raised a series of demands ranging from conferment of land rights on the residents of the plantations to fixing of minimum wages. This is the first time in recent months that the BJP has taken up such an activity in the brew belt of north Bengal, where the party performed well in the Lok Sabha elections last year. “We want tea companies to pay workers bonus at 20 per cent ahead of Durga Puja this year. Also, the Bengal government should see that other issues like minimum wages for the workers and granting of land rights to people living in tea gardens are resolved at the earliest as they have been pending for many years. Our trade union will continue to harp on these issues and will keep on organising different activities in tea gardens,” said John Barla, the BJP MP of Alipurduar and the chairman of the BTDWU. Since morning, protests had been held under the banner of the trade union in the tea gardens. Hundreds of workers took part in the protests and raised slogans for about an hour before joining their duties. Barla joined the protests at Lakhipara, a tea estate in Jalpaiguri district where he resides. “Similar demonstrations would be held in the gardens on Friday. There are a number of gardens where the management is not depositing the provident fund even though the amount is being deducted from the workers’ wages. Healthcare and quarters are in a shambles in most tea gardens. The tea companies and the state can no longer ignore these issues,” said Barla. Senior tea planters based in the region said the BJP was trying to mount pressure on the Trinamul Congress government by holding the protests. They said as the BJP had managed to secure support of the tea population last year, the party was trying to make its presence felt in the brew belt keeping in mind the Assembly elections next year. North Bengal has at least 15 Assembly constituencies where votes of tea workers and their families decide the fate of candidates. Trinamul leaders based in the tea belt, however, said such strategies of the BJP would not work. “In fact, such demonstrations, which are being planned at a time when tea production is at the peak, would upset the industry and eventually affect workers. We, too, want the workers to be paid bonus at a decent rate and for that, the usual negotiation process of bipartite talks would be followed. The BJP leaders should spell out what the Centre has done for the tea industry,” said Mohan Sharma, chairman, Trinamul Congress Cha Bagan Mazdoor Union.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-389
04-09-2020||West Bengal||BJP worker ‘custodial death’ outcry in Bengal||A BJP supporter in North Dinajpur died on Wednesday evening, a few hours after his arrest in connection with a crime, prompting district party leaders accuse the police of killing him in custody and demand a CBI inquiry. The bereaved family of Anup Roy, 23, seconded the party’s allegation and demands. Police, in turn, said Anup fell ill. The report of a post-mortem done on Wednesday night, out on Thursday, stated cerebral haemorrhage as the cause of death. BJP leaders demanded a second post-mortem. Sources said on Wednesday around 1pm, a team from Raiganj police station went to Nandangram village of Itahar block. There, they arrested Anup, a former CPI supporter who defected to BJP around six months ago, in connection with a recent snatching case. Some youths on bikes had held two traders at gunpoint and looted Rs 1 lakh on NH34 in Ghughudanga More of Raiganj on August 28. Four youths who were arrested reportedly named Anup as mastermind during their interrogation. Anup was accused of planning the crime, arranging the bikes and firearms and handing over a share of the booty to these youths. “We brought him (Anup) for interrogation but after some time he suddenly fell ill and was rushed to Raiganj Government Medical College & Hospital. There, he died late in the evening. Nevertheless, an inquiry into the death has been ordered,” said Sumit Kumar, North Dinajpur SP. BJP leaders were not ready to buy the post-mortem report. “He has been murdered in police custody, and to conceal it, the post-mortem was done at night. We want the post mortem to be done before a magistrate during daytime and a CBI investigation into the case,” said Biswajit Lahiri, North Dinajpur district BJP president. Gita, Anup’s mother, said: “We suspect my son has been brutally tortured and that is why he has died. Also, the police tried to implicate him falsely in a case. We want the CBI to investigate.” On Thursday evening, some BJP leaders blocked Raiganj’s MG Road to raise the demands.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-389
04-09-2020||West Bengal||Fresh erosion in Malda||A fresh bout of erosion by the Ganga caused havoc at Birnagar-I panchayat in Kaliachak-III block of Malda on Thursday, gobbling nearly 30 houses in a couple of hours since the afternoon. The erosion, which again turned acute after a respite of three days, worsened the situation in the area as the river also swallowed a 250-metre stretch of concrete road, to the dismay of the residents of Durgaramtola village. Alarmed by the expanding erosion, officials of district administration, who had earlier spoken with the Farakka Barrage Project (FBP) Authority — responsible for protection work in areas where the river is engulfing land on its left bank — are now sending a letter to them on the gravity of the situation. The state irrigation department will send a separate letter to FBP authorities, said sources. Villagers said people who lost their houses on Thursday are mostly migrant workers at Durgaramtola village. Many of these families are in economic distress for the past few months as workers are back home and jobless amid the pandemic-induced lockdown. Now, they are homeless too. “We were resting at home when suddenly erosion started in the afternoon. Before we could do anything, nearly 30 houses were swallowed by water. People could shift only some of their belongings, the rest were submerged,” said resident Birbal Mandal. Manik Mandal, a member of the panchayat was seen standing helplessly with neighbours Serajul Sheikh, Kalu Sheikh, Subhash Mandal and others. “Nearly 200 families have started dismantling their houses to shift to nearby mango orchards overnight,” the panchayat member said. “The damage to the road has caused further trouble as Durgaramtola is now inaccessible by even a two-wheeler,” schoolteacher Mohammed Jiaul Haque said. Rajarshi Mitra, the district magistrate of Malda, said: “The block administration has been directed to adopt all possible measures to cope with the situation. Preparations for rehabilitation of the erosion victims are underway. We already had a discussion over the situation with FBP authorities. Now, a letter would be sent to them on Friday, detailing the situation,” he said. Mausam Benazir Noor, Rajya Sabha MP, and the district Trinamul chief of Malda visited the affected areas with some party leaders on Thursday. “It is the barrage authorities who are responsible for this situation. We will raise the issue at necessary quarters and also take up political activities in protest,” said Noor. Erosion by the Ganga in Kaliachak-III block started in June-end when stretches of farmland and some homes were lost at Chak-Bahadurpur. The irrigation department adopted preventive steps. In August-end, erosion was seen in China Bazar and Sarkarpara areas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-389
