05-09-2020||West Bengal||Govt begins repair of damaged dyke||The irrigation department has finally taken up the job to fix the damaged dyke in East Midnapore’s Sankarpur with black stones since Thursday, the move coming a week after villagers joined hands to temporarily repair the embankment to prevent frequent flooding of the area. Since Thursday, the irrigation department has engaged a huge team of labourers in Sankarpur, a fishing harbour known for its dry fish business, to repair the damaged dyke. Over two days, 100 dumpers have brought in black stones that will be used to repair the dyke. “High tides are expected to hit the area on September 17. The high tides could lead to severe flooding in the area. To prevent flooding in the area, we are repairing the embankment on a war footing,” said BDO of Ramnagar-I block, Bishnupada Roy. An engineer in the irrigation department said a 7km stretch of the embankment between Sankarpur and Tajpur had been damaged. The work will be done in three phases. “In the first phase, we will repair 2.8km of the stretch beginning from Sankarpur to Jalda. Tender for the first phase is complete. It will cost the government Rs 78 crore. The second phase will cover 3km of the embankment from Sankarpur to the confluence in Digha. It will be done for Rs 77 crore,” said assistant engineer of the irrigation department Swapan Mondal. Swapan Mondal said in the third phase, the damaged embankment stretching from Tajpur to Jalda would be repaired. However, funds for the third phase have not been allotted as the sea has intruded into the pine forest that lines the beach. As much of the pine forest has been damaged following intrusion of the sea, it has to be assessed separately and will be done later, an engineer in the irrigation department said. Multiple sources in the Irrigation department said that the people’s initiatives in repairing the embankments was the trigger behind the department’s prompt decision to address the problem. The Telegraph had reported on August 30 that 500 residents, mostly fishermen, in Sankarpur had temporarily repaired a 1km stretch that was damaged when high tides and incessant rain had lashed the area between August 20 and 23. “Repeated pleas to district officials to repair the embankment did not elicit any response. So we thought we must do something to save ourselves,” a villager had told The Telegraph last week as he loaded bags with sand to place them on the top of the dyke that runs along the coastal road from Sankarpur to Tajpur. Trinamul MLA and vice-chairman of the Digha-Sankarpur Development Authority Akhil Giri, however, said: “Fund for repair of the damaged embankment had already been allotted, but work could not start because of the lockdown. The work will be over before the end of monsoon.” The Digha-Sankarpur Fishermen’s Association and the former CPM MLA from the area Swadesh Nayak had helped fishermen in Sankarpur to repair the damage. The involvement of an Opposition leader like Nayak in the initiative forced the local Trinamul leadership to ask the administration to take up the project to repair the embankment on an emergency basis. Asked about the government’s initiative, Nayak said: “The villagers had forced the government’s hands by taking up the job of repairing the embankment on their own. Though late, the initiative will help the poor villagers.” In a related development, five dumpers carrying black stones got stuck on the beach in Digha when waves hit them during the high tide on Friday. Mandal said cranes had been deployed to retrieve the dumpers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-386
05-09-2020||West Bengal||Smuggling cuffs on 3 Bangla youths||The BSF have arrested three Bangladeshis from Sobhapur village, located on the Indian side near the Bangla border, for allegedly smuggling a banned cough syrup. Mehboob Alam, 32, Rabiul Islam, 22, and Sayan Sk, 18, were held after 450 bottles of Phensedyl, a banned cough syrup, were seized from their possession late on Thursday night. The arrested trio are residents of Dudhpara village in the Nawabganj district of Bangladesh. The BSF personnel said they had handed over the three youths to Samserganj police. BSF sources said the three youths were held late on Thursday night while trying to cross over to Bangladesh with a bag of the banned cough syrup. Y. Raghuvamshi, the superintendent of police, Jangipur district, said: “The arrested Bangladeshi youths were produced in the additional chief judicial magistrate’s court at Jangipur on Friday and remanded in police custody for five days.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-386
05-09-2020||West Bengal||Meeting over delayed highway project||State tourism minister Gautam Deb held a meeting with officials of the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) on Friday and took stock of the situation of the ongoing four-lane corridor project that was initiated around 20 years ago to connect north Bengal and the northeast. The meeting, Deb said, was held as per instructions of chief minister Mamata Banerjee who wants the project to be completed at the earliest. The four-lane expressway was planned to connect Porbandar of Gujarat with Silchar in Assam. It enters Bengal along NH31 through Purnia More, the junction of NH34 and NH31 at Dalkhola in North Dinajpur. From there, the road moves through the outskirts of Siliguri, Jalpaiguri, Falakata, Cooch Behar and Alipurduar and enters Assam. “There are a number of stretches along the proposed corridor where the four-laning is yet to be done. While there are land issues in some locations, there are other tasks like shifting of power transmission towers in some places. The chief minister wants the project to finish at the earliest and that is why, we held the meeting to draw a plan so that the pending issues can be resolved,” Deb said after the meeting that was held at Uttarkanya, the branch secretariat of the state in Siliguri. In course of the meeting, the minister also laid emphasis on early completion of the four-lane bypass at Islampur in North Dinajpur. Till now, vehicles move along the two-lane NH31 in Islampur and road accidents are frequent in the town. As a part of the project, it has been planned to build the four-lane road a bypass so that traffic movement can ease in the town. “We have also come to know that between Islampur and Goaltuli, on the outskirts of Siliguri, the road could not be widened as there are some stretches of private land. We will buy such plots and the NHAI will provide the funds. Also, some towers of the state power company need to be relocated,” the minister said. He mentioned that there are at least 11 stretches along the corridor’s alignment in Jalpaiguri district where there were disputes over acquisition of land. “The district magistrate of Jalpaiguri will hold a meeting with all concerned persons on the issue on September 9 to resolve these problems. A similar meeting would be held in Alipurduar on September 18. Further, the NHAI officials have been briefed in detail about the locations where service roads, traffic junctions and bypasses are required,” added Deb.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-387
05-09-2020||West Bengal||Doctor hit over neglect charge by patient kin||Relatives of a patient allegedly assaulted a doctor on duty in the emergency section of the state general hospital at Birpara in Alipurduar district on Thursday night. Doctors, paramedics and other staff of the hospital refused to join duties at the outpatient departments (OPDs) on Friday in protest against the assault. They also held a march and demanded a police camp on the hospital premises. Sources said a patient, who had suffered injuries in a road accident, had been brought to the emergency section around 9.45pm on Thursday. Amalesh Panda was the doctor on duty and was supposed to examine the injured. Alleging that there was delay on his part in attending to the patient, the relatives attacked Panda. Others present at the hospital rushed to the emergency and rescued the doctor. They also brought the situation under control. As other doctors and paramedics learnt about the incident, they got agitated and decided to stop all kinds of healthcare services. The state general hospital serves hundreds of patients and is considered as one of the three prominent state-run health establishments in the Alipurduar district. The other two are the district hospital in Alipurduar and the multi-specialty hospital in Falakata. “The doctor was beaten up without any reason. It cannot be tolerated. The allegation of delay is baseless. All those associated with healthcare are providing their best efforts in the current Covid-19 situation. The administration and police must see such incidents do not recur,” said Debarshi Sengupta, the superintendent in-charge of the hospital. On Friday, the doctors however, decided that they would provide services in wards and emergencies but would not attend the OPDs. As a result, a number of patients who had gone to the OPDs with different ailments had to return without treatment. Panda, the doctor who had faced the attack, has filed a police complaint, said sources. “We are investigating the case. Our men are in search of the attackers. In due course, we will also discuss the issue of setting up a police camp at the hospital,” said Amitava Maity, the superintendent of police, Alipurduar. On Friday morning, the doctors and the staff held a silent rally in Birpara. They also walked up to the police station and handed over the CCTV footage of the incident to officers, the sources said. “We want to make it clear that unless a police camp is set up at the hospital, we will not attend OPDs,” said a doctor.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-387
05-09-2020||West Bengal||TMC-BJP clash after march||The Shanimandir area of Mathabhanga town in Cooch Behar district turned into a battlefield on Friday afternoon as BJP and Trinamul supporters clashed. Both the sides lobbed crude bombs and attacked each other with sticks, iron rods and bricks. Police rushed to the spot and had to burst teargas shells to disperse the mob. Supporters of both the parties have suffered injuries. The police have detained some of them for perpetrating violence, sources said. Since Friday morning, there had been tension in some areas of Mathabhanga as BJP supporters marched from adjoining villages and different wards of the town to subdivisional officer’s office as part of the party’s state-wide protest programmes against the Mamata Banerjee government. At Chalnarpaar near Mathabhanga, a group of BJP supporters allegedly attacked some local Trinamul workers. A youth Trinamul leader and five others were injured in the attack and admitted to the subdivisional hospital of Mathabhanga. Soon, Trinamul supporters started gathering in the Shanimandir area. The BJP supporters converged on a spot and then headed for the SDO’s office. While they were returning from the SDO’s office, an altercation ensued with the Trinamul supporters and soon, it culminated in a clash. Traders downed their shutters and common people s had to run away for their safety. “The BJP supporters were carrying sharp weapons and crude bombs. While they were returning from the SDO’s office, they attacked and assaulted some people. Five persons have been injured in the attack. Earlier, some of our supporters were attacked by the BJP at another location without any provocation,” said Ajijar Rehman, a Trinamul leader of Mathabhanga. The BJP has denied the charges. “While our supporters were entering Mathabhanga town to attend the demonstration announced by our party, Trinamul activists attacked them. We could, however, resist their attack. After we finished our programme at the SDO’s office, we were attacked again by Trinamul supporters. At least five of our party workers are injured,” said Pranab Pal, a vice-president of the BJP in Cooch Behar district. The police said they were in search of some people who had perpetrated the violence. “Our men have been posted in the area. We are also patrolling the town and adjoining areas to prevent any further breach of peace,” said a police officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-387
05-09-2020||West Bengal||NIA arrest on fake note||The National Investigation Agency arrested an alleged peddler of fake Indian currency notes (FICN) on Thursday night. The NIA had announced a reward of Rs 25,000 for help to arrest Enamul Sheikh, who was wanted for over two years for running an FICN racket, mostly in south India. On Friday, he was produced in a court here and sent in a transit remand for four days. Sheikh will be taken to Vijayawada in Andhra Pradesh where he will be produced in the NIA court, said sources. According to a statement issued by the NIA, a case on FICN peddling was registered at a court in Visakhapatnam in 2018. Mohammed Mahaboob Baig, Syed Imran, Firoj Sheikh and Tajamul Sheikh were arrested and a charge sheet was submitted against them. “While Baig and Imran were found guilty and sentenced to rigorous imprisonment for 10 years by the NIA court in Vijayawada, Firoj and Tajamul are still under trial,” the statement said. It has been learnt from NIA sources that while interrogating the four persons, it was learnt that Enamul Sheikh of Mohanpur (a locality in Malda district) was actively involved in FICN peddling and had connections in Bangladesh. In Malda, his native village is also not far from the Bangladesh border. Hence, it is easier for him to receive FICN from Bangladesh and circulate those through his network in south India and in other parts of the country. “Sheikh had a close connection with Beigh and Imran, who had also visited Malda. Sheikh had arranged for their stay,” said a source. Along with these four, there were some others who were later inducted into the network for circulating the FICN. Finding that Sheikh played a key role in operating the racket and was maintaining a nexus with rackets based in Bangladesh, the NIA launched a hunt for him. Mehtab Alam, an assistant public prosecutor in Malda, said a complaint of circulating FICN of over Rs 10 lakh was pending against the accused.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-387
05-09-2020||West Bengal||TMC tea union stirs in hills||A trade union of the Trinamul Congress has intensified activities in over 80 tea gardens in the Darjeeling hills with the attempt bearing hints of an intense political tussle as the BJP also started a membership drive among plantation workers. Although the Cha Bagan Trinamul Congress Mazdoor Union was present in the hills on paper, it always maintained a low profile and took part only in common political programmes with ally, the Binay Tamang faction of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha. However, over the past couple of weeks, the Trinamul union tried to reach out to the tea belt population in the hills and started flagging some of the key issues related to workers, including the demand to reopen some estates. “The union was formed earlier by the party but so far, its programmes were confined to the tea gardens of the Terai and Dooars. However, in the hills, the tea workers and their families have equal problems and there are several pending issues which need to be resolved for their socio-economic development. That is why we have decided to initiate our activities under the banner of the trade union in the hill tea gardens,” said N.B. Khawas, the coordinator of Trinamul’s Darjeeling (hills) district committee. Sources in the party said a meeting had been convened by the trade union at Thurbo Tea Estate in Mirik subdivision of Darjeeling district last week. The union is also focusing on the closed tea gardens of the hills and the adjoining Terai and is coordinating with the state labour department to ensure that all permanent workers in these gardens are provided with the monthly financial assistance of Rs 1,500. “It is significant that Trinamul is introducing its union in the hills. The plan to flag the issues of tea workers — which are no different from those in the Terai and the Dooars — after staying in power for almost a decade is also interesting. It seems Trinamul does not want to leave any space for the BJP in the hill tea belt,” said an observer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-387
05-09-2020||West Bengal||Ganga gobbles up 70 houses in a few hours||Erosion has swept away at least 70 houses on the banks of the Ganga in Murshidabad’s Hiranandapur village late on Thursday night. Forty other families living at the same village under the jurisdiction of Samserganj police station have moved out of their homes and taken shelter at the nearby Madhupur village. Some of the families whose houses were lost to the swirling water of the Ganga have taken shelter at a high school in the adjoining Ali Lashkarpur village. Tasiuddin Sheikh, 55, witnessed his two-storey house being gobbled up by the river overnight. He owns a mango farm, litchi garden and an agricultural field. “There were three rooms, a kitchen and a bathroom on the ground floor. The first floor of the house had three rooms. After sunset on Thursday, large chunks of land near our house started to erode. Hurriedly, our family members joined hands and removed some furniture to safety. Around 9pm, the entire house went into the river in front of our eyes,” said an inconsolable Tasiuddin. “I had built the house from scratch. The house was far away from the river when I had built it 20 years ago. Till last evening, the Ganga was 300m away from my house. I couldn’t imagine that the river would erode so much land within a few hours,” he added. When the erosion began on Thursday, evening had set in and electricity had been snapped. The villagers who feared that their houses might be lost in the erosion risked their lives to remove whatever they could from their homes in pitch darkness. Like Tasiuddin and his eight other family members, those who had lost their homes to the river on Thursday spent the night under tarpaulin sheets provided by the Samserganj block development office. BDO Joydeep Chakrabarty said: “The enormity of erosion at Hiranandapur village is unimaginable. The entire village is facing the threat of being wiped out. The administration is trying to do its best to help the displaced residents. We had informed the irrigation department about the situation. An engineer from the irrigation department visited the spot today (Friday) and said temporary measures to stem the erosion would be undertaken.” A senior engineer of the irrigation department said the river was 40-50ft deep at the moment. “In such a situation, it is difficult to carry out work to permanently protect the banks from further erosion. Such protection work can begin only after the monsoon when the water level will go down. For now, we are using bamboo to shield the area temporarily,” the engineer added. The 70 families who lost their homes include Sahidul Islam, Rabiul Islam and Ataur Islam. Having lost roofs over their heads, they sat under tarpaulin sheds on Friday afternoon as they waited for food to be served. Local Trinamul Congress MLA, Amirul Haq, arranged food for the affected families, but they don’t know from where the next morsel of food will arrive. The region is known for frequent incidents of erosion. Last month, erosion had wiped away a few homes at neighbouring Dhangora village. The families of Dhangora, who had lost their homes to the river, are yet to be rehabilitated. They continue to stay at the Ali Lashkarpur High School.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-387
05-09-2020||West Bengal||Bengal Covid tests spike, active cases fall||Bengal on Friday reported yet another high in daily Covid-19 tests at 45,620, closing in on its next target of 50,000, as the total count of examined samples crossed 20.66 lakh with 22,960 tests per million people. Prior to this, the highest number of intra-day tests had been 45,291 recorded on Thursday. Steady rise in the tests, coupled with relatively lower caseload, improved the positive confirmation rate in 12 days from 8.9 to 8.45 per cent. Deemed a key indicator, the positive confirmation rate is the percentage of positive cases out of samples tested. A decreasing positive confirmation rate is indicative of reducing levels of Covid-19 spread. “From the sixth or seventh spot even a couple of weeks ago, we managed to drop out of the top 10 in the list of states and Union territories with the highest positive confirmation rate. We are 11th now with Puducherry, Maharashtra, Chandigarh, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh in the top five,” said a Bengal minister. For the 12th consecutive day, the state reported a fall in the total number of active patients with 3,305 recoveries and 2,978 new cases being recorded in 24 hours till 9am on Friday. The total active cases on August 23 had been 28,069. The figure was 23,654 on Friday. “We are looking to get the total active cases to less than 20,000 very soon. When we do that, it will be a spectacular achievement for a state as large and densely populated as ours,” said the minister. Bengal now has a total of 1.74 lakh coronavirus patients since the first case was found on March 17. Of the total cases, nearly 1.48 lakh are recoveries and 3,452 are fatalities. “Our recovery rate is 84.48 now, substantially higher than the national rate of 77.23 per cent,” said the minister. Of 58 deaths logged on Friday, 17 were from the city. The state government reported as comorbid 2,983 (86.4 per cent) of the total 3,452 deaths. In a trend that began about a month ago, the five most high-incidence districts of Bengal — Calcutta, North 24-Parganas, South 24-Parganas, Howrah and Hooghly —collectively recorded a fall in the total active cases by 100 on Friday. For instance, from the 7,041 active cases on August 9, the city improved to 4,110 on Friday. The overall mortality rate stayed at 1.97, while the national rate is 1.73 per cent. “But Calcutta’s mortality rate is still over 3 (3.21 on Friday). Reducing that is a top priority. With 1,350 deaths in total, the city has contributed around 40 per cent of all Covid-19 deaths,” said the minister. Bengal reported 32.47 per cent occupancy of 12,275 Covid-19 beds at 90 hospitals. Telemedicine services have been provided to over 1.66 lakh people and 4,275 of them were in the past 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-387
05-09-2020||West Bengal||Truck rams into bike at Digha, 2 tourists die||Two tourists from Calcutta were killed when a dumper truck rammed into their bike head-on while the duo were returning home from the seaside destination of Digha late on Thursday night. A fire broke out in the impact of the crash and both the truck and the two-wheeler went up in flames on NH116B. Kritam Das, 21, was riding the bike, while Uttam Das, 28, was riding pillion. Both were delivery boys of an e-commerce platform. Police sources said Kritam was a resident of Beleghata in Calcutta. Uttam was from Narkeldanga. The bike was hit by the truck head-on around 11pm on the highway near the Digha Bypass. Rushed to the Digha State General Hospital, both succumbed to their injuries soon after. Their bodies were sent for autopsy at the Contai Hospital later. Witnesses said the accident was the fault of the truck’s driver, who was at a “very high” speed. _“There was a loud noise, hearing which I rushed out of my home and saw both the truck and the bike in flames. I informed police immediately and then rushed to the spot to help the injured,” said a resident of Ghersai. “The two men were very badly hurt. We could tell that they might not make it…. Usually, in these parts, it is the bikers whose indiscipline causes such tragedies. But in this case, it was certainly not so,” he added. Police from Digha Mohana Coastal and Digha police stations arrived at the spot. Local resident Ananta Das told the police how it had happened. “The truck was being driven at a very high speed. The fault of its driver caused the accident. It looked like the driver lost control of the vehicle which hit the bike head-on. The bikers were flung and landed with a thud, some distance away, on the road,” Das said later. “With the mangled bike stuck on the truck’s front, the driver tried to flee with the vehicle. But the friction of the bike with the road caused sparks that ignited a fire. Both the vehicles were on fire in a matter of seconds. The driver got off and made a run for it. We couldn’t catch him in the dark,” he added. Police sources said both the vehicles had been completely charred in the blaze. The local residents had tried putting the fire out, but it could be doused only after midnight when a fire-tender was sent. The incident affected traffic for hours on either side of the highway. “Digha proper does not have a fire station. The fire-tender was brought from Ramnagar, 15km away. It took some time. After the fire-fighting ended, the traffic could be gradually normalised,” said Digha Mohana Coastal police station’s officer-in-charge Binoy Manna.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-387
05-09-2020||West Bengal||100 bombs hit panchayat office||Two groups of people, alleged to be rival factions of the Trinamul Congress, clashed over control of the Babuijore gram panchayat in Birbhum’s Lokpur on Friday afternoon. As at least 100 crude bombs exploded against the two-storey building of the gram panchayat office, Trinamul leader and gram pradhan Nabadwip Mondal hid himself behind an iron almirah and desperately sought police help as he feared for his life. There were 17 others present in the panchayat office at the time of the attack. “It was a close brush with death. I, along with 17 others, had to hide behind an iron almirah to save our lives as the bombs were being hurled targeting my room. We had closed the door and window in time and that saved us,” said Nabadwip and added that they felt like suffocating as smoke triggered by the explosion of crude bombs had filled the room. A source said the two Trinamul factions — one headed by Abdur Rahaman and other by Kedar Ghosh — had been fighting over who would control the Babuijore gram panchayat. The source said a group of people had gone to the panchayat office around 1.30pm on Friday. They barged into the pradhan’s room and started ransacking it. Following resistance by supporters of the panchayat chief, the attackers left the office. “The attack was pre-planned and around 100 goons armed with bombs and firearms had gathered outside the panchayat office,” said Nabadwip. Soon after the attackers were driven out of the building and the door was looked, crude bombs began to hit the panchayat office building at short intervals. Seeking to refute charges of delay, Birbhum district police chief Shyam Singh said: “The police had reached the spot on time and brought the situation under control.” The SP said raids were on to arrest those involved in the clash. A car belonging to Nabadwip and at least six motorbikes parked outside the building were vandalised. Local Trinamul president Abdur Rahaman, whose right-hand man Nabadwip helms the Babuijore gram panchayat, said: “The goons were aides to Ujjwal Haque Kaderi who is an accused in several criminal cases. He is trying to take control over the panchayat. It was a fierce attack on us. We have identified a dozen of attackers and will lodge a complaint.” Trinamul leader Kedar Ghosh, who belongs to the Ujjawal Haque Kaderi faction, said: “The clash had nothing to do with political rivalry. A group of people went to the panchayat office demanding a road and they were driven out. Angry villagers had attacked the gram panchayat in retaliation.” A local Trinamul leader owing allegiance to Kaderi, however, blamed the Rahaman faction for the violence. “The incident would not have taken place if bombs were not hurled at us from the panchayat building. They also opened fire at us. It was a narrow escape for many of us,” he said. Trinamul leader Kaderi also rejected the charges about his involvement in the violence. He, however, accused his rival group of corruption in running the panchayat. Bikash Roy Chowdhury, a Trinamul district vice-president and observer of the area, said: “The police would take action against those who were behind the attack on the panchayat office irrespective of their political colour.” The police said they did not find any evidence of bullets being used in the violence. A police officer said no one had been injured in the violence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-387
05-09-2020||West Bengal||Border tension hits study at Cheena Bhavana||A cloud of uncertainty looms over the future of students at Visva-Bharati’s Cheena Bhavana, a centre of Sino-Indian cultural studies in Santiniketan, as the authorities have stopped all communication with its three Chinese counterparts because of the worsening of ties between New Delhi and Beijing. The centre was set up by Rabindranath Tagore in 1937 as part of his vision of the world making its home in a single nest. It has over 200 students enrolled in undergraduate and postgraduate courses on Chinese language and doctoral research on cultural relationship between the two countries. As the Cheena Bhavana has Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with three Chinese universities, it is regarded as among the best in the country to pursue Chinese. “The communication with our counterparts has completely stopped as there are several restrictions. We are not even holding webinars as we need to take permission from Delhi to hold such events,” said a source at Cheena Bhavana. A section of officials and teachers said given the tension in Sino-Indian relationship since the violent stand-off in Ladakh, they were afraid of carrying on with normal academic exchange with the three Chinese varsities, which used to be a regular affair even six months ago. “The UGC has already asked details of all the agreements that Indian universities have with foreign institutions by September 15 and it is clear that they want to know the extent of our association with Chinese institutions…We knew that something like this was coming. No one wants to take any risk,” said another source. In this taut atmosphere, the students are the worst sufferers as academic exchanges between the Cheena Bhavana and the universities have come to a grinding halt. “The MoUs will be in place till 2022. As part of the MoUs, teams from these universities visit us every year and we send our teams of teachers and students to these varsities… We understand that these exchanges cannot take place because of Covid-19. We could have gained through online exchanges, but even that’s not happening,” said a student. Every year, the Chinese universities used to send a teacher to Visva-Bharati who used to teach Chinese language to the students. A week ago, the teacher, who came as part of the exchange programme, left Visva-Bharati as his tenure was completed. “We don’t know when a new teacher would come again,” said a student. Several students, who spoke to this correspondent on condition of anonymity, said communication — both in physical and online forms — with people of Chinese origin was very important for them as it helped them learn various aspects of the language and Chinese culture. “We expected we could attend online programmes with the teachers of these varsities during the lockdown. But that’s not happening,” said an undergraduate student. Some former students of Cheena Bhavana said regular communication with the Chinese varsities helped them rofessionally. “The certificates by Chinese universities helped me a lot to get a job. It is very unfortunate for the present students that they can’t even communicate virtually,” said Ramanuj Baidya, who passed out of Cheena Bhavana in 2018 and is now employed at a multinational company in Bangalore For the past few years, the Cheena Bhavana has been holding at least a dozen programmes annually with Chinese universities or the Chinese Embassy to promote the language in the country and help students get connected with representatives from China. “The department is famous for keeping a good relation with China through its range of activities. We always felt that such activities were boosting Sino-India relationship. If all these activities are stopped, the relationship will get further strained,” said a source. The Chinese government, according to him, was so pleased with the activities of the centre that its embassy in India donated Rs 60 lakh to Cheena Bhavana to renovate two small buildings on the campus. “Chinese products are not being used, Chinese apps are banned… Everything that has a Chinese connection is seen with suspicion. We don’t know what will happen to this centre,” said an official of Cheena Bhavana.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-387
