06-09-2020||West Bengal||Date for talks ends worker fast||The workers of the Longview tea garden, on the outskirts of Siliguri, on a relay hunger strike at the tea garden for two weeks to demand full payment of last year’s Durga Puja bonus, withdrew their fast on Friday evening. Representatives of the workers’ union said that a source in the state labour department assured them of a tripartite meeting among the management, union and administration on September 9 in Siliguri to discuss their demand. “We had a meeting with officials of the labour department at Siliguri on Friday. During the meeting, we asked the department to intervene and resolve the workers’ problem in the tea garden (Longview). The workers failed to get last year’s complete Puja bonus so far. During the meeting we got an assurance from the department that next week a tripartite meeting would be held. After that we withdrew the movement,” Harihar Acharya, the vice-president of the Darjeeling Terai Dooars Plantation Labour Union (DTDPLU), said on Saturday. As this year’s Durga Puja is approaching and a meeting to fix the bonus is expected next month, workers had organised the relay hunger strike to get last year’s dues. They stopped working since August 10 over pending dues. The management on August 21 announced suspension of work.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-385
06-09-2020||West Bengal||‘Custody death’ case on five cops||Itahar police have started inquiry against five police personnel of Raiganj police station over the alleged custodial death of a BJP worker, after his mother filed a complaint at the police station against the cops on Thursday. Anup Roy, 23, who had joined the party six months ago, died on Wednesday, a few hours after his arrest in an earlier case of snatching. Biswajit Lahiri, president of BJP North Dinajpur district committee, alleged: “He was beaten to death in custody.” On Thursday, Anup’s mother Geeta Roy lodged a complaint at Itahar police against five policemen of Raiganj, Nihar Ranjan Das, Md Murtaza, Prabir Ghosh, Sandip Chakraborty and Uttam Modak. Geeta also appealed to the Raiganj district court for a fresh post-mortem of her son’s body in the presence of the magistrate with videorecording. On the basis of her appeal, the court ordered a repeat of the post-mortem, which was conducted on Saturday. Anup’s body was handed to Geeta after the second post-mortem. Lahiri added: “Police arrested our party worker Anup Roy from his residence at Itahar on September 2 (Wednesday) for his involvement in a snatching case. On the evening when he died, police said his death was because of brain haemorrhage. They did the post-mortem without informing the deceased’s family.” Jaspreet Singh, additional superintendent of police of Raiganj, said that based on Geeta’s complaint, a case had been started against five policemen under Sections 363 (kidnapping), 302 (murder) and 34 (acts done by many persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code. He said that the police arrested three men in the snatching case, and during their interrogation, came to know that Anup Roy, a resident Nandangram of Itahar, was the “mastermind”. “Police arrested him from his home on September 2. Later he started feeling unwell in custody and was admitted to Raiganj Government Medical College & Hospital and died in the hospital because of brain haemorrhage.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-385
06-09-2020||West Bengal||Two Trinamul warring leaders arrested||Police on Saturday arrested nine persons, including two local leaders of Trinamul’s warring factions, for their involvement in the attack on a ruling-party-run gram panchayat office in Birbhum’s Khoirasole on Friday. Sources in Birbhum police said six persons were arrested for their direct involvement in the clashes and the two local Trinamul level leaders — Abdur Rahaman and Ujjwal Haque Kaderi — were arrested in two other cases. “This is the first time that leaders of two Trinamul factions were arrested within 24 hours of a clash in the district,” said a source. “The clash exposed the internal rivalry and the ruling party wanted to send out a strong message to the rival camps and that's why these arrests were made,” the source added. Two groups of people belonging to two rival factions of the Trinamul Congress clashed over the control of the Babuijore gram panchayat in Birbhum on Friday afternoon. At least hundred crude bombs were hurled at the two-storey panchayat building during the clash. Sources said the factions were allegedly led by Rahaman and Kaderi, presidents of the party in neighbouring Babuijore and Borrha gram panchayats, who have been at loggerheads over the last couple of years over the control of the area. Police sources said that Kaderi was arrested from Suri under the Narcotic Drug and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act as drugs were recovered from him. Rahaman, along with his one of his aides, was arrested under the Arms Act as a firearm was recovered from the duo. “The two leaders were produced in Suri district court... Kaderi was sent in police custody for five days and Rahaman for four days,” said a source. The other six who were produced in Dubrajpur court were sent to eight days of police custody.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-385
06-09-2020||West Bengal||Ferry shut, commuters in choppy waters||The closure of the ferry link between East Midnapore’s Haldia and Diamond Harbour in South 24-Parganas across the Hooghly since the start of lockdown has forced commuters for over five months to spend more time and money to travel between the two destinations. The ferry service covers 20km in 40 minutes between Haldia’s Kukrahati jetty and Diamond Harbour. However, if a commuter decides to travel between Haldia and Diamond Harbour by road the person has to cover 160km. The cost by road is also far higher as the ferry service charges only Rs 15 for a one-way ticket. The ferry service that connects the two districts is run by the Diamond Harbour Municipality. Though the service was stopped after India went into lockdown mode in March in the wake of Covid-19, Cyclone Amphan dealt an additional blow to the service by damaging the jetty at Kukrahati. The chief executive of Haldia Development Authority, Panicker Harishanker, said: “The damaged jetty has been repaired. The ferry service between Kukrahati and Raichak started recently and we expected the link between Haldia and Diamond Harbour to resume soon.” Administrator of Diamond Harbour Municipality and SDO Sukanta Saha said: “We were waiting for Haldia authorities to repair the Kukrahati jetty...we expect to start ferry services soon.” Arindam Samanta, a Diamond Harbour resident who works in a factory in Haldia, said he used to take the ferry every day. “Though our factory reopened after lockdown, I cannot afford to hire a car every day to office, it is too expensive. The ferry service used to cost me Rs 15 for a one-way ride. The travel to office is so costly that I am staying on rent in Haldia.” When told about the plight of commuters like Samanta, Saha said: “If all goes well, the service will be back from September 8.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-386
06-09-2020||West Bengal||Bulk of ATM cash found, case with CID  ||Birbhum police have recovered around Rs 60 lakh of the Rs 86 lakh that an ATM cash van driver had fled with from Jagaddal in North 24-Parganas on August 26 evening, but certain inconsistencies in the probe have prompted the state police directorate to hand over the case to the CID. A source in Birbhum police said that some civic volunteers attached to Rampurhat police station had intercepted the van when it was making several rounds of the town. While carrying out a search of the van, they stumbled on the cash. Though the van was seized, prime accused Raj Halder and his friend Tanmay De managed to flee leaving the vehicle behind. The police later arrested the duo from an undisclosed hideout. Deputy commissioner (Zone-1) of Barrackpore police commissionerate Ajay Kumar Thakur confirming the arrest of the duo. “The major amount of the looted cash had been recovered from the van after the accused abandoned it in Rampurhat and fled. Later we also arrested the accused duo. We have got some leads from them during interrogation and are trying to recover the balance amount as well,” Thakur added. A source said that as several inconsistencies had cropped up over the seizure of the cash and the subsequent arrests, and it involved two police districts, the case had been handed over to the CID for investigation and recovery of the remaining amount. On August 26, the driver of the cash van had fled with it when one of the employees of the cash management firm was refilling an ATM kiosk of the Punjab National Bank at Atpur in Jagaddal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-386
06-09-2020||West Bengal||‘Deprived’ teachers fast on Teacher’s Day||Part-time and whole-time contractual teachers of Cooch Behar University BT & Evening College, which is affiliated under North Bengal University, organised a daylong hunger strike on Teacher’s Day, Saturday. These teachers were demanding to be approved as State Aided College Teachers (SACT). A part-time teacher, who did not want to be named, said: “We chose to raise our voice on the very special occasion (Teacher’s Day) to highlight how we are deprived.” “There are 21 of us working in the college here as part-time or contractual teacher for the past couple of years,” Biswajit Dey, general secretary of the college’s part-time and guest lecturer association, said. On why they were protesting, Dey explained: “Chief minister Mamata Banerjee in August 2019 declared that all teachers in government colleges and government-aided colleges, who are working as part-time or contractual teachers, will be approved as SACT. But despite working as contractual teachers, we are yet to get that approval. This prompted us to organise the hunger strike.” The teachers also said that on July 3 this year, they had demonstrated on the college campus for the same demand. “We withdrew the demonstration after the college authorities assured us of taking necessary steps (to regularise their services). But still our demand has not been fulfilled,” Dey said. The SACT meeting qualifications set by the UGC and with over 10 years of experience would get Rs 30,000 a month, and those with qualifications but with less than 10 years’ experience Rs 26,000, the CM had said in August. The teachers not fulfilling the UGC criteria but with more than 10 years experience would get Rs 20,000. Those with up to 10 years’ experience would get Rs 15,000.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-386
06-09-2020||West Bengal||Trinamul, Cong stand by erosion victims||Leaders of non-BJP parties made a beeline to stand by the 200 erosion victim families in Baishnabnagar, Malda, who lost their homes recently because of the apparent apathy of the Farakka Barrage Project (FBP) authorities, a central government outfit. The first to reach the area, around 40km from district headquarters, wasTrinamul’s district president and Rajya Sabha MP Mausam Noor, who distributed relief materials to victims, launched a vitriolic attack on the Centre and urged victims to join her in a movement to ensure proper anti-erosion initiatives along the Ganga by the Centre. As the FBP authorities are responsible for protection work in areas where the river is engulfing land on its left bank, Noor trained her guns at the Centre’s faulty planning. “Apparently some anti-erosion work is going on, but the preventive work is done where there is no human habitation. Such work fails to address the real crisis. Highly populated areas are still exposed to the risk of erosion. The central government cannot escape its responsibility,” she said. Noor, a new inductee in the Trinamul camp, also used the opportunity to inform erosion victims how Bengal’s ruling party was trying to arrange suitable rehabilitation for them before prodding them to join the anti-BJP movement. “If you support Mamata Banerjee, it will be easier to organise a movement against the BJP government in the Centre and bring an end to your perennial problem,” she said. Congress MP A.H. Khan Choudhury (Dalu) on Saturday led a delegation of MLAs to the office of Malda district administration seeking suitable rehabilitation of erpsion-hit families. The Congress demanded that the state and the central governments work together to address erosion in Kaliachak-III block that has virtually ruined hundreds of families. “I visited those areas and experienced their catastrophe. This is not the time to pass the buck to each other. I have written to the chief minister and Prime Minister urging them to work together to save the people,” said Choudhury.’ The state irrigation department and district administration have also taken up the matter with FBP authorities. Two persons were arrested with fake Indian currency notes (FICN) to the tune of Rs 3 lakh from Englishbazar here on Friday night. Alok Rajoria, the superintendent of police, Malda district, said: “Abu Bakkar, 19, and Dalu Mia, 18, were arrested following a tip-off and FICN amounting Rs 3 lakh — all in denomination of Rs 2,000 — were seized from their possession. The duo have been taken into custody for further grilling.” The police sources said the duo was trying to hand over the FICN to some other peddlers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-386
06-09-2020||West Bengal||Rajbanshi council in Assam impacts Bengal||The BJP-ruled Assam government’s decision to set up an autonomous council for its Rajbanshi community prised open many long-standing demands of the community in neighbouring Bengal. The Assam Assembly passed three Bills to create separate autonomous councils for the Rajbanshi community, along with Moran and Matak communities, in the state. Within 24 hours, ripples of the decision in Assam were felt in Bengal, as the Rajbanshis play a crucial role in north Bengal politics. Atul Roy, leader of the Kamtapur People’s Party (KPP) said: “We have congratulated our leaders in Assam. It is too early to say what the Bengal government will do about our demands. But our movement will continue till we are given our constitutional rights like the right of mother tongue.” Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has formed a Rajbanshi development and cultural board and a Rajbanshi Bhasha academy. These steps did help the Trinamul please a section in the community, but others wanted more. The disgruntled section played a major role in the BJP’s growth in north Bengal. Bangshibadan Barman, a prominent Rajbanshi leader, told The Telegraph that the state government should consider making an autonomous council in Bengal for the development of the community. Nikhil Roy, president of the other faction of KPP said that they would start their statehood movement afresh as the academy and boards set up by the state government failed to meet their expectations. “An autonomous council is much more powerful than any board or academy as the council gets fund allotment and it has the power to create jobs... It’s natural that the Rajbanshi community would now press for a council here,”said a political analyst. Minister-in-charge of north Bengal development Rabindranath Ghosh said the government was against the idea of division of the state before iterating that Nabanna was committed to the development of the community. “We formed Bhasha Academy, Development boards for Rajbanshi and Kamtapuri people. A university has been set up in Cooch Behar in the name of the scholar of Rajbanshi community Panchanan Barma,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-386
06-09-2020||West Bengal||NBMCH  to get cardiology department ||The North Bengal Medical College and Hospital (NBMCH) will soon get a dedicated cardiology department and a catheterization laboratory soon. Sources said the work of the new under construction super-specialty building had been pending for a long time and a new agency was recruited to speed up the construction of the super-specialty block. “Catheterization laboratory also known as cath-lab is a room with diagnostic imaging equipment and other heart-related facilities. In this lab, interventional cardiological-measures like angioplasty, angiography, installation of pacemaker and other heart related diseases will be treated. The cardiology department will come up at the seventh floor” said a source. “The NBMCH has three cardiologists now. As soon as the super-specialty building gets ready, more doctors and technicians will be recruited to run the completely modernised while more departments like neurology and nephrology will be added along with the cardiology department,” the source added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-386
06-09-2020||West Bengal||The Adivasi Does More Than Dance||Once when Satyacharan Sardar was travelling by local train, he heard a child ask his mother, “What does a tribal look like?” The mother replied, “Ashobhyoder moto”. Meaning, like the uncivilised. Satyacharan, an Adivasi and a government schoolteacher, is talking about the enduring typecasting of tribal people. He continues, “To date, during Durga Puja, it is the asur or demon who is shown to be killed. Do you know Asur is the name of one of the tribes? Durga’s asur also has a physical resemblance to the tribal man.” On the other end of the spectrum is the idea of tribals as emblematic of pastoral life, creatures of the wild who dance and sing and drink hadiya and make merry. Nawa bihan means notun shokal or new morning in Sadri, which is the most spoken language among the tribals of south Bengal. In 2001, Parimal Sardar, along with some others from the community — Sambhunath Sardar, Dilip Sardar, Rajkumar Sardar, Tapan Sardar, Satinath Mahato, Gour Chandra Sardar and Prafulla Sardar — decided to float an annual magazine named Nawa Bihan. Other than Prafulla, who was at the time employed with the Indian Railways, all the others are schoolteachers. “The purpose of the group was to spread awareness among our own community — about who we are, what our culture is, what our faith is. And this we decided to do by writing about our socio-cultural background,” says Parimal. Today, Nawa Bihan has assumed the shape of an organisation working to correct the perceptions about tribals. The group works primarily in the South 24-Parganas, which is home to the Munda, Bediya, Bhumij and Oraon tribes. Recently, they have also started reaching out to the people of north Bengal. Satyacharan is also a member of Nawa Bihan. There are 40 Scheduled Tribes in Bengal. According to the 2011 Census, West Bengal has a tribal population of 52,96,963, which is about 5.8 per cent of the population of the state. Says Parimal, “Education reached our community rather late, almost three decades after Independence. In the 1980s, the number of tribal students appearing for school-leaving examinations was not even one in a hundred.” Those in the community who received education, according to him, now felt embarrassed of their own community and preferred to keep their distance. The need to mingle with the mainstream drove them to do different things — have Brahmins officiate over birth rituals, weddings and deaths; participate in Durga Puja and Kali Puja; traditional mores began to wear, spoken tongues — Sadri, Mundari — fell to disuse. Two decades later, there seems to be a change of heart. Some of those who had gone to school and received higher education, such as the members of Nawa Bihan, decided to make amends. Points out Parimal, “By this time, more children from the community had started going to school. We decided to tell our own people how rich our culture was. It is not achal or redundant, it is not something they could not be proud of.” And what did Nawa Bihan achieve with the patrika they brought out? The magazine was meant to chronicle community narratives as well as community dialogues and perceptions from within the community and outside. “Since 2001, we have had articles in Bengali and Sadri alike. But now that we want Sadri to be accepted as one of the mainstream languages, we are encouraging people to write in Sadri mostly,” says Satyacharan. The 2019 edition was an all-Sadri edition. Some of the titles from it are: A Commission for Adivasis by Umapada Panigrahi, The Culture of the Adivasis of the Sunderbans by Satyacharan Sardar, The Untold History of Adivasis by Prafulla Sardar. The magazine is distributed free of cost in the Sunderbans, various places in the South 24-Parganas, Bankura, Purulia, and more recently Darjeeling by members of Nawa Bihan. They have also made a list of their own who are now recognised members of the mainstream. Copies are distributed at festivals and gatherings. “The reaction has been mixed. Some people want to be identified as Scheduled Tribes only to reap the benefits of reservation; this kind ignored our efforts to reach out. But the school-going, college-going lot welcomed it.” Next, they began reaching out to those on the ground and they started with teenagers. “We tried to attract them through sports,” says Parimal. He continues, “We would organise football tournaments, but the selection did not hinge on who played well. We would interview the candidates and ask them questions about their own culture, talk to them in Sadri and only those who knew the answers were picked. Those who did not know could go home, ask their parents about their roots, read the magazine, and again submit to a selection process.” The third thing that the group did was to co-opt community elders. This programme, called Baikal Ghari Kahati, which roughly translates to wisemen speak, was meant to be an exercise in recounting community wisdoms and practices. The tribals had come to believe that they are Hindus. Now, the elders spoke to their young about their animistic faith and corresponding rituals. How their forefathers would build thaans, or small mounds, of mud to represent the forces of nature and celebrate them in their own way. There was no idol worship as is common today. Says Parimal, “Our rituals are quite different. In a few days it will be Manasa Puja. Hindus too celebrate this festival but their rituals are different. In our culture, we take a duck and worship it, we feed it rice grains and then sacrifice it. The community consumes the cooked meat as prasad.” The Baikal Ghari Kahati sessions brought to light other treasures. How in the old days whenever there was a wedding, people would extend financial help to the family concerned. Satyacharan speaks of how people would bring their own food and have a community feast instead of having any one family host the entire community. He adds, “Similarly, if someone from a poor family died, it was customary to let the family fulfil all obligations to society by serving only one house in the neighbourhood.” From birth to marriage to death, the tribal community observes many a ritual. Says Satyacharan, “In the tribal set-up, there is no concept of Brahmins overseeing milestone social functions. And there is no particular class in the tribal society earmarked to act as priests.” Parimal explains, “Anybody who has learnt the rituals can become a pahan or purohit in our community. It is the knowledge that matters.” And so the struggle, or as Parimal puts it, “Our laadai continues.” He pauses and then adds, “Our laadai to overcome a mountain of shame.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-386
06-09-2020||West Bengal||Bengal’s active Covid cases dip  to 23,390 ||Bengal on Saturday pulled off yet another impressive Covid-19 testing performance, with 45,781 tests, which took the state past 21 lakh. In 24 hours till Saturday 9am, Bengal also logged 3,042 new infections, 3,248 recoveries and 58 deaths. Eighteen of the deaths were reported from Calcutta. With this, total cases now number over 1.77 lakh, of which recoveries are nearly 1.51 lakh. The total number of deaths, since the onset of the pandemic, is 3,510 now. For 13 consecutive days, Bengal has reported a fall in its total of active cases, with more recoveries than new cases found in the 24-hour window. The total number of active cases on August 23 was 28,069, and on Saturday, it stood at 23,390. Bengal’s recovery rate, therefore, is 84.86 per cent, much higher than the national rate of 77.3. “While keeping recoveries high, we want to lower new cases and deaths, prioritising that over the next few weeks,” said a minister. Having begun testing in early February, it took Bengal six months to get to 10 lakh tests, on August 5. Exactly a month later, the state has performed 21,12,185 tests in all. The tests per million is now 23,469, which was 11,145 even a month ago. Daily testing has nearly doubled in that period, from 24,047 to 45,781. “In just these five days of September, we conducted 2.25 lakh tests. By the end of the month, we will have achieved 15 lakh, at least. In August, we conducted 10.18 lakh tests,” said the minister. From early February, Bengal took over three-and-a-half months to conduct 1 lakh tests, on May 19. Over the next 109 days, it conducted over 20 lakh tests. With the surge in testing, and the relatively less new cases found over the past 13 days, the positive confirmation rate improved from 8.9 to 8.41 per cent. Of the total deaths, 3,033 or 86.4 per cent were reported comorbid by the state government. The overall mortality rate stayed at 1.97 per cent while the national rate is 1.72 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-386
06-09-2020||West Bengal||They, the people||Samtali Chaudhuri takes a few seconds to recall the name of her elder son. “Sambhu,” prompts someone, as Samtali looks this way and that absentmindedly. It is not easy to have a conversation with her, not because she is uncooperative, but because of her general air of resignation. Her standard response to any question seems to be: “How would I know?” We are in Malda’s Shukurullapur. Three hundred years ago, one Shukurulla Sheikh had arrived in this part of Bengal from Motihari in Bihar, purportedly in search of new fishing opportunities. More people from the Bind community followed Sheikh to Malda and there they remained and their successive generations too. Samtali speaks in Bengali, but her accent betrays the olden tether. Sambhu, her eldest son, was a migrant labourer. The mother cannot say for sure where exactly her son took up a job. “Perhaps Delhi. Or was it Haryana? Some place that side,” she says. It turns out Sambhu had tagged along with some relations. Those same relations later informed Samtali about his death. “They told me he was returning home from work. He had gone to the marketplace with a little boy and then they said he was no more,” Samtali continues. Was Sambhu’s body sent home? Samtali shakes her head. “No.” Did the family receive any compensation from the employers? “No,” she says, this time forcefully. “Who would have brought the body home from that distant land? Who would have paid? We didn’t even get to know if he fell off a building or someone did away with him. The thikadar (middleman) here said, ‘Your son is no more’.” Samtali and I are sitting in the open and talking, just behind us is a bamboo contraption, some teenage boys are sitting on it, hanging around it, chatting. I am told they are home from their different job stations in other states. Sambhu had gone away when he was that age. News of his death came five years ago. Soon after that Samtali’s younger son also left, in search of a living. *** In North Dinajpur’s Mandipara neighbourhood, they thrust before me a rain-drenched photocopy of a voter ID card. It belongs to a Gandu Soren. In 2005, he was 45 years old. Soren had left home in search of work. He has been missing for the past three-and-a-half years. His wife believes he is alive. She has been told so. Where did your husband go, I ask. She replies, “The thikadar from Pratappur told me, ‘Your husband has gone away in search of work’. Where to, he didn’t tell me.” Soren’s three children crowd around me. What I gather from their loud lamentations and constant questions is that their father went missing before he could reach wherever it was that he was headed for. There was no point pinning blame on the local thikadar as he was responsible for the daily wagers only up to Malda; thereafter, they had been handed over to another thikadar. Soren had disappeared into thin air and what was left with his family was a voter ID card wrapped carefully in plastic and a worn-out photocopy. *** Shaji Mohammed’s house is at the other end of Raiganj, barely three kilometres away from the Indo-Bangladesh border. The sons and daughters of this household start work as daily wagers in distant lands from early childhood. One son left years ago and never returned; the others have. The daughter was barely eight when she was sent away to Punjab where she works as a household help. Shaji Mohammed too had gone away to Mumbai; when he returned, he had a kidney missing. According to Shaji’s wife, her husband fell ill after someone fed him something. The thikadar had him admitted to the hospital. He was told he needed to get a blood test. Fast forward many weeks. Shaji was back home and keeping poor health. When he went to see the local doctor, he prescribed an ultrasonogram and that was how he came to know that he was missing a kidney. He was missing his full wages as well — had been paid only Rs 20,000 of the promised Rs 1,40,000 by the thikadar. That was 15 years ago. At the time of my visit, Shaji was not there to tell his story. He was away in Delhi, where he was employed at a construction site. After all, a kidney is not like a missing hand or leg; it does not come in the way of mixing cement and hauling bricks, neither is it needed to scale heights.   *** A 50-something Rabindranath Debsharma sips tea as he tells me his story. His refrain is, “They died, but I managed to survive.” Debsharma had left his home in South Dinajpur when he was 18 and travelled to Haryana to work as a stone crusher at “kresher” mill. A crusher is one where stone is crushed and mixed with cement to make concrete. A lot of men and boys from these parts worked in the mill those days. Debsharma and all of the others knew it was a risky job, crushing stones; led to a premature and painful death by haemorrhaging — a natural corollary of tuberculosis. The bodies of labourers were always disposed of. Others returned home to die. Like an incantation, Debsharma names his dead mates — Jayanta, Rupa, Shankar, Sukumar... Rajbangshis all. All of them died within three or four years of starting work at the mill. The men of house No. 2 of Satjeliya Island in the Sunderbans spent long years working in the Andamans and neighbouring islands. A lot of them were there when the tsunami struck in 2004. Nicobar, Diglipur, Kamota, all these places had been decimated by the tsunami. Homes, offices, courthouses, everything had been wiped out; everything would have to be rebuilt. Those days, thikadars would scour the Sunderbans for cheap labour.  According to Paritosh Sardar, there was also a need for labour to clear the piles of dead bodies. The labourers bargained with the thikadars to let them return home at the end of two months, but way before that they started to die like flies, of infection brought on by the contaminated water and rotting bodies all around. *** Urun Murmu, 52, has only half a left arm; the forearm is missing. He lives in Kanot in Malda district. We are standing at a spot with bamboo groves behind us. The bamboo branches sway in the wind and Urun too swings his half arm as he narrates his experience as a “tower worker”. Urun lays out high tension voltage cables. He tells me about the time he was on the job in some place near the Sone river, close to Allahabad. He was in his early 20s those days. He and a whole gaggle of men from Malda had left home to make a living while they were still in their late teens. As the high-tension wires zig-zagged through Haryana, Lucknow, Benares, Urun journeyed with them. Urun describes his work through a patchwork of phrases — “transmission lines”, “11,000 volts”, “shut-down work”. He explains that whenever he and the other men would climb the electric towers, someone on the ground would shut off the electric supply. The handle of the transmitter had to be pul-led down and then it had to be locked till the work was over. If one kept to the rules there was no problem. But that particular project had been contentious from the start. The people of the village, where the tower was being installed, had been promised a payout by the power company. Urun was on the job, which was supposed to last three days. The first two days remained uneventful. The third day brought with it unrest. The villagers hadn’t received any payment from the company and were fuming. Urun climbed the tower. The power company man hollered from below, “Shutdown ho gaya. Ab pilot pass kar lo.” Urun kept climbing the tower, the wire coiled around the palm of his left hand and covering a fair portion of his arm right up to the elbow. Urun refers to the man from the company as “saheb”. He tells me, “Saheb made a mistake that day. He forgot to lock the transmitter when he left his station to buy a packet of gutka.” Urun’s voice holds no rancour, no bitterness. Angry villagers went to the unattended transmitter and pushed the handle up for two to three minutes and then brought it down again. In their eyes Urun too was part of the power company that had cheated them of their payout. The live current pierced the fingers of Urun’s left hand, travelled down the arm making his whole body tremble. He fell from the tower and on to the sandy bank of River Sone. When help arrived, he was still unconscious. He was unconscious when he was packed into a boat which carried him to Benares. After the seven-hour ride, when they finally reached the hospital, the arm had turned septic. Urun still works with power companies, journeys to other states. He has learnt to do the job with his one-and-a-half hands. *** On March 28, 2020, the sight of thousands and thousands of labourers at Delhi’s Anand Vihar Bus Terminal catapulted an otherwise invisible people to the middle of public consciousness. It elicited sustained media coverage, government announcements and public outrage. Truth is, when lockdown is over and corona can be conquered with a shot in the arm, even then the march of the migrants will continue. There will be new stories of disappearance and silence, painful deaths and missing organs. But most likely they would have ceased to make headlines then.  Saha is the author of the Bengali books Borderey Meyera (2017) and Chhotoder Border (2018), on the lives of women and children of Bengal’s borderlands. She is currently working on a book on migrant labourers titled Labour Train||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-386
06-09-2020||West Bengal||Jungle Mahal gets 3 CRPF companies||The Union home ministry sent three companies of the CRPF back to Jungle Mahal on Saturday and told the state government that more forces were on their way, a relief for Nabanna amid intelligence reports of Maoists regrouping in the area over the past few months. The Bengal government had objected to the Centre’s decision of pulling out 20 companies of a total of 49 from Jungle Mahal in two phases last year, first ahead of Lok Sabha polls and then immediately after Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir was revoked. “Three companies of CRPF personnel have returned from Jammu and Kashmir today (Saturday). We have sent them to Purulia where they took over charge of two camps,” said Pradeep Kumar Singh, inspector-general of CRPF in Bengal. Two companies of CRPF have taken positions in two camps in Purulia and the third company comprising women is at Jhargram. “Presence of central forces in the area is important as we want to ensure that the Maoist problem does not rear its head in the state. We are continuing our communication with the Centre to get more central forces in Jungle Mahal. We expect to get back a few more companies in near future,” said a senior Nabanna official. Sources in the state home department said that Maoist activities were causing concern for the Bengal government with reports that the banned outfit was trying to regroup in Jungle Mahal by crossing over from Jharkhand. As the state is headed for a key election next year, there are chances that the Maoists would try to make their presence felt through subversive activities, said an intelligence source. “These groups generally try to create unrest ahead of polls... So, security has to be intensified in areas where they have traditionally been active,” said the source. According to intelligence reports, on September 3, some tourists noticed a group of seven suspected Maoists, including three women, near Dhangikusum village in Belpahari. The suspected Maoists were reportedly carrying firearms and had their faces covered. Virendra, director-general of police, visited Jhargram on Saturday to take stock of the ground situation. “It is clear that the state administration has taken up reports of Maoists entering the areas seriously. In a situation like this, additional central forces would help the state in dominating the areas in an efficient way,” said an official. Sources in Nabanna said that the Bengal government has repeatedly urged the Centre to send central forces. “The repeated communication with the Centre seems to have worked and it is expected that more companies of CRPF could be sent back to the state in next few days,” said a source. A senior CRPF officer said that at least two more companies were on their way back to Jungle Mahal from Jammu and Kashmir and they would be sent to some camps in Purulia, which are being manned by the state police these days. Not only in Jhargram, Maoist activities have been reported from several other places as Maoist posters have been seized from different areas of Purulia and West Midnapore as well. There were intelligence inputs that the Maoist held several meetings for fresh recruitments ahead of Independence Day this year. “Cross-border activities by the Maoists are the main cause of concern now. The CRPF can do this work properly as they are trained for such work. We hope that the CRPF personnel can prevent their activities," said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-386
