07-09-2020||West Bengal||Most TMC MPs aged over 65 yrs likely to skip Parliament session||A majority of TMC MPs above the age of 65 years are likely to skip the upcoming monsoon session of Parliament to avoid the risk of contracting Covid-19, party sources said. Although there has been no official communication by the party leadership in this regard, the sources said MPs over 65 years of age have been advised not to attend the session. Sudip Bandopadhyay, the 67-year-old Lok Sabha MP from Kolkata Uttar, said he would coordinate from here with his party colleagues in the Lower House. "I won't be attending the Parliament session as I am above 65, and vulnerable. I will be coordinating with my party colleagues in the Lok Sabha," he said. TMC chief whip and party's Rajya Sabha MP, Sukhendu Sekhar Roy, too, said he won't be attending the session. Roy cited the Unlock-4 guidelines by the Union home ministry, which advised persons aged above 65 to stay at home except for emergencies, to make his point. "I won't be there as I am 71 years' old. I will abide by the Unlock-4 guidelines. I have already written to the Rajya Sabha chairman informing him about it," he said. Senior TMC leader and Dum Dum MP Saugata Roy, however, did not want to give the parliamentary proceedings a miss. "There is no blanket rule from the party. If anybody above 65 years is willing to attend, he or she can.... I will attend the session," Roy said. The Parliament's monsoon session will begin on September 14 and continue till October 1. Hectic preparations are underway for the session with several first-time measures being taken because of the Covid-19 pandemic, such as testing of MPs, staggered sitting arrangements in the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha and use of both chambers and galleries to accommodate the members.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-384
07-09-2020||West Bengal||Birbhum cops to host live FB meet for public today||Birbuum district police will host an open online session via Facebook live on Monday evening to raise awareness on police functions and hierarchy, and clear people’s “misconceptions”. Police sources in Birbhum said the online session would strengthen police-public relations, something chief minister Mamata Banerjee also stressed the need for in several recent meetings. The event was to be held on the eve of Police Day celebrations on September 1, but was deferred as former President Pranab Mukherjee died on August 31. The online session will start at 7pm on Monday on the official Facebook page of Birbhum district police, where seven senior officers, including women, will answer questions. “In many cases, we found that misconception and bad ideas about the police start after they talk to a constable or a junior officer at a police station, and they don’t know where to go further (who else to talk to). We will explain the details of police administration, including how we work,” said Birbhum police chief Shyam Singh. “It will help us strengthen the bond between police and the people.” “We will give an idea about uniforms and how people can understand the designation of the cop in front (of them). Many people seem to think that more stars on a uniform means more seniority,” said Singh. Police will reply to queries on steps to take if anyone faces trouble at local police stations, and development of cases. A senior officer said some people think they need to pay police to file a complaint, but they need to know that the police service is “completely free”. “The aim is to minimise, if not eliminate, misconceptions.” As part of Police Day celebrations, Covid-19 warriors of Birbhum police will also donate their plasma.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-384
07-09-2020||West Bengal||Paddy-on-road protest for dilapidated roads ||A group of residents in Bhatakhana under the town’s ward 2 sowed paddy on a waterlogged road as a mark of protest on Sunday. The incident created ripples in the town as such paddy-on-road protests are usually seen in rural areas. “We are ashamed to introduce ourselves as residents of a town. It is hard to believe that we don’t live in a remote village but in a civic area and headquarters of a district. The state of roads in our area is pathetic. For many years now, no repairs have been carried out on the road that connects our locality. That is why we sowed paddy seedlings in protest against the apathy of the civic body and district administration,” said Ranjit Roy, a Bhatkhana resident. In 2015, Trinamul had bagged the civic board in Jalpaiguri. However, in ward 2, a CPM candidate had won. As of now, the municipality is being run by a board of administrators. “A number of times, CPM candidates have won from this ward. Unfortunately, they did nothing for the basic development of the area,” said Krishnendu Guha, a resident. Sandip Mahato, a member of the BoA of the civic body, blamed the immediate past CPM councillor of the ward. “It is true that we were in power at the municipality for past five years. But we never received any proposal from the ward councillor for construction or repair of the road. Instead, the councillor instigated residents to resort to movements against the civic body,” Mahato said. Former councillor Durba Banerjee denied these charges. “I never got any cooperation or assistance from the civic board. Several proposals were sent to the civic board and Siliguri Jalpaiguri Development Authority to improve the infrastructure of this area, but were ignored,” Banerjee said. Local BJP leaders said they supported the people. “Residents of the ward are deprived by the former councillor and civic board. Dilapidated road apart, there is no streetlight and the drainage system is in a shambles. We support what the residents did today,” said Tapati Tantra, a BJP district committee member.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-384
07-09-2020||West Bengal||Forest guards fatally shoot tea worker ||A young tea garden worker died after he was allegedly shot by forest guards on patrol on Saturday evening at Sukna, some 10km away from here, leading to tension in the area. Residents of the tea estate demonstrated in front of the Sukna forest range office for over four hours till 3pm on Sunday, demanding stringent steps against the forest guards concerned and compensation for the victim’s kin. Ranjan Sarkar, president of Trinamul’s Darjeeling (plains) district, and the party’s trade union leaders rushed to the spot to meet forest officials. They then assured the people that the victim’s family would be duly compensated. It was after this assurance that the demonstration — on since 11am — was withdrawn around 3pm. Foresters of Darjeeling wildlife division have said that an appropriate investigation of the case would be done. Sources said Ajit Sauria, 28, a worker of the Mohorgong-Gulma tea estate near Sukna, went in search of his cow in the tea garden on Saturday evening. A team of forest guards patrolling in the adjoining forest area allegedly fired from pellet guns. Ajit sustained serious injuries and died on way to hospital. “Ajit had returned home from work (at the Mohorgong-Gulma tea estate) and could not find one among his cattle, so around 7.30pm he went out in search of the animal. Forest guards who had been patrolling at that area suddenly fired at him and left the spot,” said Rajesh Toppo, the vice-president of Cha Bagan Trinamul Congress Mazdoor Union. “When Ajit did not return home, his family members got worried and started searching for him. They found him in a deserted location of the garden. They had been taking him to hospital when he died on the way,” added Toppo On Sunday morning around 11am, hundreds of residents of the tea garden went to the forest office in Sukna for a demonstration and confined the foresters to office. Around 2.30pm, Trinamul leaders from Siliguri met with the foresters in Sukna, and then assured the demonstrators that necessary compensation would be given to Ajit’s family. “We have demanded stern steps against the guards who shot the worker. The forest department should also provide a job to the deceased’s wife. I will inform the entire incident to the state forest minister. We will also provide some financial assistance to the bereaved family on behalf of our party,” Sarkar said. J. Jesper, the divisional forest officer of Darjeeling wildlife division, said they would conduct the necessary investigation in the case. No one has been arrested in the case so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-384
07-09-2020||West Bengal||BSF guns down Bangladeshi ‘smuggler’ ||A Bangladeshi youth was gunned down by BSF personnel near the border in Malda district on Saturday night. This comes within three weeks of Bangladeshi foreign secretary Masud Bin Momen flagging his country’s concerns over killings on the border. State police sources said the deceased was Badsha Sheikh of Bangladesh’s Chapai-Nawabganj district. There was, however, no confirmation. Malda SP Alok Rajoria only said that a Bangladeshi national was killed in BSF firing. BSF sources said some Bangladeshi smugglers were waiting for a cough syrup consignment from their Indian counterparts. Sources said BSF 24th battalion tried to thwart the bid, when the Bangladeshi smugglers injured a BSF jawan with a sharp weapon. It was then that a jawan fired and a Bangladeshi smuggler died. Others fled from near the fencing, the source said. The incident once again brought the BSF under scanner as a number of such killings have been reported from parts of the India-Bangladesh border. Bangladeshis being shot by the BSF, which the security force claimed happens in retaliation or during attempts to stop illegal activities, have been time and again flagged by human rights groups in Bangladesh. It is also considered one of the reasons that at times strains bilateral ties. Last month when Indian foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla visited Bangladesh, his counterpart raised the issue during the bilateral meeting and urged the BSF exercise “maximum restraint.” It was also decided that the issue would be discussed during the DG level talks between BGB (Border Guards of Bangladesh) and BSF. But BSF officials, who did not want to be named, said smugglers were active on the India-Bangladesh border. They become active especially during monsoon when attempts to smuggle cattle through swelling rivers are quite common, and also smuggle fake Indian currency notes, brown sugar and cough syrup, an official said. It has been learnt from police sources that Bangladeshi smuggler Mohammed Momin was arrested by Englishbazar police in August last week. He came to Malda from Naogaon district in Bangladesh to finalise a contract of cattle-smuggling with his Indian counterparts. “We got some crucial information while interrogating him, and we are verifying those,” a police officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-384
07-09-2020||West Bengal||Embezzle charge against BJP MP, nephew||Police have started a case against BJP’s Barrackpore MP Arjun Singh and his nephew Sourav Singh, accusing the duo of embezzling Rs 9.21 crore during the MP’s tenure as chairman of Bhatpara municipality. “Misappropriation took place through a fictitious savings account that he had opened in a private bank in the name of ‘Chairman’s Relief Fund’,” said a police source “We are conducting  the probe on the basis of a complaint filed by Bhatpara civic board’s former chairman and current administrator Arun Kumar Banerjee,” added the source. Based on the complaint, the police have charged Singh and Sourav with theft, misappropriation of property, criminal breach of trust, cheating to create loss, forgery for cheating, and using forged documents as genuine, under the relevant clauses of the Indian Penal Code and the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988. Singh, who quit Trinamul to join the saffron party before Lok Sabha polls in 2019, said he was “least bothered” about the complaint or case, as “there was no corruption”. “All payments from the fund were made through cheques to help people in distress.” “On a number of occasions, the fund was used to pay the salary of the municipality’s employees, as the state government failed to provide funds to meet the salary needs,” said the MP of the industrial suburbs north of Calcutta. The parliamentarian added: “I belong to a family that has been living in Bhatpara for over 140 years and we have no dearth of money. So I have no need to cheat people to satisfy personal interests.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-384
07-09-2020||West Bengal||Corona warrior soldiers on, braving ostracism||Conducting Covid tests for 14 hours every day, 25-year-old Gopa Biswas has willingly given up on weekly leave, her favourite food, television, even music. What has come as a shock is that she has also had to give up her lodgings three times in less than a month and a half — because neighbours wouldn’t stand a Covid lab employee living close to them. But the medical technologist at the Suri district hospital isn’t discouraged. Rather, she’s proud of being one among the 10,000-odd healthcare workers at the forefront of the battle against the pandemic in the around 100 government and private establishments in Bengal. Gopa, who helps conduct about 600 Covid tests daily, says she can’t find the time to cook her favourite dishes and has been eating the same meal of egg curry and rice twice almost every day. For over two months, she hasn’t taken a single day off to go and meet her parents at Madanpur village in Chakdah, Nadia, 215km from Suri. “The life of a medical technologist at a Covid testing lab can’t be the same as that of others.… We can’t afford to relax during a pandemic,” said the young woman whose life revolves around the RT-PCR machine at the hospital lab that tests swab samples of suspected Covid-19 patients. Gopa is what chief minister Mamata Banerjee calls a “Covid warrior”. But landlord after landlord had refused to rent rooms to Gopa when she first arrived in Birbhum in the first week of July from Nadia. Her first address was a garage, which she had to quit after a few days, mostly under neighbourhood pressure. She then somehow managed to secure a room but the landlord threw her out after a few days, and she landed up at a government nursing hostel. “But I couldn’t stay there long as the kitchen was closed,” Gopa said. The mess was shut because most of the trainee nurses had left after the lockdown started. So, in the little time her backbreaking work at the hospital left her with, Gopa’s house-hunting continued. “The next landlord served me with a notice to leave within four days.… He cited ‘personal problems’ but I knew the reason,” Gopa said. A colleague helped her find new lodgings in Suri town and Gopa moved in on August 15. The accommodation problem seems to have been solved for now, but daily life — the better part of it spent sweating and suffocating inside the personal protection equipment (PPE) — remains difficult. Gopa says she gets so tired after 14 hours in PPE that all she can do is rustle up some egg curry and rice before hitting the sack. She eats the same egg curry next morning before leaving for work. “It takes 35 minutes to get into the PPE before work every day, and 50 minutes to get out of it afterwards (while maintaining all safety protocols). One doesn’t feel like cooking delicacies after that,” she said. “Trust me, I never spent so much time getting ready even for a wedding,” the daughter of a primary school teacher smiled. Gopa had earned her diploma in medical technology from the College of Medicine and JNM Hospital, popularly known as Kalyani Medical College, in Nadia in 2015. She then got a temporary job as a laboratory assistant at a rural hospital in Chakdah. After the pandemic struck, she got a job with the Suri hospital as a permanent employee. “A temporary employee gets around Rs 20,000 a month while a permanent employee earns around Rs 10,000 more.... I grabbed the offer as I have to look after my old parents,” Gopa, whose elder sister got married a few years ago, said. “I have to call my parents twice every day as they constantly worry about me. I tell them we are well protected and that regular tests are conducted on us. But at times, they refuse to understand and tell me to leave this job.” Gopa, though, is committed to her work and finds the challenge stimulating. “It would be a disaster if a Covid-positive person is declared negative. So, even while sweating inside the PPE, we can’t afford to lose our concentration,” she said. But her oppressive schedule means she has no opportunity to “chill” afterwards. She does not have the time to watch television or listen to music — among her favourite pastimes in the pre-Covid days — nor can she go out with friends during weekends. “All this can wait but our work can’t,” Gopa says as she gets ready to leave for the laboratory for another gruelling day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-384
07-09-2020||West Bengal||PWD in a fix over funds to repair 39 bridges in south Bengal districts||At least 39 bridges in five south Bengal districts — North 24-Parganas, South 24-Parganas, Howrah, Nadia and Murshidabad — are in need of urgent renovation or replacement, a report prepared by the public works department has revealed, but the authorities don’t know how to raise funds for the upkeep the structures. A source in the PWD said estimates suggested the repairs and restoration would require Rs 140 crore. But at a time when all other expenditures barring Covid-19 related activities have been put to a stop by the finance department, he wondered how the PWD would get the necessary funds. “The cause of concern is the report is of bridges in five districts only. I don’t know how many bridges need urgent repairs throughout the state right at this moment. Arranging for funds for the repairs would be a challenging job,” said a senior PWD official. Senior Nabanna officials said the government was contemplating releasing funds for emergency works like repair of roads and bridges as the state’s revenue generation had marginally increased over the past one month or so. But a section of the officials has said funds need to be released immediately as most of the damaged bridges are in bad shape after the onset of the monsoon. Over the past few months, the sources said, the PWD had conducted a health audit of nearly 1,800-odd bridges it maintained across the state. Now, the reports are being submitted by different zones. The first such report was submitted by the south zone, which made it clear that several bridges were in real distress and some needed immediate replacement by erecting new bridges. For example, the report says construction of a new bridge is urgently required to replace Lalpole bridge at Diamond Harbour in South 24-Parganas at the cost of Rs 11.79 crore. “We have listed only the bridges that require urgent repairs or replacement. If the number of distressed bridges in five districts come at 39, I don’t know what will be the total number of distressed bridges in the state. Bridges in north Bengal would require more attention, I guess, as these were not maintained over the years,” said an official. The PWD has started looking for ways to raise funds for the urgent repairs considering that additional financial assistance might not be available right at the moment. The PWD’s restructuring, which might have required Rs 250 crore, has been put on hold for an indefinite period. “Several questions were already raised over the restructuring process as it involved a huge expenditure. The department felt it would be safe to defer the plan as the PWD needs a handsome amount to repair bridges right at the moment,” said a senior official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-385
07-09-2020||West Bengal||India-Bangladesh trade halts after exporters allege corruption||Border trade between India and Bangadesh through the Mahadipur land port in Malda came to a halt for four hours on Sunday following allegations of delay in the installation of a power generator and acts of corruption levelled by the Mahadipur Exporters’ Association and Mahadipur Clearing & Forwarding Agents’ association. The trade resumed at noon after customs officials assured the exporters lobby of looking into their grievances. Sunday’s suspension of the border trade was a consequence of the events that took place on Saturday when only 50 per cent of the goods-laden trucks could cross the border because of power cut between 10am and 4pm. “The computers went kaput following prolonged power cut and the necessary challan and other documents for export could not be generated. This meant only 50 per cent of trucks could cross over to Bangladesh,” alleged Bhupati Mandal, the secretary of carry-forward agents’ association. Members of the two associations held protests on Sunday against the halt in the trade on the previous day. The protests led to the disruption in the export for four hours on Sunday. “The 10 computers at the customs office do not function during power cuts. The customs department had brought a generator about three months back, but for some reason, it is yet to install it. About 300 trucks carry goods to Bangladesh every day barring Friday,” said an exporter. The other grievance was that the customs authorities allow some truckers to jump the queue. “Some customs officials allow trucks at the back end to jump the queue. We have been protesting against this for some time, but to no avail,” alleged an exporter. N.K. Naskar, the assistant commissioner of customs, who met the exporters and the C&F agents on Sunday, said their grievances were being looked into. Sources have said goods worth Rs 18.33 crore are exported from the Mahadipur land port every day. “The disruption in the trans-border trade for two consecutive days has resulted in a loss of nearly Rs 20 crore,” said an exporter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-385
07-09-2020||West Bengal||Sunderbans fishermen look for safer life and better wages||Several fishermen from North and South 24-Parganas, who lived off the fish netted from rivers and creeks adjacent to the Sunderbans, are migrating to Kerala and Tamil Nadu, driven by tiger attacks and depleting catch at home. Thousands of fishermen from Hingalganj, Basanti, Kakdwip, Kultali, Mousuni, Gosaba and Namkhana, among others, look southward for a safer life and better wages. The threat of tiger attacks is a constant. On Sunday, fisherman Gopal Baidya, 54, was mauled by a tiger in Jhila-Jungle (number 6) of Gosaba in South 24-Parganas. Baidya, a resident of Satjelia-Thakurantala, was eating in his boat when a tiger pounced on him and dragged him away into the forest. He remains traceless. In the past week alone, at least four fishermen were mauled to death by tigers. Right now, around 3 lakh people from these two districts are involved in catching fish with trawlers and mechanised boats. But that the trend of migrating fishermen was very much in vogue came to light when some thousand fishermen from the southern states contacted the district administrations for help to return home in the early stages of the pandemic-induced lockdown. A member of the Dakshinbanga Matsyajibi Forum said: “We don’t have an exact number of such fishermen (who have migrated). But it appears to be around 10,000. They have been working in the same profession in Kerala, Tamil Nadu, and even Odisha.” Rakib Biswas of Hingalganj and Shyamal Das of Kultali, along with hundreds like them from the Sunderbans migrated to Kerala to work with marine fish catchers. Das, 42, said: “Repeated tiger attacks forced many of us to quit fishing here.” “There is also an increased level of salinity in rivers and creeks of the Sunderbans (causing fish shoals to deplete)…. These factors, besides better wages, encouraged us to move,” added Das, who left in February after selling off his mechanised boat. “Now I earn around Rs 15,000 a month. I never made half of that before I left for Kerala.” Fishermen said the commonplace fish varieties such as parshey, bhangal, bekti, tangra, khorkul, kashkel, foli, chela and datney, once available in abundance, have depleted “alarmingly”. Tanmay Sannyal, an expert in fisheries and limnology teaching in the zoology department of Krishnagar Government College, explained why rivers and creeks were more salty and inhospitable for fish. “The many cyclones caused tidal waves, resulting in hyper-salinity of the water in creeks and rivers in the Sunderbans. Fish normally available in these rivers and creeks have natural salinity resistance. But tidal waves turned water hyper-saline, making it difficult for fish to survive,” said Sannyal. “Such hyper-salinity, coupled with the felling of trees, damaged the plankton community on which the fish survive.” “Pollution in the rivers has also seriously hampered the reproduction of fish besides damage from the use of micro-hole nets resulting in the catch of juvenile fish.” Acknowledging the crisis, Hingalganj’s Trinamul Congress MLA Debesh Mandal said: “We will try to explore alternative scope for fishermen to earn a living. Otherwise, such migration will only turn bigger in the future.” Bankim Hazra, chairperson of the Gangasagar-Bakkhali Development Authority, said: “We will talk in detail and try to find a way out for the fishermen here.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-385
07-09-2020||West Bengal||Lowering mortality rate ‘top priority’ ||Bengal on Sunday reported 3,087 new Covid-19 cases, 52 deaths and 3,207 more recoveries. With this, the total number of cases in Bengal — the first was found on March 17 — is nearly 1.81 lakh, of which over 1.54 lakh are recoveries and 3,562 are deaths. Of the 52 deaths on Sunday, eight were from Calcutta. Of the total deaths, 3,078 (86.4 per cent) were reported comorbid by the state government. Bengal’s mortality rate stayed at 1.97, national rate being 1.71. “Lowering mortality rate further is our foremost priority now, but that’s not been easy. Despite best efforts, the daily toll has not fallen below 50 in weeks,” said a minister. Bengal was sixth among states with the highest mortality rates, and seventh on the list of states with the most deaths. The recovery rate crossed the coveted mark of 85 to touch 85.19 per cent, far ahead of the national rate of 77.48. Bengal remained fourth on the list of states with the highest recovery rates, after Bihar, Tamil Nadu and Delhi. “We have been doing well in terms of recoveries...but lowering the number of new cases found daily is also a goal, which has remained elusive,” said the minister. Bengal crossed the 46,000 mark in daily testing, recording a new high of 46,505. Bengal now has nearly 21.59 lakh tests, at 23,985 tests per million. Steady rise in testing, coupled with relatively lower new cases lowered the positive confirmation rate in 14 days from 8.9 to 8.37 per cent. A decreasing positive confirmation rate is indicative of reducing levels of Covid-19 spread. For the 14th consecutive day, Bengal logged a fall in total active cases, from 28,609 on August 23 to 23,218 on Sunday. Bengal reported 33.99 per cent occupancy of 12,355 Covid-19 beds in 91 hospitals, and 14.09 per cent in 11,507 beds of the 200 safe homes. Telemedicine services have been provided to nearly 1.75 lakh, 4,250 of them in the past 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-385
07-09-2020||West Bengal||Teacher at Toto school receives national award||Misha Ghosal, the headmistress of Dhaniram Toto Memorial High School at Totopara in Alipurduar district, received the National Teachers’ Award from Surendra Kumar Meena, the district magistrate of Alipurduar, on Saturday. Ghosal is among the two recipients of the award from Bengal which traditionally is given by the President of India on Teachers Day at Rashtrapati Bhavan in New Delhi. However, because of the Covid-19 pandemic, the ceremony could not take place this year. ‘It was a great day for me yesterday (Saturday), but it would have been much better had I received the award from the President in New Delhi as it happens every year,’ rued Ghosal, adding that the award was not just her personal achievement but that of the entire school and the local people. The school Ghosal teaches is in Totopara which is home to one of the most primitive tribe’s of the country: Totos. Totopara is under Madarihat-Birpara block of Alipurduar bordering Bhutan. All 47 awardees from different parts of the country were, however, congratulated by President Ram Nath Kovind through video conference earlier. Ghosal had joined the school, which is perched on a hill 22km from Madarihat town, 12 years back. ‘In my initial years, students were very irregular in attending classes. Girls in particular remained engaged doing domestic chores, instead of coming to school. I subsequently learned the Toto language and introduced learning through music in order to connect with the students. Those little things seem to have worked,’ she said. The school at present has a student-strength of 250, but only seven teachers. After much effort, the higher secondary section was also opened this year. Ghosal has also worked on the conservation of Toto folk culture and has written a book on it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-385
07-09-2020||West Bengal||BJP worker beaten and shot at in Noapara||Criminals allegedly backed by the Trinamul Congress beat up and shot at BJP activist Ashutosh Singh, 25, at Noapara in North 24-Parganas on Saturday night. Singh, a resident of Ichhapur’s Aurobindo Pally, is the nephew of a BJP mandal president. He survived the attack as the bullet grazed his chest. Singh was admitted to the B.N. Bose Subdivisional Hospital with multiple injuries. Trinamul said BJP’s internal wrangling had led to the attack. The incident occurred around 11.30pm at Aurobindo Pally while Singh was chatting with his friends near his home after dinner. Local sources said a group of around 20 miscreants had arrived on motorcycles, singled him out and thrashed him with iron rods. Before leaving, the criminals shot at Singh also. The miscreants escaped when some local residents rushed to the spot. Family members have said Singh is popular and known for his organisational abilities. The relatives said alleged Trinamul-backed goons had threatened the BJP worker on a number of occasions. Noapara police began a probe and detained two persons in connection with the alleged attack. A police team was deployed in the area. Local MLA Sunil Singh, a Trinamul turncoat who is now in the BJP, said: “Trinamul leadership in the Noapara Assembly constituency has been afraid of losing its support base. They do not like Ashutosh and threatened him repeatedly.” “The miscreants were engaged by Trinamul bosses to kill him only because he is a BJP activist. This is commonplace across the state now as the ruling party has become desperate. It seeks to scare people, especially youngsters, for being BJP sympathisers,” said the MLA. Rejecting the allegation, Trinamul Noapara town unit chief Gopal Majumder said: “The attack on the youth was the fallout from an internal feud in the BJP.” “The BJP has turned into a party of miscreants, busy in internal bickering. None from Trinamul was involved in the attack,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-385
07-09-2020||West Bengal||Virtual meet on Sept 15 on Durga Puja bonus in tea sector||Tea planters in the Dooars and the Terai will hold a virtual meeting with trade union leaders on September 15 to discuss the rate of annual bonus to be paid to workers ahead of Durga Puja. The trade unions, which apprehend that the planters might offer less bonus this year citing losses from the lockdown and inclement weather, have decided to hold talks among themselves ahead of the September 15 talks. According to sources, the Consultative Committee of Plantation Associations, the apex body of tea planters in the country, wrote to all working trade unions in north Bengal, mentioning that the meeting on the bonus for workers as well as the staff and sub-staff would be held on September 15. “In view of the Covid-19 pandemic and associated safety protocol, it will not be possible to hold a physical meeting this time. Therefore, the meeting will be held on a virtual platform by way of video conference,” said a source. In the letter, the convener of the CCPA requested the trade unions to nominate a group of 10 to 12 spokespersons collectively for the meeting. It will enable better interaction and adherence to social distancing norms during the meeting, the CCPA has pointed out. This is the first time in the history of the tea industry that the bipartite meeting on bonus will be held virtually where only 12 trade union representatives will be present. The planters also urged trade unions to refrain from organising demonstrations in tea gardens as such activities affected production. The letter from the CCPA has made the Joint Forum, the apex body of 23 tea trade unions, convene a meeting of the constituents on September 10. “The spokespersons would be selected and the common stand would be taken at the meeting,” said Ziaul Alam, the convener of the forum.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-385
