08-09-2020||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly monsoon session curtailed to a day||The monsoon session of Bengal assembly will be held for only a day on September 9 due to the ongoing pandemic, Speaker Biman Banerjee said on Tuesday. It had been earlier decided that the House will meet for a two-day session from Septembaer 9. But the decision was changed during the all-party meeting on Tuesday and the house will now have a single day session, TMC sources said. "We don't want people to stay in the assembly for a long time. So it has been decided that the house will be adjourned after obituary reference and placing of few reports," Banerjee said. Leader of the Opposition, Abdul Mannan criticised the TMC government for not accepting proposals for bringing in resolution against the "anti-people" policies of the Centre. "We wanted to bring in a resolution against the National Education Policy and rise in the prices of essentials. But our proposal was turned down by the TMC. This only proves that TMC and BJP have a tacit understanding," he alleged. There has been instances when resolutions have been passed without any discussions. But the state government was adamant on not bringing any resolution, Mannan said. TMC denied the charge and said the resolution was not allowed as the session will be held for just a day. Several MLAs, house staff and media personnel Tuesday underwent Covid-19 test in the assembly premises as part of safety norms ahead of the monsoon session, officials said. The state government had sent a proposal to the speaker in August for convening a session either from the first or the second week of September, according to sources. "As per the norms there cannot be a gap of more than six months between two sessions of the assembly. The last session was adjourned in March this year. So by September you have to hold the next session," a senior leader of the Trinamool Congress said. The 294-member state assembly was adjourned sine die on March 17 as the state budget session was curtailed due to the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-382
08-09-2020||West Bengal||BJP stand on Raiganj ‘custody death’ echoes Daribhit||Family members of Anup Roy, the 23-year-old BJP supporter in North Dinajpur district who allegedly died in police custody on September 2, have buried and not cremated his mortal remains while demanding a CBI probe into his death that has acquired a political colour. Arrested on September 2 in connection with an earlier crime, Anup apparently fell ill and died within hours, the police calling it a death from cerebral haemorrhage and the family and the BJP accusing the police of torturing him. For many in North Dinajpur district, the Anup case in Nandangram village of Itahar block is a rerun of the 2018 Daribhit case of Islampur subdivision that helped the BJP yield rich electoral dividends in the Lok Sabha polls. In 2018, Rajesh Sarkar and Tapash Burman of Daribhit village died of gunshots during a protest over recruitment of teachers. Their families buried the bodies and demanded a CBI probe, alleging that the police had killed them, which the cops denied. The BJP backed the families and raised the issue often ahead of Lok Sabha polls. A CBI probe is awaited. A political observer drew the parallels between the cases. “BJP leaders like Amit Shah had referred to the (Daribhit) deaths. It left Trinamul in an awkward spot as the BJP alleged that the police killed the youths. It was one of the main issues that helped the BJP win the Raiganj Lok Sabha seat. It seems the party has taken the same strategy again (with the Anup case), keeping in mind the Assembly polls.” Anup had been accused of orchestrating a cash loot with the help of some others. Arrested, he died within a few hours at Raiganj Government Medical College and Hospital, and his post-mortem was held the same night. When the police said Anup died of cerebral haemorrhage, his family members and BJP leaders alleged police torture, and demanded a second post-mortem. On a local court’s instruction, the second autopsy was done on September 5. The family received his body and buried it in Nandangram village. On the burial, Anup’s mother Gita said: “We suspect he died of police torture. We feel the state police are trying to hush up their crime, and we want the CBI to investigate. If needed, the body can be exhumed. Family members and villagers are keeping round-the-clock watch over his grave.” In Nandangram, it seems the BJP’s strategy to mount pressure on Trinamul and state police is working, as villagers seem disgruntled with the police. “It is hard to believe a youth died of cerebral attack. There must be something wrong otherwise why would the police arrange post-mortem on September 2 night immediately after death and not wait for the morning? We want the truth. For that, investigation should be done by a central agency,” said Swapan Kumar Sarkar of Nandangram. Biswajit Lahiri, the district BJP chief in North Dinajpur, said: “We had earlier seen how the state police shot dead two youths in Daribhit and now they killed another only because he is our supporter. We will continue our protests till the probe is assigned to CBI.” Trinamul leaders rubbished the charges. “BJP is simply doing politics over the unfortunate death of a youth. Earlier, they had resorted to similar tactics over the death of an MLA (Debendra Nath Ray) and after two youths died in Daribhit. The police have already said why he (Anup) died. Probe is on based on the family’s complaint. We have full faith in the state police,” said Kanaialal Agarwala, district Trinamul president.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-383
08-09-2020||West Bengal||Cop action ends doctors’ strike in Alipurduar||Doctors and paramedics at the state general hospital in Birpara of Alipurduar district resumed their duties at outpatient departments (OPDs) on Monday after three days during which they protested the assault on a colleague. The decision of doctors to resume work, sources said, came after the police arrested the principal accused of the attack, and decided to depute a team of four policemen on hospital campus round the clock. Last Thursday, a group of people who claimed to be friends and relatives of a patient — injured in a mishap — attacked Amalesh Panda, the doctor on emergency duty, alleging he had delayed examining the patient. On Friday, doctors and others posted at the hospital held a silent march in Birpara town and met police officers, asking for security at the hospital premises. They also submitted CCTV footage of the emergency ward to the police. In Alipurduar, members of the Doctors’ Forum gave a memo to the district magistrate, requesting him to look into the issue. “A case was filed and the prime accused of the attack has been arrested. We have posted a four-member police team on hospital campus, and soon the number of policemen will increased,” said SP Amitabha Maity. A doctor posted at the hospital said: “All we want is adequate security in our place of work, especially now (amid the pandemic) when all those associated with healthcare are putting in their best efforts.” In Jalpaiguri, a nurse at the super-specialty hospital was attacked on Sunday by two youths for her alleged delay in administering an injection to one of them. Kotwali police arrested the two youths, Pralay Das and Biswajit Das, from Mohitnagar on the town’s outskirts. On Monday, both were produced at a local court and sent them to judicial custody for three days. Additional reporting by our Jalpaiguri correspondent||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-383
08-09-2020||West Bengal||NBU to hold final-year exams in October||The North Bengal University (NBU) will conduct the final examinations of undergraduate and postgraduate courses in October this year. According to varsity officials, they will publish the elaborate exam schedule on September 10. The undergraduate exams will be held from October 1 to 6, while the PG exams will be conducted from October 1 to 8. “On the basis of the circular issued by the UGC and the verdict of the Supreme Court, it has been decided to conduct exams both online and offline and in an open-book system in October this year. The university will upload the question paper a day before the examination, according to the schedule. Students will have to submit the paper in the following 24 hours either online or offline,” said Debashish Dutta, the controller of examination at the NBU. He said PG students would have to send their papers to the departmental email while the UG examinees would have to mail the papers to their respective colleges. UG students, who want to appear the exams offline, will have to collect the question paper and the first page of the answer sheet from their own colleges. The PG students, who will appear offline, will have to collect the question paper from their nearest college and can submit the paper to the same place. An acknowledgement receipt will be issued after submission of the papers. As students cannot enter the colleges because of the Covid-19 pandemic, those appearing offline will have to send their guardians or any other authorised person to the colleges to collect the question papers along with a photocopy of the admit card. Also, the answer scripts have to be submitted in the same manner. “The results of the exams will be published on October 31. On the same day, we will also publish the results of the part 2 exam on the basis of internal assessment,” the controller of examinations said. Sources said students could write the papers on their own sheets but they had to stitch the first sheet with the answer scripts which they would get on the university website. “Students will download and print the first sheet of the answer paper where they will have to write their roll number, date of examination, registration number and other details,” the source said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-383
08-09-2020||West Bengal||Cultural hubs for hill people, Rajbanshis ||The state government has decided to develop several rural craft and cultural hubs for the hill communities and for the Rajbanshi community of north Bengal for which the state had earlier constituted development boards. The decision is being seen as a new move by chief minister Mamata Banerjee to woo these communities ahead of the Assembly polls. After Mamata came to power, she made development boards for 15 different hill communities. Similar boards have been formed for minorities in the hills, for Rajbanshis in the plains and for tribals and Gorkhas living in the foothills. Also, two language academies have been formed for the Rajbanshi community. “All those communities for which development boards were formed will get the benefit of the proposed rural craft and cultural hubs. For each hub, a sum of Rs 1 crore to Rs 1.5 crore will be spent. In these hubs, cultural heritage, garments, musical instruments, art and craft items would be displayed. Members of the community can also use these hubs to sell handicraft and ethnic cuisine. The hubs will also serve as centres for cultural practices and research of these communities,” said Satyakam Gurung, the district officer of West Bengal Khadi & Village Industries Board in Jalpaiguri. According to him, the state has assigned the board to develop the hubs to come up in various areas of Darjeeling, Kalimpong, Jalpaiguri, Alipurduar and Cooch Behar districts. Parthasarathi Bhattacharya, officer of West Bengal Khadi & Village Industries Board for Darjeeling and Kalimpong districts, said they were facing problems over land. “In the hills, whatever land the boards has with them is tribal land. That is why we are facing some problem in identifying land for the hubs. We have referred the issue to the state government and hope it will be resolved soon,” he said. According to political observers, the decision indicates that Mamata wants to reach out to these communities for support, particularly as other political forces are also trying to woo the hill population by raising demands before central and state governments. Recently, Morcha leaders Binay Tamang and Anit Thapa sent letters to the Prime Minister and chief minister, seeking Scheduled Tribe status for 11 hill communities and permanent jobs of contract workers in the GTA, respectively. The BJP-run Assam state government has also approved formation of Kamtapur Autonomous Council for the Rajbanshis. Raju Bista, the BJP MP of Darjeeling, is also consistently trying to get the ST status for the hill communities from the Centre. “Some kind of a competition has ensued among the political parties in the hills and plains of north Bengal and Trinamul too, has become a part of it,” said an observer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-383
08-09-2020||West Bengal||Reopen hope for Bengal's national parks ||Nature and wildlife enthusiasts who want to visit the forests of north Bengal may get some good news amid the pandemic. Bengal forest department is likely to allow visitors to the national parks of the region soon. “Recently, state forest minister (Rajib Banerjee) instructed some senior officers in north Bengal to submit to him a report on the present state of affairs of national parks. A detailed report with a plan on the health and safety of visitors, forest employees, guides and cab drivers, has been prepared and sent to him for a final approval. We expect some positive decision on the reopening of national parks in another couple of days,” said a source. Every year from June 15 to September 15, forests remain closed for visitors. However this year the pandemic has created an entirely new set of challenges. Initially, the department would only allow car safaris for tourists, an official said. “As a preventive measure, we will allow only four persons in a vehicle on a car safari. Also, visitors will have to follow strict health protocols such as physical distancing, wearing masks and carrying hand sanitisers. At entry and exit, each visitor and his vehicle will be sanitised and he will be screened with a thermal gun,” said the official. The department will take some more time to resume the elephant safari — the most attractive option. In north Bengal, car safari is available in Gorumara National Park, Chapramari Wildlife Sanctuary, Jaldapara National Park and Buxa Tiger Reserve. The elephant safari is available in Gorumara and Jaldapara. No immediate decision will be made to reopen zoos, including the Padmaja Naidu Himalayan Zoological Park in Darjeeling and Bengal Safari Park near Siliguri, the official added. Such moves by the forest department come at a time when the tourism stakeholders have sent a letter to minister Banerjee, urging him to see that facilities are opened by his department to draw tourists especially during Durga Puja and Diwali holidays. “North Bengal, particularly the Dooars, is getting tourist queries. Tourists are also asking if they can enter the forests. If the department opens up its services for visitors, it will give tourism a big boost. We hope the minister understands the situation and makes an appropriate decision,” said Samrat Sanyal, general secretary, Himalayan Hospitality & Tourism Development Network.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-383
08-09-2020||West Bengal||Panel for Darjeeling municipal corporation||Binay Tamang, the president of a faction of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha, has flagged yet another long-standing demand of Darjeeling residents — upgrade of the 170-year-old Darjeeling municipality to a municipal corporation. However, unlike some other demands which the party has taken up with state and central governments over the years, Tamang brought in people from different walks of life and constituted a committee that was assigned with the task of spearheading the movement on the issue. On Sunday, Tamang held a meeting in Darjeeling where hundreds were invited from different sections of the society and all 32 wards of the hill town. At the meeting, the Darjeeling Municipality Corporation Demand Committee, which Tamang claimed is an apolitical body, was formed. “One of the issues on my agenda in the 2019 election manifesto was to work towards the upgrade of the Darjeeling municipality to a municipal corporation. Since 2000, the demand for a corporation has been raised. We had a meeting for the formation of a non-political Darjeeling Municipality Corporation Demand Committee that has had representatives from various sections. We want the state to look into the issue and if required, make necessary amendments in Acts so that Darjeeling can get a municipal corporation,” said Tamang. According to the West Bengal Municipal Corporation Act 2006, a civic area can be accorded the status of a municipal corporation if it has a population of five lakh, around 3,000 people live in a sqkm area and three-fourth of the population is into activities other than agriculture. According to the website of the Darjeeling municipality, the civic area is spread over an area of 10.6sqkm and according to the 2011 census, the population was around 1.2 lakh. In total, the demand committee would comprise over 100 members. “They will work on drafting the process and details. We will help them in liasing with the state government. I would like to request all residents of the hills to come together and support the demand,” Tamang said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-383
08-09-2020||West Bengal||Seven cops suspended over ATM loot recovery||Birbhum police on Sunday night suspended a constable, five civic volunteers and a village police personnel for alleged delay in informing their seniors about recovery of Rs 60 lakh from a van during routine checking in Rampurhat on August 28. Though the Rampurhat police had recovered the money from the van, the driver and his aide left the vehicle and fled. The cops had informed their superiors about the seizure of the vehicle but did not tell them about the huge amount of cash recovered. Without informing their superiors about the recovery, the cops had kept the money with them. The recovery of the money by Rampurhat cops on August 28 came to light following interrogation of driver Raj Haldar and his aide Tanmoy Dey, who were arrested by Barrackpore police on September 1. The arrest also revealed that the money recovered from the van was part of the Rs 86 lakh that ATM cash van driver Raj Haldar had fled with from Jagaddal in North 24-Parganas on August 26. During their interrogation on September 1, the duo told the Barrackpore police that they had left the cash in the van in Rampurhat and fled. This was immediately communicated to Birbhum police by their counterparts in Barrackpore. On September 2, the Birbhum police informed the cops in Barrackpore about the recovery of the cash in Rampurhat on August 28. “Seven persons, including a constable and five civic volunteers, have been suspended for their delay in informing the police station about recovery of money. A team is probing to find out why they kept the recovery of cash secret,” said Shyam Singh, the Birbhum police chief. Police sources said the cops, who were on patrolling duty in Rampurhat, had intercepted the van carrying cash early on August 28. The cops had informed the inspector-in-charge of Rampurhat police that the van had been seized but the driver and his aide managed to flee. “Accordingly we had informed Barrackpore police about recovery of the van as police stations across Bengal had been informed about the vehicle after the driver had fled with it from Jagaddal on August 26. However, we had no idea that cash had also been recovered,” said a police officer in Rampurhat. Senior police officers in Birbhum are clueless about what led the seven cops to hide information regarding recovery of such a huge amount of cash. While the seven persons have been suspended, additional superintendent of police (headquarters), Birbhum, Subimal Paul, has been asked to probe into the intention of the cops to keep the money with them and not inform their superiors about the recovery.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-383
08-09-2020||West Bengal||HC order on Centre’s job scheme for migrants ||Calcutta High Court on Monday held that if any migrant labourer wanted to avail himself/herself of the Centre’s scheme to provide jobs to workers who had returned home from other states during the lockdown, he/she would have to apply for it with the district magistrate. A division bench of Chief Justice T.B.N Radhakrishnan and Justice Subhasish Dasgupta said the district magistrate would then forward the application to the Union ministry concerned and a decision had to be taken three weeks thereafter. Bengal had been excluded from the Centre’s Rs 50,000 crore Garib Kalyan Rojgar Abhiyaan scheme. The court issued the order on a petition filed by Nepal Mahato and others, all migrant labourers who had returned home in Purulia. The bench asked the petitioners to apply before the Purulia DM for their inclusion in the scheme in one week. “If the petitioners make such applications, the DM Purulia will send the matter to the appropriate ministry of the Union government and the ministry would have to take its decision three weeks thereafter,” the bench ruled.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-383
08-09-2020||West Bengal||Bengal has spent Rs 2,700cr on Covid so far; and received just Rs 200cr||The Mamata Banerjee government has spent nearly Rs 2,700 crore to battle the spread of Covid-19 in the state so far while it received only about Rs 200 crore from the Centre to combat the pandemic, sources at Nabanna said. The lack of support from the Centre has left the top brass of the government in a spot considering the battle might be a prolonged one and arranging funds from the state’s own coffers is going to be easier said than done. “Initially, we had to spend heavily to develop infrastructure to fight against the spread of Covid-19. Now, we are spending something between Rs 125 crore and Rs 130 crore every month on Covid-related activities. The problem is that we are not getting enough support from the Centre,”a senior Nabanna official told The Telegraph. According to sources, the state government is spending heavily these days on conducting tests for suspected Covid patients as the state needs to pay about Rs 300 to buy each testing kit. Moreover, the state needs to spend handsomely for carrying out the tests that includes hiring of more technicians, data entry operators, mobilisation of manpower and transportation. “The kits are being supplied by the ICMR but the state needs to pay for this. As we need to arrange several facilities for conducting tests across the state, each test costs around Rs 800 to 900... We are conducting close to 50,000 tests per day and the outgo under this head is huge,” said another official. This apart, the state government is spending heavily for requisitioning private hospitals to treat Covid patients. According to a rough estimate by the health department, the state is spending about Rs 7 crore every month for this purpose. “Besides, there are huge expenditures, about Rs 50 crore, to provide free treatment to the Covid patients, running safe homes, providing free ambulance service across the state, procurement of equipment and developing Covid facilities in new hospitals. The state needs support from the Centre as its own revenue generation has shrunk since the nationwide lockdown imposed in March this year,” said an official. Sources also said that initially the state had to incur huge expenditure as it developed Covid treatment facilities at major government hospitals. Besides, the state had to deal with a huge influx of migrant labourers. “The state made all arrangements for safe return of migrants from other states at free of cost. It had also provided financial support to the migrant labourers at the initial stage. Initially, the state spent nearly Rs 2,000 crore in the first two months,” said a source. The sources said the state government was worried because it did not get enough central support to fight against the pandemic. “Under the national health mission, the state received only about Rs 200 crore whereas some states like Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu have received more funds, something about Rs 400 crore each,” said a Nabanna official. The problem for the state has doubled, sources said, after the Centre failed to clear dues of nearly Rs 4,100 crore under the GST compensation head.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-383
08-09-2020||West Bengal||Class X student turns hawker||A Class X student of Chachand High School in Murshidabad’s Samserganj has been forced to turn into a hawker to keep his family running as illness and lockdown have robbed his parents of their jobs. Unlike others of his age, a normal day for 15-year-old Jittu Saha doesn’t begin with picking up books to sit down for studies. Instead of books, the boy picks up several packets of biscuits, snacks, puffed rice and bottles of pickles to lay them out on a rickshaw van. Jittu then sets out from Joykrishnapur to hawk his wares from one village to another. Lockdown has changed the lives of the three-member family. Jittu’s father Phulchand Saha used to work as a mason in Kerala, while his mother Puspa Saha worked for a local bidi factory. A few days before the lockdown was imposed, Phulchand, who used to earn enough to keep the family going, had to return home from Kerala. “My father was a labourer in Kerala. He was earning enough and I could keep myself busy with school, private tuitions and friends. Though we are a poor family, my mother’s earning gave us a sense of comfort,” Jittu said as he took a short break from hawking at the nearby Chachand village. “My father developed respiratory disease and had to return home. If this wasn’t enough, the lockdown took away my mother’s job at a bidi factory near our village. All of a sudden, we were left with no livelihood.” “At the end of the month, I can give my mother around Rs 7,000 and that is helping us stay afloat,” he said. Jittu, the youngest of six brothers, stays with his parents as his siblings are married and live separately. Five months into the hawking, the boy said the lockdown had helped him as he didn’t have to attend school. “How else could I have managed both? As the school is shut, I can sell my wares during the day,” says Jittu. The teenager is helping the family keep it going as Jittu doesn’t want his father to spend the little that he has been able to save by working away from home. Before returning home after the sunset after making tours of his own village, Chachand, and Dhulauri, Jittu’s last stop is always Basudevpur. This helps him as the local wholesale market is at Basudevpur, where he replenishes his stocks every evening and loads them onto the van. “To survive, the family needed to earn and as my father fell ill, the onus was on me. I decided to ferry wares that would not require much investment. So, we decided to sell biscuits, snacks and pickles. To move from one village to another, I need a cycle van. My mother bought me a second-hand van for Rs 2,000,” Jittu said. Puspa, however, regrets that his son has to skip tuition classes and studies because he has been compelled to adopt the life of a hawker. “I used to earn Rs 150-200 every day from the bidi factory I worked till the lockdown took away my job. I hardly get orders from the factory. The little that I still earn is not enough to make ends meet as my husband is seriously ill and cannot work anymore,” Puspa said. Jittu is not the only student in the area who has taken up odd jobs to run the family, said Nejaur Rahaman, headmaster of Chachand High School. “The pressure to run the family has led to several students at our school to drop out. Most of these students are from classes VIII-X. They have taken up odd jobs to support the family who are facing the adversities that lockdown has thrust on their lives,” said Rahaman. Jittu, however, is determined not to be counted among the drop-outs in his school. Once school reopens, Jittu hopes to attend school and also find time for vending. “For me, both are equally important. I want to clear Madhyamik and also ensure that my family is able to survive the adversities. I am confident of joining school once the lockdown ends,” says Jittu as he gets busy attending to customers at the corner of a village road that leads to the highway. Even as he serves pickles to a customer, Jittu eyes are set on the highway that like his hope has an endless run.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-383
08-09-2020||West Bengal||Bhutan entry with Covid negative certificate||Bhutan’s health ministry has notified that a visitor to the country needs to carry a Covid-19 negative certificate, spelling relief for migrant workers and traders of India near the border. The move is a part of the country’s unlocking in phases. In March, when the first Covid case was reported there, Bhutan barred the entry of foreigners. On Saturday, the Bhutan health ministry notified that a visitor, besides carrying the certificate, must obey quarantine and test protocols. A person who wants to enter Bhutan should get his RT-PCR Covid-19 test done and get a negative result. The test has to be done not earlier than 72 hours from the day he starts his trip to Bhutan. Migrant workers can carry the rapid antigen test report that confirms their Covid negative status. Safety protocols of the Bhutan government are a must for visitors and migrant workers, alike. A nationwide lockdown was announced in Bhutan from August 11 that continued till August 31. From September 1, the Bhutan government started unlocking in phases. The decision spells good news for several migrant workers who had returned to India and were living amid uncertainty, said Soumen Nag, a social researcher in Siliguri. “It seems that they can gradually get back to their jobs. It is a positive development as unemployment is a major issue during the pandemic and consequent lockdown,” Nag said. Traders in the bordering town of Bengal’s Jaigaon, on the other side of Bhutan’s Phuentsholing, hailed the news. “Hundreds of us visit Bhutan regularly for trade and for banking purposes. It is good that the country is finally opening up to visitors,” said R.S. Gupta, a trader in Jaigaon. Those in the tourism sector, however, said they need to wait for some more time. “We have seen the notification but it seems it is for people who need to visit Bhutan for professional and commercial purposes, and for migrant workers of India. There is no specific notification for tourists so far. We believe we have to wait for some more days before tourists are allowed in Bhutan,” said a tour operator in Alipurduar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-384
08-09-2020||West Bengal||Minister Jyotipriya Mullick tests Covid-19 positive||Bengal food and supplies minister Jyotipriya Mullick was hospitalised on Monday after testing positive for Covid-19, sources in his party said on a day the state logged 3,021 new infections. Mullick’s infection was reported late on Sunday night. From Wednesday, Speaker Biman Banerjee has convened a two-day session of the Bengal Assembly to fulfil the constitutional requirement of meeting at least once in six months. So far, over 20 MLAs, including at least 10 from Trinamul, have been infected. Trinamul’s Egra MLA Samaresh Das and Falta MLA Tamonash Ghosh died from the disease. The pandemic has also claimed the life of CPM veteran and former transport minister Shyamal Chakraborty. The state reported 3,077 recoveries and 58 deaths from the novel coronavirus in the 24-hour window ending at 9am on Monday. Of the deaths, 16 were from Calcutta and 13 in North 24-Parganas, of which Mullick is the district chief of the Trinamul Congress. Bengal’s total infections went past 1.83 lakh. Of them, over 1.57 lakh are recoveries and 3,620 are deaths. Mullick, 62, a senior leader in the ruling party, is the fourth member of Mamata Banerjee’s cabinet to test positive. Fire and emergency services minister Sujit Bose, minister of state for micro, small and medium enterprises Swapan Debnath, and public health engineering minister Soumen Mahapatra had contracted the disease and then recovered. “Balu (Mullick) tested positive. He has been a little ill for a few days. Because he has some comorbidities, it was decided to get him hospitalised,” said a cabinet colleague. In Covid-19, comorbidities are underlying health disorders, such as high blood pressure, diabetes, cardiovascular disease or kidney ailments. As of Monday, the state government reported 3,125 or 86.3 per cent as deaths with comorbidity “present”. Bengal’s overall mortality rate is now 1.96, still behind the national rate of 1.7 per cent. Calcutta’s mortality rate is 3.19 and it has contributed over 38 per cent of the total death toll. For 15 consecutive days, Bengal reported a fall in the total number of active cases, with more recoveries than new cases being found in 24 hours. The total active cases on August 23 were 28,069, and on Monday, the count was 23,216. The state’s recovery rate has climbed by over 15 per cent in a month, reaching 85.4 on Monday, substantially ahead of the national rate of 77.54 per cent. Bengal logged 42,216 tests on Monday, which took the total past 22 lakh, at 24,455 tests per million people. From early February, Bengal took over three-and-a-half months to complete 1 lakh tests on May 19. Its recent total testing milestones of 17, 18, 20, 21 lakh and now 22 lakh were achieved in two days each. Steady rise in the tests, coupled with relatively lower cases being found, has improved the positive confirmation rate in 15 days from 8.9 to 8.35 per cent. A decreasing positive confirmation rate is indicative of reducing levels of Covid-19 spread.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-384
08-09-2020||West Bengal||Buy-sari drive to help marginal weavers||The Bengal government, in a rare move, is going out of its way to buy handloom saris from around 10,000 small and marginal weavers to try and buffer  the financial blow of the pandemic-induced lockdown. The state government has tasked the West Bengal State Handloom Weavers’ Co-operative Society Limited, which runs Tantuja, to hold camps and directly buy saris from marginal weavers in East Burdwan and Nadia districts. Tantuja has 82 selling points across the country of which 70 are in Bengal, said an official. Handloom saris sourced directly from weavers — their money is being transferred to their bank accounts — will be sold at these outlets. The model is similar to the one that the government employs to buy produce directly from farmers against a minimum support price. Till last week, Tantuja held at least half a dozen such camps in the two districts. At a camp held in Nadia’s Phulia last week, Tantuja bought 3,108 handloom saris directly from weavers for Rs 25.67 lakh. Bengal’s handloom weavers have been hard hit as markets remained closed and sales plummeted since the Covid lockdown. Sources in the textiles department said that around 6 lakh weavers and craftspersons associated with the handloom sari industry across Bengal were reeling under the crisis amid the pandemic, but of them, some 10,000 small and marginal weavers are the worst hit. Tantuja’s officer on special duty (marketing) Subhabrata Bandopadhyay said: “Handloom weavers are in deep trouble. So our aim is to procure the maximum number of saris from them. We will sell their products through our stores.” Asked about the price offered to weavers, a Tantuja official said: “Prices vary depending on the product, but we are offering standard wholesale market price. The base material that we procure starts at Rs 250. A jamdani can fetch a weaver at least Rs 5,000.” State micro and small scale enterprise and textiles minister Swapan Debnath said: “Many weavers across the state could not sell their products because of the lockdown restrictions. It is our small effort to help weavers and recognise their craftsmanship since they have been suffering financially because of the pandemic.” Though he did not specify how many camps would be held before Durga Puja, the minister added that the effort would go on and the aim was to cover every weaver in distress. He did not specify if the department had fixed a budget for the procurement drive. Tantuja usually buys handloom saris through Primary Weavers’ Cooperative. The ongoing procurement is in addition to the regular procurement. “This is only because we want to help the small and marginal weavers in their times of financial crisis,” Debnath added. Weavers are happy as the camps are being held before Durga Puja. Ananda Basak, a weaver in Phulia, said: “A huge number of saris remains stockpiled at home. The retailers are showing no interest to buy our products ahead of the festive season due to lack of cash flow in the market. They want saris on credit, but we are facing a cash crunch. This is the time when we rake in funds and use the money to purchase raw materials. Moreover, traders from other states buy saris. But Covid has robbed us of that opportunity. In such a difficult situation, the procurement initiative by the government has come as a ray of hope.” Debnath’s deputy Ratna Ghosh, who was present at the Phulia sari procurement camp last week, said: “Our aim is to procure saris in maximum numbers and not leave any small weaver unhappy. However, there will be no compromise on quality.” Debnath added he had submitted a similar proposal to the state government to procure powerloom-made saris. “That would require an amendment to clauses that govern Tantuja because it allows procurement of handloom saris and nothing else.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-384
