09-09-2020||West Bengal||TMC rally passes BJP event, clash erupts||Violence erupted in Tufanganj of Cooch Behar district on Tuesday when supporters of BJP and Trinamul clashed with each other, prompting the police to rush to the spot and bring the situation under control. Political workers attacked each other with bamboo sticks, rods and bricks, said sources. It took time for the police to disperse the crowd. Later, Trinamul and BJP blamed each other and demanded legal steps against the other. Sources said Alipurduar’s BJP MP John Barla had convened a meeting of BJP workers at a community hall. When the meeting was in progress, a Trinamul rally to protest the Centre’s policies moved through the area. As the rally crossed the meeting venue, an altercation among supporters of rival parties snowballed into a clash. “We had a political event in Tufanjganj on Monday. Persons backed by the BJP attacked our people in a planned manner to foil it. We suspect the attack was orchestrated by John Barla. BJP supporters vandalised a party office and seven motorcycles of our supporters parked in front of the office. We want strict steps against the MP,” said Partha Pratim Roy, Cooch Behar district Trinamul chief. BJP leaders said there had been a heated verbal exchange near the community hall but denied the involvement of their party members in vandalism. “Our meeting was on when some Trinamul supporters came and started uttering abuses. This made some of our supporters walk out of the hall and articulate their protests. Seeing them, Trinamul supporters fled,” said Sanjoy Chakraborty, district general secretary of BJP in Cooch Behar. He blamed a rival Trinamul faction for the vandalism. “These people took the chance,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-381
09-09-2020||West Bengal||MP Mahua unmasks ‘carelessness’ amid Covid ||People argued with parliamentarian Mahua Moitra when she advised them to wear masks in Tehatta subdivision on Tuesday, prompting Nadia police to take note of the growing reluctance among many to obey the basic Covid safety protocol. From Wednesday, Nadia police will launch a fresh crackdown against those found moving in public places without masks. The desperation to flout safety protocols in the district became evident on Tuesday when some people in Tehatta argued with Moitra after she got out of her car and advised them to wear masks. Later in the day, the MP posted a video statement on her Facebook page urging strict police action against those violating safety norms. The incident eventually led Tehatta police to book people moving around without masks. Till late in the evening on Tuesday, 42 persons were booked for not wearing masks. The number of arrests in the Krishnagar police district was 125. The police have charged the violators under 51 (b) of the Disaster Management Act as well as under section 188 of the Indian Penal Code. Across Nadia, people found moving around without masks in large numbers is a common sight, even as the number of new Covid infections has increased alarmingly since the past one week. Since September 1, Nadia has recorded 875 new Covid positive cases. Speaking to The Telegraph, Moitra said: “I am shocked to see the sheer carelessness among a section of people. In rural areas, many people are not using face masks and not following the safety norms whereas the numbers of positive cases are increasing alarmingly in the district. While in other countries the numbers of positive cases are decreasing, we are having an opposite picture only because of such carelessness.” “If this goes on we will close the shops and markets and take action against the violators. The police will take to the streets from Wednesday to book such people,” she added. Sources said that senior officials also felt that the ongoing Unlocking phase had somehow encouraged people, particularly in rural areas of the district, to become careless about safety basics such as masks. Sources in the district administration said after the video statement of the MP came on social media, the district administration conveyed instructions to the administrative officials in the four subdivisions to increase vigilance and crack down on violators. A senior official of Nadia administration said: “It is primarily the duty of the police to enforce such protocols. We have sought their help.” Tehatta subdivisional officer Aneesh Dasgupta said: “The police have begun their work. There will be a fresh drive (against people not wearing masks) in several areas from Wednesday and this will continue.”Additional superintendent of police in Tehatta, Krishanu Roy, said they had started the crackdown in several areas under Tehatta subdivision on Tuesday itself.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-381
09-09-2020||West Bengal||Boost for NJP and Malda's railway infrastructure||The railways have taken up a slew of projects to improve infrastructure in New Jalpaiguri and Malda, the two most prominent stations of north Bengal, and to boost train connectivity in the region. The focus has come as a shot in the arm of the Bengal BJP which began taking credit for the projects. The most visible of the projects are improvement of facilities at New Jalpaiguri and Malda stations by the Katihar division of the Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR) and the Malda division of Eastern Railway (ER), respectively. According to sources in the NFR, the NJP station is getting four escalators, two lifts, an air-conditioned dormitory and a new foot over bridge, and a 30 KW solar plant to meet the station’s power requirements. Added to it, the NFR has developed infrastructure at some other stations, which include a foot over-bridge at Raiganj station and elevated platforms at stations like Gangarampur, Malda Court, Radhikapur and Naxalbari. The railways have also finished the task of rebuilding the Tindharia and Gayabari stations of the Darjeeling Himalayan Railway (DHR), which had been damaged during the 2017 statehood agitation in the hills. “Also, the Malda-NJP stretch and the Katihar-NJP stretch of the tracks have been completely electrified. From Calcutta, any train moving towards NJP will run with electric traction. Once normal services resume, people will surely be benefited by these facilities,” said a senior official of the NFR. The railways are also in the process of giving a thorough makeover to the Malda Town station and plan to finish installation of newer facilities in three months. Two escalators have already been installed and soon, two elevators will be set up to connect two platforms with foot over bridges. “The lifts would be installed in the next three months. Also, we are opening a ten-bed Intensive Care Unit at the railway hospital in Malda with all facilities and manpower. It would help the railway employees and people in general,” said Jatendra Kumar, the divisional railway manager of Malda division. In Malda district, it is a common practice among a section of residents to avail themselves of healthcare facilities at the railway hospital that is near the Malda Town station. These projects at NJP and Malda have given the BJP a chance to play the development card and highlight the achievements of the Narendra Modi government. “These are major developments in the railway sector. Earlier, the focus was more on southern parts of the state. But our government’s focus is to improve connectivity in north Bengal and Northeast. We are apprising people of the improvements and the new facilities,” said Pravin Agarwal, president of Siliguri (organisational) district of BJP. Khagen Murmu, the BJP MP of Malda North, said the projects reflected the Modi government’s commitment to the region, which supported the BJP in the last parliament polls. “These changes in railway services are for the people as our government believes in ensuring development,” he said. Trinamul leaders said such strategies of the BJP would not work. “No new train has been launched from Malda and from north Bengal as a whole in the past few years. Instead, the Centre is offering some of the popular routes to private players. The basic services on board are in a shambles. Some minor works can never be exaggerated as major developments,” said Mausam Benazir Noor, a Rajya Sabha member and the district Trinamul chief of Malda.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-381
09-09-2020||West Bengal||Family with two Covid patients thrashed||An elderly man and his family, including two Covid patients, were beaten up for allegedly refusing to pay goons at Panihati in North 24-Parganas on Monday night. The elderly man’s wife and younger daughter, both Covid-19 patients in home isolation, who had tried to protect the man, were thrashed. Sources said Biswanath De, 68, of Raja Ramchandghat Road, had sold off a part of his ancestral property at Deshbandhu Nagar last year, prompting local goon Raju Pal a.k.a. Tutul to demand a share. De sought the intervention of a councillor, which resolved the issue for a while, but Raju started demanding money again recently, De’s elder daughter Sharmishtha, who is married and lives nearby, said. Around 11pm on Monday night, Raju, his wife and some goons, landed up at De’s home and asked him to pay up Rs 1 lakh. When De refused, the goons led by Raju ransacked the house and thrashed him, his wife and younger daughter. “My father called me up. My husband and I rushed to save my parents and sister, but Raju started beating us too,” Sharmishtha said. Sharmistha and husband Hemanta alleged Khardah police did not cooperate with them initially, and arrested Raju only after she posted about the harassment on Facebook. DC (central) of Barrackpore Commissionerate Amandeep said the matter was being looked into.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-382
09-09-2020||West Bengal||Gang-raped girl drinks pesticide in Raiganj||A 16-year-old tribal girl, who along with her 14-year-old sister had been gang-raped at a village in Rajganj block of Jalpaiguri four days back, died at North Bengal Medical College and Hospital (NBMCH) on Monday night. After the rape, both the sisters had swallowed pesticide. Her 14-year-old sister is batting for her life in the hospital. The incident sparked tension in the village and adjoining areas, prompting senior police officers to visit the spot for investigation. Of the five accused of rape, three have been arrested so far. Sources said that on September 4, the youths of a neighbouring village had called the sisters on some pretext and given them sedatives. The sedated girls were then raped. Their family members unsuccessfully searched for them on September 4 and 5. On September 6, Sunday, the girls returned home and narrated their ordeal, their brother said, and added that in the evening, both consumed pesticide. The girls “took the drastic step as they had been mentally shattered”, the brother said. “We took them to a local hospital from where they were shifted to NBMCH. On Monday night, we lost one of them,” said their brother. Jalpaiguri SP Pradeep Kumar Yadav said charges under POCSO (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences) Act had been brought against those arrested and hunt for the remaining two accused was on. The trio have been sent to seven days’ police custody. The body of the 16-year-old girl reached home on Tuesday. Trinamul leaders, including Rajganj MLA Khageswar Roy, met the bereaved family. “All involved in this heinous act have to be arrested. We want stringent punishment for them,” said Roy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-382
09-09-2020||West Bengal||Covid active cases rise in Bengal after a gap||Bengal on Tuesday reported 3,091 new Covid-19 cases, 57 deaths and 2,996 recoveries. With more cases than recoveries, Bengal ended its 15-day streak of a dip in total active cases. For the first time since August 23, active cases rose by 38 to touch 23,254 in all. With this, the total number of infections in Bengal is nearly 1.87 lakh, of which over 1.6 lakh are recoveries. Of the 57 deaths, 19 were from Calcutta and 12 from North 24-Parganas, raising the toll to 3,677 in all. Sixty-one per cent of Bengal’s Covid toll came from these two districts. Of the total deaths, 3,165 (86.1 per cent) were reported comorbid by the state government. Bengal’s overall mortality rate improved to 1.96, but the national rate is still lower at 1.69 per cent. Bengal is sixth among states with the highest Covid mortality rates, and seventh among states with the most deaths. The state’s recovery rate, however, continued to climb, reaching 85.6 per cent on Tuesday. The national rate is 77.78 per cent now. “On August 23, we had 28,069 active cases. Yesterday (Monday), it was 23,216. Sure, we saw a bit of a rise after 15 days today (Tuesday), but we will get back on track. Our recoveries will keep rising. We need to find ways to lower the surge in new cases and steady the toll of deaths,” said a minister. In a trend that began about a month ago, the five most high-incidence districts of Bengal — Calcutta, North and South 24-Parganas, Howrah and Hooghly — collectively recorded a fall, by 158 on Tuesday, in their total active cases. For instance, from the 7,041 active cases of August 9, Calcutta improved to 4,067 on Tuesday. Bengal logged over 42,000 tests on Tuesday, taking the total past 22.43 lakh. It now has 24,925 tests per million people. Steady rise in testing, coupled with relatively lower cases dragged down the positive confirmation rate from 8.9 on August 23 to 8.33 per cent. A declining positive confirmation rate indicates reducing levels of Covid-19 spread. The state reported 33.67 per cent occupancy of 12,385 Covid-19 beds in 92 hospitals, besides 15.34 in 11,507 beds of the 200 safe homes. Telemedicine services have been provided to over 1.83 lakh, 4,212 of them in the past 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-382
09-09-2020||West Bengal||Covid patients block highway||A group of Covid-19 patients blocked a national highway connecting Digha to Nandakumar in East Midnapore on Tuesday to protest lack of proper infrastructure and poor quality of food at a private hospital in Contai, where the district authorities had got them admitted. NH116B, a road frequented by tourists from Calcutta to Digha, remained blocked for around 12 hours before police could convince the agitators to return to the hospital. “We have been forced to take this drastic step. We have requested the hospital authorities to improve their standards time and again, but in vain,” one of the agitators said. This 32-year-old youth has been admitted to this hospital along with his mother, who had also tested positive for coronavirus, for the past five days. “My father is in home isolation. My mother and I have to depend on the food the hospital provides. But the food here is inedible and insufficient,” he added. Another agitator, around 45, said most patients were finding it difficult to survive on the little quantity of food. “We get puffed rice and grams for breakfast. In case we are given an egg toast, there is no egg in it. In lunch there is half a piece of fish and a small portion of rice. There is no provision of any food in the evening. For dinner, there is only rice and egg curry. The quality of rice is unthinkably bad,” this person said. A medical officer from one of the health centres in Midnapore was also admitted to this hospital. This person also complained of unhygienic toilets and poor quality of food. “They are not even providing warm water that Covid patients need to gurgle,” the person said. Samudra Sengupta, the deputy chief medical officer of health in Nandigram, accepted that living conditions were poor in this facility. “Though the doctors and other medical staff are being provided by the government, food and patient care is the hospital’s responsibility. We have handed show-cause notices to the authorities,” Sengupta said. Three Covid-19 hospitals have been set up in the East Midnapore district — at Panshkura, Chandipur and Contai. Though all of these facilities are private, maximum allegations and complaints have come against the hospital in Contai. At least half of the 43 patients admitted to this 100 bedded hospital participated in the road blockade. Diamond Harbour subdivisional officer Debamoy Chatterjee flagged off the service at Diamond Harbour on Tuesday. The launch service between the two destination had been stopped in March after the jetty at Diamond Harbour had been damaged. Although the jetty was repaired later, the service couldn’t resume because the lockdown had been imposed by then. The jetty at Kukrahati was damaged when Cyclone Amphan had hit the state in May. The jetty was repaired and after the introduction of Unlock, the service was ready for resumption. On Tuesday, the state government allotted three vessels that would ply between the two destinations. When the service was stopped, people were being forced to take a detour of 160km by road whereas hardly 40 minutes are needed to reach either side by river. The distance between the two places is only 20km across the Hooghly. Officials said the new ferry service was faster and would take only 30 minutes to cover 20km.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-382
09-09-2020||West Bengal||TMC revokes suspension of 15 accused of misappropriating Amphan dole||Trinamul Congress in Nandigram on Monday revoked the suspension of 15 of 25 party members accused of misappropriating Amphan relief funds in East Midnapore. The party justified its decision, saying the members had returned the funds, the decision raising an outcry from the BJP and CPM. Around 200 party members in Nandigram had been handed showcause notices by Trinamul after the party received multiple allegations against them of siphoning relief funds in the wake of the May 20 Amphan cyclone. Of the 200, 25 Trinamul leaders were suspended on July 7. These included members of panchayat samitis, panchayat chiefs and booth presidents. Justifying the withdrawal of suspension, Meghnad Pal, Trinamul president of Nandigram block said: “These 15 members have returned the misappropriated funds issued in the names of their family members to the government and given a written undertaking pledging not to repeat such mistakes in the future. So, a core committee meeting of the party’s Nandigram block unit on Monday decided to revoke their suspension.” Mansura Begum, former chief of Kendamari-Jaalpai panchayat, is one of them. Many sources in the party confirmed the decision to bring Begum back was driven by political compulsions. Among 15 panchayat members — all from Trinamul — 13 are close associates of Begum. Both the CPM and the BJP have been vocal in their indignation. “This proves that the corrupt are the assets of the Trinamul. First, the police didn’t act against them, now we hear their suspension has been revoked,” said Pralay Pal, vice-president of district BJP. CPM district secretary Niranjan Sihi said: “It is only natural that the Trinamul will rehabilitate the corrupt.” Sihi also alleged that the BDO of Sutahata in Haldia had been transferred to Darjeeling as he had dared to lodge a police complaint against the Trinamul chief of one of the panchayats in his block.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-382
09-09-2020||West Bengal||Tea workers stare at jumbo housing problem||Elephants marauding tea gardens of the Dooars and Terai leave behind a trail of despair for tea workers. Reason: if their quarters at tea gardens are damaged by elephants, they get no compensation from the state forest department or panchayat. In most gardens, the management does not take the onus to repair or rebuild the damaged quarters. Left to their own devices, tea workers have to arrange funds to repair the hutments. In some cases, they even have to approach private moneylenders. The situation is different in villages outside tea gardens. In case a home is damaged by elephants in a village other than tea gardens, the state forest department can pay compensation up to Rs 8,000 for hutments and Rs 30,000 for concrete houses, depending on the extent of damage. This disparity takes a toll on tea workers. In June last year, a wild elephant entered the Kalchini tea estate in Alipurduar and damaged the quarters of Rinku Tanti. More than one year later, Rinku has not managed to arrange money for repairs. “I visited the panchayat office and forest office many times but not got any money for repairs. The management left the tea garden. I am compelled to stay with my family in a rented hutment,” said Rinku. Representatives of tea planters’ associations said that the onus lay with the state government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-382
09-09-2020||West Bengal||Tea Board of India bans extra colour or additives ||The Tea Board of India has directed tea producers and merchandisers to not add extra colour to any form of tea made in India and sold in domestic or international markets. Tea Board secretary Rishikesh Rai said in the September 3 directive that according to the Food Safety & Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) regulations of 2011, tea should be free from any extraneous matter, added colours and harmful substances. The Tea Marketing Control Order (TMCO) of 2003 also states that the tea should conform to FSSAI specifications. “The Tea Board has come across instances in recent past where artificial colours are mixed with tea, instant tea and iced tea. As Indian teas from different places of the country have their own distinct quality and aroma, these have strong demand in international markets. Any addition of colour can affect the brand image of Indian teas and cause health hazards for tea drinkers,” said a source in the Tea Board. That is why tea producers, packers and sellers have been asked to not mix artificial/ synthetic colour in tea, the source added. In the directive, the board has also said any violation of guidelines could lead to suspension or cancellation of licenses issued to those who sell the brew in domestic and international markets. Tea industry stakeholders have welcomed the initiative. “This is necessary to ensure that anyone drinking Indian teas, whether orthodox teas of Darjeeling and Assam or the CTC teas of Terai and the Dooars, enjoys natural flavours. Authentic brews will eventually help the industry to grow and improve its overseas markets,” said Bijoygopal Chakraborty, president, Confederation of Indian Small Tea Growers’ Association (Cista). In recent times, this is the second such missive from the Tea Board aimed to protect the quality and uniqueness of Indian teas. Earlier, the Board had come up with specific announcements to prevent illegal selling of imported teas in the country and stop the re-export of such teas as Indian teas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-382
09-09-2020||West Bengal||Covid-stigma fences banned in Bengal||The Bengal government has asked all district magistrates to stop the practice of putting up barricades in front of houses or buildings that have Covid-19 patients after reports came that bamboo fences were leading to the identification and subsequent ostracism of patients. A source said state health secretary Narayan Swarup Nigam had sent messages to all district magistrates on Monday, asking them to stop the barricading as part of Covid containment measures. “Please ensure that no physical barricade/blockage with rope/bamboo or of any kind of restriction should be done in front of any individual house/flat as part of containment measures,” the message stated. Sources said cordoning off an area or a building was being done as part of Covid containment measures of the state government. “The new order brings an end to the old practice. It’s a welcome change,” said a source. The sources said the issue surfaced after the family of a Covid patient in Birbhum’s Illambazar had protested against the erection of a barricades outside their house. The family members brought the matter to the notice of the local administration and members of Covid Care Network — an NGO working under mentorship of gastroenterologist and convener of the global advisory committee against Covid-19, Abhijit Chowdhury — intervened and the barricade was withdrawn. Chowdhury visited Illambazar on Sunday and held a meeting with several grassroots health workers to create awareness among the people of the need to stop such measures that were leading to stigmatisation of Covid patients and their family members. “While we are trying to prevent the spread of the novel coronavirus, we should take care of social ostracism also. We need to increase awareness among the people instead of putting up barricades,” said Chowdhury. Birbhum district magistrate Moumita Godara Basu, however, said: “According to the directive, there will be no fencing outside houses or flats of Covid patients.” Purulia district magistrate Rahul Majumder said: “We did not erect barricades in the past and the officials have been told about the new order.” A senior official in East Burdwan said: “All block development officers were asked not to erect barricades and ensure that there is no ostracism of Covid patients and their family.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-382
09-09-2020||West Bengal||Bengal to promote Jungle Mahal junior constables||The Bengal government has decided to promote as constables 5,400 junior constables, mainly youths in Jungle Mahal districts who were appointed on a temporary basis to stop their shift to the Maoist ideology. The move has come at a time the Trinamul Congress is trying to claw back in the adivasi-populated Jungle Mahal where the BJP performed well in the last Lok Sabha polls. “All 5,400 junior constables posted in the districts of Jhargram, Bankura, Purulia, West Midnapore and Birbhum would be promoted as full-fledged constables in the police force. They will be eligible for all facilities and benefits that constables get,” said chief minister Mamata Banerjee. She made the announcement while addressing police personnel across the state through video conference during a programme that the state government organised to acknowledge the role of the law enforcers during the Covid-19 pandemic. Most of the junior constables were recruited after Trinamul had come to power in 2011 as the government had tried to wean local youths away from the influence of the ultra Lefts in the area. The move did pay off as Maoist insurgency saw a decline and Trinamul won the confidence of local people. The junior constables had been appointed on a temporary basis and such an arrangement was confined to the Jungle Mahal. The ruling party got the first shock in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls as the BJP did well in the adivasi belt. “The Maoists are trying to regroup now... The ruling party is eager to win back its support base in the areas and the chief minister is apparently depending heavily on these youths,” said a senior government official. Recently, reports had reached Nabanna from various districts that discontent had been brewing among the lower section of the police force. “The grievance was mainly because police personnel were forced to work beyond scheduled hours during the pandemic. The policemen started raising their voices when a number of their colleagues contracted Covid-19 and some of them died,” said another senior official. The chief minister herself said 6,963 police personnel had been infected across the state and 24 of them had lost their lives. “They (police) risked their lives day in and day out to serve the people of the state,” said Mamata. The police also supplied food to the families of Covid patients and those in home isolation or at remote quarantine centres. Moreover, the police have taken steps to take Covid patients to the hospitals. “These were the responsibilities of the civil administration over the years. Since 2011, the role of police has changed and the state government is dependent heavily on the police than the civil administration. The state, which is over-reliant on the police, has been shaken by the grievances in the lower and middle rung of the force,” said a senior bureaucrat. Sources said the chief minister did not want to be at the receiving end of the lower and middle rung of the police ahead of the polls as they played a key role in the entire election process. “The central forces are deployed during the polls and they need to work under the state police. So, the chief minister wants to address their grievances at the earliest,” said an official.Mamata also made a series of other announcements in her address. They are: ⚫Retirement benefit of Rs 3 lakh for civil defence volunteers, civic volunteers, village police volunteers, auxiliary fire workers and ASA workers ⚫Daily wages of home guards and civil defence volunteers increased to Rs 548 from Rs 480 ⚫Bonus of Rs 2,000 for civic volunteers, village police volunteers, auxiliary fore workers, ASA workers, civil defence volunteers and home guards ⚫Three new police stations ⚫Nine new police station buildings ⚫Four new police barracks||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-382
