10-09-2020||West Bengal||NEET in mind, Mamata calls off Saturday lockdown||The state-wide complete lockdown on September 12 has been withdrawn in the interest of the students appearing for NEET, Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee announced on Thursday. The decision was taken to help ease their travel to the centres for appearing in the all-India exam, which is scheduled on September 13, she said. However, the complete lockdown will be imposed on Friday as announced earlier, Banerjee said. The state government initially announced a statewide lockdown on September 11 and 12, she said. However, the government received numerous requests from the student community for lifting the lockdown on September 12, the chief minister said. "Keeping their interest in mind, while keeping the statewide lockdown as it is on Sep 11th, it has been decided to cancel the lockdown on 12th, so that the students can attend the examination on 13th without any apprehensions or concerns," she tweeted. Banerjee also wished the students appearing for the medical entrance examination.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-380
10-09-2020||West Bengal||Bengal district schools in a fix over online classes ||Authorities of 1,053 government schools in South 24-Parganas are in a fix on how to implement a district administration order to hold online classes as large swathes of the district lack high-speed Internet facility and at least 60 per cent of 16 lakh students in these schools come from poor families that can’t afford smartphones or computers. In an order issued on September 2, the district inspector of schools (secondary education) Prodyut Sarkar asked all schools to hold virtual classes as part of its “micro-plan to reach out to the students” in the time of pandemic. “The teachers have been asked to conduct classes online by using the Google Meet platform. The other option is to take classes online by forming WhatsApp groups,” said a senior district official. Many school headmasters this correspondent spoke to said the order was issued without considering the ground realities of the district where at least 400 schools are in remote areas, including pockets of the Sunderbans and other islands without Internet access. Sources said only around 70 per cent of the district has Internet coverage and high-speed Internet is available only in areas adjacent to the southern fringes of Calcutta. An official said that after Amphan, many mobile phone towers had been uprooted and telecom services in remote pockets are not fully restored. Then, as many as 37 per cent of people in the district live below the poverty line, making smartphones or computers unimaginable for many. Multiple sources in the administration said that in areas such as Kakdwip, Namkhana, Sagar, Pathar Pratima and Raidighi blocks, thousands of students are on the verge of dropping out amid lockdown job losses in their families. Chandan Maity, general secretary of State Forum of Headmasters and Headmistress, explained the problem. “I have 4,500 students in my school and only 1,200 of them have smartphones at home. Many of those with smartphones cannot afford high-speed Internet data packs,” said Maity. Jayanta Chatterjee, a Class XII student of Subhasgram Nabatara Vidyalaya, cites how online classes are likely to exclude most students from poorer homes. Jayanta, whose father is no more and mother earns hardly Rs 5,000 a month as an attendant to patients, has a smartphone. But he needs high-speed Internet connectivity to run Google Meet on the phone, which is costly. As school authorities have been asked to implement the online class order and file  performance reports, the district unit of the All Bengal Teachers’ Association has decided to write to the district inspector of schools and district magistrate. “A small fraction of students are attending online classes and it is leading to a digital divide. The plan to hold online classes for students, who come from families belonging to various income groups, is not a practical one,” said Anupam Roy, secretary of the ABTA’s South 24-Parganas’ unit. Asked about the problems schools face in holding online classes, district inspector of schools Sarkar said: “The decision had been taken by the district administration and I cannot comment on it.” District magistrate P. Ulaganathan said: “We have launched the drive to reach out to students and facilitate their studies. If students face any problem we will sort it out.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-380
10-09-2020||West Bengal||Tea-storage bag unit gutted in Jalpaiguri||A factory manufacturing tea storage bags on the outskirts of Jalpaiguri town was gutted in a sudden blaze on Wednesday morning. Fire officials and the owner of the factory, Gautam Das, suspect that the blaze erupted out of an electrical short circuit. The fire services department is conducting a probe to ascertain the cause of the blaze. No injury or casualty has been reported so far. Sources said on Wednesday morning, some residents spotted the blaze in the factory located in the Panga-Sahebbari area of Sadar block. Three fire engines from Jalpaiguri rushed to the spot but it took time to bring the fire under control. Gautam Das, who owns the factory, said they make bags which are used to store teas made in tea estates. “All machines and computers have been gutted in the fire. Also, bags worth around Rs 25 lakh which were ready and were about to be dispatched have been reduced to ashes. Also, the factory building is damaged in the fire. It seems an electrical short circuit has led to the fire,” said Das. He added that in all goods worth over Rs 1 crore were damaged in the blaze. The incident has also left around 50 workers, who used to work at the factory, jobless. “A number of local residents used to work at the factory. They are jobless now. We hope the management takes the initiative to resume production of tea bags at the unit so that the workers can get back to their jobs,” said Mrityunjay Das, a resident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-380
10-09-2020||West Bengal||Run more trains, plead north Bengal tourism stakeholders||Tourism industry stakeholders in north Bengal are urging senior railway officials of the Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR) to allow more trains to run in the region. Ever since regular train services were halted by the Centre because of the Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown, only a handful of special trains are running through the region. The move by tourism stakeholders to urge railway officials to allow more trains, sources said, follows the decisions made in the hills and in the Dooars to start reopening tourist accommodations ahead of Durga Puja and Diwali holidays. The state tourism department has already opened one of its accommodations in the Dooars. There are indications that the state forest department might resume car safaris in the national parks of the region. On Tuesday, a delegation of the Himalayan Hospitality & Tourism Development Network (HHTDN) went to the office of the additional divisional railway manager in New Jalpaiguri with a memo seeking more trains from north Bengal to Calcutta and Delhi. “As of now, only one train is running between the region and Calcutta and two or three trains between the Northeast and Delhi. The railway ministry is resuming trains in a phased manner and we want more trains in our area. This would encourage tourists to visit the region and help in revival of the tourism industry that has suffered these past six months,” said Samrat Sanyal, HHTDN general secretary. On Wednesday, members of Alipurduar District Tourism Association gave a memo at the office of the DRM of Alipurduar division to resume some popular long-distance passenger trains that link north Bengal with Calcutta. They also asked for at least one Calcutta-bound train via the Dooars. For the past six months, no such train has run. Manab Bakshi, secretary of Alipurduar District Tourism Association, said they wanted Saraighat Express, Kanchankanya Express, Teesta-Torsha Express and Uttarbanga Express to start.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-380
10-09-2020||West Bengal||Jalpaiguri tourism hub on fast track||Senior officials of Jalpaiguri district administration and state government departments held a meeting at the district magistrate office here on Wednesday to discuss the progress of ongoing work at the mega tourism hub that the state government has been developing at Gajoldoba, next to the Teesta Barrage. The hub named “Bhorer Alo” (light of dawn) by chief minister Mamata Banerjee is the largest tourism project taken up by her government in the state. On Wednesday, a number of decisions were made at the meeting, which include completion of the construction of a youth hostel at the site and a proposed elephant safari in the adjoining forests of the hub to attract tourists. The site of the hub is surrounded by Baikunthapur forest, one of the prominent reserve forests of north Bengal. So far, cottages have been developed by the state tourism department and a private company has opened a resort. Abhishek Kumar Tiwary, Jalpaiguri district magistrate,  said that state tourism minister Gautam Deb had instructed them to expedite the ongoing work at the hub, which is why Wednesday’s meeting was convened. “At the meeting, the progress of construction of the youth hostel was discussed. It was also planned to start work on a fire station immediately. On September 16, a team of officials from different departments will visit the site to check the progress of work,” said Jyoti Ghosh, the deputy director of the state tourism department posted in Siliguri. The upcoming tourism hub, though in Jalpaiguri district, is only around 25km from Siliguri. The state forest department is also installing pulsating fences to deter wild elephants and other animals from entering the hub. Rajendra Jakhar, the chief conservator of forests (wildlife, north Bengal), who was also at the meeting, said they were ready to send pet elephants to the site. “Two locations have already been identified for elephant safari. We are looking into the nitty-gritty...The elephant enclosure is also ready but considering the current situation (Covid 19 pandemic), we cannot really say when the safari would start,” said Jakhar. Sources in the forest and tourism departments, however, hinted that the safari might start in winter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-380
10-09-2020||West Bengal||Tribal forum demonstrates against Birbhum coal mine||Nearly 1,000 tribal people held a dharna in front of Mohammedbazar police station for around three hours on Wednesday to protest the Bengal government’s decision of setting up the Deocha-Pachami coal mine that would allegedly result in the eviction of the adivasis from the hamlets they had been living for generations. The protest was held under the aegis of a faction of the Birbhum Adivasi Gaonta, a platform of tribal people, which is against the proposed coal mine. The government is keen on starting mining by early next year. “We don’t want to be evicted at any cost from our land. We don’t want a coal mine in our area as our livelihood is already in crisis because of existing stone mines and crushers,” said a protester. The government is betting heavily on the Deocha-Pachami coal block, located in Birbhum’s Mohammedbazar. The coal block is spread over 11,222 acres and has an estimated coal reserve of around 2.2 billion tonnes. According to government estimates, the project can generate jobs for at least 1.5 lakh people and has the potential to act as an engine of economic growth for the entire south Bengal. Chief secretary Rajiva Sinha, along with some senior officials, had landed in Deocha on July 9 and held a meeting with stakeholders and landowners expressing the government’s desire to start mining soon. Sources had said the state was likely to kick off the coal mine’s operations early next year. “At the July 9 meeting, local Trinamul leaders produced some people to discuss the issue of rehabilitation.... The original stakeholders weren’t, however, allowed to take part in the meeting. We don’t support setting up any coal mine at any cost,” said Sunil Soren, the convener of Gaonta, who led the agitation. “We have also submitted a deputation to police, along with our other demands, including an end to police atrocities and halt to illegal stone crushers and mines,” he added. District officials, however, said the government was planning to start the work of the coal mine from around 40 acres of land vested with it. “There is no question of evicting any person in the first phase of the project. If any family is affected, we promise appropriate compensations,” said a senior official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-380
10-09-2020||West Bengal||Cop shuffle: New ADGP of Special Task Force||Vineet Goyal, who was posted as the director, security, in charge of the chief minister’s security, was appointed as additional director general of police (Special Task Force) on Wednesday. Vivek Sahay, who was posted as additional director general of police (traffic), has replaced Goyal. Ajoy Kumar, earlier posted as additional director general of police (counter intelligence force), has been posted in place of Sahay.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-380
10-09-2020||West Bengal||NH12 awaits traffic jam unlock||Regular traffic jams between Santipur and Barojagulia in Nadia on NH12, the highway that runs through the spine of Bengal linking the south to the north, are a commuting nightmare. Reason: the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has blocked one lane of the highway to repair the damaged stretch. Also, suburban trains off tracks have increased vehicular load on roads. A doctor, Goutam Majumder leaves his Kalyani home at 7am every day to reach his workplace at Nadia’s Krishnaganj block hospital, 81km away. After 30 minutes he hits the NH12 and manages to reach Chakdah Chowmatha, which is 10km away along the highway, in 90 minutes. To avoid further delay, he takes a diversion through village roads to reach the hospital at Krishnaganj at 11.15am. “It takes over four hours to cover 81km between home and office... In normal times, it used to take less than two hours,” rued the doctor. Those trying to reach Calcutta by skirting a clogged NH12 have few options, as the alternative Kalyani Expressway sees massive traffic between Naihati and Nimta in North 24-Parganas. The PWD’s road widening work on Kalyani Expressway triggers snarls at several places. Following Unlock 1 in June, many offices opened. But as suburban train services did not, the number of cars and motorcycles on NH12 and the Kalyani Expressway increased phenomenally. To add to commuter woes, the NHAI and the PWD have taken up projects that were pending because of the lockdown. Last month, Santipur resident, Samar Dutta, lost his job as he regularly reported late at his workplace, a shopping mall on CIT Road in Calcutta. Without trains, Samar would take the first bus out of Santipur at 5.30am for the 91km trip to Calcutta but could never reach the mall by 9.30am. After a few warnings, Samar’s employers sacked him. Usually, the distance between Santipur and Calcutta takes less than three hours by road. Santipur resident Samit Dutta Chowdhury, an employee with a private firm in Calcutta, said: “The journey has become unbearable. Two-way travel from Santipur to Calcutta has become a 10-hour affair.” Since Monday, Samit has been trying to reach Calcutta by taking the Delhi Road. Samit and three others have hired a car to travel to Calcutta every day. They, along with the car, cross the Hooghly river on a vessel to reach Guptipara from where they take the Delhi Road. “The new route has reduced our travel time by two hours,” he said. Admitting that repair work choked traffic on NH12, Soutam Pal, director of NH Project Implementation Unit in Krishnagar, said: “We will take four more days to complete the work. Work remains incomplete at a few places towards the Santipur end of the stretch and it will be completed soon.” A PWD official monitoring the widening works on Kalyani Expressway said: “We are trying our best to finish work fast. We are trying to avoid work during the morning rush hours.” Choked roads have become a challenge for the police to maintain flow of traffic on both NH12 and the Kalyani Expressway. Ranaghat police district SP V.S.R. Ananthnag said: “It is a difficult situation. We are in touch with the NHAI as they are repairing the craters. We are hopeful that the situation will normalise within the next seven days.” He said the job to repair potholes between Chakdah and Jagulia had become the main reason for the snarl and also blamed wayward driving for aggravating the situation. “It appears everybody is in a hurry,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-380
10-09-2020||West Bengal||Students write to Modi for free phone, Net||Around 300 school and college students from Hooghly’s Goghat have written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and some of his cabinet colleagues, asking for free Internet data and smartphones to be distributed among poor students of the country. Poor students from semi-rural and rural schools and colleges were becoming victims of the digital divide amid the pandemic, they pointed out. An initiative of the local unit of Trinamul Chhatra Parishad, a group of 100 students on Wednesday wrote on postcards and another group of 200 sent emails with the same demand at a time Covid-19 made online classes the norm. The postcards were addressed to telecommunications minister Ravi Sankar Prasad. The emails were sent to the office of the Prime Minister with copies marked to home minister Amit Shah, telecommunications minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, and education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal. Syed Ashik Hossain, Trinamul Chhatra Parishad president in Goghat-I block, said faced with financial hurdles to online classes, many students were demanding smartphones and Internet packs from the central government. He called it just “just the beginning”, and said “it will soon become a movement”. “Thousands of students are finding it difficult to buy smartphones and Internet packs. The Centre should shoulder the responsibility of providing smartphones and Internet packs to underprivileged students as most classes are being held online,” said Hossain. “My father is a farmer and he cannot spend Rs 800 per month on Internet. There are thousands of students like me. So, we request the Centre to think about our situation,” said Payel Chakraborty, a third-year undergraduate student at Netaji Mahavidyalaya, Arambagh. Sweety Khatun, a Class X student of Arambagh Girls’ High School, echoed Payel. Sweety, who sent a postcard on Wednesday, said: “I do not have a smartphone. My mother, a widow, runs the family by working as a tailor. How can I ask her to spend on a smartphone for my online classes?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-381
10-09-2020||West Bengal||Adhir Bengal Congress chief||Behrampore MP Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury was made the Bengal Congress chief late on Wednesday night with the appointment being seen as a clear hint that the party wouldn’t have an alliance with Mamata Banerjee in the Assembly polls next year. The five-time MP and a known Mamata baiter will take charge as the West Bengal Pradesh Congress Committee president with “immediate effect”, said a release issued by AICC general secretary K.C. Venugopal. The post of PCC chief had been lying vacant since the death of Somen Mitra on July 30. “I am an obedient worker of the party… I have always tried to perform the responsibilities given to me by the party to the best of my abilities and I will keep doing that,” said Chowdhury late on Wednesday night. A senior state Congress leader said the AICC, especially party president Sonia Gandhi, sent out a clear signal about the Congress’s strategy for the Assembly polls. “Adhir-da’s appointment makes it clear that the Congress is not going to have any truck with Trinamul in the Assembly polls,” said the source. While there is little doubt that Chowdhury, a firebrand leader, will rejuvenate the party and carry on with the alliance with the Left, there is a lack of clarity on whether he will retain his position as the leader of the party in the Lok Sabha. Asked about it, Chowdhury himself said he hadn’t been told to give up his responsibility in the Lok Sabha. A leader close to the Behrampore MP said that there were several instances of leaders performing dual responsibilities in the Congress. “Pranab Mukherjee, A.B.A. Ghani Khan Choudhury and Priya Ranjan Das Munshi had performed the role of PCC president even when they were central ministers… So, Adhir-da can continue playing his roles both in Delhi and Calcutta,” said the leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-381
10-09-2020||West Bengal||MLA tests positive at Bengal Assembly||Jalangi MLA Abdur Razzak Mandal on Wednesday tested positive in a Covid-19 rapid antigen test conducted on Bengal Assembly premises where chief minister Mamata Banerjee was present with many of her cabinet colleagues and hundreds of legislators, staff members and journalists. Mandal was not factored in the 3,107 new Covid-19 cases found in Bengal, over 24 hours till Wednesday 9am, as testing on Assembly premises only began then. Of the 195 persons tested on Wednesday in the Assembly, Mandal and a security guard assigned to him tested positive. “The Assembly premises and the MLA hostel (where Mandal had gone) would be thoroughly sanitised. Those found positive underwent the rapid test and would have more testing during treatment,” said a senior member of the treasury benches. Mandal, 62, is part of over 20 members of the Assembly who have so far been infected. The session, limited to 45 minutes on Wednesday, had to be convened despite the pandemic because of a constitutional stipulation of the House meeting at least once in six months. Mamata was present for 15 minutes in the sanitised and socially-distanced House before leaving for the state secretariat. “We carried out a quick contact-tracing. Mandal hadn’t been in close proximity to the chief minister...,” the source from the treasury benches said. On Wednesday, Bengal also reported 2,967 recoveries and 53 deaths. The total case count now is over 1.9 lakh, of which nearly 1.63 lakh are recoveries, besides 3,730 deaths. . Of the 53 casualties, 17 persons succumbed in Calcutta and 10 in North 24-Parganas. As of Wednesday, the state government reported comorbid 3,211 or 86.1 per cent of deaths. Bengal’s mortality rate is 1.96, still behind the national rate of 1.69 per cent. But its recovery rate is 85.76, substantially higher than the 77.78 per cent national rate. On Tuesday, a gardener, a cop, a journalist and the driver of MLA Sujan Chakraborty tested positive in the Assembly. Mandal, still a Congress-backed CPM MLA from Murshidabad’s Jalangi on paper, who defected to the ruling Trinamul Congress last year, was awaiting his test results before entering the House when he was informed. On learning he was positive, Mandal went to the MLA hostel on Kyd Street, from where he was asked by Speaker Biman Banerjee to go on institutional isolation in a state-run safe home. In Bengal, the pandemic has infected ministers Jyotipriya Mullick, Sujit Bose, Swapan Debnath and Soumen Mahapatra, and claimed the lives of CPM veteran and former transport minister Shyamal Chakraborty, Trinamul MLAs Samaresh Das and Tamonash Ghosh. The state logged 42,642 tests on Wednesday, which took the total to nearly 22.86 lakh, at 25,399 tests per million people. Steady rise in testing, coupled with relatively lower cases being found improved the positive confirmation rate after August 23, from 8.9 to 8.31 per cent. A decreasing positive confirmation rate is indicative of reducing levels of Covid-19 spread.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-381
10-09-2020||West Bengal||Incentives for industrial parks to continue||The Bengal cabinet on Wednesday extended the incentive policy for industrial parks set up by private investors for another five years. The extension of the scheme, which had lapsed in September last year, is part of the state’s strategy to promote micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME). “The cabinet today (Wednesday) approved a proposal to extend the incentive scheme for stateapproved industrial parks. The state wants to set up 100 such parks in the next few years,” Bengal home secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay said at Nabanna on Wednesday. But there has not been any decision on the incentive policy for large industries, which also expired last September. “There hasn’t been any proposal for large investments... Besides, the state coffers are almost empty and it’s difficult to offer anything to large industries,” said a source. Sources at Nabanna said the state had extended the incentive scheme for the private industrial parks as the policy had yielded desired results till now. In the past five years, 14 such industrial parks were set up on a total of 1,300 acres, said the source. “The prime objective of the state government right at this moment is creation of employment opportunities. The MSME units set up in industrial parks are generating jobs and that’s why the state is focusing on such facilities,” said a senior state government official. As part of the incentive scheme for the industrial parks, the government has offered return of a handsome portion of basic infrastructure investment, besides several other facilities. If a park is spread between 20 and 39 acres, the investor can claim cash back up to Rs 2 crore. In case a park is set up on land measuring between 40 and 59 acres, maximum Rs 4 crore can be refunded. The investors can claim refund up to Rs 6 crore if the park is spread over land meas¬uring between 60 and 79 acres. In case it is spread over between 80 and 99 acres, the promoter can claim a refund of Rs 8 crore. An investor can claim cash back up to Rs 10 crore if the park is set up on or above 100 acres. Moreover, if parks set up common effluent treatment plants, the promoters will be eligible for an incentive of Rs 5 lakh per acre. Besides, the state government also has a policy of reimbursing 100 per cent stamp duty for all industrial parks, laying a 1.5km road to connect with the nearest major road and setting up a power substation free of cost. The sources said the industrial parks had generated more than 40,000 jobs in the past few years. “The apparel park and the hosiery park — both in Howrah — and the Bantala leather park have generated nearly 20,000 employment opportunities in the past few years. If the state can promote the sector, more jobs could be generated,” said another senior government official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-381
10-09-2020||West Bengal||Banking service launched in tea gardens||Banking infrastructure made a benign entry in the brew belt of north Bengal on Wednesday as the State Bank of India opened five Customer Service Points (CSPs) in different tea gardens of the Terai. The CSP is a kind of a small branch of a bank and its operations are generally outsourced. Lack of banking facilities in tea gardens has been a pet peeve of the industry for long. The demand for some banking infrastructure grew louder after the 2016 demonetisation drive as the Centre had time and again insisted that wages and bonus be paid to workers through banks to encourage cashless transactions. “Some tea estates had taken the initiative to open bank accounts for workers at the nearest branches. But it didn’t help as the workers found it inconvenient to travel to banks to withdraw their wages,” said Prabir Bhattacharjee, secretary general, Tea Association of India (TAI). The tea planters confronted another problem last year when the Centre levied a 2 per cent TDS on annual cash drawings above Rs 1 crore. According to a tea planter based in Siliguri, there are around 1,300 workers in his garden and every fortnight, he needs to pay over Rs 34 lakh in wages. “This means a monthly payment of around Rs 70 lakh and about Rs 8.5 crore a year. Added to it are the bonus and some other cash payments. Altogether, around Rs 10 crore of cash is required annually. This means a TDS deduction of Rs 18 lakh,” he pointed out. The extra cost spurred the tea planters into action and arrangements were maid to open the CSPs. On Wednesday, the CSPs were opened in Thanjhora, Atal, Satvaiya (a division of Atal), Pahargoomiah and Dagapur tea gardens. “We plan to open CSPs in all our member gardens. Similar initiatives have been started in the Dooars and we are in constant touch with the bankers and representatives of a private company that is setting up the CSPs. The facility would also enable the workers to avail themselves of other benefits like taking loans, making deposits and investments,” Sumit Ghosh, the secretary of the Terai branch of TAI, said. Trade unions have also welcomed the initiative. “It is good that CSPs are coming up in the gardens of the Terai. We hope those posted at the CSPs will extend all help to workers,” said a trade union leader in Siliguri.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-381
10-09-2020||West Bengal||Cyclone Amphan spurs change in site of Digha Jagannath shrine||The Digha Sankarpur Development Authority has decided to shift the site for the proposed 214ft-high Jagannath Temple further away from the sea because of the experience of Cyclone Amphan that caused havoc in Bengal in May. The temple will be built near the Digha railway station, a kilometre away from the original site that was closer to the sea. “The cyclone on May 20 forced us to make a few changes to the original plan. While a small shrine will come up near the sea, the main temple will be built close to the Digha railway station,” said Akhil Giri, the vice-chairman of the DSDA. Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee had unveiled a plan to build the Jagannath Temple, like the one in Puri, near the Old Digha beach in August last year. The announcement was made during the inauguration of a convention centre at Digha. “There is already a small Jagannath Temple near the beach,” Giri said. According to sources, experts have told the DSDA authorities that a temple taller than 30ft near the sea will not be able to withstand a cyclone as strong as Amphan. The proposed 214ft-high temple, which will be built at Rs 70 crore, will come up on a 14-acre plot near the Digha railway station. “We have a one-acre plot near the beach. The forest department was supposed to give us four more acres. The temple was to come up on the five acres after clearing off the vegetation,” an official at the DSDA said. However, with the new plan in place, the DSDA will not need any extra land and there will be no deforestation. “A small temple, which will be identified as Lord Jagannath’s aunt’s temple, will be built on the one-acre plot,” the official added. In Puri, the Gundicha temple is referred to as the temple of Jagannath’s aunt. A year has gone by since Mamata had unveiled the plan but there has been no progress. However, with an eye on the Assembly elections next year, the DSDA has allotted Rs 15 crore for the development of the site where a smaller temple will be built near the beach. To roll out the project, the development authority had invited tenders on September 4. According to sources, the DSDA plans to set up entertainment centres, restaurants, parking facilities, toilets, paved walkways, and pavilion-like structures close to the temple near the beach for Rs 11.36 crore. The road leading to the Jagannath temple ghat near the beach will be illuminated and a few 500m-high mast lights will also be installed. The DSDA has also decided to repair the Digha Welcome Gate for Rs 1.45 crore. The gate was damaged during Amphan, said a DSDA official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-381
10-09-2020||West Bengal||Binay Tamang reminds Modi of hills promise||Gorkha Janmukti Morcha leader Binay Tamang wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday, reminding him that time had come for the BJP to deliver on its promise of “a permanent political solution” for the Darjeeling hills. “I have written to the Prime Minister, mentioning that for the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha and for the entire Gorkha community in India, ‘a permanent political solution’ unequivocally means a separate state of Gorkhaland,” said Tamang, who heads a faction of the Morcha. The BJP manifesto for the 2019 general election reads: “We are committed to work towards finding a permanent political solution to the issue of Darjeeling Hills, Siliguri, Terai and Dooars region.” During the past fortnight, this is the second letter that Tamang sent to Modi. Last week, he had written to the Prime Minister, seeking conferment of Scheduled Tribe status on 11 hill communities — another longstanding demand of the hills. In his letter, the Morcha leader said 11 years had passed since the BJP had promised to look into the main demand of the Darjeeling hills. “We had high hopes that if the BJP came to power, our problem would be solved but we are unhappy now with the silence of the Centre and the party. The separate statehood would also create a separate identity of the Indian Gorkhas who are not differentiated from the Nepalese on many occasions,” said Tamang. The Tamang faction’s renewed statehood call has surprised political observers in the hills and the adjoining foothills. This is because the Tamang faction is an ally of Trinamul which is against the division of Bengal. A number of political analysts said there could be a number of reasons behind Tamang’s move. According to them, it seems his party wants to mount pressure on the BJP and its allies in the hills (GNLF and the Bimal Gurung faction of the Morcha). “By raising the Gorkhaland and the ST status issue, Tamang probably wants to drive home the point that his party is the principal political force in the hills. Also, he might be trying to prove that his party has the credibility for the Centre to initiate any talks with,” said a senior politician in Siliguri. L.B. Rai, the president, Darjeeling (hills), district Trinamul, said: “It is true they are our ally but we cannot right now comment. We would hold talks within our party to ascertain what made him (Tamang) suddenly raise the demand. We are keeping a close watch and if required, we will speak to our central leaders.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-381
