11-09-2020||West Bengal||Bengal government withdraws Saturday lockdown, ‘no more’ hint||The Bengal government has withdrawn the complete lockdown on Saturday (September 12) in view of the NEET examination on Sunday amid suggestions that the state may not announce more total lockdowns for the time being. If the assessment crystallises into an official order, Friday’s total lockdown could be the last such shutdown unless the Covid situation worsens. “The state is not in a mood to announce the complete lockdown on any more days in the remaining half of the month,” a senior official said. “Further lockdowns in the latter half of September and October would hit the trading community badly during the festival season,” the official added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-378
11-09-2020||West Bengal||Metro to resume from Monday with e-pass||Metro train services, closed since March 23, will resume in Calcutta from Monday. The services will be suspended on Sundays for now, barring September 13 when a special service with 66 trains will be run for NEET. “We will run 110 trains (55 in each direction) daily,” general manager Manoj Joshi said on Thursday. Metro used to run 288 trains every weekday before the lockdown. The first and last trains will leave the terminal stations at 8am and 7pm. Smart-card users alone can board the trains. To enter a station, a commuter needs a “QR code-based colour-coded e-pass”, to be generated from the URL http//pathadisha.com/metro.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-378
11-09-2020||West Bengal||3,112 new Covid cases in Bengal||Bengal reported 3,112 new Covid cases on Thursday. The state also reported 41 deaths, the lowest daily toll in weeks, and 3,035 recoveries. Of the deaths, five were from Calcutta and 10 from North 24Parganas. Bengal logged over 1.93 lakh Covid-19 cases — since the first was detected on March 17 — of which over 1.66 lakh are recoveries and 3,771 are deaths. Of the total deaths, 3,242 (86 per cent) were reported as comorbid by the state government. The overall mortality rate stayed at 1.95, while the national rate is 1.67 per cent. The recovery rate is at 85.95, far ahead of the national rate of 77.63 per cent. With 44,347 tests on Thursday, the state went past 23 lakh in total testing, at over 23.3 lakh now. The tests per mil¬lion now is 25,892. From early February, Bengal took over three-and-a-half months to conduct 1 lakh tests, on May 19. Over the next 114 days, it conducted over 22 lakh tests. With the surge in testing, and the relatively less new cases found over the past few weeks, the positive confirmation rate improved from a high of 8.9 to 8.29 per cent. Bengal reported 32.75 per cent occupancy of 12,385 Covid19 beds in 92 hospitals. Telemedicine services ha¬ve been provided to nearly 1.92 lakh, 4,216 of them in the past 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-378
11-09-2020||West Bengal||Car crash kills family of 3 in Murshidabad||An elderly couple and their daughter died when their car collided head-on with a Berhampore-bound bus on NH12 in Murshidabad’s Rejinagar around 5.30pm on Wednesday. The three were returning home in Nadia’s Santipur after attending a family event at Englishbazar in Malda when the accident took place. Former employee of Krishnagar Women’s College Saileshwar Kashthya, 76, and his wife Jayanti Kashthya, 65, a retired schoolteacher, died on the spot. Their daughter Lipika Saha, 49, succumbed to injuries at Murshidabad Medical College and Hospital in Berhampore. The driver of the Maruti Swift, which the couple had hired to return home, suffered serious injuries and is undergoing treatment at NRS Medical College and Hospital in Calcutta. He was shifted to Calcutta after treatment at the Murshidabad Medical College and Hospital in Berhampore. Susanta De, a neighbour of the victims in Santipur, said: "Earlier this week the couple had gone to visit the in-laws’ of their granddaughter in Malda. Their daughter Lipika had also accompanied them. We were expecting them in the evening. We were shocked to hear the news of their demise.” According to the police and eyewitnesses, the accident occurred near Moradighi village on NH12 when the Maruti Swift broke a lane to overtake a lorry and rammed into the private bus coming from the opposite direction. Moradighi resident Mannan Seikh said: “The car tried to overtake the lorry at high speed but the driver failed to control the vehicle and rammed into the bus with a crushing sound.” “We were working in a field adjacent to NH12 and rushed towards the car immediately after the accident. We saw four persons trapped inside the mangled car and bleeding heavily. We called the police who came and took the two injured persons (the couple’s daughter and the driver) to the hospital. The couple had already died,” said another resident, Marju Hossain. An officer of Rejinagar police said: “The two injured, including the driver, were initially taken to a rural health centre from where they were taken to the Berhampore hospital. The woman died in hospital and the driver was transferred to NRS hospital.” Residents said the stretch was accident-prone. “It is a narrow single-lane stretch but vehicles speed. The work to widen the 3km road at Moradighi is yet to begin. We had asked the police to deploy cops on the stretch, but our pleas have gone unanswered,” said a resident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-378
11-09-2020||West Bengal||Load bar on colonial-era bridge spells detour||The decision by the state PWD to bar vehicles weighing 10 tonnes or more over the Coronation Bridge in Sevoke along NH 31C has prompted residents of the Dooars to demand a second bridge on the Teesta in the river’s downstream near Sevoke Bazaar, some 20km from here. The Coronation Bridge was built in 1941 to mark the coronation of King George V. In 2011, cracks spotted on the bridge prompted the PWD to carry out repairs. A tourist attraction, the giant structure can be conserved only by reducing traffic load, say many. On August 19 this year, the state PWD (NH division) ordered that vehicles weighing 10 tonnes and above could not ply on the bridge. “Some repair work has to be done on bridge but because of monsoon they could not be carried out. The restriction is imposed to avoid any detrimental effect on the structure,” said a PWD source. But with this curb, goods vehicles bound for the Dooars from Siliguri or vice-versa have to detour along NH27, that is, skirt Jalpaiguri to cross the Teesta. Apart from the Coronation Bridge, there are two more ways to cross the Teesta. One is a bridge at the Teesta Barrage in Gajoldoba that is not suitable for heavy vehicular movement and the other is the Teesta bridge (there are two parallel bridges now) on Jalpaiguri outskirts. In fact, as of now this pair of bridges — each used for one-way traffic — is the only means for heavy vehicles to cross the river and head for the Dooars and the Northeast. “This means more time as more distance has to be covered. Also, transport cost rises. From the Dooars, hundreds of vehicles used to ferry teas from estates to Siliguri warehouses via Sevoke. But now, these vehicles have to take the detour like other goods vehicles. People are facing inconvenience in the Dooars. We have decided to launch a movement soon, demanding a second bridge over the Teesta in an alignment like the Coronation Bridge so that direct connectivity between the Dooars and Siliguri is maintained,” said Chandan Roy, founder-secretary, the Dooars Forum for Social Reform, an apolitical outfit. Earlier, a plan was drawn up by the state and the Centre to build another bridge over the Teesta, as has been mentioned by the Dooars residents. The project, however, has not started even today. This July, in reply to a letter of MP of Jalpaiguri Jayanta Roy, Union minister for road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari had said that the state PWD was making a detailed project report for building another bridge over Teesta. Gadkari also said that for the project some 20.69 hectares had to be taken from the railways and the process had been initiated. “We want both the governments (Centre and state) to take up the project on priority basis. The bridge is also strategically important,” said Roy. The Forum, he said, has lined up certain activities to mount pressure on the state and central governments. On September 24, they will stage symbolic road blockades in areas such as Malbazar, Odlabari, Chalsa and Nagrakata in the Dooars. “Later this month, we will also go to the office of the executive engineer of the division of state PWD concerned and submit a memorandum to him,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-379
11-09-2020||West Bengal||Amphan: Peanuts to fix cyclone scars||Authorities of 2,472 schools in East Midnapore, devastated by Cyclone Amphan, had asked the district administration for funds to repair the buildings. What they received from the state government fell far short of their needs. Though schools are shut because of Covid curbs, talks of resuming classes, particularly for students of classes IX-XII, have left teachers worried as most classrooms need immediate repairs. The premises of these schools, which account for around 6 lakh pupils, are being used to distribute midday meal rations to students. A district official said most damaged schools received between Rs 15,000 and Rs 25,000 to repair kitchen sheds. He added the schools had been paid from a corpus of Rs 4.75 crore. That’s too little, say school authorities. Around 1,200 students study at Bhowanichak Aghore Chand High School in Contai. The school has been severely damaged during Amphan. During a recent inspection, teachers found that monsoon further damaged the building. “We got a civil contractor to assess the damage and he put the cost of repair at Rs 15 lakh. Amphan has blown away most sheds of our 12 classrooms. Left with no roof, classrooms have been exposed to rain for months..,” said headmaster Tapan Kumar Das. On funds received, Das said: “We only got Rs 15,000 so far to repair the shed of the room where midday meal is prepared.” The situation is no different at neighbouring Banamalichhatta High School with 1,100 students on its rolls. Teachers said that Amphan had ravaged the school’s three buildings, including the kitchen shed, and now rain keeps pounding on the damaged structures. “We received Rs 25,000 towards the repair of the kitchen shed but we need much more,” said assistant headmaster Ramanikanta Patra, putting the estimate at Rs 10 lakh. Patra led a crowd-funding campaign among stakeholders of the school and managed to raise nearly Rs 3 lakh to repair “walls crumbling from rainfall-induced damp”. Das has been pleading with panchayat and block authorities for funds since June to no success so far. Schools are asking district authorities to seek at least Rs 50 crore from the state government to get all schools repaired. “Buildings of most schools have been damaged. It is more important to take care of structural damages than replacing a kitchen shed, something schools can repair on their own,” said a source. However, around 282 schools in Nandigram-I and Sutahata blocks are better off. In the first phase, the schools in these two blocks received nearly Rs 5 crore from the state government’s minority welfare department to repair the Amphan damage. On alleged administrative inaction to release funds for school repairs, district inspector of schools (secondary) Aminul Hasan said: “Within a few days of Amphan hitting the district we sent a list of damaged schools to the education department. We have allotted funds to the schools to repair damaged kitchen sheds. The government has also allotted money to repair damaged school buildings in Nandigram-I and Sutahata blocks. The government is yet to give us funds to repair all damaged schools in the district.” BDO of Deshpran block Manoj Mullick said: “The education department is looking into the matter.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-379
11-09-2020||West Bengal||Ganga’s fury or storm, students suffer||Nearly 3,000 students, their guardians and teachers are keeping fingers crossed as the swelling Ganga nears a high school and a primary school in Birnagar area of Malda’s Kaliachak-III block, gobbling chunks of land by the minute. Things have reached such a pass that authorities of both schools have urged the administration to arrange land in safer places for the institutions. Mohammed Ainuddin, headmaster of Birnagar High School, said: “The Ganga is barely 200 metres from our school. Any moment the river may gobble the building.” Mohammed Jiaul Haque, who heads the primary school nearby, is equally concerned. “Back in 2016, we had seen similar erosion. Anticipating a rerun, I started knocking on the administration’s door for alternative land for both schools,” he said. Erosion by the Ganga in 2016 had swallowed the house of Swadhin Sarkar, BJP MLA of Baishnabnagar. Sources said around 3,000 students study in the high school. Around 300 students study in the primary school. “This is the only higher secondary institution in the area since 1955. If these two schools are swallowed by the river, the future of our wards’ will be insecure,” said Manik Mandal, a guardian. Mausam Noor, Rajya Sabha member and district Trinamul chief, said she would approach state education minister Partha Chatterjee and chief minister Mamata Banerjee for government land for these institutions. MLA Sarkar also said he had written to the Union water resources development ministry to arrest the erosion. “It is necessary to save these schools,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-379
11-09-2020||West Bengal||For them, walking to Bangladesh is easier||Nazmul Haque of Daribas village in Cooch Behar district near the India-Bangladesh border prefers health centres in Mogolhat or Durgapur in Lalmonirhat district of the neighbouring country, especially during monsoon when the river Dharala swells. In his village he often finds Bangladeshi hawkers selling various kinds of wares, including essential items, but hardly any vendor from Cooch Behar. For years now, residents of two Indian villages Daribas and Jaridharala depend on Bangladesh for buying essentials or for health needs. Gitaldaha in Cooch Behar on the other bank of the Dharala river, happens to be the first locality on Indian mainland for these villagers. But crossing it during monsoon is quite a task, Nazmul said. “There are many women in our village who have delivered their babies at health centres in Bangladesh,” he said. Another resident pointed that even during dry seasons, the way to reach Gitaldaha was cumbersome. When the river is thin, one has to walk over 3km along its dry bed, take a short boat ride, and get themselves screened by BSF jawans posted at Kashem Ghat — the spot on the Gitaldaha side where boats ferry them. “Only then can we head for the market or a health centre or hospital in Gitaldaha. During monsoon, the river swells and we have to take the risky boat ride. This year, a large boat we had here had submerged. We are yet to take it out. The entire population is now dependent on two smaller boats. In this situation, it is always better to enter Bangladesh to get any item or medical treatment,” the resident said. As most parts of the international border are riverine, there are no fences. Also, there is no water body on the other side towards Bangladesh. So, residents of these two villages — the total population is around 6,000 — can simply walk a few hundred metres to reach Mogolhat or Durgapur. “People in Bangladeshi villages in Lalmonirhat district are aware of our situation. The Border Guard Bangladesh (BGB) personnel know our plight. None of them (the BGB) stops us if we carry a patient to their health centres. Also, we often find hawkers from their areas visiting our villages,” Mansur Ali Mian, another resident, said. In fact, during monsoons, if the Dharala inundates low-lying areas of Daribas and Jaridharala, their residents get refuge at flood shelters of Bangladesh. “It might sound surprising but this is the practice here for years now. When the river floods villages, what else can we do? We cannot head towards the Indian mainland,” added Mansur. North Bengal development minister Rabindranath Ghosh admitted to the residents’ problems. “The Dharala river is so wide in that stretch and at times, they do not have any option but to go to Bangladesh. But if they have any problem with boats, we can sort it out in consultation with the district administration,” said Ghosh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-379
11-09-2020||West Bengal||Malda librarian keeps old coins for posterity||Hundreds of coins dating back to the Sultanate era and of the current age have helped librarian Subir Saha spend his days indoors during the Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown. Saha, a known numismatist who stays at Green Park here, is now dreaming of developing a modest museum in association with the state government where he can display his stock of coins and ensure that the rare coins are preserved properly for the future. A visit to his residence, and one would be delighted to see the “Gani” coin used during the regime of Mohammed Bin Tughlaq, “Tanka” of Kutubuddin Aibaq to “Dam” of Akbar, Jahangir and Aurangzeb. The repertoire also contains “Falus”, a coin used during regimes of emperors Humayun and Shah Jahan, “Paisa” used during the rule of Sher Shah Suri and also coins used during the eras of rulers like Alauddin Khilji and Gias Uddin Balban. A postgraduate in economics and a postgraduate diploma holder in business management, Saha, who is posted as a librarian at a state-run library in Old Malda, also takes the pride of displaying coins used during the rules of King George V and George VI and King Edward. “I also have a gold-plated replica of ‘Mohor’ that was used in transactions during the regime of Queen Victoria. I have coins made of silver, copper, nickel, blending of aluminium and magnesium and stainless steel,” said the numismatist, who is in his early fifties. His collection of coins which have been minted in India post-independence is no less surprising. He has the coin of 1,000 rupees denomination that was introduced to celebrate the 1,000th anniversary of a temple in Thanjavur, Tamil Nadu, and also the coins of Rs 500, Rs 200, Rs 150, Rs 125, Rs 60, Rs 25 and Rs 20, introduced as souvenirs to celebrate occasions like Indo-African summit, sesquicentennial anniversary of Rabindranath Tagore and platinum jubilee of the Reserve Bank of India. “During the recent lockdown, it is these coins with which I had spent most of my time. These coins keep me busy as I also make different models with the coins which have turned outdated in our country. I had developed the habit of collecting coins since my university days and I feel equally enthusiastic even now to collect rare coins,” said Saha, who has created a collection of over 2,000 coins during the past 30 years. At his home, there are at least 50 such models made of coins, which include a coin plant, decorative pieces and figures. The librarian-cum-numismatist also has coins of over 20 countries with him, including coins of the US, France, UK, Canada, Japan and Thailand. “My aspiration is to make a permanent display of these coins so that more and more people can see the collections. Each coin carries a piece of history with it. Once the situation normalises, I will approach the administration and the state government with a proposal of a museum that can be set up jointly in Malda,” he said. His collection has also made some local youths propose an exhibition in the town. “However, we can think of it only after this pandemic is over,” said Saha. Interestingly, the numismatist is a phillumenist as well and has a collection of thousands of matchboxes. “This is yet another collection that I have. In the past few months, we often heard that people feel bored or are depressed as they have to spend hours and days at home. I believe they can utilise their time and develop some hobby or other to remain mentally fit,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-379
11-09-2020||West Bengal||Anit Thapa stress on job creation in hills ||Anit Thapa, the chairperson of the board of administrators of the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA) and a prominent leader of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha’s Binay Tamang faction, has said he will focus on generation of employment in the hills to prevent the exodus of youths in search of jobs. “While working during the Covid-19 pandemic in different areas across the hills, I have realised that many educated youths are leaving their native places to earn their livelihood. Many of them belong to tea gardens and do not want to join the tea industry like their parents. Instead, they are choosing other occupations and in the absence of job opportunities in the hills, they are leaving homes. It is time that we take the initiative to create jobs for them here so that this trend of leaving the native places can be stopped,” said Thapa. He was speaking on the sidelines of a meeting that he held with representatives of development boards and civic bodies in Darjeeling on Wednesday. The Morcha leader pointed out that it had become a common trend among the hill youths, both men and women, to move out elsewhere and scout for jobs. “To generate employment, we need to bring in investors here. There are people who are willing to invest in various sectors in the hills. But what discourages them is an apprehension that a statehood movement might break out in the hills again, which can lead to breach of peace, arson and vandalism. We also have to change this perception of them by ensuring stability in the hills,” added Thapa. He also said many hill youths were seen knocking on the doors of leaders for jobs even after completing their higher education in different fields. “We will ensure that our local youths are given priority in case of any recruitment made by any private investor. But what we need right now is a steady focus on generation of employment,” said the Morcha leader. In recent weeks, this is the second time that Thapa has focused on the employment issue. A couple of weeks back, he had written to the state government, pleading that contractual employees of the GTA, many of whom had been working since the DGHC days, be made permanent. According to political observers in the hills, two top leaders of the Binay Tamang faction (Tamang himself and Thapa) seem to have taken the strategy of flagging all prominent issues of the hills, right from the demand for separate statehood and conferment of Scheduled Tribe status on 11 hill communities to granting of land rights. “It is evident that the leaders want to prove that they are the lone party to raise the voice on all pertinent issues of the hills,” said an observer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-379
11-09-2020||West Bengal||Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury’s plea to defectors: Return to Congress||Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, the newly-appointed Bengal Congress president, on Thursday urged people who had switched over to other parties to return to the Congress. “Several Congress workers in Bengal joined the Trinamul Congress or the BJP in the past few years. I request them to come back. The party will give them their rightful respect and honour,” Chowdhury told a news conference, a day after the party high command had appointed him as the state Congress chief. The message, sources said, was an indication that Chowdhury is keen to take all factions of the party along with him in his fresh stint as the PCC chief. In his earlier innings, between 2014 and 2018, Chowdhury was often accused of not taking all factions of the party along with him. During that stint, several Congress leaders, including lawmaker Manas Bhunia, had switched over to Trinamul. In his first media interaction as the PCC president, Chowdhury made it clear that his appointment as the state party chief was the wish of Congress president Sonia Gandhi, who had called him up on Wednesday evening to inform him about the new assignment. The Behrampore MP said the Congress was keen on allying with the Left Front for the Assembly polls. Speaking to journalists with Abdul Mannan — the leader of the Opposition in Bengal Assembly — by his side, Chowdhury said the veteran leader, along with Rajya Sabha member Pradip Battacharya would oversee the alliance with Left parties. “Our stand to be in an alliance with the Left parties has never changed. After the 2016 polls, the CPM had felt that the alliance had not fared well for them. However, they are willing to join forces again. We will turn this political understanding into an electoral understanding,” Chowdhury said. “Discussions with the Left parties will begin,” he added. He urged party workers to prepare to hit the streets against the “autocratic” rule of Trinamul as soon as the Covid-19 pandemic was over. “The state Congress will launch a massive campaign against Trinamul immediately after the coronavirus pandemic is over. Our programs will be organised in accordance with the directions from the national leadership,” the Behrampore MP said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-379
11-09-2020||West Bengal||Plea to govt to take back control of road handed over to Visva-Bharati in 2017||Around 60 old-timers of Santiniketan, including family members of Nobel laureates Rabindranath Tagore and Amartya Sen, wrote to chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday, requesting her to take back control of a 2.9km road that the state government had handed over to Visva-Bharati in 2017. Varsity authorities are allegedly stopping people from using a part of the road that runs through the campus, they have written. The 2.9-km-long road connects the varsity’s two campuses — Santiniketan and Sriniketan. The stretch, earlier looked after by the public works department, was handed over to Visva-Bharati in March 2017 following requests from varsity. As Visva-Bharati authorities intend to stop people from using a 600-metre stretch — between Sangeet Bhavana and Upsana Griha — of the 2.9km road, those living along the road have to take a detour of 2.5km via two new bypasses. The varsity had built a bypass from Shyambati to Siksha Bhavan junction and was constructing another one from Sangeet Bhavan to Nisha lodge to divert the commuters who usually take the 2.9km stretch that goes past Upasana Griha and Uttarayan complex, sources said. Homes of around 3,000 people, including landmark residences of Amartya Sen and Nandalal Bose, are located along the 2.9km road and its adjoining areas. Shanta Bhanu Sen, a cousin of Nobel laureate Amartya Sen and a signatory to the letter, said: “Security personnel of Visva-Bharati are stopping residents from using the road on occasions like the weekly prayer.” Supriya Tagore, a descendant of the Tagore family and former principal of Patha Bhavana, added: “We use the road regularly and it would mean big trouble for us if we were to be barred from using it.” Residents said the stretch was a vital link the Ratan Pally market, the post office and medicine shops. Varsity sources said many high-level committees had advised against a thoroughfare cutting the campus. “The plan to stop public use of the thoroughfare is not new and the process had begun in 2010. We will not close the road permanently but plying of private and commercial vehicles will be barred on a part of the stretch to avoid nuisance and ensure campus security,” said a senior varsity official. However, Subir Banerjee, a varsity alumnus in his seventies, alleged: “Visva-Bharati is stopping us from going on the road even on bicycles during various occasions. Even the elderly are being forced to take a detour.” Residents said they would send the copy of the letter to the local administration, including district magistrate and district police chief. “I will look into the demand after receiving the letter,” said Birbhum district magistrate Moumita Godara Basu.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-379
11-09-2020||West Bengal||Tomorrow’s total lockdown withdrawn||Bengal government has withdrawn the complete lockdown on September 12 in view of travel difficulties likely to be faced by students who will appear for NEET examination on Sunday. There is no change in the total lockdown announced for Friday and government sources said it might be the last, at least for the time being. “GoWB had initially announced a statewide lockdown on September 11 & 12th. Considering the NEET 2020 examination scheduled on 13th, we have received numerous requests from the student community on lifting lockdown norms on 12th, helping ease their travel to examination centres,” chief minister Mamata Banerjee tweeted on Thursday. Sources at Nabanna said the government was forced to reconsider the decision after hundreds of requests to withdraw the lockdown a day ahead of the NEET exam on Sunday had flooded the state secretariat over the past few days. “Nearly 37,000 candidates would appear in the exam and majority of them have to travel long distances to reach exam centres set up in a handful of cities and major towns across the state. As many want to reach the towns and cities a day ahead of the exam, the government decided to withdraw the complete lockdown scheduled for Saturday,” said a senior government official. For example, the official said, some students from Murshidabad would have to travel to Kharagpur to write the test. “It is not possible for the examinees to travel such a long way on the day of the exam. Withdrawal of the complete lockdown on September 12 would help the students,” the official added. Sources in the state administration said Friday’s lockdown was likely to be the last full lockdown day in Bengal — at least for the time being — as the government was not in a mood to declare further lockdown dates in September. “In the notification for Unlock 4 issued on August 31, the state government had announced three complete lockdown dates — September 7, 11 and 12. The state has already observed a complete lockdown on September 7 and another would be observed tomorrow. The state is not in a mood to announce the complete lockdown on any more days in the remaining half of the month,” a senior state government official said. The official said, given the present situation of the Covid-19 pandemic, the government was unlikely to announce any further lockdown dates in October either as it would create trouble for the organisers of Durga Puja, the biggest festival of the state. “Moreover, further lockdown in the last half of September and October would hit the traders’ community badly. It has also been seen that a day ahead of and the day after a complete lockdown, markets and streets are getting overcrowded throwing social distancing norms out of gear,” said the official. A top government official said the state was now focusing on panic management as Covid cases were rising steadily in the country. “We have successfully tackled the initial panic by introducing several facilities like Covid Patient Management system and 24X7 helpline and bringing down the death rate to nearly 2 percent,” the bureaucrat said. Officials have said the state now wants to restore normalcy as much as possible but at the same time it aims to ensure people follow personal hygiene and maintain all safety norms like physical distancing. “This is the only way of tackling the pandemic and at the same time saving the economy of the state,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-379
11-09-2020||West Bengal||Baisakhi Bandyopadhyay in Bengal BJP committee||The Bengal BJP on Thursday inducted Baisakhi Bandyopadhyay into the party’s extended state committee amid murmurs that she found a berth because the leadership wanted to keep her friend and Trinamul turncoat Sovan Chatterjee in good humour. “On Tuesday when the list of extended state committee members was released, it didn’t include Baisakhi’s name. However, Sovanda’s name was there. The decision to include Baisakhi in the committee was taken on Wednesday evening on second thoughts as Sovanda was upset with her exclusion,” a source said. A total of 230 names had initially been announced as members of the extended state committee, which has 110 permanent invitees. The remaining members on the list are 96 state committee members, three permanent invitees at all the meetings of the office-bearers and 21 special invitees. Sovan made it to this list of permanent invitees. Names of several lawmakers and chiefs of various wings of the party are in the list. After the announcement, Chatterjee had told journalists that he had heard about his induction on television, thereby making it clear his discontent for not being officially communicated. Party sources said that he also informed his displeasure as Baisakhi, who was once the general secretary in Trinamul-backed West Bengal College and University Professors Association, wasn’t named among the 230. “The party doesn’t want Sovanda to feel upset and thus the party’s leadership decided to include Baisakhi in the extended state committee,” the source said. Following the BJP’s structure, the main decisions in the party are taken by the unit’s president and the organisational general secretary. Dilip Ghosh, the state president, has never shown much keenness in rehabilitating turncoats from different parties, especially Trinamul, by giving them official positions in the party. Ghosh, however, had approved Chatterjee’s name for the extended state committee acknowledging the latter’s political experience and background, said a source. “But Dilipda was always against the idea of giving any importance to Baisakhi. He has always said,’ what does she bring to the table?’,” a senior party leader said. Chatterjee, however, got the help from Kailash Vijayvargiya, who apparently prevailed on Ghosh to include Baisakhi in the second round. “A meeting took place at the party’s Hastings office on Wednesday where the decision to include Baisakhi and Rakesh Singh, a Congress turncoat, into the extended state committee was taken. Kailashji insisted that these names are included,” a source close to Ghosh said. Ghosh, however, said that Baisakhi was inducted as it was the party's decision. This person added that another 50 new names will be included in the extended state committee as the party is keen on broadbasing representation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-379
