12-09-2020||West Bengal||Covid positive man contacted by none, nowhere to go, wanders for three days||A 43-year-old man who had tested positive for Covid-19 wandered around the streets of Salt Lake for the past three days before finally settling down under the elevated Metro corridor near Duttabad on EM Bypass. He was too afraid to go home because he shares his tenement in Barasat with his elderly parents. Nor did he receive any calls from the authorities, the man told The Telegraph on Friday afternoon. Unsure what to do, he had decided to spend the nights in the open. A state health department official said that someone from the department ought to have called the man and asked whether he had mild or severe symptoms. Since the 43-year-old former parking attendant has mild symptoms, the caller should have told him about his two options: staying isolated from others at home for 14 days, or shifting to a government-run safe home for the same period. “I was scared after my report came out positive on Tuesday. I didn’t want to go home as it is quite small and I live with my elderly parents. There’s no possibility of self-isolation at home,” he said. He had wanted to go to a hospital but didn’t know the procedure, and was afraid it would cost a lot of money. “I earn little. I had heard that medicines for the coronavirus are expensive,” he said. Duttabad residents who noticed the man sitting in the same spot for hours spoke to him and learnt of his plight before calling fire and emergency services minister Sujit Bose. The minister, who had himself recovered from Covid-19, asked local councillor Nirmal Dutta to arrange for the man’s transport to a safe house. The patient was then transferred to a safe house in Barasat. Tapas Roy, chief medical officer for North 24-Parganas, confirmed the health department should have called the man. “After telling the patient his options, the caller is also expected to ask whether there’s enough space at their home and a separate toilet to stay isolated from the rest of the family. Else, the patient has to be shifted to a safe home (by the state health department),” he said. The man used to be an attendant at one of the paid parking zones near City Centre but had lost his job during the lockdown. He was now working as a civic labourer engaged in clearing weeds from playgrounds and parks in Salt Lake. He had been down with fever since September 5, a Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation official who had spoken to him said. The report of his free Covid-19 test, conducted at a Salt Lake hospital, arrived on September 8. A health department official said that apart from the department, the man should have received a call from the Barasat municipality since he had stated his address at the time of testing. Everyone undergoing a Covid-19 test is asked to furnish address proof. Sunil Mukherjee, chairperson of Barasat municipality’s board of administrators, said: “It seems this person’s address did not reach us. Otherwise our workers would have gone there and found out that he was neither at home nor in hospital.” Anyone who is unsure what to do after testing positive for Covid-19 may call the health department helpline, 1800 313 444 222. There’s also a telemedicine helpline, 033 23576001.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-377
12-09-2020||West Bengal||Inter-state ATM robber arrested in Malda||Police on Thursday arrested a member of an ATM robbery gang that is suspected to be operating across the country. Dharamvir Sharma alias Mahesh alias Panditji — who hails from Mathura district in Uttar Pradesh — was picked up from a hideout at Baharal by Ratua police. He spilled beans on a series of ATMs robberies in different parts of India. His arrest followed a thorough investigation by the Malda police, including the district police chief, Alok Rajoria, and Dipak Sarkar, ASP (rural), who took days to collect information to locate Sharma. During the probe, the duo, with some other officials, had also checked CCTV footage of different locations which in total, were 150 hours long. Police sources said on August 19 this year, the ATM of a nationalised bank in Sujapur under Kaliachak police station had been robbed and around Rs 10 lakh taken away. The loot was carried out barely 24 hours after a similar attempt was made at an ATM in Barasat, North 24 Parganas. Also, during the lockdown, two more ATMs were broken in areas under Englishbazar and Gajole police stations — also in Malda district — and cash was looted. The series of robberies prompted the police to form a special investigation team under Sarkar. Rajoria, the SP, also joined the probe. “While examining CCTV footage of Kaliachak and Barasat exhaustively, we noticed the similarity in the culprit’s shoes. Soon, we found that the gloves worn by the culprits are similar,” said the SP. This made the police here communicate with different police stations across the country to gather information about similar crimes and soon, they came across the CCTV footage of an ATM robbery in Madhya Pradesh. The team continued its investigation and started checking registers in nearby hotels After days of work, the police could finally identify Sharma. They had alerted their sources across the district and soon, the team got a tip-off that Sharma was back in Malda and has taken shelter at a village in Ratua. This made the police team, with Rajoria himself leading in mufti, to conduct a raid in Baharal on Thursday night. “We could nab him. During preliminary interrogation, he has revealed that he and his associates were involved in ATM robberies in a number of states. We need to grill him further to get more information,” said a police officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-377
12-09-2020||West Bengal||UP couple held  in Malda with 10kg tortoise fat||Three persons, including a couple from Sultanpur district of Uttar Pradesh, were arrested with 10kg of tortoise fat by police at Kaliachak in Malda on Friday. The fat that is in dried form was about to be smuggled into Bangladesh through Mahadipur border of the district, said police sources. On Friday morning, Babua Kumar and his spouse Kiran reached Malda from Sultanpur. Officials of Kaliachak police station, who had prior information, had formed a special team to nab them. The duo headed for a locality near the India-Bangladesh border and handed the tortoise fat that was in two bags to Mohammed Motiur Rahaman, a Kaliachak resident. The police team conducted a raid at the spot, and could arrest all three of them. The bags were also seized. “They had a plan to take the consignment to Mahadipur and smuggle it to Bangladesh. But we could arrest them midway,” said Ashish Das, inspector-in-charge, Kaliachak police station. During the primary interrogation, the trio admitted that several tortoises were killed to accumulate the fat. It was then processed and then brought to Malda. “We suspect all three of them are members of a racket that is engaged in smuggling of animal parts to Bangladesh,” a police officer said. Sources said the seized consignment costs around Rs 10 lakh in clandestine market. “In Bangladesh also, tortoises are killed to get the fat. The item has a demand in China and North and South Korea where it is used to make different traditional medicines,” the source added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-377
12-09-2020||West Bengal||Jumbo rage triggers protest near Gorumara National Park||A team of foresters who had been to a village near the Gorumara National Park in Jalpaiguri following an elephant depredation was gheraoed by the residents for three hours on Friday. The team led by Rajkumar Layak, the Khunia forest range officer, was detained, along with some elected representatives of rural bodies. The villagers demanded a specific assurance that a watchtower be erected by the state forest department to monitor the movement of elephant herds. “Wild elephants often intrude into our village and damage crops, plants and houses. Last night, a herd entered the village and damaged around 1,000 betel nut trees, along with some crops which were ready for harvest,” said Bimal Oraon, a resident of Purba Batabari in the Matialli block. “We had time and again demanded that a watchtower be built outside the village and it be manned by forest guards so that they can alert us to elephant movements. As there had been no development, we decided to detain the forest team,” he added. According to Oraon, around 10,000 residents of Purba Batabari and the neighbouring Kharia Bandar regularly lose their crops to the marauding elephants. Hasibur Rehman, the president of the Purba Batabari Joint Forest Management Committee, said though the villagers had started alternative farming — cultivation of agricultural products which elephants usually do not consume, they could not succeed because of frequent depredations. “We need the watchtower and regular patrolling by forest teams in our area so that the herds can be stopped,” he said. The protests, which started at 11am, continued for three hours. The representatives of the local panchayat samiti and foresters assured the agitators that the issue would be discussed at a meeting to be held on Saturday. “The villagers were aggrieved over the issue and confined us. A meeting has been convened to discuss the proposals. Elected representatives of the local panchayat and the panchayat samiti would be present at the meeting with the villagers,” Layak, the range officer, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-377
12-09-2020||West Bengal||Jackal terrorises villages, 30 hurt in Haroa||At least 30 people, including women and children, were injured in jackal attacks over the past three days at several villages of Haroa block in North 24-Parganas, prompting the panchayat authorities to seek the help of the district administration. Local sources said people residing at Piyara, Adampur, Aatghara, Digherhaat, and some other places in the Haroa block had been spending sleepless nights for the past two days fearing attacks by the jackal. The first attack took place over a week ago at Piyara but since Wednesday, there have been 30 incidents of attacks on villagers. At least 15 persons have been admitted to Haroa block hospital with serious injuries. One of the seriously injured villagers has lost a finger in the attack. Those with minor injuries have been released after primary treatment and vaccination. A doctor at Haroa block hospital said: “Most of the victims suffered bite injuries in their feet and arms. Condition of a few elderly women is serious.” Though none of the villagers has seen more than one jackal at a time, they claim that a pack is roaming the area. As help from the forest department is yet to arrive, the panicked villagers have formed groups and are combing the villages armed with bamboo sticks. Trinamul block president, Haroa, Shafiq Ahmed, said: “The administration has been informed but we don’t know why no one from the forest department has turned up so far.” An officer in the state wildlife department, Basirhat Division, told The Telegraph: “There seems to be some communication gap as we do not have any information about the incident. From what we hear from you, it seems a lone jackal is involved in the incidents. Such behaviour is unusual of Asiatic jackals. It is most likely that the jackal is suffering from some disease or has physical ailment. We will soon send a team to the affected areas.” Haroa resident Sheikh Abdullah said: “We are living in panic. Jackals are entering our homes even during the day and attacking villagers. The animals are going for the throat of the victim and when resisted, they are trying to bite off the palm.” Rokeya Biwi, a villager who survived a jackal attack, said: “Today (Friday) I was sitting in the courtyard of my home when a jackal attacked me from behind. It tried to bite off my toe and released its hold on my foot when neighbours rushed in and started beating it with sticks.” A wildlife department official said jackals generally found in the Gangetic or riverine areas belong to the species of Asiatic jackals. They are also known as golden jackals and survive on fish, crabs, and wild birds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-377
12-09-2020||West Bengal||Plea for Sikkim House quota for Limboos and Tamangs||Limboo Tamang Seat Reservation Demand Committee Sikkim on Friday urged the state government and the Centre to table resolutions in the Assembly and the Lok Sabha, respectively, reserving seats for the two tribal communities in the Sikkim House. Neema Theeng Tamang, the chairman of the committee, said Limboos and Tamangs continued to be deprived of their political rights despite being categorised as Scheduled Tribes by the Atal Bihari Vajpayee-led BJP government in 2003. “We would request the state government to table a resolution reserving seats for the Limboos and Tamangs in the Assembly on September 17 and similarly, request the Centre to bring a Bill during the upcoming session of parliament beginning on September 14,” he said. Tamang said the committee had already written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah on the issue, and were hopeful of a positive outcome. “We would also request our Lok Sabha member Indra Hang Subba to raise the issue in Parliament. He should lobby his fellow MPs and get the bill passed in Parliament,” Tamang added. The Limboos and Tamangs were given the ST status in 2003, but are yet to be granted reservation of seats in the Assembly as mandated by Article 332 of the Constitution. An organisation of the two communities had approached the Supreme Court on the issue in January 2019, but the matter is yet to be decided on. Asked if the committee had any formula on seat reservation, Tamang said it was for the state government to come out with one. The ruling Sikkim Krantikari Morcha (SKM), however, is yet to spell out its formula even though it supports reservation of seats for the Limboos and Tamangs. The opposition Sikkim Democratic Front (SDF), on the other hand, wants the strength of the Assembly to be increased from the present 32 to 40, and reserve five seats from the increased pool for the Limboos and Tamangs. At present, 12 seats are reserved for the Bhutias and Lepchas, two for the Scheduled Castes and one for the sangha, which is a body of monks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-377
12-09-2020||West Bengal||Scan on Sikkim draft proposal for tourism revival||A draft proposal prepared by the Sikkim tourism and civil aviation department in consultation with local tourism stakeholders for reopening the state for tourists has prompted at least two associations in east and northeast India to write to the chief minister, saying some of the suggestions will hamper the arrival of visitors. On September 4, a meeting was convened to discuss how the sector could be reopened in the state. At the meeting, a draft was readied wherein proposals were made with regard to movement of tourists, their accommodations and some new norms with regard to the health safety protocols. “There is a proposal that travel houses which are based in Sikkim and registered with the state government can carry out the ground handling of tourists. This means, travel houses based outside Sikkim cannot make direct reservations or arrange for transports for tourists. Also, it has been proposed that vehicles from outside Sikkim will not be allowed to carry tourists into the state. If these proposals are finalised, it would largely affect the stakeholders in north Bengal and in other parts of the country,” said Sandipan Ghosh, general secretary, Eastern Himalaya Travel & Tour Operators’ Association. He has also pointed out that as a tour operator who is not based in Sikkim cannot send tourists directly to the state according to the proposal, it will increase the cost component. In the draft, it has also been mentioned that initially, around 2,500 rooms (around 5,000 tourists) would be allowed to be used in a day and the hotels should use only half of their rooms. “There are several hoteliers who have taken hotels on lease in different locations of Sikkim. They have already suffered huge losses in the past six months and now if they are asked to use only half of their room inventory, it would be tough for them to sustain. Moreover, it is not very clear as till when this first phase of allowing only 5,000-odd tourists will continue,” said a hotelier who is from Siliguri but runs hotels in Sikkim. Like the hoteliers, the transporters are also worried, said Samrat Sanyal, general secretary, Himalayan Hospitality & Tourism Development Network. This is because a considerable section of tourists plan an integrated itinerary of Darjeeling and Sikkim and usually, vehicles are provided for the entire trip. “We sent our vehicles with tourists to Darjeeling and Sikkim. In Sikkim, the sightseeing is being conducted in local vehicles. Now if any restriction is imposed on movement of non-Sikkim vehicles into the state, it would be hard for us to get tourists. We believe the Sikkim government will understand these problems and will draw up appropriate guidelines, keeping in mind the interests of all those who are associated with the tourism industry of Sikkim,” said Sanyal. At the meeting, it has been also proposed that all tourists should carry Covid-19 negative certificates issued not earlier than three days prior to their arrival in Sikkim. This proposal, if implemented, will be another constraint to bring in tourists into the state. An official of the Sikkim tourism department said the proposals were yet to be discussed with the state government. “It is only a draft that has been prepared by our department in consultation with the stakeholders. It is yet to be taken up with the government and only then can the guidelines be finalised.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-378
12-09-2020||West Bengal||Siliguri College teacher faces exam bribe demand slur||A teacher at Siliguri College has been accused of assuring a student of his department that he can help her get more marks in the undergraduate final exams against a payment of Rs 10,000. An audio clip containing the bribe demand has been circulating in social media. The accused teacher, however, denied the allegations. “I am not involved in this incident. Some people with political agenda are trying to frame me,” said the teacher. The North Bengal University, to which the college is affiliated, started a probe and plans to file a police complaint. Sources said vice-chancellor Subires Bhattacharyya had asked registrar Dilip Sarkar to start proceedings against the teacher. “We have started a probe and will file a police complaint,” the registrar said. In the audio clip, the teacher is heard asking the girl to pay him Rs 10,000. “The teacher was heard saying that if she wanted to pass her exam with good marks, she should visit his house and pay him the amount with a copy of her admit card. He also said he had contacts with those people at the varsity who manage marks and everything,” said a faculty member of Siliguri College who heard the clip. On Friday, the student sent a written complaint to the college authorities, confirmed Jayanta Kar, president of the governing body of Siliguri College. “The student has sent an email to the principal and furnished all details of the communication in it. She mentioned that she had spoken to the head of the department of her course and furnished the faculty member’s phone number. It has nothing against the college but it is the name and fame of the varsity as the teacher was heard saying that he had connections with those who are associated with the exams and allocation of marks,” said Kar. Sujit Ghosh, the college principal, said: “It is astounding to hear such an audio where a teacher is asking for money from a student. We are looking into the issue and if found guilty, the teacher concerned will face appropriate steps.” A leader of the Trinamul Chhatra Parishad said the faculty member had even mentioned his residential address to the student during the communication. “We will hit the streets in a day or two, demanding action against the teacher,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-378
12-09-2020||West Bengal||Drug peddling cuffs on three||The Narcotics Control Bureau has arrested three men, including a pharmacy owner, for allegedly peddling drugs across the city and sending consignments abroad. Sources said the NCB had received information that more than 11kg of charas was being couriered to Hong Kong on Wednesday night. “An NCB team arrested Dum Dum residents Ashim Ray and Rajan Mishra and seized the charas that was concealed inside a packet marked as ‘muffins’,” said an NCB officer. The team also seized 100kg of charas and 20 bottles of Phensedyl cough syrup that contains the banned narcotic codeine phosphate from Mishra’s house. After questioning the duo together, the NCB raided the chemist shop of Biswanath Das, a resident of Manikpara, and seized 95 more bottles of cough syrup that contained codeine phosphate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-378
12-09-2020||West Bengal||Price rise scan on potato stocks||The Bengal government has decided to take stock of daily release of potatoes from 460-odd cold storages across the state to keep prices of the crop in check. The price of potatoes has been moving northwards across the state over the past couple of weeks, said a Bengal government official. “The state government is sure that there is an artificial crisis of potato, taking price of the commodity to Rs 30 to Rs 32 a kg from Rs 22 a kg in the markets in the past two weeks. We need to check whether required quantum of potato is being released to the markets from the stores as there is no major dearth of production this year,” a senior government official told The Telegraph. Sources in the agriculture marketing department said the state had produced about 90 lakh lakh tonnes of potato this year, while its annual production was around 110 lakh tonnes. But the less production has little to do with the sudden hike in prices as the state’s annual consumption requirement is about 60 lakh tonnes. About 55 lakh tonnes of potato were stored in the cold stores in March, which was enough to meet the state’s consumption requirement till December when the fresh produce starts arriving in markets, said sources. “Now it has to be seen whether at least 5 lakh tonnes of potato are being released from the cold stores every month as it is the state’s monthly consumption requirement. Primarily, it appears lesser quantum of potato is being released from the cold stores,” said an official. Sources in the government said the district authorities had been asked to deploy block level officials to maintain a record of the quantum of potato released from each of the cold stores everyday. Similarly, police have been asked to maintain a strict vigil on inter-state borders and markets to ensure that the commodity is not being taken away from the state in an unauthorised way. Sources in the agri-marketing department said that they had already visited some cold stores to find out the actual problem and found that majority of the stores were not being able to release potato according to the requirement in the markets. “This is because the cold stores have to engage labourers to take out potato bags from the stores in a way that social distancing norm could be maintained. Some cold store owners said that they could not deploy enough number of labourers since May this year,” said a source. In a bid to get rid of the situation and make potato available at Rs 25 a kg, the Bengal government has asked all the cold stores located in potato producing districts like Hooghly, East Burdwan and Birbhum to file a regular report mentioning daily release of potatoes. “District officials were also asked to note the name of the farmers who are taking potatoes out from the cold storages to track their place of supply,” said a senior state government official. A section of the officials said that there is a trend to hold the crop when price is rising and the middlemen become active to create an artificial crisis by holding back the stock. “A daily monitoring of release of the produce might help the state to some extent, but more importantly the state has to be aggressive to ensure that potato is released according to the consumption requirement,” said a bureaucrat. A strong vigil in the inter-state borders has been initiated as many middlemen were trying to sell the crop in the neighbouring states like Jharkhand, Bihar and Odisha as the price of the crop is higher in those states compared to Bengal. Police already seized around 250 quintals of potato from Jharkhand border in Mohammedbazar which was on the way to sell in Jharkhand on Tuesday evening. “We have already asked all the cold storages to give us details of potatoes released from their stores and names and contact number of the farmers who took the produce out of the stores,” said Moumita Godara Basu, the Birbhum district magistrate. Humayun Biswas, an additional district magistrate in East Burdwan, said: “Our teams are regularly visiting the markets to get the stock of the situation.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-378
12-09-2020||West Bengal||BJP leader’s address brims with Left virtues||Some of the newly-appointed state committee members of the BJP were in for a shock on Thursday evening when Arvind Menon, the co-in charge of the party’s affairs in Bengal, dwelt extensively on the communist virtues and organisational structure of Left outfits. Although the BJP’s battle in Bengal is all about how to defeat the Trinamul Congress, in the ideological sphere, the Left parties are the biggest enemies of the saffron camp. Similarly, the Left leaders also have no love lost for the BJP, a party they often describe as a Fascist force. “Given the mutual hatred for each other, I was really surprised when Menon-ji said our party was more like the CPM and compared our organisational structure with that of communists,” said a BJP source, who heard the articulate leader on Thursday evening. “Menon-ji also spoke on the strict regimentation and the discipline followed in the CPM... It was clear that these virtues of the Left parties were being hailed in his speech,” the source added. Multiple sources this correspondent spoke to said the reference to the CPM in Menon’s speech had indeed come as a surprise to them as most BJP leaders in Bengal had grown up in an ecosystem, wherein they were taught to ridicule anything that had a communist connection. A different background of Menon — a Malayali by birth and then an RSS pracharak in Hindi heartland — may be the reason behind him looking at the Left with a different prism. A senior state BJP leader said on condition of anonymity that one should not try to read much into Menon’s mention of the communists in his address as he was focusing on how different political parties functioned and his main objective was to denounce the “one family rule”-kind of structure in political parties like the Congress and Trinamul. “Menon-ji suggested that in case of Trinamul, it would be Abhishek (Banerjee) after Mamata Banerjee... Then, he said that it’s not the same in case of parties like the BJP or the CPM,” said a source. According to the source, there is more to the commonality as both the organisations are cadre-driven — whole timers in the CPM and pracharaks in the RSS. “If you look at the CPM and the RSS, you will see that the cadres are driven by ideology... And whatever call is taken at the central level percolates down to the last individual without fail,” said the source, who cut his political teeth in the RSS. Reacting to Menon’s comments, CPM politburo member Mohammad Salim said the comparison meant nothing. “There may be some similarities in the organisational structure, but comparing us with the RSS is too much,” said Salim, before asking what the contributions of the saffron camp in the country’s freedom struggle were. “It is a party which thrives on turncoats like Mukul Roy and money from capitalists. They are no match for us in terms of ideologies,” he added. This is not the first time that the communists have found a mention in the address of a saffron camp leader. In 2018, in one of his speeches, RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat had mentioned the names of Left leaders like Ramchandra Sakharam Ruikar — a veteran of the All India Forward Bloc and M.N. Roy, founder of the Mexican Communist Party and the Communist Party of India. Bhagwat had said the first RSS chief, H.B. Hedgewar, and Ruikar had a conversation which had ended with the former concluding that both of them had the same destination.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-378
12-09-2020||West Bengal||Warning to gardens on Darjeeling Tea dilution||The Tea Board of India has warned that it will start civil and criminal action against those gardens in the Darjeeling hills which process and sell tea leaves from outside and sell them as the world famous Darjeeling Tea. Around 10 million kilos of orthodox tea are produced by 87 tea estates in the Darjeeling hills. Most of the produce is exported and fetches excellent prices. Darjeeling Tea is the first product in India to get a GI (Geographical Indication) tag in 2004. Tea that is plucked and processed only in the 87 gardens can be called Darjeeling Tea. In a letter sent to the Darjeeling Tea Association (DTA) On September 10, the board said it will “initiate civil and criminal action against the errant gardens under the Trade Mark Act, 1999, Geographical Indication of Goods (Registration & Protection) Act, 1999, the Copy Right Act, 1957 and Indian Penal Code”. The DTA represents the hill estates which produce the organic orthodox tea. The letter by Rishikesh Rai, the secretary of the Tea Board, said it received complaints at regular intervals that green leaves were sourced from outside the GI area and processed and passed off as Darjeeling Tea. “It is also expected that The Darjeeling Tea Association being the equal partner in the protection of Darjeeling GI should act in a proactive manner and persuade your member gardens to refrain from such activities failing which the Board may also be informed so that visible action can be taken against such manufacturers (sic),” reads the letter. In the letter, Saria said: “The board has also obtained undertaking from each of the 87 gardens certifying that none of the garden shall purchase any green leaf from any garden located beyond the demarcated geographical area of Darjeeling GI.” DTA chairman B.K. Saria said: “ We urge all members to refrain from such activities for the well-being of all members. We will will inform the Tea Board of any such acts.” “The DTA requests all the estates whether they are our members or otherwise, to respect the law.” A planter has said any attempt to mix green leaves of other estates with Darjeeling Tea should be strictly stopped to maintain the reputation the product enjoys across the globe. Veterans in the north Bengal tea industry said the board was playing a proactive role to ensure the authenticity of Indian tea. Earlier, the board had made moves to check illegal sale of imported tea in the domestic market and abroad as Indian tea. The board also directed producers not to mix artificial colours with the brew.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-378
12-09-2020||West Bengal||3,157 cases and 57 deaths in Bengal||Bengal on Friday reported 3,157 new Covid-19 cases, 57 deaths and 3,016 recoveries. The total number of patients in the state are now over 1.96 lakh, of whom 1.69 lakh have recovered and 3,828 died. The recovery rate, which has been on a steady upward climb, is 86.1 now, far ahead of the national rate of 77.85. “We are third on the list of states with the highest recovery rate now, after Bihar (89.7) and Tamil Nadu (88.6),” said a Bengal minister. After 15 days (from August 24 to September 7) of steady fall in the total number of active cases because of more recoveries than new infections, the state recorded spike in the number of patients for four consecutive days. Bengal logged 45,326 tests on Friday, taking the total past 23.75 lakh. The state now has 26,396 tests per million people, which were 12,880 even a month ago. Steady rise in testing, coupled with no discernible rise in cases being found, has improved the positive confirmation rate from a high of 8.9 to 8.26 per cent in about three weeks. Deemed a key indicator in the Covid-19 pandemic, the positive confirmation rate is the percentage of positive cases out of samples tested. A decreasing positive confirmation rate is indicative of reducing levels of Covid-19 spread. Of the 57 deaths reported in 24 hours, 16 were from Calcutta and eight from North 24-Parganas. The two districts have contributed over 60 per cent of all Covid-19 deaths since the first was recorded in Bengal on March 23. Of the total deaths, 3,288 (85.9 per cent) were reported as comorbid by the state government. The overall mortality rate improved to 1.94, while the national rate is 1.66 per cent. The state reported 32.48 per cent occupancy on 12,505 Covid-19 beds at 92 hospitals, besides 15.1 on 11,507 beds at 200 safe homes. Telemedicine services have been provided to over 1.96 lakh people, 4,236 of whom availed themselves of the facility in the past 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-378
12-09-2020||West Bengal||Unions to scale down Vishwakarma Puja celebration||Hundreds of Vishwakarma Puja organisers across Bengal have opted for muted celebrations as they have decided to utilise the festival funds to help workers and their families — living in their areas or associated with their organisations — left jobless because of the pandemic-induced lockdown. Though Vishwakarma Puja has always been the most important event in their annual roster, these organisers, most of whom are trade union outfits, think it is more important to stand by their co-workers than spending money to celebrate the puja, which falls on September 17. The Bus Workers’ Union in East Burdwan’s Kalna has put up a flex at the local bus terminus to inform people about the reason for not organising the festival this year. “We have been giving doles to workers from the Vishwakarma Puja fund and therefore, we have put on hold all programmes related to Vishwakarma Puja this year,” the flex put by the Trinamul Congress-led trade union reads. The organisers said every year, they used to spend Rs 3 lakh to celebrate Vishwakarma Puja. “We had saved Rs 4 lakh for this year’s celebrations. We have used the entire money to support our members during the lockdown and have decided to skip the festival this year,” said a Trinamul leader. “During the lockdown, buses did not operate and now services are back but only partially. So, we dipped into our Puja funds and gave our members Rs 500 every month. We also helped them with groceries,” said Anjan Chatterjee, working president of the INTTUC. Asish Dan, who is a conductor on the Bolpur-Suri route and attached to a bus worker’s union in Suri, said: “We are not having the festivities this year. I support the union’s decision as the Puja funds had been used to help us during lockdown. I got three supplies of essentials from the union in the past five months.” The picture is no different in the districts of Birbhum, West Burdwan and East and West Midnapore. In East Midnapore’s industrial hub Haldia and its adjoining pockets, at least 2,500 organisers used to host Vishwakarma Puja. The festival was celebrated with rich illuminations, huge pandals and mega cultural soirees in Haldia as it is the hub of big and small industries. Shibnath Sarkar, the working president of INTTUC in East Midnapore, said: “This year, the number of Vishwakarma Puja has dropped to 500. Most of the big budget pujas have curtailed their budgets to help workers, while the smaller ones have decided to skip the festivities. We had no option but to help jobless workers with funds kept aside for this year’s festival.” An organiser of a big-budget puja at a leading factory said they had curtailed cultural programmes because of two reasons — avoid mass gathering and help families of workers allied to the industry. A major battery producing unit in Haldia used to spend around Rs 10 lakh every year to celebrate Vishwakarma Puja. This year they have cut down their budget to Rs 4 lakh. “This year all cultural events and gatherings have been called off. The fund will be used to provide free study materials to children of workers who have lost their jobs during the lockdown,” said Sekhar Majumdar, secretary of the Puja committee at the battery unit said. As the festival has gone low-profile this year, those associated with professions linked to the festival are staring at huge losses in income. “The illumination industry of Chandernagore used to get orders worth Rs 2 crore during Vishwakarma Puja every year. This year, it is almost zero as we do not have any big order from industrial hubs like Durgapur or Haldia. Hundreds of our workers look forward to the festival season but this year, the situation is grave for all of us,” said Babu Pal, an illumination artist in Chandernagore and secretary of Chandernagore Lights Owners’ Association. Nandalal Jana, an idol maker in Haldia, echoes Pal. “I used to get orders of at least 100 Vishwakarma idols till last year. This year, I have only 20 order for small-size idols,” said Jana||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-378
