13-09-2020||West Bengal||‘TMC graft’ complaint by Trinamul||Some Trinamul supporters in Rashidabad panchayat under Harishchandrapur I block have lodged a complaint with the BDO accusing the head of the Trinamul-run panchayat and a member of demanding money from them to link their Aadhaar numbers with their bank accounts. This linking is necessary for villagers to avail the benefits of a government housing scheme. Trinamul supporters like Sahanara Parvin, Samsuddin and some others said that the complaint against Pushpa Rabidas, the pradhan, and Ekramul Haque, a member, was necessary to “end corruption of some panchayat members of the party.” “We were told we have to pay Rs 3,000 each to the pradhan and to some others if we want to avail benefits of the housing scheme,” said Sahanara. Rabidas and Haque have denied the charges. “A section of party workers are making deliberate attempts to tarnish the party’s image. We suspect they have wrong intentions,” said Rabidas. Such complaints from the ruling party leaders against their party colleagues have become a regular feature in the district. In Old Malda block, a former head of a Trinamul run Mangalbari panchayat, has accused Suraiya Bibi, the present pradhan of the panchayat, of siphoning off funds meant for government projects. In Kaliachak-II block, Trinamul members of Gangaprasad panchayat have accused the pradhan who is from the same party, for issuing tenders of over 49 lakhs by violating all regulations. “Aminul Islam, the pradhan, even kept elected members of the party in dark before issuing the tenders. Such corrupt practices by him have been quite common,” said a dissident elected member Motiur Rahaman. Such allegations from different parts of the district have left the district leaders  perturbed. “Trinamul never supports such corruption. But none has the right to malign the party as well. If anyone senses some corruption, he should bring it to our leaders so that we can conduct an internal probe. If the corruption is found, the accused would be summarily expelled. But if not, the complainant will have to face necessary steps,” said Dulal Sarkar, a coordinator of Malda district Trinamul.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-376
13-09-2020||West Bengal||Open state-owned libraries for dusting: Bengal government||The Bengal government has ordered all state-owned libraries to open their establishments at least once every fortnight, the decision coming in the wake of reports that rare old books and centuries-old manuscripts on toddy palm leaves were getting damaged without maintenance. All the 2,480 libraries in the state — of which 13 are government-run, 2,460 government-sponsored and seven state-aided — have been closed ever since the Covid-induced lockdown was imposed in March. Several libraries have rare collections like Vaishnav Padabali, Chandimangal and books on ayurveda, philosophy, logic, grammar, poems, verses on epics. “Nabadwip Public Library has 450 manuscripts while Krishnagar Public Library’s count is around 150. Lalgola MN Academy Library, Kandi Ramendra Sunder Tribedi library and Murshidabad District Library have good collections of old manuscripts. These libraries have a rich collection of old books suffering from lack of maintenance,” a senior librarian in Hooghly said. Sanjit Dutta, a retired librarian in Krishnagar, said regular cleaning was a must to reduce insects, abrasion and acid degradation. “Most libraries are on public thoroughfares that lead to rapid accumulation of dust and dirt in books. This requires books to be cleaned with soft cloth. Vacuum cleaners are useful too. Formalin and pesticides need to be sprayed to kill insects,” he said. Krishnagar Public Library, inaugurated in 1856, is a treasure trove of old books and manuscripts that employees say need regular cleaning against dust and insects. “The library has a special archive of about 150 old and invaluable books. These include rare books like the 1815 edition of The History of Rome by Thomas Arnold, Himalayan Journals by Joseph Dalton Hooker (1854), An Indian Journalist by Sambhu C. Mookerjee (1895), History of Brahmo Samaj by Sibnath Sastri (1911), and History of Aurangzib by Jadunath Sarkar (1912),” an employee said, and added that the library was opened on Saturday for cleaning. Libraries, he said, would continue to stay out of bounds for readers because of existing Covid protocols. The order to open libraries to maintain books and old manuscripts was issued earlier this week but many fear the long closure since March might have adversely affected the collections. They rued the delay in the order though a resolution to open libraries for maintenance had been adopted at an internal meeting of the directorate of library services on August 12. A librarian in North 24-Parganas said: “The absence of light and air for long periods causes immense damage to old books and manuscripts. It is pathetic that our officials took about six months to realise the need to dust books.” Mrityunjay Mitra, officer on special duty at the directorate of library services, refused to acknowledge any delay in the order. “We have local managing committees monitoring the condition since long for which no such order is required,” he said, but admitted that “a specific order does help”. Some librarians took special permission from local authorities to clean books before the government order. “Lack of light, air and daily cleaning lead to dust and moisture gathering on books. This can be disastrous for old books. So we persuaded the authorities to let us open the library for cleaning,” said Sachindranath Mandal, a librarian in Murshidabad district. Most libraries waited for the government to issue a formal order on cleaning. , the lack of staff because of lockdown made it difficult for most libraries to carry out cleaning jobs. “The government should have issued this order for fortnightly cleaning much earlier to avoid any damage to books,” retired librarian Sanjit Dutta said. Shamik Roy Burman, a librarian in North 24-Parganas, said: “As the government has finally issued the order, we will open the library on Monday for cleaning. We are keeping our fingers crossed about the condition of the books.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-376
13-09-2020||West Bengal||Binay Tamang sets tidy-up task with cash prize||Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (GJM) chief Binay Tamang on Saturday asked residents of Darjeeling, Kurseong, Kalimpong and Mirik towns to carry out cleanliness drives in their wards and across civic areas as a preparation to welcome tourists to the hills after a six-month gap. Tamang, speaking at a meeting in Tukvar on the outskirts of Darjeeling town, said: “There are indications that tourists will start coming to the hills from next month. Hotels would open up across the hills. Keeping this in view, I request residents of all the civic wards of these four towns to start the cleanliness drive. The drive would continue till September 27, that is, till the World Tourism Day.” Tamang said that his party would hand over cash rewards — of Rs 20,000, Rs 15,000 and Rs 10,000 — to ward committees of the top three wards of each municipality based on their performance in this clean-up drive. “There will be a panel of judges who will confidentially make the assessment,” he said. In the hills, there are 32 wards in Darjeeling, 20 in Kurseong and 23 in Kalimpong civic area. Mirik, upgraded into subdivisional headquarters by the Mamata Banerjee government a few years back, has nine wards. The prod from Tamang to keep the hill towns clean for tourists is seen as a confidence-building measure by those associated with the tourism sector. Earlier efforts by the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA) to invite tourists to the hills didn’t yield desired results as some local people opposed tourist inflow because of the pandemic situation. This made tourist stakeholders from different segments hold extensive talks. Last week the administrations of Darjeeling and Kalimpong issued notifications that hotels could run with proper health safety protocols. “By announcing the cleanliness drive, Binay Tamang seems to have tried to pass the missive to the hill residents that they should welcome tourists and simultaneously try to keep their areas clean. Collective participation of residents of civic areas in the drive will also give a message to those who intend to visit the hills and boost the morale of those associated with travel trade,” said a Darjeeling hotelier. At the meeting, Tamang also said he had taken the initiative to get the statue of the Gorkha soldier re-installed atop the Gorkha Rang Mancha Bhawan in Darjeeling town. In 2014, the statue had been removed from the Bhawan. “I have sent separate letters to the chairman of the BoA and principal secretary of the GTA for re-installing the Gorkha soldier’s statue at Gorkha Rang Manch Bhawan. The statue is the symbol of bravery of our soldiers. I have requested that the re-installation should be done on October 2, the birth anniversary of the Father of the Nation,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-376
13-09-2020||West Bengal||Accused of hooch trade by husband, woman held||A middle-aged “entrepreneur” was arrested from her home in a North 24-Parganas village on Saturday after her husband filed a complaint with the police alleging that she sold illicit country liquor. Police sources said the accused Minati Biswas, 50, was arrested from her home in Khasbalanda Bansbati village of Haroa on Saturday morning after her husband Jagabandhu Biswas, 55, lodged a complaint with the police. The cops also seized 40 litres of country liquor from her. Minati was produced before the ACJM court in Basirhat on Saturday and remanded to five days’ jail custody. Jagabandhu had in his complaint also accused his wife of physically torturing him because he had dared to raise his voice against her illegal liquor trade. Jagabandhu, a farmer by profession, said: “It became unbearable for me. I have been trying to discourage her from continuing the illegal trade for a couple of years now. But, she continued to be desperate and did not hesitate to unleash torture on me (for opposing her). I refused to give in to her torture and enjoy her wrongly earned money. It was a painful decision, but I had no option”. Residents have welcomed the arrest and praised Jagabandhu for his “stern action” — not hesitating to lodge a police complaint against his wife. “The woman had been polluting the social environment in our neighbourhood,” a neighbour of the couple said. “Customers who used to visit the couple’s home for liquor often created a nuisance in our locality. We had on a number of occasions requested the woman to stop selling liquor. But, she did not bother to pay any heed to our requests as well as that of her husband who was always vocal against her business,” the neighbour added. The villagers also alleged police inaction against Minati since she has been in the illegal trade for the past couple of years. “The police were well aware of her business but never bothered to take action. We apprehend she had a close nexus with police and influential people,” another neighbour of the couple alleged. An officer of Basirhat district police praised Jagabandhu’s decision of complaining against his wife. However, the policeman also dismissed the allegations of a nexus between the local police and the accused. “There was no complaint against her on earlier occasions. We acted with alacrity once the complaint was lodged on Saturday,” the officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-376
13-09-2020||West Bengal||North Bengal University bribe-for-marks case ||Authorities of North Bengal University (NBU) on the outskirts of Siliguri have filed a complaint with Matigara police on Saturday against the teacher of Siliguri College who purportedly demanded money from an undergraduate student in exchange of good marks in her final exams. An audio clip — reportedly  the conversation between the accused teacher of political science and the girl student — had surfaced on the Internet a couple of days back. In the conversation, the teacher is apparently heard saying to the girl that she needs to pay him Rs 10,000, and in turn, he would help her in getting good marks in her exams. He allegedly claimed to have connections with some staff of the varsity with whose help he can get the work done. On Friday, the girl had filed a complaint with the college authorities. “We have heard the audio clip. The vice-chancellor (Subires Bhattacharyya) is utterly disappointed...and has instructed us to take appropriate steps. Accordingly, we have filed a complaint with the police on Saturday,” Dilip Sarkar, the registrar of NBU. The registrar added that they wanted the police to find out the authenticity of the audio clip and if so whether anybody else was involved in such alleged malpractices. Along with the complaint, the varsity has also handed over the audio clip and some other documents to the police for investigation. It has also been decided that the accused teacher would be kept away from all activities related to exams conducted by the varsity and the colleges affiliated to it. The teacher, who was one of the observers of the NEET exam to be held on Sunday in Siliguri, has been relieved from duty. “After the accusations, it has been decided that he won’t be put on observer’s duty during NEET. A number of guardians of students who will appear in the exam also urged that the teacher be kept away from the duty,” said a source. On Monday, sources said, the governing body members of Siliguri College will meet to discuss the issue. Ranjan Sarkar, the Darjeeling (plains) district Trinamul president, went to NBU on Saturday and submitted a memo to the registrar, urging him for an internal inquiry. Trinamul Chhatra Parishad held a sit-in demonstration in front of Siliguri College, seeking steps against the teacher.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-376
13-09-2020||West Bengal||Track the truck, run a check on driver, Haldia transporters told||The East Midnapore district administration has mandated GPS tracking systems and driver background checks for all private transporters operating around 6,500 heavy vehicles daily in the industrial town of Haldia. The decision was taken earlier this week following a meeting between the administration, police, and representatives of transporters’ association who acknowledged the need to install GPS tracking systems and run background checks of drivers. Reason: at least 20 cases of hijackings of heavy vehicles — with cargo including cooking and industrial oil — occur every year in Haldia. And now, the pandemic has given rise to a fresh problem. Drivers infected with Covid-19 can easily go traceless minus a background check or GPS tracking. The need for background checks of drivers was felt in June when authorities in Haldia could not contact trace several Covid-19 positive persons who had driven in vehicles from elsewhere. But the major reason for wanting to run background checks of drivers remains the thefts of trucks and tankers. “Last week, a diesel tanker carrying 12,000 litres of oil from Cooch Behar was hijacked by a man posing as a hitchhiker on NH41 near Nandakumar (a town in East Midnapore near Haldia), who later stabbed and ejected the unsuspecting driver,” said a transporters’ association source. “The truck was found in West Midnapore and the load recovered. In most cases, even if vehicles are found, the cargo is stolen.” Sources said tankers plying for cooking and industrial oil companies based in Haldia were most prone to hijacking threat. Roughly 6,500 trucks leave Haldia a day with loads meant for other states and international locations, including Nepal and Bhutan. Police sources said equipping tankers with advanced GPS technology would cost Rs 5,000 per vehicle. “We had a plan to install advanced anti-hijacking technology since mid-2015, when cases of hijackings were on the rise. Measures at that time were not substantial, so we are satisfied with decisions taken at this week’s meeting,” said Haldia SDPO Tanmay Mukherjee. GPS trackers will be fixed to theft-proof locations of vehicles’ undercarriages, he said. “Transporters will be mandated to conduct background checks via Aadhaar,” he added. Asked, Haldia transporters’ association secretary Rangalal Barik said they would look into the measures immediately and agreed on “the need for advanced GPS technology” to track vehicles.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-376
13-09-2020||West Bengal||Trinamul MLA among 3,161 new Covid cases in Bengal||Trinamul’s Pandaveswar MLA Jitendra Tiwari on Saturday tested positive for Covid-19, along with two of his aides, to become part of the 3,161 new cases detected in the 24-hour window till Saturday 9am. On Saturday, Bengal also reported 3,042 recoveries and 59 deaths, of which 12 died in Calcutta and 16 in North 24-Parganas. Tiwari, 46, also the Asansol mayor, had been a part of the 45-minute session in the Assembly on Wednesday, where chief minister Mamata Banerjee was present along with many in her cabinet and hundreds of legislators, staff members and journalists. The MLA is among over 20 sitting members of the Assembly who have so far been infected with Covid-19, half from the ruling party. “He became symptomatic a couple of days ago with fever. He got tested yesterday (Friday). Because he is only mildly symptomatic now, he is on self-isolation,” said a source in the government. “We are carrying out contact-tracing and alerting everyone. Some of those in the party and in the government who came in close contact with him have already gone on self-isolation,” the source added. On Wednesday, Jalangi’s Congress-backed CPM MLA Abdur Razzak Mandal — who defected to Trinamul last year — and a security guard assigned to him had tested positive in the Assembly. The pandemic infected at least four members of the Bengal state cabinet, including ministers Jyotipriya Mullick, Sujit Bose, Swapan Debnath and Soumen Mahapatra. The pathogen also claimed the lives of CPM veteran and former transport minister Shyamal Chakraborty, Trinamul’s Egra MLA Samaresh Das and Falta MLA Tamonash Ghosh. The state’s total case count now is over 1.99 lakh, of which 1.72 lakh are recoveries and 3,887 are deaths. Bengal’s recovery rate now is 86.26, substantially better than the 77.88 per cent national rate. But the state’s mortality rate is 1.94 per cent, worse than the national rate of 1.65 per cent. As of Saturday, the state government reported 3,333 or 85.7 per cent as deaths with comorbidity “present”. The state logged a new high of 47,131 tests on Saturday, which took the total past 24 lakh, to 24,22,740 tests, at 26,919 tests per million people. From early February, Bengal took over three-and-a-half months to conduct 1 lakh tests. Over the next three-and-a-half months, it conducted over 23 lakh tests. “In just 12 days of September so far, we conducted over 5.35 lakh tests. We have, on an average, been conducting a lakh tests every two days now,” said a minister. Steady rise in tests, coupled with relatively lower cases being found, has improved the positive confirmation rate after August 23, from 8.9 to 8.23 per cent. A decreasing positive confirmation rate indicates reducing levels of Covid-19 spread. The state reported 32.98 per cent occupancy of 12,675 Covid-19 beds in 92 hospitals. Telemedicine services have been given to over 2 lakh, 4,213 of them in the past 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-377
13-09-2020||West Bengal||CPM to host examinees in Nadia’s Kalyani||Frontal outfits of the CPM in Nadia’s Kalyani have enlisted 150 homes of party workers to host examinees — and their guardians — arriving from faraway places to the university town for competitive exams, starting with JEE Advanced on September 27. The CPM women’s wing, SFI, DYFI and Citu decided to take up the task after it was discovered that a large number of candidates in Bengal could not take the JEE Main over transport and accommodation problems. The party has taken help of social media platforms to tell people about its initiative to offer accommodation to competitive exam aspirants. “The problems that students faced during the JEE Main led us to conceive the plan. We want to be with the students who would reach Kalyani for JEE Advanced on September 27. Our initiative will address the problem of examinees, particularly those from financially weaker sections. Our initiative will continue till suburban train services resume and hotels are allowed to book guests to capacity,” said a CPM insider. Sumit De, CPM’s Nadia district secretary, said they wanted students to appear in exams “without tension”. CPM’s Kalyani area committee member Dibyendu Bhattacharya said they had identified 150 houses of party activists with extra rooms. “In such houses, candidates and their guardians will be offered accommodation on twin-sharing basis. In case the number of candidates increases, we will enlist more homes. Students who find it difficult to return home immediately after exam will be allowed to stay back for the night,” he said. On Covid protocol, he said thermal scanning and necessary sanitisation steps would be adopted before the students enter the homes. He added food would be provided to the guests by volunteers at a nominal price. Financially weaker students will get free food. “We have formed a team of 50 volunteers consisting of members of the SFI, DYFI, Citu and the CPM women’s wing. They will be taking care of the students and guardians from a day ahead of the exam till the time they leave. A number of examinations will be held in the town in the coming months and if the pandemic continues we will continue with our service,” Bhattacharya, who is also Citu’s district committee member, said. “The party will arrange free transport at many points in the town for examinees.” The Kalyani home of Abanti Goswami, a professor in economics at Surendranath College in Calcutta and a CPM sympathiser, is among the homes that will host students. “This is a much-needed initiative to help students in this pandemic so that they can appear in the tests without mental burden,” Goswami said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-377
