14-09-2020||West Bengal||Trinamul and hill ally on induction spree||The Trinamul Congress and the Binay Tamang faction of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha have been poaching each other’s members with the induction sprees by the allies in the Darjeeling hills coming as a surprise for observers of politics. The ruling Trinamul, which had till now left the political space in the hills vacant for Tamang’s faction of the Morcha, has been regularly organising meetings, which is also a deviation from the past trend. “You can’t call it breaking of the alliance... But the developments are interesting as Trinamul and Tamang’s faction had been complementing each other till now,” said a source. L.B. Rai, the president of Darjeeling (hills) district Trinamul, said there was nothing wrong in inducting supporters of other political parties. “We have a tie-up with the Morcha and we will continue to be allies. But if any Morcha supporter wants to join us to strengthen the hands of Mamata Banerjee and in response to the development works carried out across the state, there is no reason to send away that person. Supporters of other hill parties are also walking into Trinamul,” he said. Rai on Monday inducted into Trinamul members of 21 families which stayed at Khaprail, on the outskirts of Siliguri, and Putung tea estate in the Mirik block. They were handed Trinamul flags at a programme held at the municipality hall in Mirik. They had earlier been with the GNLF or either of the Morcha factions. Rai claimed that around 3,000 supporters from different political parties had switched to Trinamul in the hills in the past one month. N.B. Khawas, the spokesperson for hill Trinamul, said many people with no political background had also joined the ruling party. Trinamul has recently activated its tea trade union in the hills. Leaders of the Tamang camp are not sitting idle either. A few days back, Binay Tamang had himself welcomed Rajen Tamang, a vice-president of hill Trinamul, to the Morcha. Anit Thapa, the second most important leader after Tamang in the party, managed to pull in a number of people from other parties, including Trinamul, at various locations in the hills. “There are people who might have issues with their local leaders and want to shift to another party. That is why one can see such joining. But it is nothing beyond that,” said Keshav Raj Pokhrel, a spokesperson for the Morcha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-375
14-09-2020||West Bengal||Diesel price hits trawl for hilsa||Fishermen’s associations in South 24-Parganas and East Midnapore are citing the hike in diesel prices as the chief cause for a “notably low” hilsa yield this year, the claim coming in the wake of scores of fishermen either ending their catching season early or curtailing expedition duration for “unsustainable fuel rates”. Functionaries of the West Bengal United Fishermen Association said they had written to the offices of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee and several senior ministers at the Centre, requesting them to exempt diesel surcharges for the fishing community but were awaiting a formal reply. “We have written to these offices at least twice since July, requesting them to exempt the surcharge collected by the government on fuel. But no one has heeded our plea yet. As a result, fishermen have reduced their time out at sea and consequently, hilsa yield has turned out low this year,” said Joykrishna Haldar, general secretary of the association. Sources in the fisheries department said fishermen in South 24-Parganas had caught 940 tonnes of the coveted fish since June this year, which is about one tenth of last year’s yield during the same period. “In 2019, a total of 9,112 tonnes of hilsa were caught in South 24-Parganas but this year, it is only 940 tonnes. It goes without saying that the figure of the last year can’t be met in the coming one month,” said Jayanta Pradhan, assistant director (fisheries), South 24-Parganas. Fishermen in both the districts have claimed that the problem of rising fuel costs is not new, rather, the hike this year made the situation untenable. Sources said in August last year, the price of diesel per litre was Rs 61.25, whereas it is around Rs 76 this year. A common complaint among fishermen was that their range of exploration had been curtailed by the “restrictive” fuel prices, a major handicap when it comes to migratory fish like the hilsa. “This year, we had to await positive confirmation of a flock before we could afford to move,” said a Contai-based fisherman. “In the case of the hilsa, fishermen can catch more fish if they roam freely. As the price of diesel rose, our trawlers’ range accordingly depleted. A fisherman who used to pour 1,200 litres of diesel into a trawler now uses 800 litres. As a result, we reduced our time to catch the fish and the production of hilsa is poor,” said Satinath Patra, a secretary of the Sundarban Samudrik Matsyojibi Shramik Union. Fishermen said the knock-on-effect of rising fuel prices was the higher cost of hilsa in the markets, necessitated by the pre-existing lockdown economy conditions. “Because of the Covid-19 pandemic, there is no train service to ship loads of the fish and so, people from other states or north Bengal are buying hilsa in lower quantity,” Patra said. “Neither the Centre nor the state are thinking about our situation at all. We are avoiding unnecessary hunts to reduce our loss from fuel cost,” said Shyamsundar Das, a secretary of the Digha Fishermen and Fish Traders’ Association.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-375
14-09-2020||West Bengal||NBU organic watermelons in Siliguri ||A private company, IXB Agritech, in collaboration with the Centre for Floriculture & Agri-Business Management (COFAM) of North Bengal University has started farming organic watermelons at a village in Phansidewa block of Siliguri subdivision. This is the first time in north Bengal that organic watermelon has been grown, said Amrendra Kumar Pandey, a practical demonstrator at COFAM that is giving technical know-how to the project. Around 2,300 watermelon plants have been farmed on an acre in a farm at Radhajote, some 20km from the city, Pandey said, adding that each plant was likely to produce around 10 kilos of organic watermelon, one fruit weighing around 3 kilos. “We are expecting around 15 tonnes of fruits by this month-end. It is good that north Bengal residents can eat this organic fruit,” he added. “Organic crops are grown without synthetic pesticides and chemicals and are thus healthier, with more antioxidants.” Pandey said COFAM had been promoting organic cultivation for years now. Sources said the watermelon farm developed by Siliguri resident Pradeep Singhal, one of the directors of IXB Agritech, is the first IMO-certified organic farm in north Bengal. IMO India is an independent certification body that carries out audits and provides certification for organic agriculture in the country. Singhal said watermelon harvesting will start by month-end and they planned to deliver the fruit from farm to homes. “We are working on how to make the fruit directly reach homes. In the coming days, we plan to grow organic sweet corn, peas, tomatoes and dragon fruits too,” he said. As of now, he has employed a supervisor and 12 local farmers for the watermelon project in association with COFAM, he said. “Once we increase the scale of production and start growing new organic fruits and vegetables, we intend to engage more people. Organic products fetch a better price in the market and we believe this can help encourage farmers here to go for organic production in their own fields. In due course, we plan to approach farmers and ask them to grow organic vegetables by assuring them that we will buy the produce,” Singhal said. Eventually, Singhal wants to come up with a phone app that people of Siliguri and north Bengal can use to buy organic fruits and vegetables. “But that will take some months,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-375
14-09-2020||West Bengal||How village stays Covid-free||An erstwhile Bangladeshi enclave, which is a part of India since the historic land boundary agreement in 2015, is scripting history again in the time of pandemic. At a time the country’s Covid-19 infection tally has sprinted beyond 4.7 million, village Poaturkuthi has not recorded a single case of infection, at least till Sunday afternoon. The credit for taking precautions to stay safe goes to Poaturkuthi villagers in Dinhata-II block along India-Bangladesh border. But there is near unanimity in the village that they could steer clear of the contagion so far because of Salina Parvin, the only erstwhile Bangladeshi resident (the dwellers are Indian residents now) from among the enclaves to be elected a member of the Bamanhat panchayat. “She kept us safe by constantly counselling how to be safe in this time of pandemic... Most villagers didn’t know much about dos and don’ts. She has saved all of us by creating awareness,” said Rahman Ali, a youth of the village. Since the outbreak of the pandemic, the panchayat member who won as a Trinamul candidate has walked up to each home with her husband Rafikul Islam, also a Trinamul leader, to tell villagers to follow health safety protocols and keep themselves safe. “We visited every home and even now we keep a tab on each household to know if anybody has symptoms,” she said. According to Islam, around 6,000 people reside in the village and in surrounding areas. The village has some 1,800-odd voters. Homes apart, Salina and Rafikul also approached authorities in five local mosques, again to ensure people followed safety protocol. “Every day, announcements are made from all mosques, asking people to follow safety guidelines. Our youths are always on alert to prevent any gathering in the village (that may flout social distancing),” said Islam. The message seems to have percolated to every home. When villagers learnt about Covid cases from nearby villages, they decided to enforce social distancing on their own and stop going out of the village to buy essential items. Ali said they did not have a market, for which people had to go to the Bamanhat market which residents of neighbouring villages also patronised. “So, we identified two local grounds (in the village itself) and invited vegetable vendors, fish-sellers and other traders to set up makeshift stalls. We ensured proper space between stalls. People could buy what they required without moving out of the village,” Ali said. The youths keep watch in these markets every day so that people do not crowd or flout safety norms. As lockdown days wore on, Poaturkuthi faced a new challenge. Over 200 youths — hailing from the village but migrant workers — came back. Instead of rushing to meet the returnees, like in many other places, the families let the youths stay in quarantine. “We ensured all of them got their tests done and stayed in quarantine for the necessary period. We are fortunate that none tested positive. When they reached the village from quarantine centres, they had to carry their test reports and stay at home in isolation for some days,” said Islam. Salina, now in her 40s, has seen the struggle of the enclave dwellers — including her parents and other elders faced — when they lived in a no man’s land between India and Bangladesh. “Till 2015, we were Bangladeshis and there was not a single elected representative for us in the panchayat. As people voted for me, I felt it was necessary to work for them as these are the people who have strived for decades, demanding that our villages should be part of India,” said Salina. She is satisfied with the village’s zero-Covid status, but a fear at the back of her mind refuses to let her relax. “It is true that no positive case has been reported so far. But one never knows if there is an asymptomatic Covid patient among us. That is why we are still going ahead with house-to-house monitoring,” said the tireless panchayat member.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-375
14-09-2020||West Bengal||Child killed in South Dinajpur highway mishap||A seven-year-old girl died on Sunday when a pick-up van rammed into the two-wheeler she was on, on NH512 in Trimohini of South Dinajpur near the India-Bangladesh border. Sources said Kamana Sarkar, along with her daughter Koli, were headed home to Panjul village under Hilli police station on the bike that their relative Sanjoy was riding. On the way back, they stopped beside the highway when a pickup van carrying poultry to Hilli lost control and hit the bike. Kamana and her daughter Koli were critically injured while Sanjoy escaped with cuts and bruises. Residents took the mother-daughter duo to the district hospital in Balurghat where doctors pronounced Koli dead. Kamana was referred to the Malda Medical College & Hospital. As the news spread, residents blocked the road for an hour, alleging lack of police vigil. “Hundreds of trucks bound for Bangladesh are parked along the highway, which narrows it and causes accidents. We want the police to take steps,” said one of the protesters, Jayanta Pramanik. Hilli police station OC Pritam Singh pacified protesters. Police seized the bike and pick-up van, but its driver fled. A three-member team of the West Bengal Commission for Protection of Child Rights (WBCPCR) headed by chairperson Ananya Chakraborti Chatterjee on Sunday visited the home of the two tribal girls, sisters aged 14 and 16 in Rajganj block of Jalpaiguri, who were allegedly abducted and gang-raped earlier this month. The sisters had drunk pesticide after the incident, and the older one died. The WBCPCR team visited the family members and the other sister who is hospitalised in Jalpaiguri. During their visit, a group of BJP workers demonstrated at Rajganj police station, alleging the police were not probing the case properly. So far, five youths have been arrested in connection with the case, police said. Four shops were gutted in a blaze in Maynaguri of Jalpaiguri early on Sunday morning. Fire engines doused the flames. Shop owners claimed goods worth lakhs were damaged. Fire officials started a probe on the cause of the blaze. Additional reporting by our Jalpaiguri correspondent||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-375
14-09-2020||West Bengal||Mirik homestays to reopen tomorrow ||Homestays in the Mirik subdivision of Darjeeling district will reopen on September 15 after a hiatus of almost six months, but tourists will not be taken for sight-seeing or trekking because of Covid-19. The decision to this effect was taken at a meeting of the functionaries of the Mirik Rambhang Valley Homestay Owners’ Association at the hill town on Sunday. The association said around 30 such properties would be thrown open for tourists in the wake of a notification issued by the Darjeeling district magistrate last week regarding the opening of hotels and homestays. “The district administration has allowed opening of hotels and homestays for tourists and it was conveyed to us by the SDO of Mirik. This made us hold a meeting in Mirik (located around 50km from Siliguri) where we decided to reopen our properties for guests from September 15,” said Kalyan Rai, the secretary of the association. The decision has come as good news for tourists as well as those associated with travel trade. This is because in the hills, those owning hotels and homestays had to face a major stumbling block in reopening their properties as there was an apprehension among a section of local people that inflow of tourists could lead to rise in Covid-19 cases. “Recently, some hotels had started reopening in the hill towns but for most homestays, the problem was acute as they are situated in rural areas. The decision by the homestay owners in Mirik is a welcome move as it will encourage owners of such accommodations in other areas to reopen their properties. Also, it would send a positive message to tourists who wish to visit the hills,” said a senior tour operator in Siliguri. Following the Covid-19 outbreak, there is a general perception among the stakeholders of tourism sector that a considerable section of tourists would prefer to stay at homestays, which are standalone properties at isolated locations, instead of checking into hotels at towns. Rai, while elaborating on the association’s decision, said the homestays could not get tourists after March 19. “We believe tourists will turn up during the coming holidays. However, we would ensure that the tourists do not come in contact with the local population. Unlike earlier times when they had the option of joining local social or agricultural activities or would go out sightseeing, bird-watching or trekking, they will have to stay within the property now. We would offer the tourists those options gradually,” he said. The visitors will be asked to carry Covid negative certificates. In total, there are around 120 rooms at the 30-odd properties in and around Mirik. Unlike the homestays of Mirik, the reserve forests of north Bengal will not reopen for visitors on September 16 like other years. This is because officials of the department are yet to decide whether tourists can be allowed to enter the national parks and wildlife sanctuaries of the region. The decision, sources in the department said, is likely to be taken at a meeting to be convened by forest minister Rajib Banerjee in Sukna (on the outskirts of Siliguri) on September 22.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-375
14-09-2020||West Bengal||Fresh breaches in dykes, glare on repairs ||A survey on fresh breaches on embankments in North 24-Parganas recently repaired under the 100 days’ job scheme has prised open an old debate over the quality of assets created under the scheme. A source in the irrigation department said that Amphan caused 550-odd breaches and damages on river embankments in North 24-Parganas following which the irrigation department carried out repairs in 194 places and the panchayat department fixed the problems in 356 places under the 100 days’ job scheme. “But in August, we learnt about 30 fresh breaches on the embankments repaired recently. All the fresh breaches were on the embankments that had been repaired by the panchayat department,” said a senior government official. This finding triggered a debate with a section of irrigation department officers asking if the panchayat department’s decision to get the Amphan damage repaired by employing semi-skilled or low-skilled workers under the 100 days' jobs scheme was right. A senior state government officer said that while questions raised by the irrigation department were valid, the panchayat department’s decision of employing people for embankment repair under the 100 day's job scheme could not be contested at a time lakhs of migrant labourers had returned to the state in the wake of the Covid-19 lockdown and were looking for jobs. Now that the breaches have been noticed, the government has to take a call on how to fix these, a source said. “Will we again take the panchayat department route or hand over (the job) to the irrigation department, which possesses the technical know-how of embankment repair?” asked the officer. According to him, the government needs to take a call after proper deliberation as the expenses under the 100 days’ jobs scheme are already under the Centre’s scanner. “The Centre has expressed doubts about expenses under the 100 days’ jobs scheme in Bengal and that’s why has sent teams to audit expenditures incurred in the last few months... The state government has called it a political move to malign the state, but embankment breaches reveal there is a problem in planning,” said an official. The repeat-repair decision will have political repercussions, said sources. Bengal’s ruling party Trinamul is already smarting in areas where embankments were breached as villagers have started alleging that panchayats did not do repairs properly and there was gross misappropriation of funds. As almost all the gram panchayats in the affected areas are run by the ruling party, this may not bode well ahead of Assembly polls, particularly after allegations of irregularities in distribution of Amphan relief, sources said. The ruling party, sources said, is facing questions in South 24-Parganas also, as some embankments repaired by the panchayat department had developed fresh breaches leaving several villages inundated in August. The best strategy for the time being, a source said, was to allow the irrigation department to repair the embankments and order a detailed survey of the work carried out by the panchayat department. “If it is established beyond doubt that the deployment of unskilled workers was the reason behind fresh breaches, the government should take an in-principle call, that projects that require technical know-how would not be brought under the 100 days’ job scheme or even if they are (brought under the 100 days’ job scheme), the task should be carried out under strict monitoring,” said the officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-375
14-09-2020||West Bengal||BJP worker dead, party cries murder||A BJP worker was found hanging from a tree near his home in Hooghly’s Goghat on Sunday morning, prompting the party to cry murder and accuse “Trinamul goons”. The party put up a roadblock and allegedly attacked a Trinamul party office later. State BJP president Dilip Ghosh claimed that Ganesh Roy, 50, found hanging after he went missing from home on Saturday evening, was a local party president in his village. “The ruling party (Trinamul) appears to have adopted murder as a tool to stop the BJP. Such unfortunate incidents are happening everyday.  Our party will protest against these,” said Ghosh. BJP workers and leaders alleged it was a “clear case of vendetta-driven murder” by “Trinamul goons” as Roy had refused to join Trinamul. “Trinamul leaders were forcing him to leave the BJP and join Trinamul after the Lok Sabha polls last year. He was killed by Trinamul goons. We will lodge a complaint against those behind the murder,” said Biman Ghosh, BJP’s Arambagh president. Police sources said Roy, a farm labourer, left his home on Saturday morning as usual but did not return home. “On Sunday morning, residents told us that the body of my father was hanging from a tree near Goghat station. He was a BJP worker and it was murder,” said son Biswajit. Firhad Hakim, Trinamul general-secretary and state urban development minister, denied the allegations and denounced the BJP for “politicising” Roy’s death. “Every death is unfortunate, but so is the BJP’s attempt to politicise the death. It is sad,” said Hakim. Manas Majumder, Trinamul MLA from Goghat, accused BJP workers of attacking and ransacking the TMC party office in Goghat. “There is no connection between our party and the death but they (the BJP) are inciting violence. We will lodge a police complaint,” said Majumder. In the evening, a Trinamul team led by party’s Hooghly district chief Dilip Yadav met Roy’s family. “We told the family members of Ganesh Roy that party will be with them always. If anyone is behind his death, police would take action,” said Yadav. Tathagatha Basu, Hooghly (rural) police chief, said they were yet to receive any complaint regarding Roy’s death. “We have started a case of unnatural death. The reason of death will be revealed in the post-mortem report.” The BJP also accused Trinamul of beating up Ananta Maiti Jana, a teacher and BJP worker in East Medinipur’s Patashpur on Sunday. Jana has been vocal about misappropriation of Amphan relief funds by Trinamul leaders. Additional reporting by Arkamoy Datta Majumdar and Anshuman Phadikar||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-376
14-09-2020||West Bengal||Bengal government to send specialists for Covid treatment||The Bengal government has decided to make available the best doctors at its disposal for treatment of novel coronavirus patients by tagging tertiary healthcare institutes with the dedicated Covid-19 hospitals nearby. The decision is part of various measures the government has been taking to bring down Covid-19-related death rate to below 1 percent. “Doctors of Covid hospitals have been doing a great job for the past six months. But it was felt that if they could be guided by senior and experienced doctors, the death rate could be brought under control,” said a senior government official. According to the plan, a team of doctors comprising experts in general medicine, chest medicine and anaesthesiology from medical colleges would be deputed to a nearby Covid hospital. They would be responsible for daily rounds, attending calls and managing Covid patients round the clock at the hospitals. In case of the districts without medical colleges, such teams would be composed of the doctors attached to district hospitals or super specialty hospitals. For example, in Calcutta, expert doctors from IPGMER (SSKM hospital) would be deployed at M.R. Bangur Hospital and K.P.C. Medical College and Hospital, which are dedicated to the treatment of Covid patients. Similarly, a team from Calcutta National Medical College and Hospital would be engaged at CNCI, Rajarhat. Specialist doctors from Bankura Sammilani Medical College and Hospital will offer their services at Onda super specialty hospital, which has been converted into a Covid hospital. In the Birbhum district that doesn’t have any medical college, a team of experts from Suri District Hospital would be deputed to local Hospital for Covid treatment. Besides, the state government has also decided to set up a team comprising specialists in nephrology, cardiology and neurology from the SSKM hospital to treat Covid patients admitted to the M.R. Bangur Hospital which recorded a majority of the deaths from the pathogen in Calcutta in the past few months. “The decision to form teams of expert doctors from tertiary hospitals has been taken to ensure that patients get all possible treatments at the Covid hospitals. As more than 80 per cent deaths are because of comorbidities, it is assumed that experienced doctors could offer better treatment and that’s why they have been engaged at Covid hospitals,” said a senior official. A source said the idea of engaging senior most doctors from medical colleges, who are vastly experienced and have specialised degrees, to the Covid hospitals was initiated after it was found that the number of Covid deaths was relatively low at Calcutta Medical College and Hospital, where experts from all departments were managing patients. According to a notification issued by the health department, each team would be deployed at the Covid hospitals for a period of one month. Another team would take over from the on-duty doctors after that period. “This will help manage patients better and a continuity would be maintained,” a health department official said. Officials said that deployment of senior doctors from medical colleges and district hospitals would not affect day-to-day activities of the healthcare establishments to which they are attached as footfall of patients had already gone down by over 50 per cent at such facilities in the past few months. “Existing doctors would be able to handle other patients visiting the hospitals easily as the pressure on the hospitals has decreased significantly over the past six months or so,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-376
14-09-2020||West Bengal||Bista prod to Tea Board for garden reopening ||Darjeeling BJP MP Raju Bista has sought the immediate intervention of the Tea Board of India — the apex agency that controls the sector and functions under the Union commerce ministry — to settle some of the pending issues of the industry that several party leaders had promised to resolve, but didn’t. Bista has flagged these issues at a recent meeting of the board, of which he is a member. “I have asked Tea Board officials to prepare a contour to restore sick and closed tea gardens and reminded the members that according to a report of the United Tea Workers’ Front in 2017, over 1,000 labourers had died from malnutrition and hunger in Bengal between 2002 and 2014 when 23 tea gardens were closed. Also, it had left more than one lakh workers unemployed. A number of tea gardens are also closed in the (Darjeeling) hills, and thousands are in acute economic crisis. This situation needs to change,” said Bista. In recent months, this is the first time that the MP has raised these issues before the Tea Board. BJP leaders like Nirmala Sitharaman had promised ahead of the 2014 Lok Sabha polls that efforts would be made to reopen the closed estates. At the meeting, Bista also demanded that the Tea Board extend all possible help and support to the small tea growers. In India, the small tea sector — comprising thousands of first generation cultivators — has fast emerged as a new avenue for employment in rural pockets of the tea-producing districts. In fact, for the past couple of years, the small tea sector has been contributing around half of the total tea produced in India in a year. “There are many tea gardens in the Darjeeling hills, Terai and the Dooars which have not submitted their share of provident fund with the EPFO. This has left the future of a large number of workers at risk. It is time that the Tea Board takes the right move to improve the situation,” said Bista. On the subsidy provided to tea estates by the board, the MP said the subsidy should be based not on geographical area.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-376
14-09-2020||West Bengal||Covid: Three Bengal MPs test positive||Three Bengal MPs —Shanta Chhetri, a Trinamul Congress Rajya Sabha member, Sukanta Majumdar (Balurghat) and Jayanta Roy (Jalpaiguri), both of the BJP —tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday, the day before the start of the monsoon session of Parliament. The state reported 3,215 novel coronavirus cases during a 24-hour period till 9am on Sunday. While Majumdar and Roy tested positive for Covid in Delhi during examination of legislators’ swab samples ahead of the Parliament session’s beginning, Chhetri was diagnosed with the infection in Darjeeling. All the three have gone into physician-monitored self-isolation as none has major symptoms. Sources in the BJP and Trinamul said thorough contact-tracing was being carried out to alert all those who had come in contact with the MPs. The sources said all the three were part of several meetings held over the past few days, each attended by dozens of others. With the 3,215 new cases, the state’s total count went past 2 lakh — at 2,02,708 now, of which over 1.75 lakh are recoveries and 3,945 are deaths. In 24 hours till 9am, the state logged 3,054 recoveries and 58 deaths. The recovery rate continued to rise and reached 86.4, far ahead of the national rate of 77.92 per cent. Of the 58 fatalities, 12 were in Calcutta and 13 in North 24-Parganas. As of Sunday, the state government reported 3,386 deaths (85.8 per cent) as those with comorbidity “present”. Bengal’s overall mortality rate is now 1.94, still behind the national rate of 1.64 per cent. The state logged a new high of 47,318 tests on Sunday, which took the total past 24.7 lakh, at 27,445 tests per million people. Steady rise in testing, coupled with relatively lower cases being found, has improved the positive confirmation rate after August 23, from 8.9 to 8.21 per cent. A decreasing positive confirmation rate is indicative of reducing levels of Covid-19 spread. The state reported 32.36 per cent occupancy on 12,675 Covid-19 beds at 92 hospitals. Telemedicine services have been provided to over 2.04 lakh people, 4,205 of whom availed themselves of the facility in the past 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-376
