15-09-2020||West Bengal||Tusker dead, live wire suspected ||The carcass of an adult tusker was found in an agricultural field in West Midnapore’s Salboni forest region on Monday morning, marking the second such incident in the district in three days. Villagers and forest officers on Monday morning spotted the carcass on a vegetable field adjacent to Pirakata village under Jhargram forest area’s Lalgarh range. Forest officers said on Monday that they were so far uncertain of the tusker’s cause of death and origins, but speculated the male elephant might have been a part of a larger herd reported to be roaming the area recently. Local sources on Monday suspected, however, that the elephant could have fallen prey to hidden live wires laid by villagers to protect their crops from marauding jumbo herds. “It is a heinous measure and illegal as well, but villagers often take this step to prevent the loss of their livelihood (crops). They set the live wires down (on fields) at night and remove them by morning,” said a villager on condition of anonymity. Residents of adjoining Bnadi village reportedly told police and forest officials early on Monday about the elephant death. Sources said that the forest officials would bury the elephant after post-mortem. Additional district forest officer (Midnapore) Bijoy Chakraborty said: “Prima facie it looks like an electrocution but we will await the post-mortem results.” Police sources said they were awaiting a formal complaint in order to begin a probe into the tusker death. Reports of elephants being electrocuted have come in quick succession from many parts of Bengal in recent months. In July, an adult male elephant was electrocuted at Birpara in Alipurduar district. In June, two incidents were reported in quick succession at Buxa Tiger Reserve forest and Madarihat near Jaldapara National Park. Early on Saturday, an elephant calf had drowned while its herd was crossing the Tamal river near West Midnapore's Goaltore town. Its body later washed up entangled in a fishing net, causing a stir among villagers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-373
15-09-2020||West Bengal||Conned of lakhs in job promise||A resident of Salsalabari in Alipurduar district, also a former member of a panchayat, has filed a police complaint, alleging that four persons swindled her of around Rs 6 lakh by promising a job for her daughter in the state health department. On Sunday, former panchayat member Kanika Barman, in her complaint with Samuktala police, accused couple Niloy and Anita Roy, who are her neighbours, of taking her money. “Few months back, he (Niloy) told me he can arrange a nurse’s job for my daughter at a government hospital and that I needed to pay Rs 6 lakh. Accordingly, I paid the money to him in instalments,” Kanika said. Once she paid the money, Niloy came with an appointment letter in the name of Kanika’s daughter, but it turned out fake, she said. “As I approached him and asked for my money back, he and his family members misbehaved with me,” she added. Kanika then approached some villagers and some two months back, residents convened a “salishi sabha” or kangaroo court to resolve the issue. At the meeting, it was decided that Niloy would hand over four bank cheques to Kanika and she would draw the money. “I deposited the cheques accordingly but to my surprise all four bounced. I had no other option but to file a police complaint against the couple and two other members of the family as Niloy had given me cheques signed in their names too,” Kanika said. Amitabha Maity, the Alipurduar superintendent of police, said they were probing the case. “The accused have fled the village and we are searching for them,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-373
15-09-2020||West Bengal||School prod behind consumer office ||A regional office of the state consumer affairs department is all set to start at Chanchal, a subdivisional town around 75km from Malda district headquarters, this week. The decision has been made by the department in response to the plea of school students actively working to generate consumer rights awareness in Chanchal for years now. Sadhan Pande, state consumer affairs minister, will inaugurate this new office along with five other such offices that are coming up in other districts of Bengal, on Wednesday. Sources said students of Siddheswari Institution, a well-known state-aided Bengali medium higher secondary school, had filed an application with the department some two years back, seeking an office in Chanchal. Students, who had been running a consumer club in the school for 14 years, felt that people residing in the subdivision find it difficult to file a consumer-related complaint and pursue it. Tuski Das, president of the school’s consumer club, said: “The nearest office of the department is at the district headquarters 75km from here (in Malda town). In the course of our campaign, people would tell us that even if they feel dissatisfied with the quality of a product or service or feel cheated, they do not feel like filing complaints as it means going to Malda on a regular basis, for which they would have to spend time and money,” Tuski said. “We felt that setting up an office of the consumer affairs department for residents of the six blocks of Chanchal subdivision can help people file complaints and pursue cases without much inconvenience,” she added. Biplab Sarkar, an assistant director of the department posted in Malda, confirmed about the upcoming office in Chanchal. “A regional office of the department will be opened on the first floor of the regulated market building in Chanchal. The minister will inaugurate it through video-conferencing on September 16.” Siddheswari Institution, a 132-year-old school, is known for its academics and social activities. Its consumer club is mentored by teacher Kamalkrishna Das and has 90 student-members. The club has bagged the award for best performance for seven consecutive years in the district from among 30-odd such clubs. “Students from Classes IX to XII are eligible for club membership. We host seminars, put out posters on consumer rights, pay visits to localities on Saturdays after school hours to generate awareness among people,” said Das. District officials have appreciated the school club’s efforts that led to such a breakthrough. “This (the regional office of the consumer affairs  department) will help thousands of people. We must praise the students’ initiative and their consistency in holding consumer awareness events,” said Arnab Chatterjee, Malda additional district magistrate (development).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-374
15-09-2020||West Bengal||Hike pay now: Tea workers||Employees and workers in the tea estates of north Bengal demonstrated in the gardens on Monday for an immediate hike in their salaries. In all, there are around 10,000 employees — referred to as staff and sub-staff — who serve the tea gardens who have claimed that since 2014 their salaries had not been revised by the tea companies. In the tea industry, sub-staff means those working as gardeners, cooks, drivers, and guards and in others similar capacities. Staff means those working in the tea garden offices but below the managerial levels. “Usually, our salaries are revised once in three years on the basis of negotiations,” said Parth Lahiri, a representative of the Staff and Sub-Staff Joint Committee. “But six years have passed since 2014 and there has been no revision in the salaries. It seems that the tea companies are reluctant to increase our pay. Considering the steady rise in prices of different commodities, we are hardly left with any option but to launch a movement for our pay hike,” Lahiri said. According to him, as salaries have not been revised for six years, each of them is losing a steady amount every month. “Based on calculations from the earlier rate of revision, every sub-staff is earning Rs 3,000 less in a month while staff are receiving at least around Rs 8,000 less in a month. We had earlier informed the Consultative Committee of Plantation Associations (CCPA, the apex body of tea associations) that we would be forced to launch a movement unless our salaries are increased. There has been no positive response so far,” added Lahiri. As of now, a sub-staff earns a monthly salary of anywhere between Rs 5,000 and Rs 7,000. A staff earns anywhere between Rs 17,000 and Rs 25,000 on an average, which could go up in some gardens. After their letter to the CCPA, the planters’ body had asked them in writing to refrain from starting any movement. This is because tea production is at the peak these days and negotiations for this year’s bonus will commence through a virtual meeting on Tuesday. “It was also mentioned that once the bonus issue is dealt with, their matter (pay hike) would be discussed. Any sudden activity in the garden can affect regular work,” said a tea planter. The employees, however, did not buy this assurance. On Monday morning, donning black badges, they walked up to the entrance of almost every garden and demonstrated for an hour. They have a similar plan for Tuesday. “On September 18, we will observe a pen-down strike for three hours in the morning. If the CCPA does not respond by September 21, we will observe a similar demonstration for three hours from September 22 to 24 and will plan our movement ahead,” said a representative of the joint committee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-374
15-09-2020||West Bengal||Farmer dies of shock  as Ganga gulps home||A farmer at Dhusaripara village in Murshidabad’s Samserganj collapsed and died moments after his parental home got washed away in Ganga’s riverbank erosion on Sunday night. Eyewitnesses said Kishori Singh, 60, and his family had rushed out of home, along with some other families, with a few belongings when the latest riverbank erosion hit the village on Sunday night. “We initially did not notice Kishori had collapsed as we were shocked at the sight of our homes being sucked into the Ganga,” said an eyewitness, adding that Kishori was rushed to the Samserganj block hospital by youths on a bike but was declared brought dead at 9pm. On Monday, block medical officer (health) Arif Hossain said no post-mortem had been conducted but termed the circumstances of Kishori’s death “consistent with heart attack”. The episode at Dhusaripara on Sunday night was the third major erosion to hit Samserganj since late August, when a BSF outpost in Dhanghora was wiped out. Most homes in Dhanghora have since been sucked into the river, sources said. The second major erosion took place on September 1 at Hiranandapur village, claiming almost 50 homes. Kishori is survived by his wife Kamala, 52, and their two adult sons, both married, who live in neighbouring Mangalpur village. His relatives and neighbours said the home, which was seven decades old, had been built by Kishori’s father who wanted to live near the village temple. “Its sentimental value was incalculable, because of which Kishori suffered the shock,” said a neighbour, adding that Kishori had added concrete reinforcements to the ancestral home. Trinamul’s Samserganj MLA Amirul Islam said he had spoken to Kishori’s family and they were in shock.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-374
15-09-2020||West Bengal||C’est la vie! Good times run out for clock tower||A 175-year-old French clock tower in the heart of the town is on the verge of dereliction according to a local heritage society that oversaw its maintenance till lockdown-induced financial strain forced it to pull out. The 40-foot-high clock tower, with its clock face measuring 2 feet across, was built in 1845 by a French contractor. Engravings on the clock’s motor refer to a company named Mariotte, a reference to its French origins. A plaque on the tower says the clock was a gift to the city from Frenchman Pal Joseph Daumain. Chandernagore became a French colony in 1673 following permission from Ibrahim Khan, then Nawab of Bengal, to establish a trading post on the right bank of the river Hooghly. It remained under the French till the British took it over on March 23, 1757. According to watchmaker Susanta Datta, 50, the clock requires a daily winding of its 14-foot-long rope mechanism for it to work. “Since March, that stopped because the heritage society could not afford my Rs 500 salary,” said Datta, who had succeeded his father in winding the clock, thus marking a 75-year-long legacy between them: almost half the age of the clock tower. Datta said it was not clear who maintained the clock before his father took over the job 75 years ago. “We call this clock tower the Burdwari colloquially. It is important to our heritage,” added Datta. The two-storey tower is a stone’s throw from the office of the Chandernagore police commissioner. In 1845, the French rulers had made the structure that houses the clock tower along the Strand, on the bank of the Hooghly, for its police unit. Sources at the Chandernagore Heritage, comprising private citizens, said they had to give up maintenance of the iconic clock as their finances were under stress because of the lockdown. “Over the past 10 years our pleas to state and central governments for maintenance funds went unheeded. It makes no sense for us to pay someone to wind the clock when the tower may collapse and injure him any moment,” said Chandernagore Heritage secretary Kalyan Chakrabortty. The clock tower is overgrown with vegetation at various places that has led to seepage. “Over the years, lack of civil maintenance and water flowing in through cracks on the roof have spoilt the wooden beams that support the ceiling. TThe entire structure is vulnerable,” said a member of Chandernagore Heritage. “Water damaged the clock’s motor too.” Chakrabortty said the Chandernagore Municipal Corporation was in charge of maintaining the structure. “If they do their part, then we will certainly do ours,” he said. Commissioner of the Chandernagore Municipal Corporation, Swapan Kundu, said: “I have asked for a thorough report and will then look into the matter,” he said. Sharmistha Shome, a resident of Burdwari, said she felt bad about the clock tower. “If no one maintains this iconic structure soon then it could be lost forever. We hope that does not happen,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-374
15-09-2020||West Bengal||Academy to promote Dalit literature in state||Mamata Banerjee on Monday announced a Dalit Sahitya Academy to publish collected works of Scheduled Caste writers and set up libraries for Dalit literature in Bengal. “We are setting up a Dalit Sahitya Academy with Manoranjan Byapari as the chairman. The academy will focus on the works of Scheduled Castes and other backward classes,” the chief minister said at Nabanna on Monday. The move is the first institutionalised effort to promote Dalit literature, which has a rich history in the context of Bengal but remained unnoticed for years. Though several other states have made efforts to promote Dalit literature, similar initiatives weren’t noticed in the state, said a senior official. “For example, works of Manohar Mouli Biswas, who has been inducted into the academy as a member, are a part of literature textbooks at universities across the country after his short stories and novels were translated into various languages. But his works haven’t got enough recognition in the state so far,” said a senior government official. Similarly, Manoranjan Byapari, the author of Itibritte Chandal Jibon, is also a known writer across the country, but he is known by few in the state, the official added. “The chief minister wants it to be changed … She wants to make the works by Dalit writers popular by making them visible,” said a source. In Bengal, the Dalits have a rich history, both in social and political spheres. Several Dalit leaders in Bengal have often rued that personalities like Jogendranath Mondal, who was one of the central and founding fathers of Pakistan and served as the first minister of law and labour in Pakistan, are not known to people in the state. “There is such fascinating history about Mondal, who had made common cause with the Muslim League in its demand for Pakistan expecting that the Scheduled Castes would be benefited from it. But he migrated to India after a few years of partition citing anti-Hindu bias of Pakistani administration. He died at Bongaon in 1968. Very few people know about him,” said a Dalit leader. The academy, sources in the government said, would try to promote the history of the Dalits and their influence in social and political spheres. Keeping with her administration’s inclusive approach to restore and promote history, Mamata also announced on Monday that the state government would digitise the Sanskrit manuscripts preserved at a museum in Bishnupur in Bankura and upload the same in the digital library of the state government. The move is also considered to be significant as Bishnupur had emerged as the paramount centre for learning Sanskrit and Vaishnab literature in the 16th, 17th and 18th centuries. “There is curiosity on the manuscripts kept in Bishupur worldwide. The state wants to digitise all such manuscripts and upload those on digital library so that whoever has interest can access them,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-374
15-09-2020||West Bengal||CID names BJP MP in TMC MLA murder||The CID slapped murder charges on Jagannath Sarkar, BJP MP from Ranaghat, in its supplementary chargesheet before the additional chief judicial magistrate’s court here on Monday, related to the 2019 murder of Trinamul MLA Satyajit Biswas. An investigating officer of the CID said: “The MP (Sarkar) has been found involved in a conspiracy behind the murder of the MLA. We have also slapped a murder charge against him for his role.” The officer added that the agency had also termed Sarkar the key conspirator in the supplementary chargesheet. Assistant public prosecutor of the Ranaghat ACJM court Pradip Pramanik said: “Necessary legal course of action will be initiated against the MP.” As Trinamul defector to BJP Mukul Roy had also been named in the FIR, there was keen interest in what the CID would say about Roy in its chargesheet. On Monday, the CID sought more time to investigate the role of Roy. The ACJM granted the agency time to do so till December 14. Krishnaganj MLA Biswas was shot dead on February 9 last year while watching a cultural event on Saraswati Puja near his home in Phulbari, Nadia district. Five persons, including Roy, had been named in the FIR lodged by Milan Ghosh, Trinamul activist and close friend of Biswas. The CID took up the case and arrested five persons including prime accused Abhijit Pundari, who allegedly shot the MLA. MP Sarkar’s name had surfaced during the probe. In May last year, CID submitted the chargesheet against three persons. However, they found nothing against Roy and Sarkar. Eventually, the CID dropped their names from the chargesheet which prompted the original complainant to file a revision appeal urging the court for “further investigation” against the duo. The ADSJ Ranaghat allowed the revision application, but restricted the scope of further investigation against the two leaders. Nevertheless, CID continued to probe by violating the court order, alleged lawyers defending the BJP duo. Sarkar alleged state government “conspiracy to arrest us before the Assembly polls”. “The motive of the revision petition was clear which eventually got reflected in today's chargesheet. We will fight the battle in court,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-374
15-09-2020||West Bengal||Monthly dole, home for Hindu priests||Mamata Banerjee on Monday announced a monthly honourarium of Rs 1,000 each for around 8,000 poor Hindu priests, besides homes for those eligible among them. The chief minister said such doles could be rolled out for people from other religions also if they applied for the same. “Poor Hindu priests had met me multiple times so that we considered an honourarium for them. The state government decided to allow a monthly honourarium of Rs 1,000 for nearly 8,000 priests, who had already applied. The government would also build houses for the poor priests, who don’t have homes, under the Banglar Avas Yojana,” said the chief minister at Nabanna on Monday after holding a meeting with top government officials. The move holds significance in the backdrop of the BJP’s attempts to spin a narrative that the Bengal chief minister’s politics revolves around minority appeasement by referring to her decision of giving honourarium to imams and muezzins. “The announcement of honourarium for Hindu priests came just about six months ahead of the 2021 Assembly polls. It is clear that the chief minister is trying to do a balancing act ahead of the polls,” said a senior government official. The fact that she had known in advance that the announcement would be given such a spin was clear when Mamata urged people to treat it in proper spirit. “You should not take it in other way. We give honourarium of Rs 1,000 a month to folk artists as well.... If appeals from other religions come, we will consider those too,” said the chief minister. While Mamata tried to make it clear that she was trying to be inclusive in her approach, Trinamul insiders said the issue was being discussed within the government over the past few weeks. The Trinamul government had announced a monthly honourarium of Rs 2,500 for imams and Rs 1,000 for muezzins in April 2012. But in 2013, Calcutta High Court had stuck down the notification through which the government had allowed this honourarium distribution. The government then transferred a grant of Rs 500 crore to the Board of Wakfs under the Wakf Board Protection, Supervision and Development scheme and a part of the amount was being used to give honourarium to the imams and the muezzins, sources said. “In a balancing act, now, in all likelihood, the Hindu priests would be given honourarium through the information and cultural affairs department,” said a senior government official. The decision, Trinamul sources said, will drill holes into the BJP’s narrative that Mamata is “anti-Hindu” and her politics is about minority appeasement. A Trinamul source said Mamata’s communication on Monday had been well-planned as she had wanted to send out a message that she was inclusive unlike the BJP. The chief minister also announced restructuring of the Hindi Academy by bringing in several new members into the board on a day Hindi Divas was being celebrated across the country. “We had set up a Hindi Academy after we had come to power in 2011. Now, we are restructuring it by bringing in several new members,” said the chief minister. Mamata had earlier announced a series of schemes, including pension for the tribal populace in the state. “It is clear she is trying to reach out to all sections of the society, some of which the BJP has successfully wooed,” said a political analyst.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-374
15-09-2020||West Bengal||CM focus on lowering Covid death rate ||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee asserted that Bengal’s Covid-19 mortality rate at 1.94 per cent would be lowered soon with measures being taken by her government, on a day 58 fresh deaths took the state’s total toll in the pandemic past 4,000. The chief minister underscored that 85.8 per cent or 3,434 of 4,003 of the deaths were because of comorbidities. “Those deaths (of people with comorbidities) are being added to the Covid-19 toll, because those people are more susceptible to the infection,” she said. In Covid-19, comorbidities are underlying health disorders such as high blood pressure, diabetes, cardiovascular or kidney ailments. Most pandemic deaths around the world have occurred when infected persons had comorbidities. “When we said it (about co-morbidities causing most of the Covid-19 deaths) first, many mocked us. Now, all of India has accepted the truth in this,” said Mamata, who also holds Bengal’s health portfolio. In Bengal, hypertension has taken around a fourth of lives of Covid-19 patients, followed by diabetes, which claimed around a fifth, and cardiac ailments, which claimed around one-tenth of the lives. “Our mortality rate, 1.94 now, we brought it down from over 9… we will lower it further. If we have been able to bring it to less than 2 from over 9, we certainly will be able to get it to drop further,” Mamata said. The national mortality rate now is 1.64 per cent. “We have been conducting thorough surveys...to keep monitoring those in need of treatment…. Intervention is underway,” she added. Bengal on Monday reported 3,211 new cases and 3,084 recoveries. Bengal’s cases have gone past 2.05 lakh, including over 1.78 lakh recoveries and the 4,003 deaths. Its recovery rate is 86.55 per cent, far ahead of the national rate of 78.15. Bengal logged a new high in daily testing with 47,537 on Monday, taking the total tests past 25 lakh, at 27,973 tests per million people. Steady rise in tests coupled with relatively lower cases improved positive confirmation rate after August 23, from 8.9 to 8.18 per cent. “Our positive confirmation rate is far less than the national rate (8.5)…. It’s all in the right direction and I cannot thank all our Covid frontliners, especially those in healthcare, enough,” said Mamata. Having begun testing in early February, Bengal took over three-and-a-half months to complete 1 lakh tests. Over the next four months, it conducted over 24 lakh more tests. In 14 days of September so far, Bengal logged 6.3 lakh tests.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-374
15-09-2020||West Bengal||Four district chief cops transferred ||Four district police chiefs were transferred in Bengal on Monday amid buzz that it was done keeping 2021 Assembly elections in mind. District superintendents of police Darjeeling, Hooghly (rural), Cooch Behar and Baruipur were transferred through a notification issued by the state home department. Darjeeling SP Amarnath K. has been transferred as superintendent, special task force, in Bengal police. Nimbalkar Santosh Uttamrao, earlier Cooch Behar police chief, replaced Amarnath in Darjeeling. Mohammad Sana Akhtar, commandant, first battalion of the eastern frontier rifles, has been posted as Cooch Behar SP. Tathagata Basu has become deputy commissioner New Town, Bidhannagar police commissionerate. Amandeep, earlier in Barrackpore police as deputy commissioner, has replaced Basu as Hooghly (rural) SP. Kamnasish Sen, earlier posted in Bidhannagar commissionerate, has been posted as superintendent of Baruipur police district, replacing Rashid Munir Khan. Khan has been posted as deputy commissioner (south suburban division) in Calcutta police. Though the home department dubbed these “routine transfers”, an official said it was apparent that these were done keeping polls in mind. “The government would not want any tension in these districts before or during the elections,” he said. Monday’s transfers came less than a week after some of the senior officers, including director, security — the chief of chief minister's security — holding key positions in the administration were shifted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-374
15-09-2020||West Bengal||Didi: Khalid arrest ‘not correct in democracy’||Mamata Banerjee on Monday attacked the BJP-led Centre and the Delhi Police, albeit without taking their names, over the arrest of Umar Khalid, and the likes of Sitaram Yechury and Yogendra Yadav being named as responsible for the February riots in Delhi, saying it was “not correct” in a democracy. The Bengal chief minister, in a news conference at the state secretariat, was asked regarding the arrest of former Jawaharlal Nehru University student leader Khalid and Opposition figures and academics being named in the riot case, while the likes of BJP’s Kapil Mishra — deemed to have played a pivotal role in triggering the violence in northeast Delhi — roamed free. “This is true, I read about it in the papers. They had even put (CPM general-secretary) Yechury’s name in the charge-sheet…. Even (Swaraj India chief) Yogendra Yadav and others, their names,” said Mamata. “What happened in the Delhi riots, when they happened, everyone knew what was up. Had Covid-19 not taken centre-stage soon after, it would have all come to light…. Against the NRC, NPR, CAA, those who protested, they were targeted for violent turmoil…. It is not correct in a democracy.” The Trinamul Congress chief, who had in the past called the Delhi riots a “planned, state-sponsored genocide” that was deliberately painted in a communal colour later, had said the buck had to stop with Union home minister Amit Shah. On Monday, she said the law and its processes had to be adhered to. “If somebody is wrong, if there is evidence, then there should be action. But if somebody hasn’t done anything wrong…. Whatever is correct according to the law, must be done. Whatever is not correct according to the law, it must not be done. That’s it,” said Mamata. She then went on to bring up the BJP’s alleged activities in Bengal. “See here now, every day, what they do all day, with nothing but fake news? Even going to the extent of saying Covid-19 is over, so conducting political meetings is okay…” “Now they won’t even give Covid-19 priority,” the chief minister said, referring to a recent assertion by BJP state unit chief Dilip Ghosh. “What more will they do? They are a party that only considers itself right and everybody else liars. This is just not correct,” she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-374
15-09-2020||West Bengal||Mobile shop for potato sale||A trade body here has launched a van that will move across the town and sell potatoes at a cheaper rate. The initiative has been taken at a time retail prices of potatoes are on the rise across the state, with Raiganj not being an exception. “Because of Covid-19 pandemic, many people have lost their jobs, while several others’ earnings have come down. In such a situation, the price of a basic food item like potato has increased to Rs 35 and even to Rs 40 per kilo at some places. To ensure that people can buy potatoes at lesser rates, we introduced the mobile van today,” said Atanu Bandhu Lahiri, a secretary of the Raiganj Merchants’ Association. According to him, potatoes would be sold from the van at Rs 25 per kilo. “Initially, a person can buy maximum 2kg potato from the van at a time. In due course, we are planning to increase the number of such vans so that the entire town and the suburbs can be covered,” Lahiri said The association, sources said, is procuring the potato from wholesalers and selling it at a price with a basic margin that can cover the cost. The association is composed of traders who are not into the sale of vegetables. In north Bengal, potato prices went northwards in the past two-three weeks. The rise has prompted officials of the North Dinajpur district administration to visit prominent markets to check whether wholesalers or retailers are hoarding potatoes to create an artificial demand. “We are keeping a close watch over the situation. Along with potatoes, prices of onions are also on the rise. Our officers are regularly collecting information from markets and in case there is a sharp rise in the price, we will act immediately to prevent illegal hoarding of potatoes,” said an official in the district administration. A wholesaler in Raiganj attributed the price rise to less supply. “Prices will come down in a couple of months as the harvesting of potatoes will start from November,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-375
15-09-2020||West Bengal||Mujnai garden to reopen today||The Mujnai tea estate in Alipurduar district will reopen on Tuesday after a gap of 21 months. The decision was taken at a tripartite meeting held in the office of the additional labour commissioner of north Bengal in Siliguri on Monday. “The talks were fruitful. The management agreed to reopen the garden tomorrow (Tuesday). It is good news for the workers. We are doing everything possible to ensure that all other closed tea gardens are reopened in due course,” said Md. Rizwan, the additional labour commissioner (north Bengal). Sources said the management had closed down Mujnai on December 25, 2018, leaving 999 permanent workers jobless. Workers had protested against delay in payments and the management shut the plantation citing alleged lawlessness. At the meeting on Monday, it was decided that none of the permanent workers would be sacked. “Due wages of December 2018 will be paid in two tranches. The first payment will be made on September 18, while the second instalment will be disbursed within the following seven days. The payment of bonus for 2018 was also discussed and a decision would be taken after the industry-wide bonus negotiations ahead of the Durga Puja this year are held,” said Manna Jain, vice-president, Cha Bagan Trinamul Congress Mazdoor Union. In November, another meeting would be held to discuss the payment of other dues to the labourers, he added. The state labour department has served a notice on the management of Longview tea estate located in the foothills of Kurseong subdivision and around 20km from Siliguri. “We have asked the management to send us a specific proposal regarding clearing of the workers’ dues so that we can convene a meeting to resolve the problems. We want the garden to reopen at the earliest,” said Rizwan. The management had announced suspension of work in Longview on August 21, citing alleged lawlessness. Workers, other the other hand, accused the management of not clearing dues and started a relay fast in the garden.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-375
15-09-2020||West Bengal||Siliguri College debars teacher, accused of alleged bribe offer, from all kinds of academic activities||The governing body of Siliguri College on Monday debarred a faculty member from all kinds of academic activities and decided to file a police complaint against him after he had allegedly offered a final-year under-graduate student good marks in return for the payment Rs 10,000. An audio clip of the alleged bribe offer to the girl student had circulated in social media. “The governing body also constituted a seven-member committee to probe the allegation against the teacher. The institution is over 70 years old and the allegation has affected its reputation. The teacher will also be served with a showcause notice to clarify the charge against him,” said Jayanta Kar, the governing body president. According to Kar, the accused teacher will be kept away from all sorts of activities in the college, whether it is admission, examination or student-related issues. “He cannot take online or offline classes and his name and contact number will also be removed from the college’s website. We will also file a police complaint against him in a couple of days and seek legal opinion as to how we should proceed with the case,” said Kar. Sources in the college said the restrictions would be imposed on the teacher until and unless he was proved innocent. The inquiry committee that is headed by Jhinuk Dasgupta, a senior faculty member, has been asked to submit its report to the governing body within a month, said the sources. The student had already filed a complaint with the college against the faculty member. The North Bengal University, to which the college is affiliated, had also lodged a police complaint. Supporters of the Trinamul Chhatra Parishad demonstrated at the varsity on Monday demanding action against the accused teacher. The protesters also burned his effigy. “We hope the university will take action against such inappropriate practice,” said Mithun Baishya, a TMCP leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-375
