16-09-2020||West Bengal||3,227 new cases, 59 deaths in Bengal||Bengal on Tuesday reported 3,227 new Covid-19 cases, 59 deaths and 2,996 recoveries as the total number of patients went above 2.09 lakh, of whom 1.81 lakh had been cured and 4,062 had succumbed to the pathogen. After a 15-day streak of a fall in the total count of active cases ended on September 8, the state witnessed a rise in the number of existing patients for eight days on the trot on Tuesday. The recovery rate, however, continued to climb and was 86.61 on Tuesday, a rise by over four per cent in the first 15 days of the current month. The national rate is 78.36 per cent now. “Our recoveries will keep rising. In fact, we are third now on the list of states with the highest recovery rates, after Bihar (91) and Tamil Nadu (89.2)…. We need to find ways to lower the surge in new cases and the steady toll of deaths,” said a Bengal minister. “In these 15 days, there have been over 46,000 new cases, around 47,000 recoveries and 834 deaths. Overall, given the stage of the pandemic, we haven’t been doing badly, at all,” he added. Bengal logged over 45,226 tests on Tuesday, taking the total past 25.62 lakh. The state now has 28,476 tests per million people. Fifteen days ago, the tests per million were 20,974. Steady rise in the tests, coupled with relatively lower cases being found, has improved the positive confirmation rate from 8.9 on August 23 to 8.16 per cent. Deemed as a key indicator in the Covid-19 pandemic, the positive confirmation rate is the percentage of positive cases out of samples tested. A decreasing positive confirmation rate is indicative of reducing levels of Covid-19 spread. Of the 59 deaths reported in 24 hours, 11 were from Calcutta and 15 from North 24-Parganas. The two districts have contributed 60 per cent of all Covid-19 deaths since the first was recorded in Bengal on March 23. Of the 4,062 total deaths, 3,483 (85.7 per cent) were reported as comorbid by the state government. The overall mortality rate improved to 1.94, while the national rate is 1.63 per cent. Bengal continued to be seventh in the list of states with the highest mortality rates and on the list of states with the most deaths. The state reported 32.87 per cent occupancy on 12,675 Covid-19 beds at 92 hospitals. Nearly 2.13 lakh telemedicine consultations have been provided, including 4,273 in the past 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-372
16-09-2020||West Bengal||Onion for hilsa donor stuck in ban||The Centre’s sudden decision to prohibit export of onion has slammed the brakes on hundreds of onion-loaded trucks and rakes waiting along India-Bangladesh border in the state and put the exporters in a quandary as they apprehend huge losses because of the embargo. Estimates from exporters suggest trucks loaded with about 3,000 tonnes of onions had already secured the shipping bills — clearance from the customs to cross over — and are waiting at the land ports, but cannot enter Bangladesh because of the ban. On Monday evening, the Directorate General of Foreign Trade, a wing of the commerce and industry ministry in India, issued the export ban order to control domestic prices. The onion order coincided with the arrival of the first consignment of hilsa fish from Bangladesh. “The ban on the export of onions came immediately after Bangladesh lifted the embargo on hilsa export and agreed to send 1450 tonnes of the fish to India. It  is really embarrassing,” said Petrapole Clearing Agents’ Staff Welfare Association secretary Kartick Chakraborty. On Tuesday evening, a section of Bangladeshi media outlets suggested that onion exports might be allowed at a higher price. They reported that India had doubled the export price of onion, which would mean importers in Bangladesh would have to amend the earlier letter of credit to get the consignments. Bangladesh is the biggest importer of onions from India. If the trucks waiting outside the land ports and the rakes are taken into account, another 7,000 tonnes of onions are ready for export. “It will be a disaster for us unless the Centre at least allows the consignments waiting at the port,” said Mihir Ghosh, an exporter at the Ghojadanga land port in North 24-Parganas, where around 300 trucks loaded with onions worth over Rs 30 crore are stranded since Monday afternoon. In the nearby Petrapole land border, around 100 trucks were stranded, whereas in Malda’s Mahadipur, the count was 70 inside the port and 80 outside. On Tuesday, the Centre sought information from the Customs authorities about the quantity of onions lying at different ports after issuance of shipping bills. “As the directorate asked the Customs authorities to submit the information by 5pm on Tuesday, there was some hope that approval would be given to export ready consignment of onions.… But we haven’t heard anything till late in the evening,” said a clearing agent. Ghosh said: “If the onions are damaged because of indefinite wait, we wo­uld be comp­elled to sell them at throwaw­ay prices... Most of us will suffer huge losses as we take bank loans for our business.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-373
16-09-2020||West Bengal||IAF plans to make Birbhum aerodrome permanent base||Simmering tension on the India-China border in Ladakh has brought into focus a World War-II airfield in Birbhum’s Surichua as the Indian Air Force wants to use it as a permanent base and is in a hurry to complete building a boundary wall around it for security reasons. Sources have said the aerodrome is spread over 550 acres at Surichua village on the Birbhum-Jharkhand border. A source in the defence ministry said the aerodrome, which is around 11km from Rampurhat town, is being considered strategic because it is located 611km away from the India-China border in Sikkim. The air base is monitored from the Panagarh Airbase, which is around 120km from Surichua. IAF sources said the aerodrome had been lying abandoned since the end of World War II till the defence ministry decided to turn it into an auxiliary air base in 2013 because of its “strategic location and the availability of airstrips”. However, it is for the first time that the IAF plans to use it as a permanent air base. In 2014, the IAF had conducted four trial landings of helicopters on two of the six Surichua airstrips that were fit for use then. The IAF had repaired the other four airstrips but since then, there had been no major activity. However, after the India-China standoff in the Galwan Valley in Ladakh in June, activities, including landing of aircraft, have increased at the aerodrome. “The aerodrome has become an important point for us because of its strategic location and aerial proximity to the border in Sikkim. Building the boundary wall had been pending for a long time and we are in a hurry to finish the work for security reasons,” said an IAF officer. IAF sources said after it was noticed in 2013, it took three years to make the airstrips ready for use. At least four of the six airstrips were damaged as stone-laden trucks used to travel over the airfield, using it as a short-cut to reach nearby areas. A source said earlier one or two aircraft used to land in Surichua in a month but since June, the number of landing had increased to three every alternate day. A team of IAF personnel met the Birbhum district magistrate Moumita Godara Basu last week seeking help from the state government to finish work on a 2km-long stretch of the boundary wall “as soon as possible”. District officials said there were around 50 houses on the land that belongs to the defence ministry. Both the IAF and the defence ministry want to evict them as it is necessary to finish the boundary wall. The district magistrate, however, said the government would discuss the issue with the local residents. Sources said the IAF needs to build the boundary wall for security reasons and encroachment by local villagers was coming in its way . “Whenever an aircraft lands, local people crowd the area to take photographs. Such action infringes on the security of the IAF. We can’t stop movement of local residents because there are several unguarded entries to the airfield,” said an IAF official. Sources in state government said the sub-divisional officer in Rampurhat had been asked to hold a meeting with the IAF personnel and local panchayat bodies to resolve the issue. The date and time of the meeting is yet to be announced. “Those the IAF wants to evict are residing here for at least 50 years,” said Pantha Das, deputy chief of Rampurhat-I panchayat samity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-373
16-09-2020||West Bengal||First round of talks on tea bonus inconclusive||Representatives of tea planters’ associations and trade unions held a virtual meeting on Tuesday to decide on the rate of annual bonus that would be paid to the workers in the Terai and the Dooars ahead of Durga Puja this year. Last year, workers had been paid the bonus at the rate of 18.50 per cent. At the first round of talks on Tuesday, the unions sought bonus at 20 per cent rate. No decision has, however, come from the tea planters who have sought more time and insisted on further talks. The next round of talks will be held on September 18. “We have demanded bonus at 20 per cent rate and in addition, cash awards should be given to the workers who had gone beyond their call of duty and worked consistently during the Covid-19 pandemic. We hope tea planters will accept our demand,” said Mannalal Jain, the vice-president of the Cha Bagan Trinamool Congress Mazdoor Union. According to senior trade unions leaders and tea planters, this is probably the first time in the history of the tea industry that the bipartite meeting on bonus was held on a virtual platform. Trade union leaders and representatives of planters’ association joined the meeting from different locations in the state. In course of the meeting that started at 12 noon and continued till 5.30pm, the trade union leaders elaborated on their demand and mentioned that the bonus was of the last fiscal (2019-2020). “During this period, there was neither any lockdown nor any loss in production. The prices at auctions were steady. There is no reason why the industry cannot pay bonus at a higher rate than last year,” said an INTUC leader in Siliguri. Sanjoy Bagchi, secretary, Dooars Branch of Indian Tea Association, said: “The meeting was held in a congenial atmosphere. But both the sides need to discuss some more issues before a decision is reached. That is why another round of talks will be held on September 18.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-373
16-09-2020||West Bengal||OPDs opened for post-Covid ailments||Separate outpatient departments have been opened at eight state-run health establishments in the Alipurduar district for people who recovered from Covid-19 but face different complications now. “We have come across a number of post-Covid-19 cases. After recovering from the infection, there are people who are suffering from different ailments and need healthcare. That is why the separate OPDs have been opened for them at the hospitals. The OPDs started functioning from Tuesday and people are turning up with different complications,” said Subarna Goswami, a deputy chief medical officer of health in the district. According to doctors, recovered Covid patients are reporting hypoxia, general weakness, cough and cold, and ailments in stomach, liver and kidney. As such cases are being reported across the state and in the district, the health department took the initiative to open the OPDs at the Alipurduar district hospital, the super specialty hospital in Falakata, the state general hospital in Birpara and five rural hospitals in other parts of the district. The performance of the health department in Alipurduar to handle the pandemic has earned appreciation from the state government and also the World Health Organisation. This is because the department, along with the administration, had initiated preventive measures since January this year and could control the pandemic to a considerable extent. “The opening of OPDs is yet another move that will help the district handle the situation. In other districts and in different parts of the country, it has been found that people have died because of such complications, even after recovering from Covid,” said a doctor at the district hospital. From Wednesday, sources said, the second phase of sero-surveillance, according to the guidelines of the ICMR, will commence in the district. “We will collect blood samples from 400 people residing in different parts of the district to conduct antigen tests. This would give us an idea as to what extent the pandemic has spread in Alipurduar,” said a health official. So far, around 3,000 Covid patients have been found in the district and 12 have died. The death toll is much lower than the other districts of north Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-373
16-09-2020||West Bengal||Loan plan to meet tea auction centre expenses||The committee that runs Jalpaiguri’s North Bengal Tea Auction Centre (NBTAC), where no sale has been conducted since 2015, has decided to apply for a bank loan to meet the expenses. Since 2005, when the centre was opened, it had been facing the crisis of less inflow of tea. The centre somehow managed to function for around 10 years in an erratic manner but the auction of tea stopped in 2015. “We are in an acute financial crisis and could not bear the regular expenditure like power bills and other maintenance. Also, salaries of three employees of the centre have been due for over a year now. That is why we approached the district magistrate, who is also the committee’s chairman, today (Tuesday). It has been decided that we will draw loans from banks against some fixed deposits we have with the banks to meet the expenditure at least till March next year,” said Purajit Bakshi Gupta, the vice-chairman of the committee. Sources said there were three employees — a supervisor and two house-keepers — who had not received their salaries for months now. “The committee has also planned to reduce the employees’ salaries. Also, one of the house-keepers has been told not to join his duties from October 1,” said a source. In north Bengal, there is a second tea auction centre in the neighbouring town of Siliguri. It is the oldest centre and handles a major chunk of tea produced in the region. “In south India, there are auction centres in neighbouring towns of Coonoor and Coimbatore and both have been functioning well for years. We fail to understand why the auction centre in Jalpaiguri did not become viable even though tea production has increased in north Bengal over the years,” said Bijoygopal Chakraborty, a member of the auction committee. Abhishek Kumar Tiwary, the district magistrate of Jalpaiguri, said: “The committee will use the fixed deposits to draw loan from bank to meet the fund crisis at the auction centre.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-373
16-09-2020||West Bengal||1cr Self Help Group members for Covid awareness||The Mamata Banerjee government has decided to engage nearly 1 crore members of Self Help Groups to create awareness of how to battle the spread of Covid-19 in the rural areas of Bengal. The decision has been taken in the wake of rising Covid cases at villages. Initially, the spread of the virus was limited to two cities — Calcutta and Howrah — while cases were under control in rural districts. But the scene changed in the past few weeks. For example, on June 1, 48 per cent of the total 271 cases were reported from the rural districts and the remaining were from Calcutta and Howrah. On September 14, 78.2 percent of total 3,211 cases were recorded in the rural districts. The figure was 77.8 percent on September 13. As most villages have SHGs and the members are active in their areas, health department officials think they can play an effective role in creating awareness of dos and dont’s to fight Covid-19. “Nearly 10 lakh SHGs are registered with the panchayat department with more than 1 crore members. We plan to engage them in generating awareness and assisting the health department in the battle against the spread of the novel coronavirus,” said a senior state government official. According to the plan, members of the SHGs will be used to make people understand the importance of wearing masks and to assist the ASA (accredited social health activists) by providing them with information on health condition of villagers. Sources in the health department said the awareness campaign in the rural areas was the need of the hour as it had been found that many of the villagers didn’t know what to do if they felt unwell. There is a lack of clarity in large parts of Bengal about the symptoms of the disease. Some are also not following norms when they are sent to home isolation. “The SHG members could play a vital role here as they know each of the villagers personally,” said an official. It has been reported that the disease has started spreading since the Unlock period started as many are not wearing masks when they are out in markets or congested places. “Wearing of masks properly can help check the spread of the virus. The SHG members would be used to make people aware of this,” said an official. Till now, the ASA workers have been carrying out surveys in households on the health condition of people. This has helped in keeping the spread of the virus in check, said a source. The effort could be strengthened if SHG members could be engaged to assist the ASA workers, said the sources. According to a bureaucrat, Bengal has a total of 53,000 ASA workers who work in 53,000-odd gram panchayats. “On an average, each ASA worker covers a gram panchayat, which is a large area with a minimum of 10 villages. If SHG members are deployed to assist the ASA workers, the monitoring system would be strengthened,” said the bureaucrat. Members of the SHG have been given a basic training on their roles. A video clip has been prepared by the panchayat and the health departments and it has been sent to all the SHGs. The SHGs have trained their members on what they need to help the state arrest the spread of the disease. Though the SHG members would not be given any remuneration for this purpose, the response from the member to join the effort is encouraging, said sources. “Many of the members said they wanted to do the work voluntarily to keep their villages safe... The response we received from the SHG members clearly suggest we will be able to engage 70 per cent of the SHG members on this work shortly,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-373
16-09-2020||West Bengal||Visva-Bharati VC to meet alumni & Tagore kin today ||Visva-Bharati vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty has invited around two dozen alumni and old-timers of Santiniketan, including kin of Nobel laureates Rabindranath Tagore and Amartya Sen, for a meeting on Wednesday to exchange thoughts on ways to improve the university. Sources have said this is the first such move since Chakrabarty took over as the VC in November 2018. The invitation for the meeting comes after several controversies gripped the varsity in the recent past and a section of Santiniketan residents and alumni expressed their displeasure over the way Visva-Bharati was being run. “The undersigned is directed to convey that the VC desires to meet you as a well-wisher of Visva-Bharati to exchange the thought for betterment of the university,” reads the letter sent to each of the invitees by the confidential secretary of Chakrabarty. The sources said the VC had decided to talk to stakeholders of Visva-Bharati after a large section of old timers of Santiniketan had in the recent past criticised the authorities on several issues, including inviting BJP leaders to address programmes on the campus. “The VC will try to listen to them first and seek help from them regarding the welfare of Visva-Bharati,” a university official said. Supriya Tagore, a descendent of the Tagore family and former Patha Bhavan principal, said he would attend Wednesday’s meeting. “This is the first time we have been invited by the VC for discussion. I will certainly attend the meeting,” he said. Shanta Bhanu Sen, a cousin of Amartya Sen, is also among the invitees for Wednesday’s meeting. However, an invitee said: “If the varsity wants to use us as pawns to fulfil its agendas, we will protest.” Subir Banerjee, a varsity alumnus and an old timer of Santiniketan, said: “It is a good gesture…we believe any problem can be solved through discussions. Let’s see what happens in the meeting.” An alumnus said he would submit his views on boundary walls and other issues in writing to the authorities. “The varsity should be constructive and should not create any difference between state and central government. I will request the VC to solve the issues but not to create the issues which harms the culture of varsity,” he said. Vandalism had erupted on the campus on August 17 over the varsity’s decision to build boundary wall on Pous Mela ground. While condemning the vandalism, several prominent citizens of Santiniketan had protested against the varsity’s “culture of building boundary walls” on the campus. Last week, a section of residents, including relatives of the two Nobel laureates, wrote to chief minister Mamata Banerjee requesting her to take back control over a road running through the campus that the state government had handed over to the varsity in 2017. In the letter to Mamata, the residents had objected to the varsity’s plan to stop public movement on a 600m stretch of the 2.9km road that links Santiniketan to Sriniketan. The varsity’s plan to block the 600m stretch between Upasana Griha and Sangeet Bhavan will result in a detour of 2.5km for those living along the 2.9km road.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-373
16-09-2020||West Bengal||Rain causes inundation, landslides||A sudden bout of heavy rain across the sub-Himalayan north Bengal since Monday night led to inundation in Alipurduar and Cooch Behar districts. The rainfall has also triggered landslides in different locations of the hills and one such landslide halted traffic for around two hours on NH10, the principal highway to Sikkim. In Alipurduar, it rained close to 300mm till Tuesday afternoon, which caused water-logging in 12 of 20 wards in the town. Over 15,000 people were marooned and more than 1,800 families had to shift to safer places as water entered their homes. The water-logging also halted movement of private buses from the town as the bus terminus went under waist-deep water. Such a situation made the district magistrate, SDO and the MLA of Alipurduar visit different areas of the town and take stock of the situation. “We have provided relief to over 1,800 people. Our officers are keeping a vigil,” said Rajesh, the SDO. Water-logging was also reported at places like Hasimara, Samuktala, Kalchini and Hamiltanganj in the district. Communication between Alipurduar and Falakata got snapped as water from a stream started flowing over one of the diversions. Those travelling between the towns had to take a turnaround route via Pundibari. In the hills, a landslide occurred in the Shwetijhora, a stream near Kalijhora that is about 25km from Siliguri. Traffic from Siliguri to Sikkim and Kalimpong was hampered because of the landslide. Workers and excavators were engaged to clear the debris and traffic was restored around 9.30am. Also, minor landslides have been reported in some other areas of the hills. In Cooch Behar, where it rained around 214mm, vast stretches of agricultural land went under water. “Though no flood situation has been reported so far, we apprehend a huge loss in agriculture. We need to make the assessment of loss. Also, there had been water-logging at some places but the water started receding in the afternoon,” said an official in the district administration. Met experts have pointed that the southwest monsoon was active in the region and was causing the rainfall. There is a chance of heavy to very heavy rainfall (from 70mm to 200mm), along with thunderstorms, in some areas of north Bengal in the next couple of days, they said. In Malda, fresh erosion by the Ganga has been reported in the Koshighat area of Bhutni islet since Monday night. According to locals, around 150m stretch of the bank has been eroded by the river that is closer to the dyke now. The state irrigation department has engaged workers to use sandbags and tree branches to prevent erosion in the area, sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-373
16-09-2020||West Bengal||Meghalaya CM writes to Shah for Gorkhaland||Meghalaya chief minister and National People’s Party president Conrad K. Sangma has written to Union home minister Amit Shah, batting for Gorkhaland and reminding the Centre that “the Gorkhas too are rightful Indian citizens who deserve to have their own identity and Bas Bhoomi (homeland)”. The letter was written on September 4 but made public on Tuesday by the NPP, an NDA constituent. The letter comes at a time the NPP is looking at expanding its support base in north Bengal after having opened its unit here. “Sir, you are aware of the long pending constitutional demand of the Gorkhas for a separate state of Gorkhaland,” is how Sangma has flagged the statehood issue in the letter. “Sir, as stated, the Gorkhas have contributed immensely to the fabric of Indian society and as with other citizens of India, the Gorkhas too are rightful Indian citizens who deserve to have their own identity and Bas Bhoomi,” the chief minister said. He also highlighted the contributions of Gorkha freedom fighter Durga Malla, members of constituent assembly Damber Singh and Ari Bahadur Gurung and Captain Ram Singh Thakuria, “a prominent Gorkha freedom fighter and musician who composed the music of the inspiring National Anthem”. Sangma has requested the Centre to “offer an honourable and lasting political solution” to the Gorkhas. The letter was made public when the monsoon session of Parliament was in progress and there were growing demands by NDA allies in Darjeeling for finding a “permanent political solution”. The Akhil Bharatiya Gorkha League (Pratap Khati camp) on Tuesday wrote to Sangma thanking him for his letter. Sangma is the second chief minister to lend support to the Gorkhaland demand. When Pawan Chamling was the Sikkim chief minister, he got a resolution adopted in the Assembly on March 29, 2011, terming Gorkhaland as a “genuine and legitimate” demand of the people of the hills. Neeraj Zimba, GNLF leader who became the Darjeeling on a BJP ticket, also wrote to Shah on Tuesday seeking a permanent political solution. The GNLF plastered posters across the hills for the statehood. “Sangma’s letter is definitely interesting and is going to add more steam to the ‘permanent solution demand’ in the hills,” said an observer. The NPP is the first political party in the Northeast to be recognised as a national party by the Election Commission of India. Even though the BJP has promised a “permanent political solution” in its election manifesto, the party has not spelt out the details till date. “The BJP also has to tread its path carefully given its ambition in Bengal,” the observer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-373
16-09-2020||West Bengal||Give Bharat Ratna to Tenzing: Raju Bista in Lok Sabha||Darjeeling MP Raju Bista on Tuesday demanded in the Lok Sabha that highest civilian award Bharat Ratna be conferred on Everester Tenzing Norgay Sherpa posthumously, months after he and Bengal minister Gautam Deb had sparred on the issue. Speaking in Nepali, the BJP MP reminded Parliament about the “humblest of backgrounds” of Tenzing and his struggle “to become an icon for the entire world”. Mount Everest had been conquered for the first time by Tenzing, along with Sir Edmund Hillary, on May 29, 1953. The demand to bestow Bharat Ratna on Tenzing started gathering steam in 2012 after the Centre had widened the ambit of the award to “recognise excellence in any field of human endeavour”. Earlier, the country’s highest award had been restricted to exceptional achievements in art, literature, science and public service. On Everest Day, which is commemorated on May 29, Bista and tourism minister Deb had sparred over the Bharat Ratna issue. While requesting Bista to take up the demand with the Centre, Deb had then said: “It is unfortunate that we have to raise the demand time and again before the central government.” Bista then reminded the minister that he had already raised the demand in Parliament on March 12, 2020. The MP said he had “been doing so much before he (Deb) shared his concern with me”. “I also request him (Deb) to send all documents and communication that the Bengal government had sent to the Centre in this regard as they would further strengthen my efforts to bring due recognition to one of the world’s greatest inspirations — our Gorkha great Tenzing Norgay Sherpa ji,” Bista had said in a written statement. Tenzing received a host of medals from Britain, Iran, Nepal, the Soviet Union, France and Italy. He was awarded the Padma Bhushan in 1959 and Padma Vibhushan posthumously in 2008 — some 22 years after his death at the age of 71. In 2015, a mountain region in Pluto was also named after Tenzing by the International Astronomical Union, the internationally recognised authority for naming celestial bodies and their surface features, after the same was recommended by the Nasa.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-373
