17-09-2020||West Bengal||Agitation threat by ex-Kamtapur Liberation Organisation men ||Former militants and linkmen of the Kamtapur Liberation Organisation in Cooch Behar district have decided to launch a movement from October 1, demanding government jobs and an autonomous council for the Rajbanshi community in seven districts of north Bengal. In the late nineties, KLO, a militant outfit, had been formed by a section of Rajbanshi youths of the region for separate statehood. It had carried out subversive activities across north Bengal but gradually turned defunct following the arrests of prominent leaders. On Wednesday, over 25 former militants and linkmen held a meeting near the Rajbari Stadium here and decided to mount pressure on the state. “Many of our former colleagues in the neighbouring districts of Alipurduar and Jalpaiguri have been provided with jobs by the state government. They are working as home guards now. From our district, 51 names have been sent to the state and the police verification of each of us has been carried out. However, none of us has been given any job so far,” said Pulasthya Burman, a former militant who hailed from the Mathabhanga subdivision of the district. “Next week, the chief minister will visit north Bengal. If we are not provided with jobs by then, we will launch a movement from October 1. Also, we want the state to form an autonomous council for seven districts in north Bengal like it has been announced in Assam,” he added. After the meeting, some of them met Partha Pratim Roy, the district Trinamul president, and informed him about the decision. “Time and again, the state had assured us that we would be provided with jobs. But what we see here in Cooch Behar is that we are being treated in a biased manner. It is over two years since former militants like us started working as home guards in the adjoining districts,” said Pranesh Ishore, another ex-KLO member from Dinhata. It was in July 2018 that chief minister Mamata Banerjee had handed over letters to the former militants of Alipurduar and Jalpaiguri posting them as home guards. The demands of the former rebels have come as a new challenge for the state government as well as Trinamul. “This is because former militants and their families have been with Trinamul for several years. They made it clear before the district party president today (Wednesday) that if their demands were not met, they would decide whether to support the party. Our leaders have communicated the matter to senior leaders of the party and have sought their suggestion,” said a Trinamul insider.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-371
17-09-2020||West Bengal||Cough syrup smuggling arrest||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) arrested a key person of a racket smuggling cough syrups to Bangladesh. Santu Saha was arrested from a Calcutta hideout on Tuesday based on information shared by two persons arrested from Gazole in Malda last November, NCB sources said. “A truck laden with 25,000 cough syrup bottles was stopped in Gazole on November 5, 2019. The vehicle was headed towards South Dinajpur to deliver the consignment near the international border,” an NCB official said. Two persons arrested at that time during interrogation spilled the beans about “mastermind” Saha of South Dinajpur. Since then, hunt was on for Saha. “On Tuesday, we acted on information from a source and caught him from Calcutta,” the source informed. On Wednesday, Saha was brought to Malda and was produced in a local court. Sudipta Ganguly, a lawyer representing the NCB, said Saha had links with similar rackets in Bangladesh. “A case has been registered against him under NDPS act,” he said. The court sent Saha to judicial custody for two days. “We will file an appeal to get him into NCB custody. He needs to be thoroughly interrogated to get information about others involved in the racket and how they operate at the border,” Ganguly said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-371
17-09-2020||West Bengal||Trinamul faces defiance in Nandigram||Mansura Begum, former chief of Kendamari-Jaalpai panchayat in Nandigram, was re-elected panchayat pradhan on Tuesday, embarrassing Trinamul that had nominated panchayat member Sakina Khatun instead. Mansura was among the 25 leaders in Nandigram suspended on July 7 by the Trinamul after the party received multiple allegations against them of siphoning relief funds in the wake of the May 20 Cyclone Amphan. Following her suspension, Mansura resigned from her panchayat pradhan post that necessitated Tuesday’s election. However, on September 16, Trinamul in Nandigram revoked the suspension of 15 party members, including Mansura, accused of misappropriating Amphan relief funds. The party justified its decision, saying members had returned the funds, but it led to outcry from the BJP and CPM. Sources in the ruling party said that protests by Opposition parties and accusations that the Trinamul was trying to rehabilitate the corrupt led the party to do a rethink on fielding Mansura as the candidate for Wednesday’s election. It nominated Sakina. Trinamul’s plan, however, went awry as most members of the panchayat run by the party on Tuesday “blatantly ignored” the whip served in a sealed letter to elect panchayat member Sakina as panchayat pradhan. Taken aback by the defiance of panchayat members, Trinamul’s Nandigram leadership held a core committee meeting on Wednesday. Sources said Mansura and her husband Sheikh Sahauddin, also a panchayat member, might be expelled from the party, but no one came on quote to confirm it. Trinamul block committee has written to the district committee for action against Mansura and Sahauddin, said a source. Block president Meghnad Pal denounced the panchayat’s activities, saying members had “disregarded and disrespected” the party whip and said the “party does not support such activities”. He confirmed a party core committee meeting was held on Wednesday but declined to comment on Mansura’s expulsion. Mansura said there was “no foul play involved” in her re-election “determined by a fair mandate”. “Sakina declined to be elected and proposed by name,” she added. “This (re-election of Mansura) is going to cause a serious image problem for the party (Trinamul),” said BJP district vice-president Pralay Pal. CPM district secretary Niranjan Sihi said Trinamul was trying to play games ahead of the 2021 polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-371
17-09-2020||West Bengal||Trinamul protest spurs NH12 repair word||Trinamul supporters held a roadblock at the toll plaza on NH12 at Baishnabnagar in Malda for five hours on Wednesday to protest the bad shape of the highway’s 60km stretch. The roadblock forced National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) officials to promise agitators to start repair from Thursday. The roadblock, NHAI sources said, led loss in their revenue as hundreds of vehicles passed through the toll plaza without paying charge during the agitation. Raising slogans of “No repair, no tax”, Trinamul workers, led by the party’s district coordinator Amlan Bhaduri blocked toll gates from 11.30am. Trinamul leaders in the demonstration alleged that the 60km stretch of NH-12 between Gazole and Baishnabnagar (Malda district) was dilapidated. The NHAI, despite collecting toll at Baishnabnagar and Gazole, did not heed the need for repair these last six months, protesters said. Initially the protest led to traffic jam. Soon, demonstrators allowed vehicles to pass through the two gates. “The NH stretch between Sujapur to the Kaliachak BDO is not commutable. The bypass connecting Jadupur in Englishbazar and Narayanpur in Old Malda is yet been fully functional. The condition of the NH is deplorable. The NHAI has been collecting taxes from two toll plazas. This can’t continue. That is why we held the demonstration,” Bhaduri said. People supported the protest, because thousands bear the brunt of commuting on the damaged stretch. Debarati Choudhury, a schoolteacher, who went to Calcutta by road recently, said: “It took nearly two hours from Englishbazar to Baishnabnagar (around 30km).” Political watchers believe Trinamul intends to draw peoples’ support with the movement on the highway issue. Earlier, Malda’s mango merchants had blamed the dilapidated NH12 for their losses. “Trucks carrying mangoes could not reach the destinations on time because of the miserable condition of the highway. Many orders were cancelled for the delivery delay,” said Uzzal Saha, secretary, Malda Mango Merchants’ Association. Om Nath Bihari, deputy project manager of NHAI posted in Malda, however, said the monsoon delayed the work. “We will start non-bituminous work immediately. Bituminous work will start from October 1,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-371
17-09-2020||West Bengal||Resort workers protest against ‘rude’ manager||Twenty-one employees of a tourist resort run by West Bengal Tourism Development Corporation (WBTDCL) at Murti on the fringes of Gorumara National Park here on Wednesday locked the property’s entrance and protested with placards against their manager’s alleged misbehaviour. In recent years, this is the first time that employees of a state-run report have walked out and resorted to such a protest. Employees of Moorti Tourism Resort at Murti also refused to let manager Gouri Ghosh enter. Shital Bansfore, one of the employees, said: “Gouri Ghosh, the manager, regularly misbehaves with us. She insults us in derogatory language and hands a showcause notice if anybody protests. We are facing this mental torment for months now. We can no longer bear it. That is why we locked the resort and started this demonstration.” Another employee said Ghosh always threatened to fire them. “We have told her she should not misbehave with us but there has been no change. We will continue our protest and not resume duties till she is transferred,” the employee said. Ghosh was brief in her reaction. “I have told my superior officers about the situation. I won’t make any further comment,” she said. A senior officer of WBTDCL said they were collecting information on the case. “We will also speak with the employees and the manager. Work will soon resume at the resort,” the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-371
17-09-2020||West Bengal||Coal mine meeting with panchayat members||Bengal state government officials held a meeting with representatives of four gram panchayats in Birbhum’s Mohammedbazar on Wednesday to prepare for a survey that would be carried out among land-losers for the first phase of the proposed Deocha Pachami coal mine. The meeting on Wednesday was important to create awareness about the potential benefits from the project and the need of the survey to fix compensation for the 3,500-odd land-losers. “The meeting was held with local people’s representatives to facilitate the surveyors on the ground...The survey is important before starting the discussion for compensation,” said Moumita Godara Basu, Birbhum district magistrate. The Bengal government is betting heavily on the Deocha-Pachami coal block, located in Birbhum’s Mohammedbazar. The coal block is spread over 11,222 acres and has an estimated coal reserve of around 2.2 billion tonnes. According to government estimates, the project can generate jobs for at least 1.5 lakh people and has the potential to act as an engine of economic growth for the entire south Bengal. On Wednesday, around 30 persons including representatives of four gram panchayats — Hinglo, Bharkata, Sekedda and Puratangram — and a senior official of PDCL (Power Development Corporation Limited) were present for the meeting along with senior district officials. “A group of people in the area are trying to resist the project from the beginning and they can spread rumours about the survey... So, the panchayat chiefs have been asked to do a door-to-door campaign so that no one can mislead the residents,” said a senior official. Sources said that the government wanted to complete the survey by September and start the basic work of mining in Deocha-Pachami by January 2021. “The PDCL would dig up around a dozen wells to test the quality of coal and find out the layers of coal. It needs a stretch of land first. After the survey, we would proceed to hold a meeting with the land-losers about compensation,” said another official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-371
17-09-2020||West Bengal||Stop tea leaf theft: Growers||Small tea growers in Jalpaiguri district have alleged tea leaf theft from plantations across different blocks of the district. Growers accused thieves of conniving with brokers to sell the stolen tea leaves. On Wednesday, they met Jalpaiguri SP Pradeep Kumar Yadav on this issue. Bijoygopal Chakraborty, secretary of the Jalpaiguri Zilla Kshudra Cha Chashi Samiti or district small tea growers committee, said they had received complaints from members of such thefts since some weeks. He added that growers had to bear losses from such thefts. He accused some brokers of helping the thieves to sell the stolen leaves to the bought leaf factories (standalone tea factories that buy tea leaves from growers and process them). “Recently, we revised the wage rate of workers, and we have to pay workers bonuses ahead of Durga Puja. If growers have to bear losses now, it would only mount pressure on them,” he said. Chakraborty said one could find vehicles loaded with tea leaves in the tea belts of Jalpaiguri even at 7am though plucking started in tea plantations after 8am and tea leaves were sent to bought leaf factories around 11am and onwards. He added if police checked the documents of these “untimely” vehicles, thefts could be averted. “Any vehicle carrying tea leaves should have the challan with details of the seller and the buyer.” SP Yadav said he would look into the issue. In Jalpaiguri, most small tea plantations are in Rajganj, Sadar and Maynaguri blocks. Tea leaf theft has been reported from all three blocks, said growers. Sources said in the current year, price of tea leaves soared in the past couple of months as supply reduced because of the lockdown and inclement weather. “On last year, the average price of a kilo of tea leaves was Rs 16 but now it is Rs 35 to Rs 38,” said a small tea grower in Jalpaiguri. In north Bengal, tea production has been less till July this year, says Tea Board data. Last year, 195.81 million kg tea was produced in the region from January to July of which the small tea sector contributed 109.18 million kg. This year, total production till July is 157.04 million kg of which 63.84 million kg came from the small tea sector.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-372
17-09-2020||West Bengal||Letter a political stunt: Binay Tamang camp||The Binay Tamang camp of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha on Wednesday described as “a political stunt” Meghalaya chief minister Conrad K. Sangma’s letter to Union home minister Amit Shah seeking Gorkhaland. Sangma is also the president of the National People’s Party, a constituent of the NDA. He reminded the Centre in the letter that “the Gorkhas too are rightful Indian citizens who deserve to have their own identity and Bas Bhoomi (homeland)”. The Morcha, which has an alliance with the Trinamul Congress that strongly opposes Gorkhaland, advised Sangma to practise what he preached vis-à-vis Gorkhas living in Meghalaya. Keshav Raj Pokhrel, the spokesman for the Tamang faction, said: “We consider Conrad’s statement as a political stunt. This is because the Bengal Assembly elections are round the corner and the Gorkhas are aware that your party (NPP) is planning to contest.” The NPP had opened its unit in north Bengal a few months ago amid allegations that the party tiptoed into the state as part of the BJP’s strategy to split Gorkha votes. Sangma’s letter had been written on September 4 but made public on Tuesday. The Darjeeling-based Morcha also alleged that GNLF leader Subash Ghisingh had launched the Gorkhaland agitation after Gorkhas had been driven out of Meghalaya in the 1980s when Conrad’s father P.A. Sangma was the chief minister. P.A. Sangma was chief minister from 1988 to 1990 whereas the Gorkhaland agitation had started in 1986. The Darjeeling Gorkha Hill Council was formed in 1988, following which the agitation came to an end temporarily. Pokhrel asked the Meghalaya chief minister to allow Gorkhas to live with dignity first in his state. “The condition of Gorkhas in the present situation is not good in Meghalaya. The Gorkhas are looked down as second class citizens and are denied various benefits. The chief minister should practise what he preaches,” said Pokhrel. “Conspiracy to chase Gorkhas away from Meghalaya is still being played out,” the Morcha leader further alleged. Sasank Ghatraj, the NPP in-charge of north Bengal-Sikkim, said his party was mature and did not believe in “vindictive politics”. “But we are committed to taking forward the voices and aspirations of the marginalised. We have opened the floodgates for other parties and governments to support the genuine cause of the people,” said Ghatraj, who added that the NPP always supported the formation of smaller states. The NPP is the first political party in the Northeast to be recognised as a national party by the Election Commission of India. Sangma is the second chief minister to lend support to the Gorkhaland demand. When Pawan Chamling was the Sikkim chief minister, he got a resolution adopted in the Assembly on March 29, 2011, terming Gorkhaland as a “genuine and legitimate” demand of the people of the hills.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-372
17-09-2020||West Bengal||Couple shot dead by relative’s ‘abductor’||A retired army man and his wife were shot dead at their home in Habra, North 24-Parganas, during the early hours of Wednesday allegedly by a youth who was accused of kidnapping the ex-soldier’s niece at gunpoint earlier. Family members of the deceased — Ramkrishna Mandal, 58, and his wife Lila Mandal, 51 — said Tanmay Bar, 24, had climbed a coconut tree to land on the terrace of the couple’s two-storied residence around 3am on Wednesday. The accused was out on bail in the abduction case. Police sources said Bar had broken open a door on the terrace and the noise alerted Ramkrishna and Lila. They woke up fearing a theft bid. “When the couple came out of their rooms, the duo came face-to-face with Bar, who shot at the couple from close range and fled,” said a police source. Ramkrishna and Lila, both residents of Kumra-Tunighata, were rushed to Habra state general hospital, where the woman was declared dead. Ramkrishna was transferred to Barasat state general hospital and succumbed to his injuries on the way. A doctor at the Habra hospital said: “The deceased woman had a bullet injury to the head, while her husband was shot in the chest.” Habra police have started a murder case against Bar, a resident of Habra’s Kashipur, on the basis of a complaint lodged by the victims’ family. However, he could not be arrested till Wednesday evening. Superintendent of Barasat police district Avijit Banerjee, who visited the crime spot, said: “We began a search for the accused. The motive behind the murder could be ascertained once he is arrested.” The couple’s daughters are married and they stay elsewhere. Ramkrishna’s younger brother Jyotirmoy Mandal, who is also a retired army man, said: “The youth turned desperate recently and had threatened to eliminate us, including my daughter, whom he kidnapped and married by force in 2016 when she was a minor. However, my daughter returned home last year because of physical torture and never returned to him.” Local sources said, in 2016, Bar, a palmist by profession, allegedly kidnapped Jyotirmoy’s daughter and took her to Bangladesh where he married her by force. Before kidnapping the girl, Bar had allegedly orchestrated an acid attack on the girl, but she had a close shave. “After the girl became an adult in 2017, Bar returned to India and forced her to register their marriage. However, in 2017 he was arrested on charges of kidnapping. The same year, he was released on bail and had since been torturing the girl. Eventually, the girl managed to escape from his clutches and refused to return to him. The girl had recently filed a divorce suit,” said a relative of the Mandal family. Asked why the girl’s uncle and aunt were targeted, family sources said being the head of the family they were very behind all the legal actions against Bar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-372
17-09-2020||West Bengal||BJP feud hits Tathagata Roy application||Former governor Tathagata Roy’s application for active membership in the BJP has been pending for over a week amid murmurs that the Bengal leadership of the party is trying to settle scores with the veteran leader. Multiple sources in the BJP said Roy — who had served as the governor of Tripura and Meghalaya — had become a victim of the party’s internal squabble. “The faction led by BJP state president Dilip Ghosh is upset with Tathagata-da because of his criticism of Dilipda... As this faction calls the shots in the state, Tathagata-da’s application is gathering dust,” a BJP leader said. “Finally, they will have to grant him active membership, but the delay is deliberate to humiliate Tathagata-da,” added the leader. At a recent web seminar, Roy had said people currently running the party in Bengal weren’t doing it the right way. Roy, according to several party insiders, was also critical of Ghosh’s leadership abilities at a closed-door meeting he had with Kailash Vijayvargiya, the in-charge of the BJP in Bengal. Roy’s term as the governor of Meghalaya ended in August 2020, following which he expressed his intention to make a comeback to active politics. Like any other member of the BJP, Roy, who had quit the party after his posting as the governor of Tripura in 2015, became an ordinary member through the missed call route. However according to norms, people interested in participating actively in the party have to apply separately through an ‘active membership’ form and that application needs clearance of the state leadership. “The procedure is still pending,” Roy told The Telegraph on Wednesday evening while adding that he was not worried about the delay. According to him, he had sent the form through an acquaintance to the BJP office last Thursday. “However, it wasn’t accepted for some reason. On Friday, it was a lockdown and then came the weekend and hence, the delay.” “I’m sure things will be sorted soon,” Roy added. Party sources have said that there is no reason for the delay as the process of accepting active membership application from a party veteran is simple as it just needs approval of the party’s general secretary (organisation). A source said Subrata Chatterjee, general secretary (organisation), was sitting on the application. “Subratada is deferring the process,” this person added. A source said the Ghosh camp was wary of Roy, who has an RSS background and direct access to the central leadership, because of his ability to create a new power centre. Ghosh, however, swatted away all the speculations about the delay in Roy’s membership. “One phase of the membership drive is already over. From this lot itself, at least one lakh active members have been enrolled. The drive will start soon. However, for Tathagatada, there will be no problem. It will be done as soon as possible,” said Ghosh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-372
17-09-2020||West Bengal||Kin of migrants lose compensation hope||Family members of migrant workers from Bengal who died in a road accident in Uttar Pradesh on their way home in May amid the lockdown, have lost hope of getting Rs 2 lakh each as relief from the Narendra Modi government after the Centre on Monday announced in Parliament that no data on migrant worker deaths were available. Asked by MPs if any compensation had been given to the families of migrant workers who had died during the lockdown, Union minister of state for labour and employment Santosh Gangwar told Parliament on Monday the question did not arise because no data of people dying on the way were kept. Five migrant workers from Bengal, including four from Purulia, were among the 25 homebound persons killed when a trailer and a truck collided at Auraiya in Uttar Pradesh on May 16. The four migrant labourers from Purulia were Chandan Rajwar, 24, Milan Badyakar, 20, Ajit Mahato, 48, and Ganesh Rajwar, 22. Akbar Ali, 22, a resident of Rampur village under Hemtabad block of North Dinajpur, was also killed in the accident. Bhiksakar Rajwar, father of deceased migrant worker Chandan, said: “The office of the Prime Minister had assured us compensation of Rs 2 lakh. After we heard the government telling in Parliament that it had no record of deaths of migrant workers, we became sure that we would not get the money the Prime Minister had promised.” “We are very poor and my son Milan was the sole bread earner of our family. I have to bear the pain of losing my son. The compensation of Rs 2 lakh from the Prime Minister would have helped us immensely, but after what the Centre has said in Parliament we have no hope of getting it,” seconded Amrit Badyakar. Bereaved family members referred to a tweet by the official Twitter handle of the Prime Minister’s Office on May 16 where the assurance of compensation of Rs 2 lakh each had been made to the families of those killed in the accident. “An ex-gratia of Rs 2 lakh each for the next of kin of those who lost their lives due to the unfortunate accident in Auraiya, UP has been approved from the PM’s National Relief Fund. Rs 50,000 each for the injured has also been approved,” PMO India had tweeted on May 16 evening. The Bengal government had provided Rs 2 lakh each to the family members of the deceased. The UP government  also gave the same amount as compensation. But the assured compensation from the Centre did not reach the families. “When the Bengal and Uttar Pradesh governments have given us compensation, how can the Centre say that it has no data? We should not forget that the BJP runs both the central and Uttar Pradesh governments,” said Anup Rajwar, a cousin of Chandan. He, however, complained that they were yet to get death certificate and other relevant documents regarding Chandan’s death from the Uttar Pradesh government. Rahul Majumdar, the Purulia district magistrate, confirmed no compensation from the Centre had come. “The relatives of the deceased migrant workers received compensation from both Bengal and Uttar Pradesh governments. But they did not get such relief from the Centre,” said the DM. Despite the government denying having any data, a research organisation — Stranded Workers Action Network (SWAN) — on Tuesday said 972 deaths had been counted among migrant workers till July 4 during the course of the various lockdowns.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-372
17-09-2020||West Bengal||Bengal logs 3,237 cases and 61 deaths||Bengal on Wednesday logged 3,237 new Covid-19 cases, 2,971 recoveries and 61 deaths. With this, Bengal went past 2.12 lakh cases, since the first was detected on March 17, of which over 1.84 lakh are recoveries and 4,123 are deaths. After a 15-day streak of fall in total of active cases ended on September 8, Bengal has now seen a rise for nine consecutive days. Despite that, the recovery rate continued to climb and was 86.69 on Wednesday, a rise by over 12 per cent in a month. The national rate is 78.58 per cent now. “In a month, we had around 96,000 new cases, but we had over 97,000 recoveries. We are looking to get our recovery rate well past 90 before the end of this month,” said a minister. Of the 61 deaths, 15 were from Calcutta and 11 from North 24-Parganas. The two districts have contributed 60 per cent of all Covid-19 deaths recorded in Bengal since March 23. Of the toll, 3,536 deaths (85.8 per cent) were reported comorbid by the state government. The overall mortality rate stayed at 1.94, while the national rate is 1.62 per cent. “Reducing the mortality rate… halving it to less than 1 is our foremost priority now… we hope to be able to start seeing the results by the end of this month,” the minister said. The state also reported 45,713 tests on Wednesday, taking the total past 26 lakh. Steady rise in testing, coupled with relatively lower cases being found has improved the positive confirmation rate from 8.9 on August 23 to 8.14 per cent. A decreasing positive confirmation rate is indicative of reducing levels of Covid-19 spread. Having begun testing in early February, Bengal took three-and-a-half months to cover 1 lakh tests. Four months on, it did 25 lakh more. The state reported 33.09 per cent occupancy of 12,675 Covid-19 beds in 92 hospitals. Over 2.17 lakh telemedicine consultations have been provided, including 4,328 in the past 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-372
17-09-2020||West Bengal||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee to visit Siliguri next week||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee is slated to be in Siliguri on September 21,  22 and 23 to hold review meetings for five north Bengal districts. The visit will be the first since Covid-19 broke out. “The chief minister is likely to reach Siliguri on Monday (September 21) and she would hold review meetings from Uttarkanya (the branch secretariat),” said a source. According to the schedule, Mamata will hold the review meetings of Jalpaiguri and Alipurduar on September 22. The following day, review meetings for Darjeeling, Kalimpong and Cooch Behar would be held. According to sources, Mamata would hold the meetings through video conference. “Only district magistrates of the respective districts, along with the chief secretary and the home secretary, would be present at Uttarkanya. Other district officers would attend the meetings through video conference,” said a source. “The chief minister could have easily held the meetings from Nabanna as it would be held through video conference. But she has decided to visit north Bengal for several reasons,” said an official. Trinamul insiders said Mamata’s decision to visit Siliguri and hold the review meetings from Uttarkanya amid the pandemic clearly suggested that she was keen on monitoring existing projects and launching new ones in the north Bengal districts. In the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, Trinamul had come first in just 12 out of 54 Assembly seats in north Bengal. “Considering the tough fight ahead in the Assembly polls, each constituency is important for us. The chief minister made it clear that she would focus on north Bengal in the next few months,” said a Trinamul MLA. In north Bengal, a number of issues have cropped up in the past few months, right from the Gorkha-dominated Darjeeling hills to the Rajbanshi belts of Cooch Behar. The most prominent among them are the demands for conferment of land rights on the hill residents and people living in tea plantations in the foothills, creation of autonomous council for the Rajbanshis like the neighbouring state of Assam and fixing of minimum wage for tea garden workers. “The state government principally approves these demands... It is interesting to see what the chief minister announces during her north Bengal visit,” said a source. Mamata has recently held review meetings of a number of south Bengal districts through video conference from Nabanna.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-372
