18-09-2020||West Bengal||Coronavirus pandemic puts off Bera festivities||Murshidabad’s 300-year-old Bera festival, celebrated on the last Thursday of the Bengali Bhadra month, has fallen victim to the pandemic as district authorities and the Murshidabad's royal family have postponed it indefinitely to stick to the new normal of social distancing. Traditionally celebrated at midnight with a nightlong festival on the Bhagirathi river bank adjacent to the Hazarduari palace, lakhs gather for the annual festival commemorating the launch of a river float that carried state taxes to Mughal courts in north India in the 17th and 18th centuries. “We are postponing the festivities with a heavy heart but there is no other way out,” said an official at Murshidabad Estate, a government body that oversees the festival with royal family members. Usually, the festival starts with the launch of a cloth-and-candlelit river float, followed by a carnival and food stalls near the palace. The float, illuminated with gold and silver lamps, draws lakhs of visitors every year from Bengal and beyond. “This is a 300-year-old festivity that celebrates our local heritage and links with the Mughal period. The Nawab of Bengal Murshid Quli Khan had begun this tradition in the 1700s. The nawab had started the Bera festivity, a tradition of appeasing the river, so that the vessels carrying taxes to north India reached safely,” said a local historian, adding that the festival usually falls in the same week as Muharram. Local sources said businesses and traders have already suffered a huge setback in the wake of the Covid-19 related slump. Bera’s postponement added to their woes. Hoteliers’ association sources said losses this year would be “incalculable” in Behrampore during Bera. Secretary of the Murshidabad City Traders’ Association, Swapan Bhattacharya, said: “It has been several months that tourists have stopped coming to the city. We were looking forward to Bera for tourists to finally earn something. Its indefinite postponement was the last thing we expected.” Jayanta Mandal, manager of Murshidabad Estate, said: “Covid protocol of the state government prohibits large gatherings. This (Bera) is a sentimental issue but the step has been taken for everyone’s safety and well-being."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-370
18-09-2020||West Bengal||Bengal government to start housing scheme for tea belt||The Mamata Banerjee government will soon initiate a housing scheme for tea workers of north Bengal, state labour minister Moloy Ghatak hinted on Thursday. Ghatak, who was at the Mujnai tea estate in Madarihat block of Alipurduar district to attend a government even, said: “Under the ‘Chaa Sundari’ scheme, the state government will construct houses for 792 families who dwell in this tea estate. The state has taken a number of other initiatives for the tea population, which include distribution of ration to the workers at subsidised rates.” In February this year, Amit Mitra, the finance minister of Bengal, announced the “Chaa Sundari” scheme while tabling the state budget of the current fiscal (2020-2021). He had said that during the next three years, the state would give funds for construction of houses for all permanent workers of tea estates without a house of their own. A sum of Rs 500 crores was allocated for the project in the current fiscal. The labour minister’s announcement comes at a time Trinamul is trying to revive its support base in north Bengal, keeping in mind the 2021 Assembly elections. In 2019, BJP had managed to wrest seven of eight Parliament seats in the region and could secure a lead in almost all the Assembly segmentsin the tea belt. “It is evident that the state is playing the development card again, this time through the housing scheme. If the state initiates this project, it would be a poser for the BJP” opined an observer. Ghatak also referred to hike in tea wages since 2011 after Trinamul came to power.
“When the Left Front government was there in the state, tea workers used to receive Rs 67 as daily wages. We could increase it to Rs 176. Soon, the wage is likely to be revised again,” he said. The minister asked the workers to understand who is working for them. “You should realize whom you will support for your betterment and who can work for you. Here in Bengal, BJP shouts for minimum wage but in the neighbouring state of Assam, where the party is in power, no such wage has been fixed so far. The Trinamul government is doing a lot for you but you are voting for the BJP. We feel if Trinamul does not stay in power in the state, conditions of tea estates will deteriorate,” said Ghatak. A senior Trinamul leader, who also heads the tea trade union of the party, said the state has taken the task to facilitate reopening of three closed tea estates in the Dooars. “We have information that the state finance department has approved reopening of shut Madhu, Bundapani and Surendranagar tea estates which are close for years now. The state cabinet will soon make a decision and then prospective investors would be selected for these gardens,” said Mohan Sharma, chairman, Cha Bagan Trinamul Congress Mazdoor Union.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-370
18-09-2020||West Bengal||Vigil beefed up in Jungle Mahal ahead of CPI (Maoist) events||Police and paramilitary forces have started combing operations and raids in Jungle Mahal districts ahead of the CPI (Maoist)’s weeklong programmes from September 21 as part of its foundation day celebration. Sources said vigil had been intensified in pockets known for Maoist influence in the districts of Jhargram, Bankura, Purulia and West Midnapore as there had been intelligence reports that the Left extremist groups had been trying to regroup for the past two months. CPI (Maoist) — a party that believes in overthrowing the government through people’s war — was founded on September 21, 2004, through a merger of Communist Party of India (MarxistLeninist), People’s War (People’s War Group) and the Maoist Communist Centre of India. Till 2012, the Maoists used to increase activities in their strongholds on the occasion of their foundation day week but the banned outfit’s operations had been on the wane since then. The decreasing activities almost coincided with the Trinamul Congress coming to power in Bengal in 2011. “Police and paramilitary forces have been deployed in Jungle Mahal areas. Our forces are always aware of any kind of suspected activities. We are collecting intelligence inputs regularly,” said a senior police officer in Jhargram and added that the police were always on the alert during the foundation day celebrations of Maoists. “This year, it is important as there have been quite a few incidents of Maoist activities in the Jungle Mahal districts. We have raised the level of alert this year,” said a police officer in Purulia. Sources said several Maoist posters had been seized in various pockets of the Jungle Mahal, including Belpahari and Lalgarh, in the past few months. The sudden reappearance of Maoist activities has alarmed state police and sleuths. “We have already started patrolling and combing operations in the Jungle Mahal areas of our districts. We are always connected with intelligence inputs. However, we are yet to receive any specific report,” said Bankura district police chief Koteswara Rao. S. Selvamurugan, the Purulia district police chief, said: “We can’t disclose everything on our strategy for security questions. But we have taken every measure to keep a close vigil in our areas.” Sources in the state home department said Maoist activities were causing concern for the Bengal government with reports that the banned outfit was trying to regroup in the Jungle Mahal by crossing over from neighbouring Jharkhand. As the state is headed for Assembly election next year, there are chances that the Maoists would try to make their presence felt through subversive activities, said an intelligence source. “We have already got inputs of Maoists holding secret meetings and they have started the process of regrouping. The activities have been reported in the pockets of Jharkhand bordering areas. We have inputs that they would try to utilise the foundation day occasion this year,” said a source in the state intelligence department. According to intelligence reports, on September 3, some tourists noticed a group of seven suspected Maoists, including three women, near Dhangikusum village in Belpahari. The suspected Maoists were reportedly carrying firearms and had their faces covered. Virendra, directorgeneral of police, visited Jhargram on September 5 to take stock of the ground situation. However, a police officer in Jhargram claimed that it had been staged. The Union home ministry had sent three battalions of the Central Reserve Paramilitary Force (CRPF) to the Jungle Mahal and informed the state government that more teams would arrive soon. Sources said the measures were a result of rising activities of the Maoists. 
Sources said Maoist activities had been reported in Purulia’s Ayodhya hills and pockets of West Midnapore also. A source in the CRPF said: “They have already started combing operations in the Ayodhya hills and areas bordering Jharkhand as there is a chance that Maoist cadres might try to cross over from the neighbouring state to regroup with their counterparts in Bengal.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-370
18-09-2020||West Bengal||Mahalaya: Holy dip amid coronavirus pandemic||At least 1,500 people in Kalna, East Burdwan, took a holy dip in the Hooghly on the occasion of Mahalaya on Thursday to perform tarpan rituals as a tribute to departed ancestors. Mahalaya this year is unusual for two reasons, the Covid-19 pandemic, and the fact that Durga Puja will start over a month later because of the mala mash, or a lunar month with two new moons. Like in many other places, the crowd in Kalna violated physical distancing norms during the tarpan. On Wednesday, officials of police and administration campaigned in the town requesting residents to maintain Covid protocol while performing tarpan, but on Thursday, the police admitted that they could not ensure the safety protocol.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-370
18-09-2020||West Bengal||Villagers in Malda pit self-help against river erosion||An instinct for self-preservation has prompted residents of Sahebnagar-Kanchantola, a village in Manikchak block of Malda district on the banks of Kalindri river, to team up and prevent erosion caused by the river, without waiting for measures by the state irrigation department. Though officials of the department have promised necessary steps to combat the erosion caused by Kalindri, an apparently calm rivulet that suddenly turned destructive, villagers said they would rather trust themselves to save houses near the river and a high school with around 850 students. Since Tuesday afternoon, erosion started in the village, they said. “The river has already devoured a vast yard measuring around 100 metres long and 40 metres wide, and a stretch of a village road,” said Mozaffar Rehman, a resident. Such a situation, he said, made villagers convene an informal meeting where it was decided that they would pile bamboo sticks and dump sandbags to prevent the river from gobbling fresh stretches “This is called the dip-tree method. We are also arranging sandbags to check erosion. We sought help from villagers and they spontaneously came forward,” said Ainul Haque, another villager. The villagers, sources said, were robbed of their sleep as the rapid erosion left around 25 houses vulnerable. “We could not wait for the formalities of the state irrigation department. It would take time for them to start the work as they will visit the site, assess the damage and then start anti-erosion work. The threat is imminent. By the time they start work, some of these houses would be swallowed by Kalindri,” a resident said. They also expressed strong discontent over the quality of anti-erosion work done by the irrigation department in the area. “Merely three months back, the department carried out anti-erosion work here. We fail to understand how erosion can start afresh then,” a resident said, indicating quality was sub-par. On Wednesday, some officials of the department went to the village only to be snubbed by the disgruntled villagers who asked them to leave and said that they could take care of themselves. As the news spread, the sabhadhipati of Malda Zilla Parishad and the district magistrate asked the irrigation department to immediately take up the work. Accordingly, the department started anti-erosion work near the village on a war-footing from Thursday. “The water level of Kalindri depends on Fulhar river. The abrupt rise and fall in water levels of Kalindri causes trouble without a hint. Our officials have taken stock of the situation. We have appraised the district administration and from Thursday, anti-erosion work has started,” said Pranab Kumar Samanta, an executive engineer of irrigation department in Malda.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-370
18-09-2020||West Bengal||TMC worker hacked to death, party blames BJP||A 38-year-old Trinamul worker, Ganesh Sarkar, was hacked to death at a village in Mathabhanga subdivision of Cooch Behar on Wednesday night, his party blaming the BJP. Another Trinamul worker, Bimal Sarkar, assaulted in the same locality, has been admitted to Cooch Behar Government Medical College & Hospital and is reported critical. While Trinamul alleged that BJP supporters were behind the murder, BJP blamed “infighting” in Trinamul. Alijar Rehman, a TMC leader in Mathabhanga and district secretary of Inttuc, said that for past few days, some BJP supporters were threatening Ganesh, a Trinamul worker from Balashi village under Hajrahat panchayat of Mathabhanga. “On Wednesday night, a group of BJP supporters with sharp weapons entered his house and attacked him. He tried to escape but fell in a paddy field. There, he was hacked to death. When family members raised an alert, some villagers came out, andthe attackers fled,” said Rehman. The attackers, he said, also assaulted Bimal. On Thursday, Partha Pratim Roy, district Trinamul president,  met Ganesh’s kin. Sanjoy Chakraborty, a district secretary of BJP, said: “Everybody knows there are two lobbies of Trinamul in Hajrahat and they clash.” “What happened on Wednesday is unfortunate but it is the fallout of Trinamul’s internal rivalry. Some party leaders are trying to tarnish the BJP,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-370
18-09-2020||West Bengal||Bangladesh conveys onion export ban ‘concern’||Bangladesh has officially conveyed its “deep concern” over India’s ban on export of onions without due notice. “The latest abrupt announcement of the Government of India on September 14, 2020 undermines the discussions that took place in 2019 and 2020 between the two friendly countries on the matter and the understanding shared,” read the foreign ministry letter sent to India through its high commission in Dhaka. The letter requests the Indian high commission to convey the message to authorities in New Delhi and take necessary measures to resume onion exports taking into consideration the excellent ties between the neighbours. In the letter, Bangladesh expressed its “deep concern” as the “sudden announcement” directly affects the supply of essential food items in Bangladesh market. It pointed out that a secretary-level meeting between the commerce ministries of the two countries in January had requested India not to impose export restriction on essential food items required by Bangladesh. Earlier in the day, state minister for foreign affairs Shahriar Alam said Dhaka had requested New Delhi to revoke the ban on the onion export in line with an “unwritten” understanding. Even if, he said, India was required to take such a decision, New Delhi would inform Dhaka beforehand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-370
18-09-2020||West Bengal||North Bengal forests to reopen next week||The state forest department has decided to reopen national parks and wildlife sanctuaries of north Bengal to visitors from September 23. “At a meeting on Wednesday, it was decided to reopen the forests to visitors from September 23 with a set of guidelines forCovid-19 safety. On Friday, forest minister Rajib Banerjee will release the guidelines,” said Ravikant Sinha, the head of the forest force in the state. Every year, reserve forests are closed from June 16 to September 15, but this year the pandemic scuttled the calendar. That’s why the decision to reopen forests comes as a major boost to tourism. Among the places scheduled to reopen are Gorumara, Jaldapara, Singalila and Neora Valley national parks, Chapramari and Mahananda wildlife sanctuaries, and Buxa Tiger Reserve. Resort owners, transporters and tour operators said got queries from tourists on visiting the region during Durga Puja and Diwali. But confirmations were few as tourists invariably asked when forests would reopen. “Now, we believe we will receive more confirmations,” said a resort owner in Madarihat, at the entry to Jaldapara National Park. Stakeholders of the tourism industry, both in the plains and hills, have sought an appointment from chief minister Mamata Banerjee who will be in Siliguri next week to attend review meetings of some north Bengal districts. “We want to meet and update the chief minister about the hardships faced by the industry and its ancillary sectors. Also, we would like to hand over an appeal to her,” said Samrat Sanyal, general secretary, Himalayan Hospitality & Tourism Development Network. He added they had sought help from state tourism minister Goutam Deb for getting the CM’s appointment. On Wednesday, the stakeholders met at a resort in Darjeeling to discuss problems faced by the industry in these days and identified the issues for which they need to approach state and central governments, such as waivers on power bills, GST, other taxes and fees, financial stimulus on working capital, insurance of employees associated with the sector and higher moratorium of loans. “A committee comprising members (representatives) from hotels, homestays, transport, travel agency, rafting, adventure tourism, paragliding and others will be formed, which will submit a memorandum to the chief minister,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-371
18-09-2020||West Bengal||Heavy rainfall incurs Rs 138cr loss for Bengal farmers||A report by the agriculture department has revealed that heavy rainfall that lashed 226 mouzas spread across three subdivisions in West Midnapore over a period of 10 days in August caused irreparable damage to farmers who were already reeling under the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. According to the report, a total of 14,430 hectares of vegetables, flowers and paddy were submerged and the agricultural produce suffered an overall loss of Rs 138 crore. “Of the 14,430 hectares, nearly 50 per cent were used for vegetable cultivation. The remaining plots had flowers and paddy. The total damage has been estimated to be Rs 138 crore,” said a senior district official. Sources in the agriculture department said they had received the damage report from the district and it would be placed before the top brass of the government for taking a call in this regard. “A policy decision has to be taken before announcing compensation for the affected farmers,” said an official. The sources said the vegetable farmers could be the worst hit as a majority of them couldn’t insure their crops. “This is because insurance companies don’t show interest in providing insurance coverage for vegetables which are vulnerable to even mild weather change,” sad a source. A senior government official said: “Now, hundreds of farmers have to depend on the state government with a hope that they get some compensation from the state government for crop loss.” The rain destroyed agricultural fields in East Midnapore also. Ramaprashad Giri, the krishi (agriculture) karmadhyaksha of West Midnapore zilla parishad, said the farmers who had crop insurance would get compensation according to the procedure. “But for those who don’t have the crop insurance, we will request the state government to release funds to compensate for their loss,” said Giri. The loss of production has already cast a shadow in the local markets as prices of vegetables and flowers have shot up. “Genda (marigold) flowers were sold in retail markets for Rs 50-100 a kg during the Vishwakarma Puja week last year. This year, they were sold for Rs 200,” said a retailer in Ghatal’s Chandrakona village. The picture is the same for vegetables as cucumbers and ribbed gourds are being sold at Rs 50 to Rs 60 a kg while the average price has always been around Rs 20 a kg. A source in the agriculture department said the rise in the prices didn’t result in any good for the farmers as the middlemen use the demand-supply mismatch and corner the benefits from the higher rates. The situation is also causing problems for ordinary buyers as prices have gone up throwing kitchen budget haywire. “The problem is that West Midnapore supplies vegetables to a large part of the state. If its production is hurt, the entire state would feel the pinch during the pandemic when many people lost their livelihood,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-371
18-09-2020||West Bengal||Bengal’s Covid cases 3,197, toll 60 in a day||Bengal on Thursday logged 3,197 new Covid-19 cases, and 60 deaths, 22 of which occurred in Calcutta and 18 in North 24-Parganas. Bengal also saw 2,948 recoveries, with the state’s recovery rate rising further to 86.77 per cent, over 8 per cent higher than the national rate. With this, the state has over 2.15 lakh infections, including over 1.87 lakh recoveries and 4,183 deaths. Calcutta and North 24-Parganas districts have contributed 60 per cent of all Covid-19 deaths in the state. The state’s mortality rate remained 1.94, still behind the national rate of 1.61 per cent. Of the total toll of 4,183, the state government reported 3,587 (85.8 per cent) as deaths with co-morbidity “present”. There have been, over a month, 1,710 deaths of Covid-19 patients in Bengal of which 1,398 were reported comorbid. Bengal ranks sixth among states with the most deaths and high mortality rates. In Covid-19, comorbidities are underlying health disorders, such as high blood pressure, diabetes, cardiovascular disease or kidney ailments. Most pandemic deaths around the world have been of infected persons with comorbidities. In Bengal, hypertension has taken around a fourth of the lives of the Covid-19-infected persons, followed by diabetes, which claimed around a fifth, and cardiac ailments, which took around one-tenth. “While the larger picture is unchanged over a month, a closer look reveals some shifts. For instance, the share of deaths attributed directly to Covid-19 has increased from 11.5 per cent to 14.2,” said a minister. Mortality rate among infected males improved in a month from 2.23 to 2.15 per cent, and in infected females from 1.73 to 1.57. Though the 75-plus age group remains most susceptible to Covid deaths with a mortality rate of 13.4, compared to the age group of 61-75 years, at 6.29 per cent, it is the 61-75 age group that has seen the most deaths in absolute numbers from the pathogen. “Of the comorbid deaths, over 80 per cent were of persons between the ages of 61 and 75. That bracket accounts for 70 per cent of all Covid-19 deaths,” said the minister. On Thursday, the state also reported 45,536 tests, which took the total past 26.54 lakh, at 29,490 tests per million people. Steady rise in testing, coupled with relatively lower cases being found has improved the positive confirmation rate from 8.9 on August 23 to 8.12 per cent. A decreasing positive confirmation rate is indicative of reducing levels of Covid-19 spread. The state reported 33.39 per cent occupancy in the 12,675 beds earmarked for Covid-19 in the 92 dedicated hospitals for the pandemic. Over 2.21 lakh telemedicine consultations have been provided, including 4,311 in the past 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-371
18-09-2020||West Bengal||Onions rot on India-Bangladesh border ||Around 25 per cent of Bangladesh-bound onions — stranded along different land ports in Bengal since Monday because of the Centre’s ban on the export of the bulb — have started rotting, forcing the exporters to dump the perished produce and bring back the rest of the consignments for sale at wholesale markets in the state. The exporters had been waiting anxiously for the past four days and kept the onion-loaded trucks parked at the land ports and the adjacent parking lots as there was a buzz that the Centre would allow the export by raising the produce’s price. “However, there hadn’t been any rethink by the Centre, at least till this evening... Onions have begun to perish in hot weather conditions and at least 25 per cent of the consignments have got rotten. Further wait will damage the entire consignments,” said Mihir Ghosh, an exporter at Ghojadanga land port in North 24-Parganas. According to him, some exporters and clearing agents inspected the condition of the sacks on Thursday morning and after realising that 25 per cent of the onions had already been damaged, they unloaded the trucks, removed the rotten ones to save the good stock. “Most of us have decided to sell the consignments at major wholesale markets like Posta, Sealdah, Dhulagarh, Sheoraphuli, and Siliguri to minimise the loss,” Ghosh, who is a member of the Ghojadanga Foreign Trade Organisation, said. A few exporters like Ranabir Dutta did not wait till Thursday to divert trucks to wholesale markets. On Wednesday night, Dutta diverted 100 tonnes of onions from Ghojadanga port to a wholesaler in North 24-Parganas. “I took the decision quickly apprehending that indefinite wait for the Centre to roll back its ban will become suicidal as onions perish very fast,” Dutta told The Telegraph. On Monday, the Centre had banned the export of onions of all varieties (except Bangalore rose and Krishnapuram) to contain the spike in price in the domestic market and to increase availability. An official of the Union ministry of commerce and industries had indicated the abnormal increase in the price of the Nasik variety of the onion by over 100 per cent (Rs 3,000 per quintal) during the first week of September had led the Centre to impose the ban. Estimates from exporters suggest trucks loaded with about 3000 tonnes of onions have already secured the shipping bills — clearance from the customs to cross over — and are waiting at the land ports. The cargo cannot enter Bangladesh because of the Directorate General of Foreign Trade, a wing of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, order. If the trucks waiting outside the land ports and the rakes are taken into account, another 7,000 tonnes of onions are ready for export. “It is an illogical decision. A highly perishable commodity like onion cannot be banned for export without any prior notice. The Centre can definitely ban the export of onion, but it should have made alternative arrangements for consignments stranded at the border,” said Kartick Chakraborty, the secretary of Petrapole Clearing Agents’ Staff Welfare Association.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-371
