19-09-2020||West Bengal||Rabindrasangeet exponent Purba Dam dies at 85 ||Veteran Rabindrasangeet exponent Purba Dam died at her residence in the city on Saturday, family sources said. She was 85. Dam died of cardiac arrest at her Dhakuria residence in south Kolkata this morning, they said. She is survived by her husband and daughter. A true disciple of legendary Rabindrasangeet singer Suchitra Mitra, Dam regaled listeners with her rendition of songs like "Modhur tomar sesh je na pai prohor holo sesh/Bhuban jure roilo lege anando abesh", "Ami phirbo na re" in her distinctive gayaki style and became a known face among the audience in the 80s. Ironically, 19th September also is the birth anniversary of her mentor and guide Suchitra Mitra. Condoling Dam's demise, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee recalled her cordial relation with the singer who was conferred Sangeet Samman by the state in 2013. "Dam got recognition as a prominent Rabindrasangeet exponent in the 80s. Her death created a void in the world of music," Banerjee said and offered her condolences to the bereaved family. Rabindrasangeet exponent Sumitra Sen said in a statement "Purba Dam has gone to the divine world of music, she left behind a rich repertoire of songs." Upon hearing the news, another famous Rabindrasangeet artist Pramita Mullick told Anandabazar.com, "I've known her since her unmarried days. Her Rabindra Sangeet was loved by one and all. I have seldom seen such a down to earth and easy-going artist in my life. Her passing away marks the end of an era."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-369
19-09-2020||West Bengal||3,192 new Covid cases in Bengal||Bengal on Friday logged 3,192 new Covid-19 cases, 59 deaths and 2,960 recoveries, which raised the state’s total caseload to over 2.18 lakh, of which over 1.9 lakh are recoveries and 4,242 deaths. After the 15-day streak of fall in active cases ended on September 8, lowering total active cases from 28,069 to 23,216, the state has now seen a rise for 10 consecutive days in that total, which is now 24,509. Bengal’s recovery rate, however, continued to climb and is 86.86 per cent now, a rise by over 11 per cent in a month. The national rate is 78.95. “Over the past one month, we had 96,000 new cases and 97,000 recoveries. Our recovery rate will rise more if we are able to lower the number of new cases” said a minister. Of the 59 deaths reported in 24 hours, 14 were from Calcutta and seven from North 24-Parganas. The two districts have contributed 60 per cent of all Covid-19 deaths in Bengal. Of the total deaths, 3,637 (85.7 per cent) were reported comorbid by the state government. Bengal’s mortality rate improved to 1.93, but is still worse-off than the national rate 1.61 per cent “Now that comorbidity surveys are being completed and tighter vigil is being put in place for those who need prioritised medical supervision, we should be able to lower our daily death count from 50-60,” said the minister. “Halving the mortality rate has been our foremost priority.” Bengalalso logged 45,229 tests on Friday, taking the total past 26.99 lakh. The state now has 29,992 tests per million people, which was 15,358 a month ago. Steady rise in testing, coupled with relatively lower cases being found has dragged down the positive confirmation rate from 8.9 on August 23 to 8.1 per cent now. The state reported 33.58 per cent occupancy of 12,675 Covid-19 beds in 92 hospitals. Over 2.25 lakh telemedicine consultations have been provided, including 4,251 in the past 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-369
19-09-2020||West Bengal||Scheme for unemployed||The Mamata Banerjee government has launched a new scheme under which unemployed people will be given soft loans up to Rs 2 lakh and incentives to start a manufacturing unit or trade. The Karmasathi Prakalpa scheme is for unemployed people aged between 18 and 50 years. According to the scheme, which was notified about a week ago, the government would ensure a soft loan of up to Rs 2 lakh from state cooperative banks to support an unemployed person. “The banks would provide 80 per cent of the project cost as loans with a maximum cap of Rs 2 lakh. The state government would give a subsidy of 15 per cent of the project cost and the beneficiary has to invest only 5 per cent of the project cost,” said a senior government official. The government would also reimburse 50 per cent of the annual bank interest for a period of three years if the applicant repays bank interests on time. State government officials said they had a target of disbursing loans to 1 lakh applicants every year. “The process has been made easy for the unemployed. They can submit their detailed project reports to the offices of BDOs and SDOs, who will clear the projects if found feasible. Once cleared, the projects would be sent directly to the cooperative banks, which would start the process of disbursing loans at the earliest,” said a source. Senior government officials said the primary objective of the scheme was to create employment opportunities in the state. “The small scale industries are labour intensive. If we promote them, it would create employment opportunities even in rural areas. This was proven when different clusters of handicrafts created in various districts generated more than 50,000 employment opportunities over the past few years,” said another official. Trinamul insiders have said the move could help the party in the Assembly polls at a time the Opposition is attacking the state government for its failure to create jobs. Senior government officials said anybody registered in the employment bank and having a Class VIII pass certificate could apply for the scheme. “We have more than 14 lakh people registered with the employment bank. Many of them are interested in starting their own business in absence of jobs. The scheme would help them fulfil their dreams,” said a senior official. A minister said the timing of the scheme’s launch was a smart one as hundreds of unemployed people would apply for it. “Now, if we can disburse loans for even a few thousand applicants, we can make the younger voters believe that the state government is beside them even if they can’t crack job exams. It will help us in the elections,” said the minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-369
19-09-2020||West Bengal||Student caught in clash killed||A 14-year-old boy was killed by shrapnel when he was caught in a clash in which two alleged factions of the Trinamul Congress fought with crude bombs at Damodar Chowk village near here on Thursday evening. Apart from Sheikh Mazahar, a Class VIII student, Trinamul worker Sheikh Nasim, 42, was also killed in the violence. “The student was struck by shrapnel and was not involved in the clash. He died on the spot, while Nasim succumbed to his injuries at a local hospital on Thursday night,” said an eyewitness. Sources said the clash was between followers of local Trinamul leaders Uttam Tripathi and Sanjay Pan. “The trigger behind the incident was the assault on a Trinamul worker belonging to Tripathi’s faction,” said a source. A district police officer said a murder case had been registered and six persons arrested in connection with the clash. Nasim worked in Mumbai as a weaver and was scheduled to return later this month. Sheikh Tansur, elder brother of Nasim, said his brother had been singled out by members of Tripathi’s group for his allegiance to Pan, who is the former Trinamul block president in Keshpur. Tripathi had succeeded Pan as Trinamul’s Keshpur block chief. “My brother and I have been allied to Pan for years, and Nasim was killed for refusing to ally with Tripathi,” he said. Trinamul MLA Shiuli Saha said “swift justice should be brought to those responsible according to the law”. “I have requested police to ensure justice without considering the political affiliation of the accused persons,” she said. Tripathi said Nasim had been killed by his relatives over a land dispute. “His death has nothing to do with the party. He had been embroiled in a family property dispute for years,” Tripathi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-369
19-09-2020||West Bengal||Partial relief on stuck onions||The Centre on Friday evening partially withdrew the embargo on export of onions as the Customs authorities were asked to allow the movement of the produce handed over to them on September 14 when the ban came into effect. The relaxation was given by the Directorate General of Foreign Trade, a wing under the ministry of commerce and industry. The Centre’s decision, however, did little to assuage the concerns of the exporters whose cargo was left stranded on the Bangladesh border. “Only about 5 per cent of the cargo would be allowed to be exported... This would not solve our problem,” said Mihir Ghosh, an onion exporter in Ghojadanga. Hundreds of trucks and rakes carrying over 10,000 tonne onions have remained stuck along the border. However, the entire produce hadn’t been handed over to the Customs. The Telegraph reported on Friday that 25 per cent of the onions had already rotten. “We have got the communication from the DGFT and will act accordingly,” said a senior Customs official at Petrapole, the most important land port along the India-Bangladesh border. Kartick Chakraborty, the secretary of the Petrapole Clearing Agents’ Staff Welfare Association, termed the DGFT’s decision as “ridiculous”. “Most of exporters will have to incur heavy losses.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-369
19-09-2020||West Bengal||HC panel to look into Mela wall||A Calcutta high court division bench headed by Chief Justice T.B.N Radhakrishnan on Friday set up a four-member committee chaired by Justice Sanjiv Banerjee to look into aspects of the ongoing strife in Visva-Bharati over construction of a wall around Pous Mela ground and find a resolution by involving all the stakeholders. “The committee will look into the different aspects, fundamentally in the mode of mediation and conciliation among different stakeholders and find out ways and means of doing everything that is necessary for appropriate resolution,” the order passed by Chief Justice Radhakrishnan and Justice Shampa Sarkar said. The committee headed by Justice Banerjee will have Justice Arijit Banerjee , advocate general Kishore Datta and additional solicitor general Y.J. Dastoor as members. The bench also appointed advocate Jaydeep Kar an amicus curae to the case. Kar will assist the bench in the matter. The panel will place its recommendation after three weeks when the court will again take up the issue. On August 17, Santiniketan saw unprecedented violence when people demolished a wall that varsity authorities were erecting around the mela ground. Since then, the university town has been on the boil as the varsity authorities have stuck to their stand on fencing, while people supported by TMC resist it. Earlier, advocate Ramaprasad Sarkar of the same court had filed a public interest litigation on the incident and demanded a CBI probe. The bench felt that there was no necessity to take the assistance of the petitioner in the matter and issued the suo motu order.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-369
19-09-2020||West Bengal||Social outfit sows seeds of alternative farming at Mousuni||A social organisation has started an experiment in alternative farming at Kusumtala on the Mousuni Island by encouraging the farming community to use seeds that can withstand salinity of soil. A large number of villages in the Patharpratima, Namkhana and Joynagar 2blocks of South 24-Parganas are regularly flooded by rivers that are linked to the sea and have high saline content. As water from these rivers keep flooding the villages, cultivating rice and several varieties of vegetables have become difficult. Similarly, the increase of salinity in the ponds make farming sweet water fish species, such as rohu and katla, difficult. The odds that farmers in the region face has been the trigger behind the experiment that Rupantaran Foundation, a Calcutta-based organisation carrying out livelihood restoration programmes across the state, has taken up in the region. Tapas Mandal, head (capacity building) of Development Research Communication and Services Centre, a resource and knowledge centre for sustainable agriculture and alternative livelihood, said they had recommended 12 vegetable seeds to Rupantaran based on the soil condition in the region. “Vegetables will be cultivated on raised land, where salinity level has decreased because of rain. As saline water remains locked in low-lying paddy fields, the vegetables will be cultivated on raised land structures that border these fields. These raised stretches of land are ideal for alternative farming because rain has decreased the soil’s salinity level. The use of mustard cake as an organic fertiliser will further reduce salinity in the soil,” Mandal added. According to him, this model will yield good results in areas affected by Cyclone Amphan that devastated large parts of the Sunderbans in May, affecting the livelihood of the people in the region. Amphan-induced surge in the rivers, tidal waves and breach in embankments had led to flooding of large tracts of agricultural land and ponds with saline water. As cultivation of traditional crops has become a challenge in the three blocks following Amphan, Rupantaran took up the problem with agricultural experts who suggested introducing peasants to farming vegetables that can withstand salinity in the soil. Earlier this week, Rupantaran distributed packets containing 120gm seeds each of red amaranthus (laal saak), water spinach (kalmi saak), red spinach, bitter gourd, pumpkin, lady finger, cucumber, yardlong bean, French beans, radish, and coriander, all of which can survive salinity. In the coming days, 4,906 families will be given seeds, along with 5kg of mustard cakes for fertilisation. Soma Ranjit, a widow in Kusumtala with two children who received the seed packets on Tuesday, said: “We have no work since March. In the past few months, we hardly got anything to eat other than boiled rice. I will grow vegetables on the boundary around my land.” Rupantaran’s beneficiary Sankar Dhara, 58, a farmer in Kusumtala, said he had cultivated paddy on his 2 bigha land last year and earned Rs 12,000. But, Amphan had damaged his crops this year. “Amphan has destroyed my livelihood. I cannot grow paddy this year because of high salinity in the soil. At present, I have no income and had to take a loan to run my family. I am banking on the seeds Rupantaran has given us to grow vegetables. We will be able to eat the vegetables and earn as well by selling the surplus produce.” As part of its livelihood support programme, Rupantaran Foundation has identified 6,389 marginal families in the Patharpratima, Namkhana and Joynagar 2blocks. The Amphan victims without a pucca house, betel orchard, boat and land more than two bighas, have been identified for the project. Speaking to The Telegraph, Rupantaran’s founder-director Smita Sen said: “During distribution of relief materials among Amphan victims, we noticed the miserable condition of people in Mousuni (Namkhana block), Gopalnagar (Patharpratima block) and Manirtat (Joynagar 2 block). Those villagers were worst affected as their agricultural land and ponds had been inundated with saline water. This made agricultural activity a difficult proposition and many were beginning to migrate to earn a living. This made us take up a restorative support programme in these areas.” “We spoke to agricultural experts to find out alternative survival means and they suggested farming vegetables since these people were getting free rice from the government. The vegetables will help the families because of their nutritional values and they could earn by selling the surplus produce,” Sen said. Pranab Hazra, a professor at Bidhan Chandra Krishi Viswavidyalaya in Kalyani and an expert in horticulture, welcomed the initiative but expressed doubts about the “salinity tolerance” of some vegetables. “Some of these vegetables can resist salinity to some extent. However, it is true that rainfall helps reduce the salinity level in the soil,” Hazra said. In several phases, these families will be given seeds of 12 types of vegetables that can grow in saline soil conditions. Those who do not have land but own ponds will be given fish like hybrid Telapia that can be farmed in saline water. Those without land or ponds will be given chicks to start poultry farming. The organisation will also train the beneficiaries to grow fish and vegetables in a sustainable way to meet their nutrient needs and sell the surplus in the markets. Hasna Banu Biwi, the chief of Mousuni gram panchayat, said: “I am hopeful the endeavour will benefit the poor families who have been hit hard by Amphan and lockdown.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-369
19-09-2020||West Bengal||Tea bonus cheer||Workers in the tea gardens of the Terai and the Dooars in north Bengal will get their annual bonus at the rate of 20 per cent ahead of Durga Puja this year, higher than last year. The decision was made at a bipartite virtual meeting held between representatives of tea planters’ associations and tea trade unions on Friday. This was the second round of talks held to decide on the bonus rate. “It has been decided that bonus would be paid to tea workers at 20 per cent rate. The gardens will have to disburse the bonus by October 7,” said Prabir Bhattacharjee, secretary general, Tea Association of India. In 2019, tea workers received a bonus at the rate of 18.5 per cent. On September 15, for the first time in the tea industry, a bipartite meeting on bonus was held through video conferencing amid the pandemic. Then, trade unions demanded a bonus at 20 per cent rate but no decision was made On Friday, trade union leaders sounded elated.“Usually, four to five rounds of bipartite talks are held before the rate of bonus is fixed. It is good that this time, after many years, the rate was fixed only after two rounds. We hope tea companies disburse the bonus at the earliest,” said Mannalal Jain, vice-president, Cha Bagan Trinamul Congress Mazdoor Union. He also mentioned that in 2019, 39 tea gardens had asked for concessional rates, citing their financial incapacity to pay the negotiated rate of 18.5 per cent. “Accordingly, lower rates were finalised for each such garden through talks. This year, these gardens will pay at rates which are 1.5 per cent higher than what they had paid as bonus last year,” added Jain. Gopal Pradhan, president of Dooars Cha Bagan Workers’ Union, said that during the pandemic, this bonus will help the workers’ families. “There are many families where people are sitting jobless for months now. The cash they will receive as bonus will help,” said Pradhan. The rate of bonus for the tea gardens of Darjeeling hills – there are 87 tea estates in the hills – however, is yet to be decided. Last year, workers in the hills received a bonus at 20 per cent rate. “A bipartite meeting would be held on Saturday to discuss the issue,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-369
19-09-2020||West Bengal||Bomb to wrest loan||A 24-year-old migrant worker from East Midnapore's Panskura was arrested on Thursday night by police for allegedly planting a bomb at a hardware store. Police said Asanur Aliwas trying to intimidate the store owner into giving him credit. Ali, a resident of Ramgarh village and a migrant labourer who returned home from Hyderabad during the lockdown, was traced through his cell phone. District SP Sunil Yadav told the media that Ali revealed he had got the know-how on bomb assembling from YouTube. Rajat Maity, who owns a hardware godown and shop in Ghoshpur area of the town, called the police on Thursday morning after receiving threat calls that there was a bomb at his store. “I was shocked to find a device looking like an IED inside," he said on Friday, adding Ali called him at least four times on Thursday saying his shop would be blown up. Sources said Panskura police responded to the site with a fire engine, sniffer dogs, and later a bomb squad defused the device at the banks of the Kangsabati river. CID sleuths then collected the device for a detailed inspection. Ali, who worked as a mason in Hyderabad, was charged on Friday under sections 3 and 4 of the Explosive Substances Act (1908) and produced in chief judicial magistrate Nirupam Kar’s court, where he was remanded for 10 days of police custody. “The youth seems to have retaliated because Maity refused him any more credit. He already owes Rs 30,000 to Maity," said additional public prosecutor Safiul Ali Khan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-369
19-09-2020||West Bengal||Covid curbs for zoos, safaris||The state forest department on Friday said it would reopen all zoos and state-run parks to the public from October 2, a day after it said national parks, wildlife sanctuaries and tiger reserves of the state would reopen from September 23. It also came up with Covid safety guidelines for visitors and their employees in these spots. All these areas were closed for visitors since March 17 in the wake of the pandemic. “All those visiting forests, zoos and parks will have to adhere to new safety rules. Our employees will also follow safety protocols,” said Ravikant Sinha, principal chief conservator of forests of the state. Under new norms, the elephant safari won’t be reintroduced immediately. Tourists can avail the car safari in forest areas and in parks and zoos, said a senior official. All bookings have to be done online. In car safari, four persons, and not six, will be allowed in each vehicle. In watchtowers, up to 20 persons would be allowed at a time. Every vehicle has to be sanitised before entering the forest and the temperature of every visitor screened by the forest staff at entry points. In enclosed areas and food centres run by the department and by West Bengal Forest Development Corporation Limited, entry of people would be curbed to 30 per cent of the usual capacity. Employees, have been given specific instructions on the frequency of sanitising places where tourists are paying visits or are staying. Welcoming these, travel trade stakeholders have pointed out some more issues to help the tourism industry. According to representatives of Eastern Himalaya Travel & Tour Operators’ Association, the state should, through the Centre, take up the issue of sustainable development fee that the neighbouring country of Bhutan intends to charge from Indian tourists. They have also asked Bengal officials to speak to counterparts in Sikkim so that people in travel trade not based in Sikkim do not face problems in sending tourists to the state. Himalayan Hospitality & Tourism Development Network has written to officials of NHAI, seeking immediate repairs of NH110 that links Siliguri and Darjeeling, and NH10 that links Sikkim and Kalimpong. On Saturday, state tourism minister Gautam Deb will meet the stakeholders in Siliguri to discuss issues of the sector, said sources.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-370
19-09-2020||West Bengal||Kidnapped boy’s body in canal||Police early on Friday discovered the body of a nine-year-old boy, a Trinamul Congress gram panchayat member’s son, who had allegedly been kidnapped for ransom on the night of September 16 from East Burdwan’s Galsi. The body was found in an irrigation canal of the Damodar Valley Corporation in Galsi’s Sanko village, where the boy lived, said the police. An investigation into a police complaint by the boy’s father led to the arrests of three local youths on Thursday night, following which the body has been seized. The trio — Badsha Majhi, Jayanta Bag and Mangaldip Dolui — are in their early twenties and are labourers. “We have arrested three youths in connection with the kidnapping and murder of the boy. Two of them were directly involved in kidnapping and murder. They had carried out the abduction to earn easy money and we have started a probe to find out if there was any specific motive behind the crime,” said Bhaskar Mukherjee, the East Burdwan police chief. A police source said Sandip Dolui, a student of a primary school at Sanko, was the only son of local Trinamul gram panchayat member Buddhadeb Dolui. Sandip had stepped out to buy firecrackers from a village shop on the occasion of local puja on September 16 evening when Jayanta and Badsha abducted him. The same night, the duo called up Buddhadeb and asked for a ransom of Rs 7 lakh. “After bargaining, the kidnappers agreed to release my son if I paid them Rs 3 lakh. They had warned that if I informed the police, that would endanger the life of my child. As we did not have money to pay the abductors, I informed Trinamul leaders and sought their help on Wednesday. The police were also informed verbally and I lodged a written complaint yesterday (Thursday). I never imagined that they would kill my son,” said an inconsolable Buddhadeb. Police sources said the duo had stolen the SIM card of their friend Mangaldip and used it to make the ransom call. “We first tracked the phone number from where the ransom call was made and arrested Mangaldip on Thursday. Interrogations then led to the two youths, who were arrested last night. They confessed to the crime and said the boy’s body had been dropped in an irrigation canal of the Damodar Valley Corporation. We have seized the body. The boy had been strangled,” said a senior police officer. After the body was found, around 300 villagers ransacked the houses of Jayanta and Badsha with hammers and iron rods. “The youths knew the boy well and killed him for money. This is unpardonable and so we have ransacked their home,” a villager said. A Burdwan court on Friday remanded the arrested trio in 10 days’ police custody.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-370
19-09-2020||West Bengal||Cop kills self, wife cries blackmail||A sub-inspector of state police who was the officer-in-charge at the traffic wing in Balurghat of South Dinajpur fatally overdosed on sleeping pills at home on Thursday late at night. When Sudipta Kumar Das, 49, was rushed to the district hospital in Balurghat, doctors pronounced him dead. His wife Soma alleged that Das took the drastic step as he was being blackmailed for money by a woman civic volunteer with whom he had an affair. Sources said Das, who hails from Malda, got his job in the state police in 1997. Posted in South Dinajpur for years, he worked in the traffic wing and many police stations in the district. After he was posted in Balurghat, his wife and their two children stayed at police quarters in Gangarampur while he stayed alone at Balurghat. But around eight days back, he asked them to come to Balurghat, a source said. On Friday, his family members were supposed to leave for Gangarampur again. But on Thursday night, after he reached home, he spoke to them and then consumed 30 sleeping pills. “His wife tried to contact others, but he dissuaded her. As he fell asleep, his wife called up officers in Balurghat police station and he was taken to hospital but it was too lat,” said a source. Debarshi Dutta, SP, South Dinajpur, said Das was taken to the hospital at 3am where doctors declared him  dead.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-370
19-09-2020||West Bengal||Tea production dates declared for quality check||The Tea Board of India, in back-to back notifications on Thursday and Friday, has announced the last date for production of tea in different brew belts of the country in this year. This is the third year in a row since 2018 that the board has come up with such notifications, a move geared at preventing the production of poor quality teas during the lean period or winter when fresh tea leaves stop coming up in the plantations. In the notifications, it has been mentioned that the last date to pluck tea leaves will be from December 5 to 19 in different tea growing areas of the country. For tea estates of Darjeeling, Sikkim, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand, the last day for plucking is December 5 while the last day for processing the leaves is December 7. On the other hand, for the Dooars, Terai and adjoining areas of Bihar, the dates for plucking and processing are December 19 and 21, respectively. The pair of dates are the same for tea estates in the Cachar area of Assam and the tea industry of Tripura. For the rest of Assam and other Northeast states (except Tripura), tealeaves can be plucked till December 12 and processed till December 14. In the notifications, the board has also stipulated the dates by which teas should be despatched to warehouses and other storage facilities. “Also, each tea manufacturing unit will have to submit a declaration to the tea board that production has stopped at the factory. Any non-compliance would mean violation of the Tea (Marketing) Control Order of 2003. If a tea unit violates the notification, it might face legal steps. The initiative has been taken to discourage tea production during the lean months,” said a source in the Tea Board. “We welcome the initiative as on one hand, it would ensure quality teas, and on the other, help keep a balance in the supply and keep prices stable. There is no point in merchandising teas of low quality which eventually affects prices and the industry as a whole,” said Bijoygopal Chakraborty, president, Confederation of Indian Small Tea Growers’ Associations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-370
19-09-2020||West Bengal||Killer of retired army man and his wife arrested||Tanmay Bar, who had allegedly shot dead a retired army man and his wife in Habra on Wednesday morning, was arrested from a hideout in Barasat’s Nilganj early on Friday. Police said Bar had taken temporary shelter at a friend’s house when sleuths zeroed in on him by tracking the mobile phone numbers of some of his close friends and relatives. He was produced in the Barasat ACJM court later on Friday and was remanded in 10 days’ police custody. Bar, who was accused of kidnapping the ex-soldier’s niece at gunpoint earlier, climbed a coconut tree and landed on the terrace of  Ramkrishna Mandal, 58 and his wife Lila Mandal’s Tunighata-Mandalpara home at Habra in North 24-Parganas. Police sources said Bar shot the couple when he came face-to-face with them after entering the house. Beginning a probe into the murder, the police had formed three teams and begun combing several areas while coordinating with BSF to keep an eye on Tanmay’s movement. In 2016, he had abducted Ramkrishna’s niece and forcefully married her after fleeing to Bangladesh. Bar was arrested when the couple returned to India in 2017. Superintendent of police, Barasat district, Abhijit Banerjee said: “We will interrogate Bar to ascertain the motive behind the murder."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-370
