20-09-2020||West Bengal||The evidence of guns that smoke no more||Last year, two British-era cannons — Armstrong-Frederick pattern and Bloomfield pattern — of north Calcutta were restored after prolonged rallying by a citizens’ group. Civic workers had discovered the cannons in 2010 when they were laying water pipelines near Mayo Hospital on Strand Road. Thereafter, the then councillor of Ward 21, Ajoy Saha, had them transferred onto the footpath of Maharshi Debendra Road. The citizens’ group, Purono Kolkatar Galpo (PKG), however, demanded a more lasting arrangement and one that befitted the historical value of the duo. “We kept appealing to Saha to restore them. We even organised a walk demanding the cannons be displayed properly,” says Jayanta Sen, who is a member of PKG. Finally, on the initiative of Saha and current councillor Sujata Saha the cannons were cleaned, mounted on a white marble slab and inaugurated with much fanfare in September 2019. The Armstrong-Frederick and Bloomfield are light British gun models that were used throughout the Indian subcontinent between the mid-18th and mid-19th centuries. From the 16th century on, gun design was centrally controlled by the Board of Ordnance in England. Its principal office holder was the Surveyor of the Ordnance. John Armstrong and Charles Frederick, both had occupied the top post. The model named after them bears imprints of their design modifications. It remained in production from 1760 to 1786. The Bloomfield pattern, which came after and remained in production till 1860, is named after Thomas Bloomfield,  who became inspector of artillery in 1780. It has a loop through which a thick rope can pass. “When it is fired, the recoil is violent. To check it, a rope was tightly fixed to something,” explains Amitabha Karkun, who is an expert on cannons and old firearms, at a recent talk on the cannons of West Bengal organised by the Indian Museum on social media. Why should we care about cannons now? “Because they tell us something about the technological and metallurgical expertise of a certain time. We also get an idea about the availability of resources and the progress of science,” Karkun tells The Telegraph. Experts claim the cannons of Bengal can be roughly segregated as pre-Mughal, Mughal and Indo-European types. “Gunpowder,” clarifies Karkun, “was pre-Mughal”. Pre-Mughal cannons belonged to the Husain Shahi dynasty, Sher Shah Suri, and even the Bara-Bhuiyans who used them to resist the Mughal expansion. Each cannon type has its own distinctive structure and design. “Pre-Mughal cannons have geometric ornamentation on them, while the Mughal ones have floral patterns. British and French cast iron cannons are devoid of any such design,” says Karkun. “They are not just tools of war but also evidence of history,” he adds. Calcutta has a wealth of such evidence. There is the Chinese cannon mounted on a winged dragon right in front of the Raj Bhavan. According to the inscription on it, it was taken from the Chinese in 1842 in commemoration of peace “dictated under the walls of Nankin by the naval and military forces of England and India”. Fort William, the headquarters of the Eastern Command, has 73 cannons. The most important of the lot is possibly the tope Zafar Baksh that was manufactured during Aurangzeb’s reign in the mid to the late 17th century. The precincts of the Indian Museum have nine cannons belonging to various eras right from the 16th to the 19th century. The Asiatic Society has a cannon that once belonged to the artillery of Assam rulers. And the premises of the Tipu Sultan mosque have 18 cannons. But one of the earliest cannons in these parts happens to be not in Calcutta but in Murshidabad. The Bachchawali tope stands in front of the grand Hazarduari Palace. In the 1905 book, The Musnad of Murshidabad, Purna Chandra Majumdar writes that the gun was most likely manufactured between the 12th and 14th centuries by the Muslim rulers of Gaur. Majumdar observes, “It rested originally on the sandbank adjoining Ichhaganj (how it came there is not known), protecting the city from attack from the northwest.” Bachcha means child. Bachchawali means “one with child”. There is more than one story about how this cannon came to be so named. While some say it produced such a loud noise upon being fired that pregnant women went into labour, Majumdar writes, “It is said that the gun was once fired in Murshidabad and the sound produced many cases of abortions for miles around. Hence, its name.” Karkun believes the name has to do with its gunpowder chamber. He says, “This is the only cannon in eastern India having such a unique forge welded construction with a separate removable gunpowder chamber, much like a bachcha.” The other treasure of Murshidabad is the Jahankosh. This cannon, built by the expert artisan Janardhan Karmakar during the reign of Shah Jahan and weighing 7,900 kilos, was found embedded in a peepul tree. The tree had grown around the cannon and lifted it up as it grew. Years later, the peepul was cut down and the gun was brought to what used to be the topekhana or artillery yard of the Nawab of Murshidabad. Says Karkun, “The cannon is 7-feet 6-inches long. The bore measures 6 inches. Every time the gun was fired, it had to be loaded with 26 kilograms of gunpowder.” Neighbouring Bishnupur is home to Dalmadal; the original name is Dal-Mardan, which means “crusher of people” in Persian. It was manufactured between 1600 and 1700. It is one of the earliest wrought iron forge welded cannons of India. There was a Persian inscription at the touch-hold end that read “one lakh twenty five taka” — possibly the cost of making the cannon. Karkun knows this from archival pictures; currently the inscriptions on the Dalmadal have been obliterated as a result of constant touching by tourists, just as in the case of Jahankosh. And, back to Calcutta. BBD Bag. 2 Red Cross Place. Three cannons stand at attention at the entrance to an office. “This used to be the showroom of the famous gun dealer, R.B. Rodah,” says Karkun. These cannons look like Congreve (named after Captain William Congreve) medium cannons used by the Royal Navy, but shorter in length. According to records, the first casting of such guns happened in 1830. Their size made them easy to fire from ships, but eventually, unhappy with their heavy recoil, the Royal Navy discarded them. The ships of the East India Company, however, continued to use them. The Red Cross Place cannons possibly came from such ships. But no cannon in the city has been so footloose as the one that currently adorns the entrance to Town Hall. The 18-mm Krupp gun is a legacy of the Second Boer War (1898-1902). After the British defeated the South African Republic and the Orange Free State, it seized their armaments. This cannon of German make was part of the booty and presented by the British crown to the Calcutta Corporation in 1905. It was meant to be a tribute to Indians who had participated in the war as a non-combatant force. The cannon was kept in the main tower block of the central building of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation till the mid-1960s. At the time of the Indo-Pak conflict in 1965, it was shifted to Market Square (now Chaplin Park), opposite the headquarters of the civic body. Next, it moved to New Market. And there it stood in the centre of things, a North Star for lost souls. In 2006, the authorities decided to move it to the Town Hall for better upkeep and preservation after one of its wheels came off, an aftermath of too much affection and attention showered onto it by the urchin gaggle. Once a loose cannon, almost always a loose cannon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-368
20-09-2020||West Bengal||Job hopes rise for former KLO men||The police administration in Cooch Behar on Saturday asked 100-odd former militants and linkmen of the Kamtapur Liberation Organisation (KLO) to turn up at the office of the superintendent of police and submit filled-up police verification forms and identity documents at the earliest. The move, police sources said, was part of a government plan to recruit them as home guards and bring them back to the mainstream. The government had rolled out a similar scheme for former KLO militants and linkmen from the neighbouring districts of Jalpaiguri and Alipurduar two years back. “On Saturday, 37 former militants and 104 linkmen were called to the SP’s office... We were given verification forms and asked to submit the forms with supporting documents. It seems that the state government has finally taken up the task to provide us jobs,” said Pulasthya Burman, a former militant. Three days back, these former militants and linkmen had held a meeting in Cooch Behar and decided to launch a movement from October 1 to demand jobs. They also urged the state government to set up an autonomous council for the Rajbanshi population like it has been announced in Assam. Police officials, however, remained tight-lipped. “Verification is a routine process. We cannot comment on the issue further,” said a police officer. A political observer pointed out that the initiative is significant as it has been taken just ahead of the chief minister’s upcoming visit to north Bengal. “It seems that Trinamul intends to play development card again to draw support from people. These former militants, the linkmen and their families are disgruntled a lot as they were not being provided with the jobs of home guards, unlike the ex-KLOs of adjoining districts…,” the observer said. Pranesh Ishore, another former militant, said they are keeping fingers crossed. “We have been raising the demand for many years now. This sudden move by the district police has rekindled our hopes. Many of us are finding it tough to make both ends meet. Even a home guard’s job would largely help us to run our families,” Ishore said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-368
20-09-2020||West Bengal||Killer turns up at police station||A flower vendor surrendered at Kotwali police station here on Saturday morning in connection with twin murders late on Friday. Police sources said Bimal Nayak, 32, confessed to killing his colleagues Tanmay Mullick, 30, and Rajesh Das, 32, over a money-lending dispute. “Bimal said during dinner on Friday at the flower shop of Rajesh in the Keranichoti area here, an argument arose between him and Tanmay over borrowed money. Bimal attacked Tanmay with a sharp-edged weapon in a fit of rage,” said a police officer. “When Rajesh tried to run, Bimal attacked him too. Both were killed on the spot. He hid their bodies in the godown of the flower shop,” the officer added. Both bodies were recovered from the godown on Saturday. On Saturday, Bimal reportedly turned himself in, saying that if he did not, eyewitnesses would have identified him anyway. “He was worried that if he became a fugitive, his family could be affected,” said the police officer. West Midnapore SP Dinesh Kumar said a probe would begin and search was on to find if others were also involved.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-368
20-09-2020||West Bengal||October 2 comeback for Gorkha soldier statue||Binay Tamang has decided to reinstall a statue of a Gorkha soldier which was originally installed by GNLF leader Subash Ghisingh atop Gorkha Rangamanch Bhawan but uninstalled by Bimal Gurung when he took charge of Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA) in 2012. The statue will be reinstated on October 2. “I requested GTA chairman (of board of administrator) Anit Thapa and principal secretary (Surendra Gupta) to reinstall the Gorkha statue at its original place. The GTA has given the necessary permission and the statue will be installed on October 2, the birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi,” said Tamang. Subash Ghisingh, the then chairman of Darjeeling Gorkha Hill Council came up with his dream project to reconstruct Gorkha Rangamanch Bhawan which was also called Bhanu Bhawan in 1997. Construction of the auditorium, which also housed GTA offices and GTA Sabha hall, was completed in 2012. Ghisingh had installed the Gorkha soldier’s statue atop a globe. Gurung, however, thought that the statue was wrongly placed and during a public speech said the khukuri should not be pointing towards Mahakal temple. Soon the khukuri was replaced by the Indian flag. After some months, the statue was removed and installed in the open space of the Bhawan. Tamang, who was a former chairman of GTA board of administrators before Anit Thapa took over, said that the decision to remove the Gorkha statue was “wrong.” Following Tamang’s announcement, Neeraj Zimba, Darjeeling MLA from the GNLF party who won on a BJP ticket, said he personally welcomed the move despite his ideological differences with Tamang.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-368
20-09-2020||West Bengal||Blackout village scrambles for generators||Around 150 families of a village in East Burdwan’s Kalna are spending thousands from their savings to hire generators as the entire area is facing a blackout for over a month with the lone transformer developing a snag on August 17. Villagers of Muragachha Baishnav Para, which falls under Purbasthali police station and is 42km from Kalna, have sent at least a dozen reminders to the power supply office to repair or replace the transformer but in vain. Unable to bear the heat and humidity, villagers are shelling out thousands on generators to switch on lights and get fans moving. “The cost to hire generators is huge, so have joined hands with others. As most villagers are farmers, not all can afford to hire generators. I had hired a dedicated generator but could not afford it beyond seven days,” said Prosenjit Chakraborty, a farmer who also runs a shop in a nearby market. Chakraborty, in the seven days, had ended up spending Rs 5,600. “During the lockdown period my income has dropped and I had to dip into my savings to pay for the generator’s cost. The heat is unbearable and it is difficult to live without fans,” he added. Local electricians said they were charging Rs 200 to Rs 350 per day for generators without diesel. “To run a generator for about 15 hours per day will cost around Rs 1,200-Rs 1,500 because of the diesel cost involved. A generator requires a litre of diesel to run for 90 minutes. This means at the present market rate the cost to run a generator for 90 minutes is around Rs 100,” an electrician said. Akashi Das, a graduate preparing for her competitive exams, said her father, a farmer, spent Rs 25,000 on a generator in the past one month. “My father had to spend the money because I cannot study in the dark,” said Akashi. Those who cannot afford to hire generators are spending sleepless nights in the sultry weather. “I work under an electrician and have no money to hire a generator for a month. We used the generator for three days and are now spending days and nights without electricity,” said Sourav Das, a villager. The local gram panchayat took up the plight of the villagers with the office of West Bengal State Electricity Supply Development Limited, but their effort went in vain. “We can’t imagine that a village is without power for over a month and no one is bothered…I had contacted the local power supply office but they did nothing,” said Shyam Sundar Das, deputy chief and member of Kalekatala-I gram panchayat. Power supply officials said the 25KV transformer of the village had burnt out at least twice in the recent past because of the area’s power load. The officials said they had planned a 63KV transformer for the village and the process was taking time. “The transformer will be replaced in a day or two,” said Indranil Debnath, the station manager at the Kalna office of the WBSEDCL. Asked why it took a month to replace a transformer, he said: “Two transformers were damaged in the past three months because of higher load. The process to install a 63KV transformer is taking time.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-368
20-09-2020||West Bengal||7-day Covid lockdown in Gangtok||The Sikkim government on Saturday announced a complete lockdown in Gangtok for seven days from Monday to September 27 following a spike in Covid-19 cases, including three ministers and two MLAs testing positive. In a notification issued in Gangtok, the state home department said the lockdown was being enforced to contain the spread of Covid within Gangtok municipal corporation limits. Barring essential services like medicine and grocery stores, all business establishments would be shut. The lockdown was announced on a day three ministers L.N. Sharma, Karma Loday Bhutia and M.N. Sherpa, and BJP MLAs Farwanti Tamang and T.T. Bhutia, tested positive for Covid. The quintet had taken the tests on Friday as part of protocol before the start of the two-day Assembly session on Monday. Sikkim chief minister P.S. Tamang (Golay) tested negative. Thirty-nine fresh Covid cases were reported from the state on Saturday. In all, Sikkim has reported 2,341 cases with 26 deaths. Sikkim Police decided to carry out a statewide special drive to ensure compliance with Covid safety norms in view of rise in the number of cases. “Of late it is being observed that many have become a bit callous about following the prescribed mandatory protocols of virus prevention,” said Prawin Gurung, DIG (Range), warning violators of stern action.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-368
20-09-2020||West Bengal||Onion tears for exporter as train can’t move||A Bangladesh-bound consignment of 1,612 tonnes of onions, worth some Rs 5.5 crore, is in the danger of rotting as the onion-laden goods train is stuck at Ranaghat station for three days because of the Centre’s sudden embargo on their export. The 42-wagon rake, booked by Andhra Pradesh-based exporter NK Agro-Export Private Ltd, was denied entry to Darshana in Bangladesh, despite the Centre’s partial relaxation norms announced on Friday. The Centre on Friday had allowed the movement of the onion cargos that had been handed over to Customs by September 14, when the ban came into effect. “The wagons were loaded in Lasalgaon in Maharashtra and the rake began its journey for Darshana on September 12. The railway receipt (RR) for export of the consignment was issued on September 13, a day before the Director-General of Foreign Trade issued the embargo on onion export. But still we can’t send the consignment,” said Rajib Gupta, manager of the NK Agro-Export Private Ltd’s Calcutta office. “We are in a disastrous situation with no one in the government even listening to our pleas.... The RR had issued on September 13, which is generally considered as the shipment date. We also paid customs surcharge on the same date, which is also written on the RR. But, Customs authorities in Ranaghat are not telling us anything,” added Gupta. He feared that the entire consignment would rot in extreme heat and humidity as the rake, which had reached Ranaghat on September 17, was stuck on the Indian side of the border. There is a basis for this apprehension. Several exporters of onions, whose truckloads of consignments are stuck at land ports, have complained that more than 25 per cent of the cargo had been damaged while the vehicles were waiting at land ports along India-Bangladesh border. The Customs clearing agent of the exporter Sujit Banik said that at Ranaghat station the railway authorities had issued the wagon inspection certificate. Still the Customs authorities were not clearing the consignment, he said. Customs officials in Ranaghat refused to speak on the issue. An official, however, preferring to be anonymous said, “We are only complying with the DGFT guidelines.” Bimal Bengani, convener of the Federation of Indian Export Organisations (Commodities Export), has made a written appeal to Union commerce and industry minister Piyush Goyal to allow the clearance for the Bangladesh bound rakes at the earliest. India’s decision to ban onion exports has drawn criticism from not only farmers and the general public, even the Bangladesh government has expressed its deep concern over the sudden ban.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-368
20-09-2020||West Bengal||3,188 new Covid cases, 56 deaths in Bengal||Bengal on Saturday logged 3,188 new Covid-19 cases, 2,993 recoveries and 56 deaths, of which 15 each were reported from Calcutta and North 24-Parganas. With this, the state went past 2.21 lakh cases including over 1.93 lakh recoveries and 4,298 deaths. Bengal’s overall mortality rate stayed at 1.93, while the national rate is 1.6 per cent. Calcutta and North 24-Parganas contributed to 60 per cent of Bengal’s Covid toll. “Those two districts collectively have a mortality rate of nearly 2.7 and Calcutta alone has around 3.2. That is where we have to stem the flow, to lower the state’s mortality rate,” said a minister. Of the total deaths, 3,684 (85.7 per cent) were reported comorbid by the state government. However, despite a rise over the past few days in total active cases, which is 24,648 now, Bengal’s recovery rate continued to rise and was 86.96 per cent on Saturday, much ahead of the national rate, 79.4. The state had over 44,000 new cases and 42,000-odd recoveries in a fortnight, besides 788 deaths. “Despite more new cases than recoveries, we have been able to ensure a rise by over 2 per cent in the recovery rate. We are looking to get past 90 (recovery rate) in another week or so. We are already in third position, among states with the highest recovery rates (after Bihar and Tamil Nadu) and we are looking to get to first place in a month,” the minister said. The state reported 45,563 tests on Saturday, taking the total past 27 lakh. “We began testing in early February. Over six months later, a month ago, we were at 14.16 lakh tests. Today, we are past 27.44. We have almost doubled it in just a month,” said the minister. Bengal is now at 30,498 tests per million people. A month ago, the state was at 15,740. Steady rise in testing, coupled with relatively lower cases being found has improved the positive confirmation rate from 8.9 on August 23 to 8.09 per cent. A decreasing positive confirmation rate is indicative of reducing levels of Covid-19 spread. The state reported 33.84 per cent occupancy of 12,675 Covid-19 beds in 92 hospitals. Around 2.3 lakh telemedicine consultations have been provided, including 4,182 in the past 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-368
20-09-2020||West Bengal||Sikkim nod for tourists from Oct 10||The P.S. Tamang (Golay) government in the Himalayan state of Sikkim has decided to reopen the state for tourists, both domestic and foreign, from October 10 after a gap of seven months. The decision, sources said, was taken to kick-start the tourism-dependent state economy. A notification, issued by the state home department on Saturday stated: “It has been decided to allow free interstate movement of people without any requirement of registration with effect from 1st of October 2020, and also permit hotels, home stays and other tourism-related services to operate from 10th October 2020.” The decision came on Saturday, the day Bengal tourism department announced a campaign to promote the Dooars region. Since March, those associated with travel trade are struggling for survival amid the pandemic and lockdown. In Sikkim, the decision to open up tourism was made after chief minister Tamang met various stakeholders in Gangtok on Friday and acknowledged that the state’s economy had taken a beating because of the Covid-dictated tourist ban. Sikkim had barred foreign tourists from March 5 and domestic ones from March 17, the first Indian state to do so in the wake of the pandemic. The tourism open-up notification also stated that the state tourism department had to issue a detailed standard operating procedure (SOP) in consultation with the health department for hotels, homestays and other tourism-related services to run from October 10 and onwards. “Inner Line Permits for foreign tourists having valid visas shall be issued from 10th October, 2020…The bookings for hotels and homestays complying with the SOP shall start from 27th September, 2020,” it added. Roshan Raj Shrestha, president, Sikkim Hotel and Restaurant Association, said: “Since this (Covid pandemic) is something we have to live with for a very long time, it is better we start taking pragmatic steps to open up so that people do not suffer further losses.” In Siliguri, Bengal tourism minister Gautam Deb held a meeting with senior administrative officials of Darjeeling and Jalpaiguri districts and travel trade representatives in north Bengal. At the meeting, it was decided that the state would simplify land registration norms for homestay owners. “The chief minister (Mamata Banerjee) has specially emphasised on the promotion of homestay tourism and we have developed a policy for it. The district administrations concerned have been asked to simplify land registration for homestay owners. The state has already announced incentives for homestays and is paying a one-time financial assistance of Rs 1.5 lakh,” said Deb. Deb said the state was mulling a proposal to draft a policy for small-scale tour operators. He also elaborated his department’s plan to host “Visit Dooars -2021”, a promotional campaign to highlight the Dooars. “Help desks would be set up in different locations. Sanitisation points for vehicles would be opened at the entry points of tourist spots,” Deb added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-368
