21-09-2020||West Bengal||61 more die of Covid in Bengal||Bengal on Sunday logged 3,177 new Covid-19 cases, 61 deaths and 2,958 recoveries. The total cases went past 2.25 lakh, of which nearly 1.96 lakh were recoveries and 4,359 deaths. The recovery rate crossed 87 for the first time and is 87.05 now, far ahead of the national rate of 79.62 per cent. “Despite the slight rise in the total number of active cases (24,806 on Sunday) over the past 10-12 days, the state is still out of the top 10 (12th position currently) in the list of states and Union territories with the most active cases. In terms of active ratio, it is in the 31st place. That’s how decent our performance, even at this stage of the pandemic, is,” said a Bengal minister. Of the total 4,359 deaths, Calcutta alone accounted for 1,581, with 15 reported on Sunday. North 24-Parganas reported a total of 981 deaths, 16 of them on Sunday. The state government reported 3,734 deaths (85.7 per cent) as those with comorbidity “present”. Bengal’s overall mortality rate is now 1.93, still behind the national rate of 1.6 per cent. “Despite a lot of efforts, we are yet to lower our mortality rate to far less than 2. That is because we have been plateauing out in the daily count of both new cases and deaths. For a substantial drop in the mortality rate, either the number of daily deaths has to decline sharply or the number of new cases has to see a spike,” said the minister. “The chief minister set a target of halving the mortality rate, weeks ago. But it has not been easy and we haven’t been able to get close yet,” he added. On the plus side, having conducted over 9 lakh tests already in September, the total test count is nearly 27.91 lakh now. With substantial ramp-up in testing, the state quadrupled its daily testing in two months, conducting 45,656 on Sunday. The tests per million count is now 31,006, which was 20,974 even at the beginning of September. Steady rise in testing, coupled with no marked increase in the number of new cases being found, has improved the positive confirmation rate from 8.9 on August 23 to 8.07 per cent. A decreasing positive confirmation rate is indicative of reducing levels of Covid-19 spread. The state reported 33.94 per cent occupancy on 12,675 beds earmarked for Covid-19 at 92 dedicated hospitals for the pandemic. Over 2.34 lakh telemedicine consultations for the pandemic were provided, including 4,182 in the past 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-367
21-09-2020||West Bengal||Office-of-profit notice to Firhad Hakim||The Election Commission of India has sought a reply from Firhad Hakim, state urban development minister and the chairman of the board of administrators at the Calcutta Municipal Corporation, by September 30 on a petition that had alleged that he became a subject to disqualification as an MLA for holding an “office of profit”. The director (law), V.K. Pandey, of the ECI issued the notice mentioning the petition submitted by Indrajeet Dasgupta, an advocate in Calcutta High Court, had alleged that the post of Chairperson of the Board of Administrators of the CMC was not exempted from disqualification under the West Bengal (Removal of Disqualification) Act, 2007 and hence, it fell in the category of “Office of Profit”. The notice sent to the minister mentioned that if Hakim didn’t reply within the stipulated time frame, the ECI would then proceed to take further action without any further reference to him by considering that he had nothing to say in this regard. Sources in the chief electoral officer’s office in Calcutta said the notice had already been handed over to the minister a couple of days back. The ECI notice says the petition had stated the offices of the chairperson of the board of administrators has certain benefits to it like chauffeur driven car, personal staff, salary and allowances, which make them offices of profit. “I haven’t received the ECI notice as yet. If I receive, I will surely respond,” said Hakim. Sources said home secretary Alapan Bandopadhyay had written to the ECI, explaining that Hakim’s post didn’t qualify as the office of profit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-367
21-09-2020||West Bengal||Rs 9cr allotted to civic bodies for dengue fight||The Bengal government has allotted Rs 9 crore to 126 civic bodies across the state  in a bid to enlist civic personnel to fight dengue, with senior health officials reiterating chief minister Mamata Mamata’s assertion that the vector-borne disease could not be neglected amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The “Dengue Bijoy Obhijan” drive was launched by officials on Sunday, flagging off a three-month drive against the disease. Sources said the move came after the chief minister repeatedly said at Nabanna meetings over the past few months not to forget dengue during the fight against Covid-19. In a meeting with district magistrates and other senior officials last month, Mamata had expressed her worry over dengue with particular reference to North 24-Parganas and Calcutta. “Please carry on the work needed to prevent dengue. Ensure that a situation does not arise later where you have to fight dengue and Covid-19 together,” Mamata had warned recently. Later, in a late August meeting with district officials, she had ordered a close watch on dengue-prone areas in the district. Sources said the State Urban Development Agency (Suda) had allotted Rs 9 crore to municipalities this year according to the area allotments of the civic bodies. Large civic bodies like Asansol Municipal Corporation in West Burdwan received Rs 28.62 lakh whereas smaller civic bodies like Basirhat in North 24-Parganas received Rs 6.81 lakh. “We have allotted the funds to civic bodies as a first step in outsourcing persons who can join as vector control team members. Members will visit homes and take immediate action to remove stagnant water. The programme will stop the spread of the disease,” said Santanu Mukherjee, Suda director. “Funds are hereby released electronically in favour of Urban Local bodies as honorarium to Vector Control Team Members…” an order issued by Suda this week read. Suda officials said they would continuously send money to civic bodies every month till November —t he peak time for dengue — and would ask civic bodies to send utilisation certificates of the funds by the fifth of every month. Sources in different municipalities said the government had increased funds for controlling Dengue for the first time in a number of years, and welcomed the move citing clear directions to take actions in dengue-prone areas. “Earlier, our staff from the municipality used to look after dengue-related matters. Now, the government will hire personnel dedicated to keep vigil for the vector disease,” said Aswini Tiwari, chairman of the Rampurhat municipality. On Sunday, state urban development minister Firhad Hakim inaugurated the new drive against the disease. which was followed up with an inauguration at all civic bodies in Bengal on Sunday. “All municipalities have been asked to conduct door-to-door surveys mainly to locate stagnant water and to campaign in urban pockets to make people aware about dengue in the time of Covid-19,” said an urban development department official. On Sunday, several municipalities took out tableau to campaign against dengue and initiated cleanliness campaigns in their respective areas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-367
21-09-2020||West Bengal||Flames devour hilsa at a godown at Digha||Nearly two tonnes of hilsa valued over Rs 20 lakh were burnt to ashes in a fire at a godown inside Digha’s Matsya Nilam Kendra market. The fire reportedly started around midnight from cigarette ashes of a worker sleeping on the premises. East Midnapore district police began an investigation into the cause of the incident. Sources in the local fish traders’ association have lamented the latest blow to an “already dismal” hilsa season this year, which most fishermen in the district rely on for a substantial portion of their yearly income. “Twelve stores caught fire last night. Among them was a fish godown (in right picture) storing the coveted fish worth of Rs 20 lakh,” said a police officer. “This has caused a further setback for fishermen who were already reeling from a bad hilsa season,” said Digha Fishermen’s and Fish-traders’ Association secretary Shyam Sundar Das. Bablu Gaji, an owner of the godown and resident of North 24-Parganas’s Basirhat, said: “This fish is very costly and I was depending on the income to repay bank loans. I had lost approximately 600kg of fish.” He said each fish was priced between approximately Rs 800 and Rs 1,200.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-367
21-09-2020||West Bengal||Bengal govt to transfer land to erosion victims||The Mamata Banerjee government has started handing over land to people who were earlier evicted or lost their homes and land because of river erosion in north Bengal. While in Malda, the administration has announced that land will be provided to 68 erosion victims on Monday, tourism minister Gautam Deb handed over land rights to 14 families in Jalpaiguri on Sunday. In Malda, all the victims who would be handed over the land are from different villages of Baishnabnagar Assembly constituency that has a BJP MLA since 2016. “We would be offering each of 68 families the deed of land measuring one cottah. The alternate land would be in the vicinity of their old houses. Few families would even get the land near NH12,” said Rajarshi Mitra, the district magistrate of Malda. This is the first time in recent times that the administration has acted so quickly to provide alternative land to erosion victims. “Among the prospective beneficiaries are many who have lost their homes to the erosion a fortnight ago,” said Subhamay Bose, a spokesperson for district Trinamul in Malda. He also demanded that the Farakka Barrage Project Authority that functions under the central government take up anti-erosion work in the affected areas. Although the erosion started on a small scale in June in Baishnabnagar under Kaliachak 3 block, it took a grim turn on August 30 when large stretches of land in Chinabazar and Sarkarpara were devoured by the Ganga. Frightened by the erosion, the residents had started shifting their houses to safer places. Many took shelter at a local ground and others were living in makeshift tents. All the affected families would be rehabilitated in due course, said sources in the administration. In Gajoldoba (under Rajganj block of Jalpaiguri) where the state is developing “Bhorer Alo,” a mega tourism hub, 14 families, who had encroached on government land, were evicted as it was decided to build a bridge and its approach road to connect the hub. “Today (Sunday), we provided them with land. They will also get funds under the state’s housing scheme to build their homes,” said the tourism minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-367
21-09-2020||West Bengal||Bista raises hill demand in Lok Sabha||Darjeeling MP Raju Bista  requested the Centre in the Lok Sabha on Saturday to expedite the process to “ascertain” a “permanent political solution” to the Darjeeling issue at a time BJP allies in the hills mounted pressure on the Narendra Modi government on the matter. In its manifesto for the 2019 general elections, the BJP had said: “We are committed to work towards finding a permanent political solution to the issue of Darjeeling Hills, Siliguri, Terai and Dooars region.” In a statement, Bista said: “I requested the Parliament to take cognizance of the fact that the demand for Gorkhaland state is a long-pending demand of the people from Darjeeling Hills, Terai, and Dooars.” The BJP MP said developments like abrogation of Article 370, resolution of the Bodoland issue and “the rapid pace of development in hitherto neglected” Northeast had given hope to “the people from our region that Gorkhaland-related issued would be resolved very soon”. Bista also pointed out that the Darjeeling Gorkha Hill Council (DGHC) and the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA), which had been formed in 1988 and 2012, respectively, “have failed to fulfil the aspirations of the people”. The BJP leader is of the opinion that the issues also needed to be looked at from the perspective of “national security” given the fact that the hills, Dooars and the Terai share borders with Bhutan, Nepal and Bangladesh and is very close to the China frontier. Bista’s renewed focus on the hill issue comes close on the heels of BJP allies, GNLF and the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha’s Bimal Gurung faction, demanding that the process for “finding a permanent political solution” start before next year’s Bengal Assembly elections. The BJP hasn’t yet spelt out “the permanent political solution”. However, the GNLF, which has started a poster campaign in the hills, says the solution should not be anything less than the Sixth Schedule status for the hills.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-367
21-09-2020||West Bengal||Varsity starts gate restoration||Visva-Bharati on Sunday started primary work to restore its gate, which had been demolished by a mob on August 17 during a protest against the setting up of a boundary wall around the Pous Mela ground. The initiative was started following a two-hour meeting of a four-member committee formed by Calcutta High Court and officials of the varsity and the district administration on Sunday. The committee members held the meeting after visiting the Mela grounds on Sunday morning. A high court division bench headed by Chief Justice T.B.N. Radhakrishnan on Friday set up the four-member committee, chaired by Justice Sanjib Banerjee, to look into aspects of the ongoing impasse at Visva-Bharati over the construction of a wall along the Pous Mela ground and to find a solution by involving all stakeholders. The three other members of the committee are Justice Arijit Banerjee, advocate-general Kishore Datta and additional solicitor-general Y.J. Dastoor. The court also appointed advocate Jaydeep Kar as amicus curae to the case. Sources said the committee had asked the varsity at the meeting to restore the gate to its state preceding the violence on the morning of August 17. “The committee members asked us to restore the gate with immediate effect and so we started the work. We will try to complete the gate within seven days. Committee members will reassemble after a week,” said a senior Visva-Bharati official who attended the meeting. On Sunday afternoon, an earth-moving machine supervised by varsity engineer Amit Sengupta started removing debris from the gate as part of preparing the groundwork. “We have asked the contractor to start the work on an urgent basis,” said a varsity official. On Sunday morning, committee members visited the Pous Mela grounds, including the spot where the gate was demolished. After visiting the grounds and collecting information from district magistrate Moumita Godara Basu and district police chief Shyam Singh, the committee members proceeded to the office of vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty for a meeting. “Committee members held a meeting for over two hours with Visva-Bharati officials, including the VC, and district officials. Officials from both the sides laid out their assessments before the committee members who advised that problems be worked out together,” said a source. Later in the day, a joint news release was issued by the district magistrate and the varsity’s officiating-registrar Ashok Mahato, regarding the meeting and the visit of the committee members. “It was decided that Visva-Bharati authorities and district administration will work together to sort out any problems amicably through discussion and sharing of information, maintaining the dignity and sanctity of the Institution of National Importance founded by Gurudev Rabindranath Tagore,” the news release read. “The committee will reassemble soon and hear the views of the Ashramik, local residents and representatives of the Byabasayi Samiti,” it added. On August 17, Santiniketan witnessed unprecedented violence when protestors demolished a wall that varsity authorities were erecting around the Pous Mela ground, which the varsity owns. Since then, sentiments in the university town have been on the boil as varsity authorities have stuck to their stand on the fencing, whereas town residents and the ruling Trinamul Congress dispensation are against it. Varsity officials starting Sunday morning deployed two armed police personnel at the site of the gate in order to prevent further disturbance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-367
21-09-2020||West Bengal||Land survey held in hill tea garden||The Darjeeling district administration has conducted a land survey in the Pandam tea garden, the move seen by many as a preparatory step towards meeting the long-standing demand of granting land rights to hill citizens. More than 3 lakh labourers in the tea gardens of north Bengal do not enjoy land rights despite working in the plantations for generations. Ahead of the 2021 Assembly elections, the issue of land rights has taken the centre stage with the Binay Tamang camp of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha flagging it repeatedly. “Out of 54 Assembly seats in north Bengal, 15 are in the tea growing region. In the Lok Sabha polls last year, the Trinamul Congress had lagged behind the BJP in those seats, except Chopra. If the state government can do something about the land rights, Trinamul will get a huge advantage in the brew belt,” said a political analyst. Administrative sources said the spot inquiry conducted at Pandam — during which population and land area at Pandam busty was noted and the entire tea estate’s measurement was taken — in the first week of September bore hints that the state government was looking at the demand with due seriousness. There are, however, no clear indications that the state government has taken a policy decision on granting land rights to tea garden workers, said a source. “But if there is any positive decision taken with regard to the Padam tea garden, situated about 10km from Darjeeling town, similar demands will resonate all across the hills. You can’t have a situation where workers of some estates are given land rights and the rest are ignored,” said the source. Multiple sources said the Darjeeling district administration was handling the land rights issue carefully by keeping the stakeholders involved. In the case of the Pandam survey, the authorities had informed not just the manager of the garden but also marked a copy of the survey notice to Tshering Dahal, the president of the women wing of the Tamang camp. The management wasn’t, however, present at the meeting concerning the land survey. “We received orders from higher authorities to conduct the survey. It was probably done based on representations by some people,” said a land and land reforms officer. Sources said Dahal had written to the district administration on December 23, 2019 stating that residents of Pandam busty had been demanding land rights since 1975 and the land department had failed to conduct a survey despite an order to the effect (memo no 87/CF-20/TG/(1)17) dated April 10, 2017. Dahal was informed about the survey on August 24, 2020. Binay Tamang told The Telegraph that the move was an outcome of his party’s relentless persuasion. “I have been told that after Pandam, another survey will be conducted in the Chungthung tea garden. Land is a complex issue. I am in Calcutta and will once again discuss the issue with chief minister Mamata Banerjee,” Tamang said. The Tamang camp is hoping that some positive development on the land rights issue can change its fortunes in the coming Assembly elections. The BJP had won the Darjeeling Lok Sabha constituency and the Assembly seat, to which a bypoll was held, last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-367
21-09-2020||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee defers Siliguri visit||Mamata Banerjee has postponed her north Bengal tour scheduled from September 21 to 24 because of heavy rainfall predicted across the state in next few days following a deep depression in the Bay of Bengal. “The chief minister would now visit Siliguri between September 28 and 30. The chief minister fights any calamity from the front and this time also, she decided to lead the operations from Nabanna in case heavy rainfall occurs,” said a senior government official. Mamata was supposed to hold review meetings of five north Bengal districts on September 22 and 23. Now, she is scheduled to hold the meetings on September 29 and 30. Sources said the chief minister postponed her visit considering the fact that if rainfall occurred in the next few days, a large part of the state could submerge. “All waterbodies are full and many rivers are flowing just below the danger level. In such a situation, heavy rainfall for a few days at a stretch may lead to inundation in many areas. The chief minister knows the situation well and she postponed her trip considering the ground reality,” said another official. Sources at Nabanna said every district magistrate had been asked to keep all arrangements ready to fight the disaster, if any. “Dry foods and other necessities have been kept ready in different districts while arrangements for additional tarpaulins are being made on an emergency basis. People living in the low lying areas could be evacuated if the situation turns critical,” said an official. The disaster response teams have also been deployed in almost all districts, particularly those which are prone to floods.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-367
