22-09-2020||West Bengal||Rain racks Mirik in Darjeeling district||A number of localities at Mirik in Darjeeling district were waterlogged and minor landslides occurred after a sudden bout of heavy rain on Monday. A road that connects the town from Alley Ground — a prominent area in Mirik —remained closed for hours as landslides occurred along the route. “Around 8am today (Monday), it started raining in Mirik and the surrounding areas. Areas like Mahendragaon, Sorasaley and Krishnanagar of the town were mostly affected. At least five houses in wards 8 and 9 were damaged. We visited the affected areas and assured residents of all help,” said L.B. Rai, the chairman of Mirik municipality. “A landslide had occurred on the Alley Road. As a result, traffic came to a halt for around four hours along the road. Later in the day, the debris was cleared,” he added. The picture shows a submerged road in the town. The waterlogging have made the residents flag issues like poor drainage system in some areas of the town like Krishnanagar that is adjacent to the famous Mirik Lake. Along with Rai, Mirik subdivisional officer Ashwini Roy also inspected the affected spots. “Waterlogging was reported in Krishnanagar because the drains get clogged. Later, we could drain out the water. A report on the damage will be sent to the state government,” said an official. Mirik is around 50km from Siliguri. Outside the Mirik town, waterlogging was reported from Bunkulung and Soureni. “The India Meteorological Department has issued an alert of heavy rain across north Bengal in the next two-three days. There are chances of landslides in the hills. We are on alert and officials posted in various blocks have been asked to be prepared,” said an official of the Kalimpong district administration.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-366
22-09-2020||West Bengal||Bengal government seeks data on projects||The Bengal government has asked all district magistrates to furnish data on projects implemented since 2011 under 56 specific heads by September 29, the directive makes it clear that the ruling dispensation is spinning a narrative around development as part of its preparations for next year’s Assembly polls. “Before every district review meeting, the chief minister’s office normally seeks progress reports on various projects. But the way it has sought this time is different,” said a senior government official. All district magistrates have been asked to furnish reports under 56 heads, including setting of new schools, hostels, cold storages, rural roads, hospitals, bridges, fire stations since 2011. “A clear format has been sent to us. We have to fill in the chart and send it back to the CMO. It seems that the facts would be used for a detailed publication,” said a district magistrate. Earlier, the CMO had asked the DMs to prepare a booklet for each of the 294 Assembly segments with details on how the Trinamul dispensation brought a change in the lives of common people since 2011. “Now, with the progress reports on 56 development areas, it is clear the ruling establishment is set to widen its campaign based on development to reach out to common people. It is also clear that the chief minister is set to counter the BJP’s hatred campaign with her development issues,” said a minister. Sources in the state government said the CMO had asked the DMs to furnish progress reports on 56 development areas only to ensure that all the projects started in the past few years could be completed before the elections. “The chief minister is getting ready for the polls. As soon as the Covid-19 situation comes under control, she would start visiting the districts armed with the achievements of her government,” said a source. Trinamul insiders have said the large scale drive to conduct the campaign on the government’s success in carrying out the development projects is the brainchild of team Prashant Kishore — the poll strategist hired by the ruling party.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-366
22-09-2020||West Bengal||Tea bonus in parts dampens cheer||The Darjeeling Tea Association (DTA) on Sunday agreed to pay annual bonus to tea garden workers in two instalments of 15 and 5 per cent, but the announcement failed to bring much cheer in the hills as  most trade unions — barring the Binay Tamang camp of Gorkha Janmukti Morcha — protested against the phased payment. Even the Trinamul Congress union, an ally of the Morcha, protested against the instalment agreement that the Binay camp had cleared. The tea gardens from the plains of Darjeeling, Jalpaiguri and Alipurduar districts agreed to pay bonus at the rate of 20 per cent of the workers’ annual earnings at one go. Sandeep Mukherjee, principal advisor, Darjeeling Tea Association (DTA), said: “It has been agreed that 15 per cent of the bonus will be paid by October 10 and the remaining 5 per cent before Diwali.” Sixty-six gardens from the hills are with the DTA while 12 gardens are members of the Indian Tea Association. Though there are technically 87 tea gardens under Darjeeling Tea Industry as per lease documents, many have been merged for management reasons into 78 gardens. Last year, too, hill gardens had agreed to pay bonus in two instalments of 12 and 8 per cent, respectively. While the first bonus was to be paid during Puja time, the second was to be paid by December 31. Unions admitted that some gardens did not honour the December 31 agreement. N.B. Khawash, general secretary, Chaibagan Trinamul Congress Mazdoor Union said: “We are against the instalment mode of payment as we have a bitter experience regarding second instalments. Longview tea garden has not yet paid last year’s second instalment while Rohini (another tea garden) paid just day before yesterday (Saturday).” During this year’s negotiations, three distinct groups emerged in the hills. Apart from Binay Tamang’s Darjeeling Terai Dooars Plantation Labour Union (DTDPLU), the other group was Joint Forum, comprising 20-odd unions, and Trinamul’s Chaibagan union. Suraj Pathak, CPM leader and member of Joint Forum, said: “We smell a nexus between the union (Binay camp) and management. The management is trying to deal with only one union which is extremely bad for the industry.” Pathak said Opposition parties had registered their protest on the instalment mode of payment and hence were not party to this clause of the agreement. The Binay Tamang camp dismissed the allegations. Bharat Thakuri, general secretary, DTDPLU (Binay camp) said all unions were in unison with the 20 per cent bonus rate demand — the highest rate permissible. “The job of other unions is to make allegations and we have nothing to say,” said Thakuri. He added the management had refused to hike beyond 18.5 per cent, and then proposed two instalments of 10 per cent each, one before Puja and another by December 31, “which we (the DTDPLU) refused”. The Morcha leader said that with the management insisting on instalments, they proposed a 18 per cent and 2 per cent break-up that the management refused. “We settled at 15 and 5 per cent as other unions were not taking initiative. The payment (of the two parts) will be made within a difference of 15 days,” said Thakuri.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-366
22-09-2020||West Bengal||Talent line-up spurs cricket stadium plea in Siliguri||Back-to-back successes of budding cricketers from Siliguri has made sports lovers, especially cricket lovers, raise the demand for a cricket stadium in the city. Siliguri — famed for Wriddhiman Saha and Richa Ghosh, both regulars in Team India now — has been consistently coming up with new talents in cricket and some of them are making it to different state teams these days. Representatives of the Siliguri Cricket Lovers’ Welfare Organisation on Monday submitted a memo addressed to chief minister Mamata Banerjee through state tourism minister Gautam Deb, demanding a cricket ground in the city. “In our memorandum, we have said around 15 acres owned by the Siliguri Jalpaiguri Development Authority is lying vacant at Kawakhali (on the southwest end of Siliguri). The cricket ground can come up on the site,” said Manoj Verma, association president. Mohammad Shahbaz Anwar, who scored 1,130 runs in nine matches in the last Col CK Nayudu Trophy, including five centuries and six half-centuries, was recently selected by the Sikkim Cricket Association for its Ranji team. Mithilesh Das, another promising cricketer, got a call for a conditioning camp where players would be selected for the Bengal team for Ranji Trophy matches. Among girls, Richa apart, Priyanka Kurmi made it to the senior Bengal team, Nikita Sha and Puja Adhikary have been roped in for the state Under-19 team recently. Wriddhiman’s coach in his home town, Jayanta Bhowmik, who’s also the cricket secretary of Siliguri Mahakuma Krira Parishad (SMKP), the sub-divisional sports body of Siliguri, said the coaching fraternity was not surprised at the boys doing well. The real achievement, he said, was that the girls were performing so well. He said a cricket ground was sorely needed in the city to hone such promising talents. Another cricket coach of the city pointed that success of cricketers clearly suggests that there is no dearth of budding cricketers in the city.  “But we need some proper infrastructure, at least an exclusive cricket ground for nurturing these talents,” he said. Many people in Siliguri have raised the demand for an cricket stadium of international standards in the city. A few months back, the Siliguri Jalpaiguri Development Authority (SJDA) marked the area in Kawakhali on the southwest end of Siliguri to develop a cricket ground. “The plot has been earmarked for a proposed cricket ground that later can be developed into a full-fledged cricket stadium. Such an exclusive ground is necessary for cricketers here. Every year, we face problems to host cricket league matches as there is no such ground. We intend to finalise the proposal to develop the ground at the upcoming board meeting of the SJDA. We will also speak with the state sports department on the project,” said Nantu Paul, vice-chairman of the SJDA.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-366
22-09-2020||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee spots ‘naked king’ and Hitler clone||Mamata Banerjee on Monday called Narendra Modi “the naked king”, his government “fascist” and accused the BJP of killing democracy as she joined chorus of protest against the farm bills passed on “black Sunday” and the suspension of eight Rajya Sabha members, including two from the Trinamul Congress. Hours after the Prime Minister had himself issued a statement, defending the Centre’s farm legislations, the Trinamul Congress chief alleged Modi was running the nation in a “Hitleresque fashion”, pushing it to a famine, while promising to take the fight on the floor of the Parliament to the streets. “Robbing everyone in broad daylight…. Disempowering everybody else. Only one will rule from a room? Why do we keep warning ourselves about Hitler? The country is being run in a Hitleresque fashion. Total fascism being used to run it…. History will remember yesterday as a black Sunday,” said Mamata in a news conference in the evening. “Misleading the people totally. O naked king, where are your clothes (reference to Hans Christian Andersen’s 19th century literary folktale The Emperor’s New Clothes)? If now the people ask that, what will the BJP say in response?” asked the Bengal chief minister. Aware of the importance of issues such as farmers’ rights, Mamata announced not only her own party’s movements but also urged all nonBJP forces to come forward for the farmers and the common man. On Monday morning, soon after the Rajya Sabha suspended the eight MPs, including Trinamul’s Derek O’Brien and Dola Sen, for the remainder part of the monsoon session over their “unruly behaviour” during the passage of the farm bills, Mamata took to Twitter. “Suspension of the 8 MPs who fought to protect farmers interests is unfortunate & reflective of this autocratic Govt’s mindset that doesn’t respect democratic norms & principles. We won’t bow down & we’ll fight this fascist Govt in Parliament & on the streets. #BJPKilledDemocracy,” she posted. With her party and poll strategist Prashant Kishor’s IPac picking it up the hashtag “#BJPKilledDemocracy” began trending nationally on Twitter, with tens of thousands of tweets in a matter of hours. Having generated noise on social media, Mamata went to the mainstream media in the evening. “The Centre is enabling the rise of middlemen, who will rob the farmers in broad daylight…. Deliberately pushing the nation into a famine. The pandemic, Corona is on, which they couldn’t prevent… now they are creating a famine and telling farmers mawro na (go die). This is reminiscent of the Bengal Famine of 1943 under the British Raj,” she said at a news conference. “Only because they have majority there?. Every party has majority in the places it rules. There have been many governments with a total majority since Independence Nobody has the right to sell the country, murder democracy and bulldoze the federal structure on a whim because they have majority,” she added. Mamata said what had happened on Sunday was, at best, “utterly condemnable”. “Working for the people, we do not care about a censure motion from the BJP. We think Trinamul Congress and other Opposition parties, what they did together, did absolutely the right thing. We are proud of them. Whom the BJP censures does not matter, because the people across the country are censuring the BJP,” she said. For the first time since her anticitizenship matrix movement — discontinued because of the pandemic — Mamata gave a call for a panIndia joining of forces against the BJP. “We think now is the time for every (non-BJP) party across the nation to build movements…. I am all for this panIndia alliance with the people. For that, if Trinamul has to take the backseat, I am readily willing. The people should occupy the front rows of this. Let the parties back them from behind. This BJP government must go,” she said. “These are dangerous times for the whole nation. Lies are presented as truths and truths as lies, through the abuse of social and mainstream media by the BJP, for years now. Anybody raises a voice for the truth, they will raise questions on their patriotism. Do not teach us patriotism, Bengal is the birthplace of the very sentiment,” she added. Mamata accused the Modi government of trying to further make the labour codes unfavourable for employees. “Economy destroyed, they failed on all fronts…. They cannot even catch an earthworm, but have the audacity to chase pythons,” she said. State Youth Congress chief Shadab Khan led a protest against the farm bills outside the Raj Bhavan in Calcutta on Monday afternoon. After a demonstration and “gherao” of the Raj Bhavan, Khan and some other participants in the programme were detained by the police from the site and released later. Similar programmes were carried out in all district headquarters across the state by the youth wing of the Congress.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-366
22-09-2020||West Bengal||Longview tea estate to reopen tomorrow||Work is set to resume from Wednesday at the Longview tea estate, some 20km from here under the Kurseong subdivision of Darjeeling district, ending a month-long impasse over dues. On Monday, a tripartite meeting was organised by state labour department in Siliguri to facilitate its reopening. “Representatives from the management side and from tea trade unions were present (besides officials from the labour department)...it was decided that the garden would reopen on September 23,” said Md Rizwan, additional labour commissioner of Siliguri. “The management agreed to clear the arrears, including the bonus of last year, by October 7. In total, it would be around Rs 80 lakh...an agreement has been signed among the parties present at the meeting,” added Rizwan. Since August 21, the 500-hectare garden was closed as the management had announced suspension of work alleging lawlessness, around 10 days after workers launched a sit-in demonstration, demanding payment of their dues. The announcement of suspension of work at the garden had left as many as 1,200-odd workers jobless. After Longview had closed down, a number of political leaders, including Anit Thapa, chairman of the BoA of Gorkhaland Territorial Administration, visited the garden and assured all help to workers. “The workers are happy as ahead of the upcoming festivities (Durga Puja), the management has decided to reopen the garden. We hope the management will honour the agreement and clear the workers’ dues,” said Pranam Rasaily, president of the Kurseong branch committee of Darjeeling Terai Dooars Plantation Workers Union, the trade union front of the Morcha. Sources in the state labour department said 16 other tea gardens are closed in the region now. “The state is taking all necessary initiatives to reopen these gardens, some of which are closed for many years now,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-366
22-09-2020||West Bengal||Siliguri parents protest ‘extra school fees’  ||Guardians of students of some private schools in and around Siliguri demonstrated in front of the office of the district inspector (DI) of schools here on Monday, alleging that some institutions were asking for fees other than that for tuition. Parents demanded that the Bengal state education department take steps to stop this practice  when classes are being held online in the wake of the pandemic. “We are ready to pay tuition fees as schools are hosting online classes and online exams. But some schools are creating pressure on guardians and demanding session fees and a portion of bus fees. Some guardians have been told that if they do not pay these fees, their wards would be expelled from school,” said a demonstrator. Sandipan Bhattacharya, the president of Guardians Forum of North Bengal (GNFB), the largest forum of guardians of students who study in private schools of the region, said the problem of fees continues to persist. According to him, according to a notice issued by the principal secretary of state education department, the district magistrate of Darjeeling ordered the DI of schools to arrange a meeting with guardians and school authorities. “The district magistrate had issued the order in August and it is almost a month now but no action has been taken by the DI. We have submitted three memorandums to the DI and want a meeting immediately so that the issue of paying fees is resolved,” he said. After a demonstration of over 90 minutes, the delegation met DI Rajib Pramanik and spoke to him. The delegation of guardians also met S. Poonambalam, the district magistrate of Darjeeling, who was in Siliguri on Monday. “The district magistrate told us he would form a team to look into the issue. He asked for details of such schools creating pressure on guardians,” Bhattacharya added. Pramanik, the DI, said he would try to arrange a meeting of the guardians and private schools soon. “I have listened to their demands. We will see to it that the meeting is held at the earliest,” Pramanik said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-366
22-09-2020||West Bengal||Patient death spurs no-test uproar in East Midnapore||The death of an 80-year-old woman at East Midnapore's Tamluk district hospital last Friday and allegations by her family that hospital authorities “refused” her a rapid antigen test despite her failing health has brought the focus on the delay in using the RT-PCR machine to test Covid-19 swab samples. Sources said the hospital had installed the confirmatory RT-PCR (Real Time Polymerase Chain Reaction) test machine in July at a cost of Rs 1 crore and in August hired eight laboratory technicians to conduct Covid tests. Asked about the delay in conducting RT-PCR tests at the hospital, district chief medical officer (health) Nitai Mondal said: “We are ready with our infrastructure and AIIMS, Bhubaneswar, has approved RT-PCR tests at the hospital but the ICMR (Indian Council of Medical Research) is yet to give us the login ID and password without which we can’t access the council’s central server.” As part of the ICMR’s project to set up a National Clinical Registry of COVID-19, hospitals conducting RT-PCR tests need to be linked to the council’s server. The results are used to improve treatment procedures and analyse the pandemic trend. At present, the Tamluk hospital typically sends its RT-PCR swabs to Calcutta's RG Kar hospital from where it takes three to four days to process the test and send the report. But as it waits for RT-PCR tests to start, it is facing charges of refusing rapid antigen tests to all symptomatic patients in the wake of last month’s incident where the RT-PCR result of a patient (which was positive) contradicted the antigen test two days after his death. The 80-year-old woman's death has caused a fresh uproar against the hospital, whose superintendent Gopal Das has been under public scrutiny for alleged dereliction of duty in managing Covid. Hospital officials admit they “cannot afford more image problems”. Sources said there had been over 100 deaths at the hospital’s isolation ward since March. The aged woman had been rushed to the hospital on Thursday morning and was reportedly left in the isolation ward for nearly three hours without emergency treatment before she died on Friday night. “We repeatedly pleaded with authorities to grant her a rapid test so she could be admitted to the emergency ward. She was clearly showing signs of acute symptoms,” said the bereaved son. On Saturday, members of the deceased woman’s family accompanied others to protest at the hospital’s main building. Hospital superintendent Gopal Das declined comment, but members of the patient’s family said he had “blatantly refused” to help them on Friday night and “clearly stated that the hospital’s interests were above the patient’s”. Mondal said that officials at Tamluk “appeared to have violated” a directive that stated emergency patients were to be tested within two hours. “We will conduct an inquiry,” he said. Nilkanta Nayak, district president of the West Bengal Health Workers' Association, said that officials at Tamluk were “repeating their errors” and “should be brought in line”. Sources said the situation was different at other district superspecialty hospitals in Nandigram, Egra and Panskura, all of which are equipped with rapid testing facilities open to all admitted patients, as well as TrueNat machines, small battery-operated gadgets that scan swab samples collected from the throat and nose.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-366
22-09-2020||West Bengal||Rs 114 crore for safer power distribution in Bengal||West Bengal Electricity Distribution Company Limited (WBSEDCL) will spend around Rs 114 crore to introduce a safer power distribution system across Jalpaiguri district and two adjoining areas — Gorubathan block of Kalimpong and Mekhliganj subdivision of Cooch Behar. “We will introduce insulated cables that are safe for providing power in households and commercial areas. They would reduce accidents from electrocution. The new system, technically known as high-voltage distribution system (HVDS) also helps maintain steady voltage during power supply. In all, the project would cover around 5.5 lakh consumers,” said Bishnu Dutta, regional manager of WBSEDCL in Jalpaiguri. The project, he said, would be implemented with financial assistance from World Bank. On Monday, the project was approved and formally announced during videoconferencing held with officials of the state power department. Once new cables replace the existing distribution wires, power supply would not snap during storms when uprooted trees fall, he added. “We will use existing electric poles to lay cables. Also, 1,000-odd transformers would be installed under this project and two power substations will come up in Berubari (of Jalpaiguri Sadar block) and Matialli block,” Dutta said. Abhishek Kumar Tiwary, district magistrate of Jalpaiguri present at the video conference, said consumers under the project should cooperate with the power company. “Once the project is complete, it will improve electricity distribution across the district and in parts of two neighbouring districts. People should cooperate with WBSEDCL as it needs to take up an elaborate task (laying the cables),” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-367
22-09-2020||West Bengal||Bengal terror suspects got bomb making lessons: NIA||Some of the youths arrested from Murshidabad for their alleged connection with the banned terror outfit al Qaida were learning how to prepare Improvised Explosive Devices (IEDs) by taking lessons from their handlers, National Investigation Agency sleuths have claimed. The purported bomb-making lessons would be imparted through the Internet by “handlers” who had been in touch with the youths for the past four months. The six terror suspects are migrant workers who came in contact with the alleged handlers when they went outside Bengal. Sources in the NIA said some of the arrested youths had started taking training on handling arms and “even preparing complex circuits for IEDs”. In the early hours of Saturday a team of NIA officers had arrested six youths from different parts of Murshidabad apparently after tracking them for several months. Three of their acquaintances were also rounded up in Ernakulam, Kerala, by a separate NIA team on the same day. The information gathered by the investigators, a source said, indicates that the youths had been operating in a planned manner under the guidance of their handlers. “Take the case of Abu Sufiyan, who was a tailor... He has been handling explosives materials for some time inside an underground room of his house in Raninagar. We have found a six volt battery, metallic plates and some sockets for bombs, apart from mobile phones, in the underground room,” said an NIA source. “What would a tailor do with sockets and explosive materials?” None of Abu’s neighbours at Kalinagar in Raninagar had any clue of the underground room that would remain covered with a thick metallic plate on the floor of his small house till his arrest. Sources in the central agency said the arrested men were members of Ghaza-e-Hind that had its roots in Kashmir and links with al Qaida. The arrested — including the three held in Ernakulam who trace their roots to Murshidabad — were part of a sleeper cell of the outfit which, according to the NIA, has been trying to spread its network in bordering districts of Bengal. Many terror outfits operate through sleeper cells  and arrange for fake identity cards before sending some of the members to specific destinations where they would usually take up odd jobs of labourers. “Seikha Rahamatulla alias Sajid, the mastermind of the Khagragah blast in 2014, had several fake voter ID cards and driving licences while living at Mukimnagar in Lalgola of Murshidabad,” said a senior officer of Bengal police. “No one would have had any clue if the bombs didn’t explode accidentally in Burdwan.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-367
22-09-2020||West Bengal||Covid: 3,165 cases and 62 deaths in Bengal||Bengal on Monday logged 3,165 Covid-19 cases, 62 deaths and 3,011 recoveries as the total number of patients went past 2.28 lakh, of whom nearly 1.99 lakh recovered and 4,421 succumbed to the disease. With a rise by 92, to 24,898 now, Bengal reported a rise in the total count of active Covid-19 cases for the 14th consecutive day, which has come after a 15-day streak of fall in that total. “It has been somewhat of a seesaw in the total of active cases. We are trying to get back to that position, where we have more recoveries than new cases daily. Our estimates suggest we are likely to achieve that by the end of this month,” said a Bengal minister. The recovery rate rose further to 87.16, while the national rate is 80.33. Of the total 4,421 deaths reported, Calcutta alone accounted for 1,600, with 19 reported on Monday. The state reported 3,782 deaths (85.5 per cent) as those with comorbidity “present”. “There has been a slight spike, over the past month, in mortality rates of the lower age groups of 0-16 and 16-30, besides that of 61-75, the biggest contributor (in absolute numbers) to the Covid-19 toll. On the other hand, the mortality rates of the 46-60 and the 75-plus groups have dipped over that same period,” said the minister. Bengal’s overall mortality rate remained at 1.93, still substantially behind the national rate of 1.59 per cent. “The 61-75 age group is our main focus now, for reducing mortality. Over 3,000 (80 per cent) of the comorbid deaths have been reported from that bracket. Lowering the fatality count there will improve the overall mortality rate of the state,” said the minister. With nearly 9.5 lakh tests being already conducted in September, the total test count went past 28 lakh on Monday, at 31,487 tests per million people. “Having begun testing in early February, we managed a total of 14.87 lakh tests till a month ago. In a month, we have nearly doubled that, at 28.34 lakh,” said the minister. Steady rise in the tests, coupled with no major increase in the number of new cases, has improved the positive confirmation rate from 8.9 on August 23 to 8.06 per cent. The state reported 33.14 per cent occupancy on 12,675 beds earmarked for Covid-19 at 92 dedicated hospitals. Over 2.38 lakh telemedicine consultations for the pandemic were provided, including 4,038 in the past 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-367
