23-09-2020||West Bengal||Bengal Covid recoveries cross 2 lakh||Bengal on Tuesday crossed 2 lakh Covid-19 recoveries — 2.02 lakh out of 2.31 lakh total patients — 189 days after the first case was detected on March 17. While one lakh recoveries were achieved in 157 days, the state took another 32 days to reach the 2 lakh mark. “This is a major accomplishment. Especially the acceleration over the past month or so,” said a Bengal minister. “We went past 5,000 recoveries on June 14… 25,000 on July 20, 50,000 on August 1, one lakh on August 21, and now 2 lakh on September 22. There has been a quantum leap in recoveries,” he added. Besides 3,047 cured patients, the state on Tuesday logged 3,182 new cases and 62 deaths. The recovery rate inched closer to 88, at 87.28 per cent on Tuesday, as Bengal looks to steadily widen the gap with the national rate, currently at 80.79. “This milestone is a timely morale-booster,” said the minister. The state reported 45,447 tests on Tuesday, taking the total past 28.79 lakh, at 31,992 tests per million people. “We will be past the 30 lakh total by Friday. With 9.92 lakh so far, we are quite on track to meet our September target of 14 lakh tests,” said the minister. Steady rise in the tests, coupled with no major increase in the number of new cases being found, has improved the positive confirmation rate from 8.9 on August 23 to 8.04 per cent. On the flip side, with a rise by 73, to 24,971 now, Bengal reported a rise in its total of active Covid-19 cases for the 15th consecutive day, which came right after a 15-day streak of fall in that total. Of the total 4,483 deaths recorded so far in the state, Calcutta alone accounted for 1,607, with seven reported on Tuesday. With a dozen more deaths on Tuesday, North 24-Parganas became the second district of the state to register a four-digit Covid-19 death  count, with exactly 1,000. The state government reported 3,833 deaths (85.5 per cent) as those with comorbidity “present”. Bengal’s overall mortality rate remained at 1.93, still substantially behind the national rate of 1.59 per cent. The state reported 33.54 per cent occupancy on 12,675 beds earmarked for Covid-19 at 92 dedicated hospitals for the pandemic. Over 2.42 lakh telemedicine consultations for the pandemic were provided, including 4,013 in the past 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-365
23-09-2020||West Bengal||Letters heat up Bengal farm tussle||The Mamata Banerjee government on Tuesday brought to the public domain two letters sent from the chief minister to Union agriculture and health ministers on September 9, stating Bengal’s conditions for inclusion in central schemes PM Krishi Samman Nidhi and Ayushman Bharat. The letters were posted on Twitter apparently in response to Tuesday’s attacks from governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on the microblogging site, alleging Mamata had denied Bengal’s farmers the benefits of the Centre’s farm scheme. Dhankhar accused Mamata of shedding “crocodile tears” for farmers while denying them the benefit of PM Krishi Samman Nidhi. The tussle came in the wake of Trinamul’s opposition to the passage of the recent farm bills in Parliament. Mamata’s letters to Union agriculture minister Narendra Tomar and his health counterpart Harsh Vardhan were posted on Twitter by the state government. In the letters, Mamata clarified that the Bengal government had similar schemes, but it was open to PM Krishi Samman Nidhi and Ayushman Bharat additionally, provided the Centre was willing to fully fund them and route the disbursement through the state. In her letter to Tomar, Mamata raised concerns over the repeated questions on her government not implementing the PM Krishi Samman Nidhi scheme, underscoring Bengal’s Krishak Bandhu scheme that give financial aid to farmers, including sharecroppers. She said her government would be “happy to provide the benefits to the farmers under the PM Kisan Samman Nidhi Scheme, and in that case, the central government may transfer the requisite fund directly to the state...” In the letter to Harsh Vardhan, Mamata stated that much before the launch of Ayushman Bharat, her government had introduced cent per cent free treatment, medicines and diagnostics for everyone in all government hospitals and launched the Swasthya Sathi scheme, that gives free treatment, medicine and diagnostics to beneficiaries in private healthcare facilities for up to Rs 5 lakh annually. “Ayushman Bharat scheme may be extended by the government of India with 100 per cent expenditure for the scheme. In such a case, the entire funding for the scheme may be routed through the state government,” she had written. After the letters were made public, Dhankhar held a news meet in the evening, intensifying his attack on the chief minister. Earlier in the day, Trinamul and the Left appeared keen not to miss the opportunities presented by the farm bills and the renewed focus of farmers’ rights. Protests across the state were organised to match the intensity of the ongoing drama in Parliament. The BJP’s state leadership responded to the developments with bitter criticism. Trinamul's women’s wing conducted a sit-in demonstration before the Gandhi statue on Mayo Road. The party’s students’ wing will hold an event on Wednesday and the farmers’ wing on Thursday. The CPM organised two rallies in Calcutta, one of which Left Front chairman Biman Bose led from Mahajati Sadan to Shyambazar, and many more in the districts, against the Centre’s “anti-people” policies. Additional reporting by Arkamoy Datta Majumdar||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-365
23-09-2020||West Bengal||2,000 more personnel for forest protection||The Bengal forest department is planning to get around 2,000 additional personnel on board for wildlife conservation, particularly for north Bengal that has two national parks which together are the second largest habitat of one-horned rhinos in India after Assam. State forest minister Rajib Banerjee made the announcement while attending a programme on the outskirts of Siliguri on the occasion of World Rhino Day on Tuesday. “As of now, there are over 300 rhinos in the forests of north Bengal. We need to protect the rhino population, along with other wildlife of our state. That is why the department will soon recruit or engage over 2,000 personnel in various posts. Most of them would be deputed in north Bengal to work for the conservation of wildlife and forest resources,” said Banerjee. In the past few years, particularly after incidents of rhino poaching were reported in Jaldapara and Gorumara — the two national parks in Alipurduar and Jalpaiguri districts which are rhino habitats, there was a steady demand from wildlife conservationists that the forest department enhance vigil to prevent such illegal activities. “It is good that the forest department has finally decided to assign more people for forest protection. We hope the vigil would be intensified in forests soon to curb wildlife crimes,” said Animesh Bose, a conservationist based in Siliguri. The minister also elaborated on another decision taken by the department for conservation of wild elephants. Elephant deaths because of various reasons are common in north Bengal. “We have decided to form a joint monitoring cell comprising representatives of various state departments. It will work to reduce elephant deaths which occur on highways and railway tracks in the Dooars because of reckless driving and over-speeding trains, respectively. Many elephants are electrocuted also. Tea planters’ associations would be instructed to ask estates to refrain from using blade wires in the boundaries which injure elephants. On the highways, rumble strips would be put in areas through which elephants cross to check the speed of vehicles. The cell will monitor all these works and share information with administrations of different districts,” he said. Banerjee also inaugurated a herbal garden outside a forest beat office at Sarugara under Baikunthapur forest division near Siliguri. The garden that has different medicinal herbs is the third of its kind in north Bengal and sixth in the state. The minister also visited the Bengal Safari Park near here.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-365
23-09-2020||West Bengal||Private players to run govt AC buses||Authorities of the North Bengal State Transport Corporation (NBSTC), a state-run transport service, have decided to hand over the air-conditioned buses in its fleet to private transporters in a bid to reduce Covid-induced losses. The buses, NBSTC officials said, would be provided to private franchisees that can run the vehicles on stipulated routes across Bengal and pay a share of their earnings to the transport corporation. “We have already floated tenders, seeking applications from individuals and companies interested to run the bus services,” said Sandip Dutta, managing director, NBSTC. He added that private agencies would be authorised to sell tickets, run and maintain the buses. But the ownership of these buses will be with NBSTC, he clarified. “Also, our drivers will be running these buses,” he said. Altogether, NBSTC has 15 AC buses that run on routes, including popular ones like Siliguri-Calcutta and Siliguri-Cooch Behar. “Because of the Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown, NBSTC suffered huge losses as bus services halted. The fares of these buses are higher and so are their maintenance costs. That is why this decision has been made,” said Apurba Sarkar, the NBSTC chairman. Back in 1945, the transport service was opened by the erstwhile kings of Cooch Behar. After the princely state of Cooch Behar was annexed in 1949, it was renamed into the NBSTC. During the Left rule, NBSTC’s financial condition deteriorated over the years but after Mamata Banerjee came to power in 2011, many initiatives were taken to revive the transport corporation. “During past few years, NBSTC has been providing excellent services with a new fleet of buses and by opening new routes. But it seems that the corporation, like most operators of the passenger transport sector, is confronting losses due to the pandemic and thus, it has to make such a decision,” said Sujit Dutta, a Jalpaiguri resident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-365
23-09-2020||West Bengal||Nine held with fake notes, ‘gold’||In a major haul, Kotwali police of Cooch Behar and the Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) seized around Rs 1 crore of fake Indian currency notes and 1kg of suspected gold bars on Monday evening. Nine persons, who hail from north Bengal and Assam, have been arrested in this connection. Police sources said on Monday they were tipped off by the SSB that a group of persons were trying to smuggle fake currencies and suspected gold from north Bengal to Assam. “We acted on a tip-off and in the afternoon spotted a sedan, bearing a registration number of Assam, with five persons in it. Also, there were four persons in two motorcycles escorting the car. They were seen in Dauaguri area on the way to Tufanganj. As we tried to stop them, they fled. We could chase and intercept all three vehicles in due course and make the seizures. All nine have been arrested,” said Soumyajit Roy, inspector-in-charge, Kotwali police station. Tufanganj is the subdivisional headquarters in Cooch Behar that shares borders with Assam. Roy said several bundles of fake notes in denominations of Rs 2,000 and Rs 500 were seized. “Also, 17 bars, suspected to be gold and weighing around a kilo, were seized. Cell phones, the car and the bikes of the accused have been seized. Those arrested are from Cooch Behar and some other places, and also from Assam. We are not revealing their identities as investigation is in progress,” Roy added. On Tuesday, all the nine were produced at a local court in Cooch Behar. The court heard the case and has sent them to police custody for 14 days, said sources. “In north Bengal, seizure of fake notes are mostly reported from Malda. It is necessary to know who these persons are (in this Cooch Behar arrest) and whether they were planning to take the fake notes and gold to Assam. State police and other security agencies are on extra alert these days after recent NIA arrests in Murshidabad. Investigators should find out the origin of fake notes,” said a former intelligence officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-365
23-09-2020||West Bengal||Trucks with illegal sand seized||The West Burdwan district administration on Tuesday seized 17 trucks carrying sand illegally mined from Damodar and Ajay river beds. The seizure was made during raids in Barabani and Raniganj blocks following complaints from people living close to the rivers. The 17 trucks were carrying 1,250 cubic feet of sand. The administration has also blacklisted five trucks for not having goods carriage licences. Out of the 17 trucks, 10 are registered in neighbouring Jharkhand. Sand being lifted from the illegal mines — a block for which licence has not been obtained from the government — with excavators and manually in copious amounts and being loaded onto trucks parked on the dry riverbed has always been a major headache for the district administration as the illegal trade continues because of alleged political and administrative connivance. During every administrative review meeting in the district since she came to power, chief minister Mamata Banerjee — aware of the menace — would asked police and administration to stop illegal coal and sand mining Sources said the district administration had set up a special task force led by additional district magistrate Khurshid Ali Kadri to keep vigil on illegal sand mining. The team comprising officials of land and land reforms department, transport department and police split into groups and raided several areas in the Barabani and Raniganj blocks near Asansol and intercepted the trucks around 10am on Tuesday. The special teams were formed with police personnel not attached to the police stations where the raids were carried out. “The block land and land reforms officers and officials of police stations where the raids were carried out were not kept in the loop about Tuesday’s operation to rule out chance of information leakage,” said a senior administrative officer of the district. “The trucks seized during the operation did not have proper challans or were possessing fake permits,” said a district official. A case has been registered at the Asansol North police station and owners of the trucks summoned. A source said the special task force had seized 50 trucks carrying smuggled sand from Kanksa and Pandaveswar blocks in the district in the past 10 days and added that the raids would continue. Asked if the administration had any plan to deal with the menace of illegal coal mining in the region, a senior district official said another task force would be set up to take on the coal mafia. Opposition parties in the district have long been blaming the ruling Trinamul Congress for the lack of action against the sand and coal mafia. Setting up of the task force and the recent spate of action show the administration’s eagerness to crack the whip on sand mafia in the run up to next year’s Assembly election.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-365
23-09-2020||West Bengal||Rain causes slides, halts traffic||Southwest monsoon active over Bengal and neighbouring Sikkim brought in fresh bouts of downpour in most districts of north Bengal on Monday night and continued till Tuesday afternoon, triggering landslides in hills and flooding some areas of the plains. In the hills, a major landslide occurred on 29th Mile on NH10 on Tuesday morning, and halted traffic from Siliguri to Kalimpong and Sikkim for over 10 hours. Hundreds of vehicles queued up on both sides of the damaged stretch, as excavators and workers cleared debris that piled on the principal highway that connects Sikkim with the rest of the country. Around 3.30pm, the road was cleared and vehicles started moving, but in a single file. “If it does not rain any more, it would be easier to clear the entire road on Wednesday. Otherwise, there is always the fear of fresh landslides,” said an official of Kalimpong district administration. A number of minor landslides were reported from different areas of Darjeeling town, where it rained around 130mm in the past 24 hours till Tuesday morning, and in Bijanbari. Similar land-slips have also been reported in some roads of Sikkim. No injury or casualty has been reported so far. Incessant rain submerged around 60 per cent of Englishbazar municipality in Malda on Tuesday. Most major roads went under water. Weather experts hinted at similar rainfall during the next couple of days in some parts of the region, 70mm to 200mm.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-365
23-09-2020||West Bengal||Theatre artistes want CM aid||A group of senior theatre personalities has written to chief minister Mamata Banerjee to arrange health insurance coverage for group theatre artistes as many of them are struggling will health and financial crisis ever since pandemic halted their earnings. The email sent to Mamata by eminent playwright-director Chandan Sen on behalf of Bango Natya Samhati, a welfare organisation of amateur theatre artistes, states: “A large number of theatre artistes, who are mostly amateur, are suffering from financial stress because they are associated with an unorganised sector. The Covid situation has increased the uncertainty and insecurity of these artistes since they have no work and hence no money. Several people and theatre groups have come forward to help them by providing food, but meeting their medical needs have become a big challenge.” Sen said that the decision to write to Mamata was taken after the death of at least nine theatre artistes recently from Covid-19 and other illnesses. Bango Natyo Samhati comprises eminent theatre personalities including Sen, Manoj Mitra, Bibhash Chakraborty, Arun Mukhopadhyay and Meghnad Bhattacharya. Senior members of the organisation have sought an appointment with Mamata at Nabanna to discuss the plight of theatre artistes. Bango Natyo Samhati has also urged the chief minister to introduce health insurance protection policy for theatre artistes similar to the one she had announced for television actors and technicians of Tollygunge a few years ago. At present, television actors and technicians get Rs 2.5 lakh health insurance coverage under state government’s medical scheme. “At least nine theatre artistes across the state have already died during the pandemic. They could not afford proper medication owing to financial crisis. There are many struggling to keep their treatment going for lack of money. If the chief minister, who we think is a great friend of the cultural community, extends help to such people we will remain ever grateful to her,” Sen added. Speaking to The Telegraph, Sen said: “We had taken up the issue with Trinamul MP Dinesh Trivedi, who advised us to submit an appeal with the chief minister. Accordingly, we have sent an email to the CM. We have also apprised MP Sougata Roy of the issue. Both the leaders have assured us to take up the matter with the chief minister.” A member of Bango Natya Samhati said unlike television artistes and technicians, theatre artistes were unorganised. “This is why we fail to draw the attention of the state administration,” he added. Many theatre organisations in the state are trying to help artistes in distress with shows for a select audience who are willing to contribute. On Monday evening, Sinchan theatre group in Nadia’s Krishnagar began a weekly show for a limited number of viewers to garner funds for theatre artistes. Sinchan director Susanta Halder said: “Theatre artistes are passing through a difficult phase and many of them have no money to buy medicines and even arrange daily meals.” Under Unlock 4.0, the Centre has allowed holding open-air theatres with a ceiling of 100 persons from September 21.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-365
23-09-2020||West Bengal||Ailing road to Contai hospital sparks protest||Over 1,000 villagers in East Midnapore’s Deshapran block on Tuesday morning blocked a part of a 5km-long metal road to protest the delay in repairing the stretch lying damaged for the last two years. The road is used by over one lakh residents to commute to and from Contai town and hospital. The protest started at 9am at Raghunathpur village, where the potholes are so deep that the stretch has become prone to “severe flooding” during monsoon. Many villagers planted paddy on the potholed road to highlight the level of flooding. “This road is the only link we have to the town and to Contai subdivisional hospital. The state of this stretch of the road is such that neither can a person walk through it nor can an autorickshaw cross it,” said a protester, pointing to 2-feet-deep craters at several places where the metal base of the road had eroded and filled with rainwater. “Monsoon has rendered the 5km-long road absolutely unusable. It was badly battered during Amphan this May, and the road was damaged over the last two years, but neither panchayat officials nor the PWD acted despite repeated appeals,” said another protester. Madhusudhan Chakraborty, 40, a farmer who was part of the demonstration, added: “It takes over an hour to travel on this 5km stretch.” As villagers’ anger mounted, Chalti panchayat pradhan Tapan Samanta and panchayat member Joynal Ali who came to listen to the grievances of villagers were gheraoed for over two hours. They were released only after panchayat samiti deputy chief Tarun Jena came to the protest site and promised “immediate action”. “We lifted the protest following Jena’s assurance but we have told officials that villagers will lock up the panchayat office if no action is taken within a week,” said Kader Khan, an auto driver. Block officials later said on Tuesday that the road, which bifurcates into two during the last kilometre of the 5km stretch, was handed over by block officials to the PWD officials last year. One of the routes, connected to Contai subdivisional hospital, is maintained by municipality authorities and was in good shape. “The other route, leading to Bhabani More, was supposed to be widened by PWD last year. We will send them a reminder post haste,” said Jena, adding that he would personally alert the PWD executive engineer. Sowing paddy on bad roads has become an effective way for residents to highlight potholes, especially during monsoon. Earlier this month, residents of Jalpaiguri town’s ward 2, Bhatakhana, sowed paddy on a road as a mark of protest against its bad shape. Last month, Birbhum villagers had done the same to protest a bad road that they alleged prevented ambulances from reaching villages on time.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-365
23-09-2020||West Bengal||Road repair for 17,000km||The Bengal government has taken up a Herculean task of repairing 17,000 km of roads ahead of Durga Puja after chief minister Mamata Banerjee made it clear to the state administration that all distressed roads in the state had to be made motorable within October third week. “Of these, there are 7,000km of rural roads maintained by the panchayat department and remaining 10,000km are semi urban or urban roads maintained by the PWD. Both the departments carried out a survey and found that altogether 17,000km roads are really distressed and needed urgent repair,” said a senior state government official. Sources in Nabanna said that usually roads across the state are maintained regularly but the pandemic scuttled this routine maintenance. That's why such 17.000km roads were in distressed condition. The roads in several districts across the state have been damaged in the past six months. But roads in districts like South and North 24 Parganas, Hooghly and Howrah have suffered the most as they have borne the brunt of cyclone Amphan. A senior official pointed out that repair of roads was delayed as the chief minister did not conduct her district tours because of the pandemic. “Usually, before the chief minister's visits to the districts, all damaged roads are repaired as the PWD officials don't take any chance ahead of the chief minister’s visits. As the chief minister could not visit the districts since March this year, the roads remained neglected,” said an official. The official pointed out that the PWD usually carries out repair work of damaged roads in September as monsoon usually leaves an impact on several roads, particularly those built more than five years ago. “But this year, the exercise has been affected too due to the pandemic and weak financial condition of the state coffers. Now, the state has to carry out repair work on roads that were damaged before the monsoon and during the monsoon at one go. This is a Herculean task,” said a bureaucrat. Sources said that the panchayat department has earmarked a sum of Rs 700 crore for undertaking repair work on damaged rural roads and the PWD has estimated a sum of Rs 1,200 crore for repair of all the damaged roads. The panchayat department is likely to arrange a large portion of required funds from the PMGSY, but the PWD will face real trouble in arranging the funds, said sources. “The PWD is planning to use funds from non-Plan heads to carry out the repair work,” said a source. Mamata’s October third week deadline also appears tough, said a PWD source. “The work is huge and some stretches would require a couple of months for complete repairs. So, we have fixed a target of completing repair work on minor affected areas before the Pujas,” said the source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-365
