24-09-2020||West Bengal||Bengal austerity curbs till March||The Bengal government has decided to extend its austerity measures in the backdrop of the Covid pandemic till March 31, 2021, the decision revealing that the state’s own revenue generation has not picked up despite the gradual unlocking of the economy. “Now, the validity of Memorandum No. 1491 — F (Y) dated 02.04.2020 read with Memo No. 2447 — F (Y) dated 17.08.2020 is further extended upto 31.03.2020 or until further order, whichever is earlier,” reads an order issued by the state finance secretary H. K. Dwivedi on Tuesday. By issuing the Memo No. 1491 — F (Y), the finance department had issued a blanket ban on April 2 on all expenditures on new projects, construction work and procurement of several items, including cars, and hiring of several services. The plan was to channelise the savings, thus accrued, to meet the “unforeseen” expenditure to battle the spread of Covid 19. The order was later extended up to September, only allowing land procurement for different projects in August. Now, these restrictions would continue till March 31, 2021. Senior government officials pointed out that the state was forced to take the decision as its own revenue generation has not seen much improvement during the Unlock period. “In July, the state was generating about Rs 1,500 crore against its average monthly revenue generation of nearly Rs 5,000 crore in the pre-Covid period. It was expected that the situation would improve in August and September as several restrictions were withdrawn. But the scenario did not change much,” said a senior official. Sources in Nabanna said that the decision would leave the future of several projects in rough weather. “Many projects like hostels, school and college buildings and other constructions were supposed to be completed before the polls. But now, the future of the projects is uncertain... No ruling party set to face polls in the next few months would like such a situation,” said another official. Officials said that despite the crisis of funds, chief minister Mamata Banerjee has laid stress on keeping direct benefit schemes like Kanyasree, scholarship schemes and pension schemes going. “It seems that the chief minister would like to go to polls depending on personal benefit schemes. The crisis of funds might put large projects at the backseat for the moment,” said an official. The struggling state exchequer might cast a shadow on one urgent work — repairing of roads — which would require about Rs 1,200 crore immediately.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-363
24-09-2020||West Bengal||Eight held for poultry theft in Malda||An interstate gang allegedly involved in stealing poultry from Malda district and sending those to the Northeast was nabbed by Englishbazar police early on Wednesday. Eight persons, seven from different areas of Baishnabnagar in Malda district and one from Jharkhand, were arrested in this connection. According to police sources, the gang had barged into a poultry farm in Lalalpur of Englishbazar. They overpowered guards, fastened and gagged them and started loading the poultry in their SUV. The shrieks of the poultry woke up people near the farm. Sensing something unusual, one of them called up the police. Madanmohan Roy, inspector-in-charge, Englishbazar police station, said police already had reports of poultry theft in large volumes from different farms of the district. “Our men immediately acted on the tip-off and reached the spot. Seeing the police, the gang members tried to escape in their vehicle. We managed to intercept them soon,” Roy said. He added that no weapon was found on them, which was “intriguing”. “We suspect they concealed the arms somewhere and will interrogate them on this,” the inspector-in-charge said. During the primary interrogation, the accused admitted to stealing poultry and selling them to buyers in Tripura, Manipur, Nagaland, Meghalaya and other Northeast states. “They could easily transport stolen livestock as there is no ban on carrying poultry by road. We suspect more gangs are involved in similar crimes,” said a police officer. The arrested youths were produced at a local court where the Jharkhand resident was sent to police custody and the rest seven to judicial custody for five days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-363
24-09-2020||West Bengal||Renewed hunt for JMB leader||The National Investigation Agency has intensified its search for Salahuddin Salehin, the alleged mastermind of the 2014 Khargargh blasts in Burdwan, after six of the nine suspected al Qaida operatives arrested from Murshidabad suggested his involvement in their indoctrination. The former chief of the Jamat-ul-Mujhahideen Bangladesh, Salahuddin, managed to escape from Bangladesh in February 2014 when alleged JMB operatives attacked a police van transporting him and two others. The Khagragarh blasts happened eight months later and his name surfaced as the key architect. Salahuddin’s name continues to be on the list of the NIA’s most wanted. Police in Bangladesh have offered taka 500,000 as reward for Salahuddin’s capture. “We have been tracking Salahuddin for sometime. It appears he was the vital link that helped Ghaza-e-Hind pick upon these youths from Murshidabad,” said a senior NIA official who refused to go into the details of the probe so far. Ghaza-e-Hind is said to have its roots in Kashmir and links with the banned outfit al Qaida. The nine — six were arrested from parts of Murshidabad and three from Ernakulam in Kerala in the early hours on Saturday — are believed to be members of this outfit. Intelligence agencies in India and Bangladesh who have been trying to track Salahuddin have learnt that he was trying to set up regional outfit Jamat-ul-Mujhehideen India (JMI) with Zahidul Islam alias Boma Mian as his trusted lieutenant. It has now emerged that Salahuddin had been visiting parts of Cooch Behar, Malda, Murshidabad, North Dinajpur and Nadia till February before intelligence agencies got a whiff of his movements. “Two college students from Malda were also a part of a group to which the nine arrested youths belonged. The handlers had been using different platforms on the Internet to keep in touch and several more from parts of Nadia and North 24-Parganas could be members of this group,” a senior officer of the investigating agency said. Primarily, officers have learnt that among the six arrested from Murshidabad, Al Mamum Kamal of Domkol was apparently asked to set up a madrasa close to his house where young minds could apparently undergo indoctrination. Mamun had even set up one in a small mud house and began collecting donations for teaching small children after returning from Kerala a few months back during the lockdown. While probing into the Burdwan blasts, the NIA had arrested a madrasa owner from Murshidabad’s Mokimnagar. The madrasa was used to allegedly train JMB operatives, the NIA said. “The model of operation is the same this time. Some of these youths would have served as links to provide logistic support or shelters,” the officer said. “The impression of Salahuddin appears to be unmistakably written all over.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-363
24-09-2020||West Bengal||Mamata flags off leather, solar projects||The Bengal government has taken up an initiative to impart quality management training required for the export of leather products to workers of the Bantala Leather Complex in Calcutta. The initiative has been made in association with the European Union, which will shoulder 80 per cent of the cost of the entire initiative. Inaugurating the initiative, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said that the Bantala Leather Complex would attract investment worth Rs 80,000 crore. “There will be an employment generation of nearly 5 lakh people in the Bantala Leather Complex... Investors from Chennai and  Lucknow have shown interest in investing in the complex,” she said. “Major exporting countries of our leather goods are European countries. So, if workers get to know the mechanism to maintain quality for exporting products..it would be better for the sector,” said an official. For conducting the training programme, modern machinery has been imported from Italy and installed at the leather complex. Sources also said technologies to be used for production of export quality leather products would be green friendly. Mamata also flagged off the setting up of a 200MW solar power plant near Digha in East Midnapore. The German state-owned bank KfW would shoulder Rs 1,000 crore of the Rs 1,200 crore project. The state government would spend remaining Rs 200 crore. The chief minister said that the project was approved during a business conclave in Digha in December and thanked all that the project started as per schedule.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-363
24-09-2020||West Bengal||Thirty smuggled gold bars seized in Siliguri||A team of the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) seized 5kg gold worth around Rs 2.65 crore from an SUV here on Tuesday, and arrested two persons in the vehicle. The gold, sources said, was smuggled into India through the India-Myanmar border. The duo, Rakesh Kumar Gupta and Harishchandra Prasad, were taking it to Calcutta by road. Gupta and Prasad are residents of Kidderpore in Calcutta. “In total, 30 gold bars, weighing around 5kg, were recovered from them, the estimated cost being around Rs 2.65 crore,” said a source in the DRI. On Tuesday, the DRI had specific information about the consignment, which led the team to intercept the SUV on Burdwan Road of the city. “The vehicle was taken to the DRI office. There, gold bars were recovered from a hidden chamber in the roof of the vehicle. The duo admitted that the gold bars were smuggled through Moreh, a town on the Indo-Myanmar border in Manipur, and then Assam,” the source said. The duo were produced at the chief judicial magistrate’s court here on Wednesday and sent to judicial custody for fourteen days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-364
24-09-2020||West Bengal||Pre-Puja gift for Bhadu folk singers||A Birbhum panchayat on Wednesday helped out Bhadu folk singers, whose earnings have virtually stopped amid the Covid pandemic, by hosting a contest for them and giving all participants money ahead of Durga Puja. Bhadu singers, who roam and sing songs carrying a clay idol of Bhadu, a much-loved princess who cared for farmers and labourers, are a familiar sight in Birbhum, East and West Burdwan, Purulia and Bankura, in the Bengali month of Bhadro, but the pandemic has left them in dire straits. On Wednesday, Ruppur gram panchayat near Bolpur in Birbhum gave 20 Bhadu troupes from the district an arena to stage their seasonal performances, two full meals and Rs 800 to every participant in what villagers termed the “spirit of the Puja season”. “We came forward to organise such a fest for the first time as we thought to help the folk singers,” said Ranendranath Sarkar, the deputy chief of the gram panchayat. “This Puja is going to be different for sure. The onus is on us to help out the needy,” said another gram panchayat member in Ruppur. Sarkar added: “We have organised assistance in the form of a fun competition and kept prizes for the winners. But we are also providing financial assistance of Rs 800 each to all participants as this year they could not perform their regular events in order to earn money.” Artisans were also offered breakfast and lunch by the panchayat early on Wednesday. Bhadu is a recognised folk tradition in south Bengal. Roaming bands of folk singers perform across villages, the songs being entreaties to a female clay idol representing Bhadu or princess Bhadravati. According to folk researcher and writer Aditya Mukherjee, the tradition started in Bengal in the 16th century following the death of princess Bhadravati of Purulia. “It is known that there was a princess from Purulia, Bhadravati, who was very sympathetic to poor farmers and labourers and helped them in crises. She was very popular among poor villagers.  After she died young, her followers wrote songs requesting her not to leave them,” Mukherjee said. “The tradition started and spread to different Bengal districts. The folk singers roam in villages and collect money and rice by performing Bhadu songs,” he added. Amar Das, 58, a Bhadu singer who has been performing for the past 35 years, said that the initiative by the panchayat “made them happy” as it gave them “a venue to perform” their “beloved craft”. “Yes, we need money but we also need space in order to stage a good performance. We visited two or three villages but villagers did not come to listen to our songs for fear of the coronavirus. So, our performances took a hit. We are very grateful for this panchayat’s initiative,” said Das, a resident of Lohagarh village. Many performers said that they would donate the money they received from the panchayat to help poorer people in their neighbourhoods buy clothes for their children this Durga Puja. “Many in our villages are worse-off than us. With this money, they can buy something for the children before the festival,” said Khudiram Dhatri of Padmabatipur village in Bolpur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-364
24-09-2020||West Bengal||Rain triggers waterlogging in sub-Himalayan region of Bengal||Consistent bouts of monsoon rain in the sub-Himalayan region of Bengal for the second day on Wednesday led to flooding and waterlogging at several places in the plains and triggered major landslides in the hills. As it rained heavily in the districts of Darjeeling, Kalimpong, Jalpaiguri, Alipurduar and Cooch Behar, weather experts issued a warning that there might be flooding in low-lying areas. In Siliguri, the Mahananda river flooded a number of areas on both banks while some other localities of the town like Milanpally, Haiderpara and Champasari and some places close to the Eastern Bypass were waterlogged. Waterlogging was also reported from adjoining areas like Matigara, Bidhannagar and Bagdogra. Siliguri MLA Asok Bhattacharya, who is also the chairman of board of administrators at the municipal corporation, visited some affected areas. “A comprehensive drainage system is required for the entire civic area to resolve the problem of waterlogging. We have appealed to the state government for necessary assistance and proposals have also been submitted. However, no funds have reached us till now,” he said. In Jalpaiguri district, Hathi Nala, a stream flowing into Banarhat of the Dooars from Bhutan, spilled over its banks and flooded many localities. The stream also inundated at least five tea plantations. The continuous rainfall submerged most parts of Jalpaiguri town. The Karala river that flows through the town spilled over its banks and entered the outpatient department of the district hospital. The downpour also caused waterlogging in a number of residential and commercial areas of Cooch Behar and some other places in the district. The rainfall, sources in the irrigation department said, has led to rise in the water levels of rivers like Teesta, Jaldhaka, Diana, Sankosh, Murti, Neora, Chel, Ghish and the Raidak. “Yellow (primary) alert has been issued in unprotected areas (where there are no embankments) on either bank of a number of rivers,” said an official. According to weather experts, the southwest monsoon, which is vigorous over the region, is causing the rainfall. In 24 hours till Wednesday morning, it rained 180mm in Jalpaiguri, 130mm in Siliguri, 102mm in Alipurduar, 138mm in Cooch Behar and 240mm in Maynaguri. “Weather conditions are likely to remain the same in the region for a couple of days. But the amount of rainfall is expected to be less,” said an expert.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-364
24-09-2020||West Bengal||Four landslides block NH10||Road connectivity between Sikkim and Siliguri snapped on Wednesday when four landslides triggered by heavy rain struck NH10, the principal highway to the Himalayan state. As traffic to Sikkim and Kalimpong came to a grinding halt, local people were not only asking when the debris would be removed but also wondering how long it would take to build an alternate road to the state that shares border with China. Defence analysts and strategic experts have time and again emphasised the need to improve the connectivity to Sikkim by building an alternate road as NH10 passes through landslide-prone areas. “We really don’t know when the alternate road to Sikkim and Kalimpong would be ready,” said Pradip Chakraborty, a bank employee who frequents the Darjeeling hills. The Centre had approved the 250km-long road in 2015. The National Highway Infrastructure & Development Corporation Limited (NHIDCL) that functions under the Union ministry of highways has taken the task of building the road that would originate from the Dooars. The road, sources said, would move along Damdim-Gorubathan-Lava-Kafer-Rhenock-Rishi route and connect Sikkim capital Gangtok via Pakyong. “Work on the road is in progress but it would take at least two to three years to complete it. It seems the rail route to Rangpo from Sevoke would be commissioned before the completion of the new road,” said a senior official of the Sikkim government. On Wednesday, debris, along with trees, fell on NH10 near Sevoke, around 20km from here. The second landslide occurred at Kalijhora, the site of Teesta Low Dam Project IV of the NHPC. Further ahead, at Swetijhora — that is just a few kilometres from Kalijhora, a stretch of the road caved in, creating a crater on the highway and making it impossible for heavy vehicles to move. The fourth landslide occurred at 29th Mile, beyond Swetijhora, and the road got blocked with boulders, earth and pebbles. A landslide had occurred there on Tuesday, too. Kalimpong district police issued an advisory, saying light vehicles could reach Siliguri through other routes. “It would take some time for the restoration of NH10 for heavy vehicles’ movement as has been informed by the PWD. As an emergency measure, heavy goods vehicles below 10 tonnes shall be diverted through Coronation Bridge-Damdim More-Gorubathan-Lava onward to Kalimpong or Rangpo (in Sikkim) via Bhalu Marg and back,” the advisory said. Traffic between the Dooars and Siliguri via the Coronation Bridge was also hampered for some hours because of the landslide near Sevoke. The connectivity snap has prompted the residents of the Dooars to demand again a bridge over the Teesta from Sevoke Bazaar (around 5km downstream the Coronation Bridge in the foothills) to the Dooars, parallel to the rail bridge. “First of all, vehicles weighing 10 tonnes and above are now allowed through Coronation Bridge and secondly, landslides during the monsoon often affect traffic via this route,” said a representative of the Dooars Forum for Social Change, an organisation that has been working on the demand. Additional reporting by Vivek Chhetri in Siliguri||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-364
24-09-2020||West Bengal||Sisters’ birthday party with gift of life||Move over, flashy birthday parties at food courts of malls and banquet halls. A couple in West Burdwan’s Jhanjra celebrated their two daughters’ birthdays at a blood bank. Parents Saugata and Parama Mandal hosted an unusual birthday party for Nistha, 8, and Srestha, 3, at the blood bank of the Durgapur subdivisional hospital on Tuesday where 12 invitees joined the couple to donate blood. Of them, seven guests were first-time donors. Saugata runs a computer shop at Laodoha’s Jhanjra, 20km from Durgapur, Parama is a homemaker. Both donate blood regularly and are involved in the blood donation movement in Jhanjra colliery area of West Burdwan. Nistha turned eight on September 18 and Srestha had turned three on August 22. So, the couple decided to host a joint birthday party with a difference this year as they knew that fewer people were donating blood amid the pandemic. “We decided to celebrate the birthdays of our daughters in a way that would help our fellow citizens who need blood in times of the pandemic,” said Parama. The couple also brought along a pretty birthday cake to the blood bank as they wanted it to be a real party as well. The sisters in colour-coordinated dresses looked happy as the birthday cake was cut before the 12 invitees joined their parents to donate blood. The couple had invited some of their neighbours and parents of their daughter’s friends to donate blood at the camp. Saugata and Parama then distributed fruits and snacks to donors and blood bank employees. Saugata said the blood donation camp could not have been held without the support of CPM leader Kabi Ghosh, also the state secretary of Federation of Blood Donors’ Organisation of India. “Kabi Ghosh is a veteran activist in the blood donation movement and his organisation helped us organise the blood donation camp,” said Saugata who has donated blood over 40 times since 2016. The hospital’s blood bank in-charge Karabi Kundu lauded the couple for their heartfelt gesture and blessed their two daughters. “If other parents come forward like this, many lives can be saved,” she said. Ghosh said there was a demand for blood among non-Covid patients but because of the pandemic donors had dwindled. “Before the pandemic, on an average 50 people used to donate blood at the Durgapur subdivisional hospital’s blood bank every day. Now it is around 20-30. But the number of people turning up every day to ask for blood here is around 35-40 people. This has created a gap between demand and supply,” he added, saying the couple did a great job. “Donate blood and save life is our campaign. What the couple did would go a long way in generating awareness about donating blood,” said Ghosh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-364
24-09-2020||West Bengal||State Administrative Tribunal order on DA parity||The State Administrative Tribunal (SAT) on Wednesday directed the state government for the second time to obey the Calcutta High Court directive to pay dearness allowance (DA) to its employees on a par with central government employees. The SAT bench comprising Justice R.K. Bag and administrative member Subesh Das said the state government should implement the court’s directive by December 16, 2020. Two state government employees’ unions have been agitating for parity in DA for the past four years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-364
24-09-2020||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 3,189 new cases, 61 deaths||Bengal on Wednesday reported 3,189 new Covid-19 cases and 61 deaths, besides 2,998 recoveries, as total cases went past 2.34 lakh, which includes over 2.05 lakh recoveries and 4,544 deaths. Bengal’s recovery rate rose to 87.37, a rise of 10 per cent in a month. The national rate now is 81.3 per cent. However, with 25,101 active cases now, Bengal reported a rise in its total active Covid-19 cases for the 16th consecutive day. In the last 24-hour window ending on Wednesday 9am, active cases rose by 130. “After August 23, a 15-day (continuous) fall lowered our total of active cases from 28,069 to 23,216. We had fallen below 25,000 (infections) on September 1. Today, we are once again over 25,000. We are looking to arrest this immediately,” said a minister. “The high-incidence districts of Calcutta and immediate neighbourhoods, which started reporting many more recoveries than new cases was a huge relief, but they have started showing signs of a rise once again. We will address those districts on a war-footing,” he added. Of the total 4,544 deaths reported, Calcutta alone accounted for 1,619, with 12 reported on Wednesday. With 11 more deaths, North 24-Parganas logged a total toll of 1,011. The state government reported 3,882, or 85.4 per cent, as deaths with comorbidity “present”. However, Bengal’s overall mortality rate remained at 1.93 per cent, still substantially behind the national rate of 1.59 per cent. The state on Wednesday crossed 29 lakh tests, as 45,229 tests in the day took the total past 29.24 lakh. Having begun testing in early February, Bengal took over three-and-a-half months to get to the first lakh. Over the four months that followed, it conducted over 28 lakh more tests. “For some time now, we have been covering a lakh tests every two days. With a week left in the month, we have conducted 10.36 lakh tests in September already. Our testing per million has almost doubled in a month, to 32,495. All these are positives,” said the minister. Steady rise in testing, coupled with no major spike in the number of new cases, has dragged down the positive confirmation rate from 8.9 on August 23 to 8.02 per cent now. The state reported 33.93 per cent occupancy in the 12,675 beds earmarked for Covid-19 in the 92 dedicated hospitals for the pandemic. Over 2.46 lakh telemedicine consultations for the pandemic were provided, including 4,072 in the past 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-364
24-09-2020||West Bengal||Scan on BSF officer, son in cattle smuggling||The CBI on Wednesday conducted search operations across parts of Calcutta, Salt Lake, Rajarhat, Malda and Murshidabad in Bengal, as well as Punjab, and Chhattisgarh capital Raipur, in connection with a probe into cattle-smuggling across the Bengal-Bangladesh border. Late in the evening, CBI officers sealed the Salt Lake residence of Satish Kumar, a BSF commandant, who along with his son, is alleged to be involved in this case. Search operations were carried out at the homes of two associates of a Murshidabad businessman, Emanul Seikh, in Kulgachhia. Emanul, according to the central investigating agency, is believed to be the kingpin of the cartel that had several government officials as its members. “We have started a case based on our preliminary finding in connection with cattle smuggling across the India-Bangladesh border. The case was drawn up on Tuesday and search operations were held on Wednesday,” said a CBI officer. Primarily CBI has learnt that between December 2015 and April 2017, Satish was posted as the commandant of 36th battalion of the BSF,  overseeing operations in Malda and Murshidabad. During his tenure, Satish reportedly seized around 20,000 cows during raids to prevent cattle smuggling along the border. But these cows were allegedly shown as calves in the record books. This meant when put up for auction, the animals fetched lesser amounts. CBI officers have learnt if a full grown cow fetched around Rs 60,000, a calf would attract half the amount. By showing cows as calves, the investigating agency said the government had lost several hundreds of crores in revenue. The CBI has primarily learnt that Enamul and his gang would allegedly buy these cows at a lower price only to smuggle them back to Bangladesh. His team would allegedly pay Rs 2,000 for each of the cows that was auctioned at a lower price. “Satish’s son had even worked with Emanul’s company for some time, drawing Rs 40,000 every month,” said the officer. Satish is currently posted in Chhattisgarh. In 2018, the CBI arrested Jibu Mathew, a BSF officer from Bengal, for assets disproportionate to his income. During his interrogation, Enamul’s name had cropped up. He was arrested and later released on bail. While cows were seized, CBI has learnt neither the operatives nor vans carrying them were held, raising questions about the nature of raids. CBI has learnt that Satish is working in Chattisgarh. Search for him is on.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-364
24-09-2020||West Bengal||BJP plans march of two lakh people during pandemic||The youth wing of the BJP has set for itself two nearly impossible targets in the midst of the raging Covid-19 pandemic — a march to Nabanna with 2 lakh supporters on October 8 and maintaining social distancing norms during the procession. Bengal Yuva Morcha chief Saumitra Khan has announced the march in protest against unemployment and alleged breakdown of law and order among others. Though Khan is upbeat about the youth wing’s ability to bring in 2 lakh supporters from across the state for the march, insiders in the party do not share his optimism. They also said it would be absurd to even think that social distance could be maintained at the rally. “Has the leadership even given it a thought that it isn’t possible to bring so many people from across the state since trains are still not running? Even buses are not fully operational,” a Yuva Morcha leader said on the condition of anonymity. Khan, the Bishnupur MP, however, justified his October 8 call and said: “The central leadership has asked us to get 2 lakh people for the rally. I’m sure we will be able to do that. We will maintain social distancing norms and wear masks.” A senior BJP leader said even if the party pulled out all stops to fulfil the target, not more than 50,000 people would turn up. “A gathering of such big scale requires months of planning as people need to be brought in from across the state at least a day before the event. The party also needs to take care of their accommodation and food. Where is time for all that?” the leader asked. Though Khan claimed that Covid protocol would be adhered to at the rally, social distancing norms had been flouted at meetings that the BJP had held across the state in the midst of the lockdown. In fact, violation of Covid-19 protocol marked all the rallies that the Yuva Morcha has held in the past few months. When asked, Khan’s party colleagues, who did not want to be named, took the Yuva Morcha chief’s assertion to honour Covid protocol with more than a pinch of salt. “It is surely a joke. When they can’t abide by the protocol in a rally of 50-60 people, how can they make such claims for a mega rally?” said a party insider. While Khan is busy planning execution of the Nabanna march, the party’s Bengal leadership met in New Delhi on Wednesday to discuss its future course of action ahead of the 2021 polls in Bengal. The meeting decided that the BJP would on October 5 stage protests in front of 33 block development offices, where misappropriation of Cyclone Amphan relief funds had taken place. The party has also asked its 18 MPs and those who were defeated in the last Lok Sabha polls to campaign in favour of the contentious farm bill in their respective constituencies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-364
24-09-2020||West Bengal||New laws to raise cash part of tea pay: BJP||The passage of three labour legislations in Parliament have drawn loud cheers from the Bengal unit of the BJP as the party believes the new laws would push up wages of tea garden workers and help the party make inroads into the brew belt of north Bengal ahead of the Assembly elections. Raju Bista, the BJP MP of Darjeeling, said in Parliament that the management of tea estates would have to pay 85 per cent of the wage component in cash now onwards. Tea garden workers in Bengal get Rs 176 per day as cash component, which Bista said was around 50 per cent of the wage. Over the last few years, the demand for wage revision has been resonating across north Bengal and has become a political issue. “At a time the Trinamul government has not been able to decide on the minimum wages for tea workers in the state despite forming a committee a few years ago to look into the matter, the BJP will surely tom-tom its success as the passage of the bills is likely to push up the cash component of wages,” said a political observer. Fifteen of the 54 Assembly segments in north Bengal are in the tea growing regions and if the BJP plays its cards well, the party will reap benefits. The labour ministry has drafted Codes on Industrial Relations, the Social Security Code and the Code on Occupational Safety, Health and Working Condition. “These provisions (in the legislations) will have immense impact on the tea garden and cinchona garden workers in our region,” said Bista. Highlighting a key component of the legislations, Bista said in Parliament: “The tea garden workers will be entitled to receive 85 per cent of their wages in cash, and the plantation owners can only deduct 15 per cent as in-kind payment.” Bista claimed that “currently around 50 per cent of tea garden wages are deducted as in-kind payment” and labourers would be entitled to a much higher wages “than the current rate of Rs 176”. At the moment, the tea gardens are governed by the Plantation Labour Act 1951, which is set to be repealed once these legislations are given the assent by the President of India. The Darjeeling MP also said the new laws would have provisions to enable plantations to join ESI hospitals providing better insurance and health facilities to the workers. Tea planters did not want to immediately respond without leafing through the new legislations but certain sections in the industry have started weaving a new narrative. “We firmly believe that components like bonus, provident fund, gratuity, extra leave price (paid to those who pluck more than the given task in a day) should also be included in the cash component of the wage and not just Rs 176,” said a planter. The non-cash component of the workers currently includes housing, medicine, wood and umbrellas even though there are allegations that most tea estates do not provide these benefits. Another planter pointed out that the industry was facing many problems like a dip in production from 14 million kgs to 8 million kgs per annum, a nosedive in exports and absence of minimum support price. “Tea is under the commerce ministry and no schemes are applicable to it under the ministry of agriculture. So, imposing of minimum wages mean pushing management to go into an unviable situation,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-364
