25-09-2020||West Bengal||Mamata announces Durga Puja package for organisers||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday announced Rs 50,000 each for all community Puja organisers in Bengal and waived the fees they normally have to pay to the civic body and fire services. She added that the Puja organisers would need to pay only half the electricity bill they run up, whether with CESC or the state-run WBSEDCL. As Mamata made the announcements at her annual meeting with Puja organisers at Netaji Indoor Stadium, the audience of nearly 6,000 broke into applause that continued for a while. Struggling to arrange the funds in a year of pandemic and lockdown, Puja organisers had turned up in strength, eager to hear what the government had in mind for them. They perked up when Mamata said: “Taholey Puja kintu hochchhe, hobe (So, the Pujas are happening). Let’s lock down Covid.” She, however, repeatedly reminded the organisers to take the virus seriously and follow all the protocols. She said there would be no “carnival” — the pre-immersion road show — on Red Road this time. “Ami apnader jonyo ki korte pari (What can I do for you)? Sudhu gyan dilei toh hoy na (Sermons aren’t enough). The economic situation is so bad. You will probably not get advertisements and sponsorship this year; how will you hold the Puja?” she wondered aloud. She added: “Anyway, we’ll try to do as much as we can.” She mentioned the funds crunch her government was facing, and the money it had had to spend to manage and control the pandemic. “It’s true that we haven’t got money. It’s also true that this time the Puja committees are in deep trouble. I’m aware of that,” the chief minister said. “Ami toh apnaderi gharer lok, ar eta amader jatiyo utsav (I’m one of you, like family, and this is our premier festival). Since the problem is deeper this time, the state government will give Rs 50,000 to every Puja committee.” The amount is double what her government had offered last year to the state’s about 37,000 community Puja organisers. Before Mamata could finish, the organisers had begun chanting: “Mamata Banerjee zindabad.” While the officially recognised community Pujas — those that have police permission — number 37,000, many smaller community Pujas are held without official sanction across the lanes and alleys of the state’s towns and villages. Mamata asked the police to grant permission to the older among these Pujas, which means the number of recipients of the government’s grant could rise this year. “Several committees have been organising Puja for almost 10 years now but have not received official permission. I request the police to grant permission to such Puja organisers,” Mamata said. Puja organisers said Calcutta had around 1,200 such Pujas and Bengal, as a whole, some 6,000-odd. Saswata Basu of the Hatibagan Sarbajanin Durgotsav Committee said all the Puja committees were “indebted” to the chief minister. He lauded Mamata’s gesture in recognising the smaller Pujas. “What’s most touching is that she realised our plight and doubled the grant,” he said. The Puja largesse comes amid a single-minded BJP campaign to paint Mamata as “anti-Hindu”, and follows the recent announcement of a monthly grant for poor Hindu priests that many view as a sop to the majority community ahead of next year’s elections. Aware of the criticism, Mamata herself broached the subject, saying the aid for the Hindu priests did not mean her government was unsympathetic to the other communities’ needs. She said all religious communities could approach the government for help. “If a Christian father (priest) approaches me, a Buddhist or a representative of the Jains approaches me, I shall do the same. Karon policy kokhono discriminate kora jaye na (There cannot be any discrimination in policy),” Mamata said. In the audience were representatives of various religious communities — something Mamata ensures every year to emphasise the Pujas’ cross-community appeal. Among them were monks from the Ramakrishna Math and Ramakrishna Mission and representatives of the Christian, Sikh, Muslim and Buddhist communities. “Pujo mone rakhben Hindu, Muslim, Sikh, Isai sabai mileyi korey (Remember, all communities together celebrate Puja),” Mamata said. She cited how, before she had taken the mike, “representatives of all the religions spoke the same language of pluralism”. Hawkers: 81,000 to get Rs 2,000 ahead of Puja Asha workers: Monthly hike of Rs 1,000 Civic volunteers and Green Police: Monthly hike of Rs 1,000 Anganwadi workers: Retirement benefit of Rs 3 lakh||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-362
25-09-2020||West Bengal||Pass motion against farm laws: Left & Cong to CM||Leaders of Opposition parties in Bengal have written to chief minister Mamata Banerjee, requesting her to call a special session of the Assembly immediately to pass a resolution against the contentious farm and essential commodities laws enacted by Parliament recently “We want to propose and discuss an anti-central government stand at the assembly. If the government makes a similar proposal during the session, we will be in favour of it for the interest of the people,” the letter signed by Opposition leader Abdul Mannan and Left legislative party leader Sujan Chakraborty read. “The issues covered by the bills are matters of the state... In such a situation it is imperative that immediate action is taken to ensure that the bills aren’t implemented in our state,” the letter added. Asked to comment on the issue Trinamul MLA and the party’s chief whip Nirmal Ghosh said since the letter had been written to the chief minister, a decision would be taken at the highest level. The Congress and Left parties have hit the streets to protest the provisions in the farm bills. The Trinamul Congress also announced a series of political programmes as part of its strategy to highlight the Narendra Modi government’s anti-farmer policies. “The Left and the Congress want to take the first mover advantage by tossing up the proposal for a resolution against the bills... This is not only a strategy against the BJP, but also a plan to castle Trinamul,” said a political analyst. According to him, if the ruling party agrees to the proposal, the Left and the Congress, which are likely to contest the Assembly polls in an alliance, will claim victory once the Assembly adopts a resolution. “If the ruling party doesn’t pay heed to the demand, they will accuse Mamata of having some understanding with Prime Minister Narendra Modi,” said the analyst. In January, a resolution against the Citizenship Amendment Act had been passed by the Assembly. Parliamentary affairs minister Partha Chatterjee moved the resolution with both the Congress and the Left parties supporting it. Referring to that resolution in their letter, Mannan and Chakraborty urged Mamata to take necessary action with no delay. “Opposing the bills just for the sake of doing so will not do any good. If the government truly wants to stop the implementation of the bills in the state, it has to take some concrete action,” Chakraborty told a news conference. Mannan said: “Two legislative parties in the opposition have taken this step together. We hope the government will listen to us.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-362
25-09-2020||West Bengal||3,196 new Covid cases in Bengal||Bengal on Thursday reported 3,196 Covid-19 cases and 62 deaths on one hand, and 3,014 recoveries on the other, taking the total number of patients past 2.37 lakh, of whom over 2.08 lakh recovered and 4,606 died. Of the new cases, Calcutta reported 607 and North 24-Parganas, 632. “The five high-incidence districts (Calcutta, North and South 24-Parganas, Howrah and Hooghly) have once again started showing signs of a surge, with more new cases than recoveries, resulting in rise in active cases,” said a minister. On Thursday, the five districts logged a net addition of 261 (new cases minus deaths and recoveries). The minister stressed that “renewed intervention” would be necessary over the next four weeks. “We cannot afford to have a flare-up ahead of Puja,” he added. Bengal has 25,221 active cases now, reporting a rise in total active cases for the 17th consecutive day. Of the total 4,606 deaths reported, these five districts accounted for over 80 per cent. Calcutta alone reported 1,633, with 14 deaths on Thursday. With 20 more deaths, North 24-Parganas logged a toll of 1,031. The state government reported 3,936, or 85.5 per cent, as deaths with co-morbidity “present”. Bengal’s overall mortality rate remained at 1.93, substantially behind the national rate of 1.58 per cent. However, mortality rate in infected males improved in a month from 2.17 to 2.15, and in infected females from 1.69 to 1.56 per cent. On the brighter side, Bengal’s recovery rate continued to rise, reaching 87.46 on Thursday, marking a rise by over 25 per cent in two months. The national rate now is 81.53 per cent. On Thursday, the state also reported 43,432 tests, taking the total past 29.67 lakh, at 32,977 tests per million people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-362
25-09-2020||West Bengal||Rescued girl killed in road accident||A minor girl abducted from Siliguri and rescued in Cooch Behar district died in a road accident with her mother and uncle on Thursday, hours after she was reunited with her family. A police constable also died in the accident. A sub-inspector, a lady constable and the youth accused of abducting the girl, have suffered injuries. Sources said a few days back, Kailash Das of Khochabari under Sahebganj police station of Dinhata subdivision in Cooch Behar, who knew this 17-year-old girl, had convinced her to elope with him. As she went missing, her family filed a complaint with Pradhannagar police. Police tracked the girl to Khochabari. A police team led by sub-inspector Biswajit Das, a police constable and a lady constable headed for Sahebganj on Wednesday in an SUV, with the girl’s mother and uncle. The team reached Khochabari, rescued her and arrested Kailash. “All started for Siliguri on Thursday morning in the SUV. As they were crossing Ghokshadanga, a dog came in front of the vehicle. We suspect the driver lost control, the vehicle skidded off the road and fell into a ditch. The girl and three others died. Three others were injured,” said Chandan Das, the DSP (traffic) of Cooch Behar. Residents and a police team reached the accident site and took all passengers to a local health centre. There, doctors pronounced the girl, her mother and uncle, and Pradhannagar constable Gobinda Sen, 40, dead. Accused Kailash, sub-inspector Das and constable Chandana Pal are admitted to Ghoksadanga hospital. The driver managed to flee. “Search is on to nab him,” said Das. The vehicle, police sources said, was running at 80kmph. The injured police personnel have confirmed that the driver was dozing. “He had driven from Siliguri to Khochabari, and after the rescue, he started for Siliguri. It seems he was feeling sleepy. He should have rested. That could have averted the accident,” said a police officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-362
25-09-2020||West Bengal||Traffic back on landslide-hit road to Sikkim||Traffic to and from Sikkim along NH10 — the principal highway that connects the Himalayan state with the rest of the country — was restored on Thursday morning, a day after four landslides had occurred along the road between Sevoke and Teesta Bazaar. NH10 also links the Kalimpong district of Bengal. On Wednesday, heavy monsoon downpour had brought down debris from hillsides at three locations along the highway, while the road had caved in at Swetijhora, located around 35km from here. “Excavators and workers were engaged on all the sites to clear the debris from the road. In Swetijhora, as a major portion of the road had fallen into the gorge, machines were used for back-cutting or cutting the mountainside to create space so that vehicles can move,” said a source in the Kalimpong district administration. After the landslides, movement of heavy vehicles had stopped from Siliguri to Sikkim and Kalimpong, while light vehicles were advised to take turnaround routes. There was an apprehension among residents of the neighbouring state and those in Kalimpong over the halt in supply of essential commodities. “In some places, vehicles are moving in a single flank at lower speed but at least, traffic could be restored. If the weather remains sunny and dry during the next few days, appropriate repairs would be taken up,” the source said. On Thursday, though it did not rain much in the sub-Himalayan districts of Bengal, districts like North Dinajpur and South Dinajpur reported rainfall and also waterlogging at some locations. While the downpour on Wednesday led to landslides along the highway, it also affected at least 30 houses at Panigolai, a locality near Soureni in the Mirik subdivision of Darjeeling district. Ashwini Roy, the SDO of Mirik, along with the BDO and some other officials, reached the spot on Wednesday late evening and shifted the families to safer places while handing over relief materials to them. “Around 11pm on Wednesday, we had to shift around 80 persons of 30 families from the Panigolai area. This is because their houses are standing precariously and mud and water are sliding in the area. There was no other choice but to relocate them for their safety,” said the SDO. On Thursday, Anit Thapa, the chairperson of the BoA at the GTA and L.B. Rai, the civic chairman of Mirik, visited the affected area. Both spoke to the families and said they would be provided with necessary help in rebuilding their houses. Met Office said the southwest monsoon was still hovering in the region. “There is a chance of rain and thundershowers in most places of sub-Himalayan Bengal and Sikkim during the next two days,” said a weather expert.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-362
25-09-2020||West Bengal||Team to rush supplies to Covid patients||A rise in Covid cases in Krishnagar prompted its municipal authorities to form a team of 50 dedicated volunteers to deliver essential items at the doorsteps of positive patients in home isolation in the town’s 25 wards. The volunteer service, launched on Thursday, will be available from 9am to 8pm every day over the next three months. Among the volunteers are young municipal employees who own motorcycles. Others are members of clubs and social organisations in the town. An official of the Krishnagar Municipality said the names of volunteers for respective wards, their contact numbers and other necessary details had been sent to councillors and circulated among residents of the municipal area. SDO Krishnagar (Sadar) Manish Verma, who is also the administrator of Krishnagar Municipality, said: “Our objective is to ensure the fastest possible doorstep service with the support of dedicated motorcycle-borne volunteers who will rush to meet the need of the people recuperating in home isolation.” Verma said the decision to field volunteers was taken as the town was of late witnessing a rise in the number of Covid cases. Till Thursday, 238 cases have been recorded in the town with 47 positive cases reported during the past seven days. “Since the number of positive cases has been increasing, the need to serve on a real-time basis has become very important. Dedicated volunteers have been engaged to supply essential items such as medicine, (drinking) water, and other items of daily needs to the recuperating people,” Verma said. “We invited volunteers to join the service and engaged them only after they gave their written consent,” said Verma. On Thursday the volunteers were briefed about their duties and trained how to handle calls beyond their duty hours. A magistrate later randomly checked their preparedness. Volunteers will not be paid for the service but their fuel cost will be reimbursed. This apart, they will be given mandatory protective gear such as mask and 35ml of sanitiser every day. “This is a sort of community participation. We are taking the support of people who often come forward to organise social activities such as blood donations camps,” Verma added. Palash Das, one of those who volunteered for the service, said: “I, along with a few of my friends, am providing support to Covid patients ever since the first case was reported in Krishnagar. The invitation from the municipal authorities to do the same job on their behalf is a kind of administrative recognition.” Even though Covid cases have been reported from nine wards in the town, the administration prepared a team for all wards to be ready to handle any emergency situation. “We have also drawn up a reserve team if the number of cases rises further,” said former chairman and member of the administrative board Ashim Kumar Saha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-362
25-09-2020||West Bengal||Proposal for new police stations in 2 districts||The superintendents of police of Murshidabad and Jangipur police districts have submitted proposals to the state home department for creation of new police stations and manpower. In the Murshidabad police district, authorities have requested the formation of four new stations at Rajdhapara, Karnasuvarna, Sargachhi, and Gangadhhari to serve the extended municipalities and gram panchayat areas. Sources said police personnel in the district had reported feeling “understaffed” despite the bifurcation of the district police dispensation into two (Jangipur police district) in January 2020. “We want the erstwhile Berhampore station to serve only the municipality now, whereas the one at Karnasuvarna will serve six gram panchayats west of Berhampore town,” said a source. “The old station in Beldanga can be shifted to Sargachhi to include more gram panchayats whereas the one in Nowda’s Gangadhari can cover four gram panchayats, including those in Hariharpara and Domkal,” the source added. The sources said the Murshidabad police district had also leased out an office in the Beldanga station area and posted a DSP there. Murshidabad superintendent of police K. Sabari Rajkumar acknowledged the need of expanding police rosters and capacity. “Our population is growing by the day and this has led to a spurt in crimes. Cybercrime has become a major problem of our times. Keeping these things in mind and with an aim to decentralise the force, we have sent the proposal to create four new police stations to the government,” he said. In the Jangipur police district, sources have said officials are pushing for the current Raghunathganj headquarters to be split into one in Jangipur and another station east of the river in the municipal town. “We want the introduction of two new stations in total. One could be located in Suti’s Ahiran as well, which is centrally located,” said a source. Officials in Murshidabad said a host of other concerns made them come up with the initiative, explaining that 2021 would be a crucial election year. “Murshidabad has a long history of political violence. Domkal also sees a lot of violence and murders over land disputes and elections,” said an officer. The officials also said Murshidabad’s status as a district with an international border had always made it prone to crimes, including smuggling and trafficking. These criminal incidents often go unnoticed along the 100km-long border in the district. Currently, the stretch is manned by 10 police stations with Farakka on one end and Jalangi on the other. “The fencing and personnel in this area need to be drastically improved,” said an officer. The last census recorded the population as having grown two-fold to nearly 72 lakh in the last three decades. The two police districts taken together, Murshidabad has 28 police stations. However, a district like South 24-Parganas, which comes closest to Murshidabad in terms of population (81 lakh), has 35 police stations and this excludes areas that come under Calcutta police.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-363
25-09-2020||West Bengal||Erosion protest yields BDO word||Over 1,000 residents of villages near the Leesh river that flows through Malbazar subdivision of Jalpaiguri on Thursday went to the BDO office to demonstrate for over five hours, alleging government and administrative negligence in addressing erosion for years. The demonstration lifted only after Malbazar BDO Biman Chandra Biswas said anti-erosion work would start in the area on an emergency basis from Sunday. A large police contingent was posted at the BDO office premises to ensure peace was not breached. Aggrieved residents, who were stopped at the entrance of the BDO office at 10am, resorted to sloganeering against the BDO. The policemen tried to dissuade them but the protests continued. Seeing the villagers, several others turned up to know what has led to the protests. Vivek Mani Lakra, a resident of Shaugaon, one of the affected villages, said acres of land have been washed away by the Leesh river these past three years. “Many of us lost our homes and farmland and yet, the block administration and state irrigation department did not do anything to check erosion. This year, the river is aggressively gobbling chunks of land in our locality. That is why we came to the BDO office,” said Lakra. At 3pm, BDO Biswas spoke to villagers. “We have heard their demands and have spoken to irrigation department officials. It was decided that work would start on an emergency basis from Sunday. As of now, a new channel would be dug to divert the water. Also, work to protect banks would be taken up under the 100 days’ job,” said the BDO. His assurance pacified villagers, but as they left the site, they said they would block NH31 if the administration did not keep its word.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-363
25-09-2020||West Bengal||Tourism day splash to get back to business||The Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA) and tourism stakeholders have lined up an array of events in the hills and in plains for World Tourism Day on September 27. The events, which include car and bike rallies, seminars, award functions, panel discussions and visits to popular tourist destinations, are being seen as a bid to build the confidence of people in prominent tourist spots to ensure seamless movement of tourists across north Bengal from October. After Covid-19 cases were reported from different locations of the hills and foothills, some residents had expressed apprehension that tourists might cause a spike in Covid cases. “Now that the hills and the plains are ready to welcome the tourists again, it is necessary that local residents are taken into confidence. The tourism industry has taken a beating in the past few months and it is time that initiatives are taken to revive the sector that provides jobs to over five lakh people,” said Samrat Sanyal, general, secretary, Himalayan Hospitality & Tourism Development Network (HHTDN). According to the stakeholders, the pandemic and consequent lockdown led the sector to lose around Rs 21 crore a day since mid-March. “It is over six months now and the total loss would be over Rs 3,000 crore,” added Sanyal. In such a situation, GTA authorities, who have time and again stressed resumption of tourism activities in the hills, plan to celebrate this World Tourism Day differently. A Land Rover and mountain bike rally, a 5km run and a seminar would be held, all while adhering to the prescribed protocols to check the spread of the pandemic. Suraj Sharma, assistant director of tourism in GTA, GTA, said the events would be organised on a small scale. There would be only 20 Land Rovers, around 50 mountain bikers and similar number of runners. The attendance at the seminar would be around 50. “Those in Land Rover, mountain bike rallies, and runners will maintain distance at all times.  The seminar will be held at Chowrasta with limited participants,” said Sharma. The seminar will revolve around educating hotel and homestay owners on norms to be adhered when hosting tourists. In the plains, the HHTDN will host an award function to recognise people associated with the industry and working in sectors such as homestays, transport, hospitality and tourism promotion. “We will also have a panel discussion on tourism,” said a member. The Eastern Himalaya Travel & Tour Operators’ Association is hosting “Naya Sabera (new dawn)”, at Lataguri on the fringes of Gorumara National Park, the most popular tourist destination in the Dooars. “There will be panel discussions, felicitation of people and cultural functions. We also want to tell tourists that the region is ready to welcome them,” said Debasish Maitra, the association’s president.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-363
25-09-2020||West Bengal||In-laws murdered for property||Police on Thursday morning arrested the son-in-law and a contract killer he had hired to murder the retired army man and his wife at their home at Habra’s Tunighata-Mandalpara in North 24-Parganas early on September 16. The police claimed that Bunty Sadhu, 32, had planned the murder of his parents-in-law  Ramkrishna Mandal, 58, and Lila Mandal, 51, in a manner that would not bring him under suspicion. Based on a complaint filed by the family members of the deceased, the police had earlier arrested Tanmay Bar, the estranged husband of the couple's niece, who had on a number of occasions threatened to eliminate the family after his wife filed for divorce. But probe revealed Tanmay had no role in the murder. Speaking to mediapersons on Thursday, superintendent of Barasat police district Avijit Banerjee said: "It’s true that we had begun the probe on the basis of the FIR that named Tanmay Bar as the accused. But during Tanmay’s interrogation it gradually became clear that he had no role in the murder and the couple's son-in-law Bunty Sandhu surfaced as the accused." Banerjee said that Bunty, who runs a grocery store in Habra, planned the murder of his parents-in-law apparently to grab their property after they refused to shell out Rs 8 lakh he had demanded to clear his “debts in the market”. On Wednesday night, the police picked up Bunty and contract killer Ajay Das, who was allegedly lured into killing the couple on a promised payment of Rs 10 lakh. Bunty allegedly told Ajay that he would pay after getting control over his parents-in-law’s property. “It’s bizarre that the supari killer had carried out the murder on credit,” said a police officer. Banerjee said it was Bunty who deliberately floated Tanmay’s name as the killer and got the family members of the deceased to name him in the FIR. As Bunty was present at the time of the crime, he used Tanmay’s name to mislead the investigation, Banerjee added. A police officer said during interrogation, Bunty confessed that he had hired Ajay and gave him directions about how to sneak into the house of Ramkrishna and Lila after landing on the terrace on September 16. Ajay shot them from close range in the presence of Bunty. As the entire incident happened around 3am, family members could hardly identify the killer and Bunty saw this as an opportunity to frame Tanmay. An investigating officer said that some crucial leads provided by Tanmay during the interrogation helped cops crack the case. “It was Tanmay who told us that Bunty had serious differences with his parents-in-law ever since they refused to pay him Rs 8 lakh,” an investigating officer said. “We also came to know that Bunty had got in touch with a person to buy the firearm used in the crime. As circumstantial evidences substantiated Bunty's role in the murder, we picked up him for interrogation. He tried to mislead us, but eventually broke down and confessed his role in the murder," a sleuth said. Sources said Bunty had married the couple's younger daughter a few years ago. He had run up huge debts in the market as his grocery business was not running well and needed money to clear his debts. "During interrogation Bunty disclosed that he requested Ramkrishna to give him Rs 8 lakh to clear the debts. Ramkrishna refused. Bunty’s effort to convince his mother-in law did not work either. This led Bunty to plan the murder of the couple. He thought that in the absence of the couple he will be able to grab the property as the husband of their only surviving daughter,” Banerjee said. The couple’s elder daughter had died a couple of years ago. When asked if the couple’s younger daughter (Bunty's wife) had any role in the murder, the senior policeman said: “It will also be examined.” Both the accused persons were produced before the ACJM court in Barasat that ordered them 10 days of police custody. The police will soon begin a process to exempt Tanmay of the charges and drop his name from the case, the SP added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-363
25-09-2020||West Bengal||Road rage against civic woes||Residents of two districts on Thursday were forced to block roads to draw the administration’s attention to basics such as road and drainage woes. Nearly 2,000 residents of Murshidabad’s Mahalandi, Sherpur, Sankarpur and Gatla villages on Thursday morning blocked the Haldia-Farakka state highway in Khargram, protesting the administration’s refusal to either reopen the nearby Jibanti-Sherpur highway or address people’s complaints. The Jibanti-Sherpur highway in Kandi was closed indefinitely on June 3 by district authorities citing safety concerns over huge craters on the road. The road was a vital thoroughfare for North Bengal-bound heavy vehicles and served around 1 lakh residents in the area, many involved in the construction material trade that relies on heavy vehicles. “We pooled together in July and raised Rs 80 lakh to repair the road but the district authorities are still ignoring our pleas to reopen the road,” said a protester, referring to the Jibanti-Sherpur Road Repairing Committee formed by traders and residents. District and PWD officials at the time said they were unaware of whether necessary permissions had been granted for this step, and that they would look into it. Residents claim there has been no word from the administration since, although the road is ready. District officials did not respond to the protest on Thursday. Agitators were forcibly removed by police around noon, clearing up the way for a 6km-long backlog of vehicles on the highway. In a separate incident on Thursday, residents of wards 13 and 14 of Basirhat municipal town in North 24-Parganas blocked a local arterial road protesting the “lackadaisical approach” of civic authorities in repairing the drainage system. Protesters alleged that poor drainage systems in the area had forced them to “live in a pool of water” for the past few days following heavy rainfall. Around 10am in Sardarati area, residents forcibly dug up a part of the road and blocked it for two hours until police and local councillors responded. Biswajit Debnath, a resident in the agitation, said: “The situation is unbearable. A 10minute-long spell of heavy rain turns the area into a pool of knee-deep water. A spate of incessant rain floods our homes and we are often forced to live with snakes and frogs.” Resident Baidyanath Das said: “There is actually no existence of a drainage system in the two wards and the area remains inundated. Today (Thursday) we were compelled to dig up a stretch of the road as a mark of protest and clear a part of the waterlogged area. We have appealed to the local councillors and drawn the attention of the chairman of Basirhat Municipality, but unfortunately, they have offered us no help so far. If the authorities do not respond with action, we will be forced to launch a bigger movement.” Basirhat municipality administrator Tapan Sarkar admitted the grievance was “genuine”. “But we have a paucity of funds. We are trying our best to take up the work as early as possible.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-363
25-09-2020||West Bengal||Push for Vidyasagar place growth||The Bengal cabinet on Thursday decided to set up Birsingha Development Authority for carrying out several development projects at Ishwarchandra Vidyasagar’s birth place in West Midnapore district. “The chief minister had promised to set up the development authority for Vidyasagar’s birth place last year. The cabinet approved the proposal,” home secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay said after the cabinet meeting at Nabanna. According to officials, the district magistrate would be the chairperson of the development board and local MP and MLAs along with district officials would be inducted into the board as members. The announcement of the board’s establishment is significant as Trinamul Congress insiders said Mamata Banerjee made it clear that she would keep focusing on Vidyasagar to embarrass the BJP. “The sentiment associated with Vidyasagar had given us a dividend in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls after the BJP had vandalised a bust of the polymath in central Calcutta just ahead of the last phase of the general election. In the forthcoming Assembly polls, we will keep the issue alive,” said a minister present at the cabinet meeting. With the board, sources said, the state government would start working to develop Birsingha, the polymath’s birthplace, as an educational tourist hub, which Mamata had announced during her visit to the village last year. “As soon as the board is set up, the government can release funds to start the required work... In all likelihood, some visible development work would start before the Assembly polls scheduled for April-May next year,” said the minister. The cabinet also approved a proposal to set up a 5MW floating solar power in Murshidabad’s Sagardighi to supply electricity to nearly 1 lakh homes. Besides, the government extended deadlines to set up an educational institute and a hospital in the riverbank township project at Mahestala in South 24-Parganas. The cabinet approved the “Purohit Kalyan Prakalpa”, under which a honorarium of Rs 1,000 each will be given to poor Hindu priests.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-363
