26-09-2020||West Bengal||Bengal worries about bill fallout on PDS source ||Three farm reform bills passed by Parliament recently may play havoc with the public distribution system in Bengal as the state government’s procurement programme is likely to get affected because of entry of big players. The Farmers’ Produce Trade And Commerce (Promotion And Facilitation) Bill, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill had been passed during the monsoon session of Parliament this week. The PDS has over 8 crore beneficiaries in Bengal and if the procurement of agricultural produce — mainly paddy — goes awry, it will have an impact on food security of poor people, said a senior state government official. “Big players will be able to buy farm produce directly from farmers and there would be no bar on stockpiling of food grains. The question is: where will the government get food grains to run its PDS?” said the official in the food and supplies department. Unlike some north Indian states like Punjab and Haryana, the government procurement process in Bengal is inefficient because of which there is a degree of reluctance among farmers in selling their produce to the administration. Although the minimum support price is a big political issue, there is not much awareness of the MSP in rural Bengal. A senior bureaucrat with the experience of handling procurement said it had been in the past that some farmers didn’t often prefer to sell their produce to government agencies even if local middlemen offered Rs 150 to Rs 200 less for a quintal compared to the MSP. According to him, the reluctance is because several procedures are involved in selling produce to the government. First, the farmers need to register their names with the procurement centres and they have to store the stock till the date they are asked to take their produce to the procurement centre. “Sometimes, a farmer gets a date after three-four months from the date of registration. Many of the farmers cannot hold the stock for so long,” said the bureaucrat, recalling his experience. Other formalities like giving bank details for transfer of money and the onus on the farmers to take the produce to the centres — often set up 15 to 20km away — also act as deterrents. “There are indeed some shortcomings and efforts are being made to make the procurement process attractive for the farmers,” said an agriculture department official. “The Centre may say that’s why the farm bills are introduced to make the process smooth and bring in more competition, but the problem is, in reality, the situation will be loaded against the farmers and the poor people in the state, who depend on the PDS,” the source said. The objective of bringing in competitive forces in agriculture, he said, would remain only on paper as the changes in the rules of the game will result in monopsony, a situation where there is only one buyer, kind of a market. Several officials this correspondent spoke to said one of the biggest problems in the reform matrix was the change in the essential commodities act that would allow big players to stock farm produce for months in their state-of-the-art warehouses. Those in favour of the reforms may say that hoarding may not be a problem in today’s world as imports can be made to tackle supply shocks, but an official referred to the weather dependence of Indian agriculture and occasional spike in prices of various agricultural products. “If the state government can’t intervene in such times, what will happen to the poor?” he asked while questioning the rationale of bringing in big players in the business of food. Another officer said the state now required more than 42 lakh tonnes of paddy every year to run its cheap grains scheme and the entry of big players would make procurement difficult as the private players would use the middlemen to scoop up farmers’ produce. “Besides, people offering warehousing services in the districts will be wiped out with the entry of big players, who will create huge storage space with modern facilities,” said the officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-361
26-09-2020||West Bengal||CAA takes back seat in state BJP||The BJP is forced to press a pause button on its strategy of using the coming festive season to build its divisive narrative using the Citizenship Amendment Act and plan a slew of programmes over the next few weeks. The strategy has been changed because of reports from rural Bengal that ordinary people are raising concerns over the three agriculture reform bills, which non-BJP parties are calling “anti-farmer”. Multiple sources in the BJP said they were preparing to use the festive season to build opinion in favour of the CAA as part of its preparations for next year’s Assembly polls. That plan is put on hold for the time being, said a source while adding that the aggressive campaign of the non-BJP parties to portray the three legislations “anti-farmer” had compelled the saffron camp to hit the streets with its side of the narrative. “The situation in Bengal warrants more action from our side as we are under attack by the Trinamul Congress and the Left-Congress combine,” said a source in the BJP. To begin with, state BJP functionaries will hold 13 news conferences across Bengal on Saturday, each describing the virtues of the three bills. The programmes will be taken to small towns and rural areas in the next week as the target audience are rural people, a majority of whom depend on agriculture. “From Monday, there will be small rallies in all districts, at the booth and mandal (smallest organisational unit of the BJP) levels,” said lawmaker and state general secretary Locket Chatterjee. “Our workers and leaders will meet farmers and their families to discuss and explain the farm bill to them,” she added. Several other plans — like small videos with farmers themselves speaking of the benefits of the bills and hand-outs on how the laws will give farmers a better deal — are also being drawn up to counter the offensive from the non-BJP parties. “The farm bills are an immediate issue and top of the mind in view of the debates surrounding them... We cannot let our opponents create a narrative,” said the source. A section of the party’s state leadership feels that the defeat it had to face in the bypolls in three legislative seats last year — within six months of bagging 18 Lok Sabha seats from the state — was because of the state unit’s failure to counter the anti-CAA narrative of Mamata Banerjee and other parties. The party can’t afford to make the same mistake this time, the source said. “For the first time, our party is so close to coming to power... We cannot allow miscommunication regarding the farm bills to continue," a senior leader said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-361
26-09-2020||West Bengal||Minister Suvendu Adhikari among new patients in Bengal||Bengal’s transport and irrigation minister Suvendu Adhikari, deemed a key leader in the topmost tier of Trinamul, and his mother tested positive for the novel coronavirus on Thursday night. They are among the 3,190 new Covid-19 cases that Bengal reported in 24 hours till Friday 9am. Bengal also logged 59 deaths and 2,978 recoveries on Friday. Adhikari, 49, who is mildly symptomatic, has gone on home isolation. His mother, septuagenarian Gayatri Adhikari, is hospitalised in Calcutta. A member of the apex seven-member steering committee of the ruling party, Adhikari got tested along with several members of his joint family, which has several elected representatives, including two MPs, after a nephew tested positive. On Thursday night, results revealed that both the minister and his mother are infected. “Rapid antigen tests for both were positive on Thursday afternoon. After that, RT-PCR tests were conducted, which were conclusively positive. He (Adhikari) has been in home isolation, consulting physicians on whether anything more needs to be done, given his mild symptoms,” said a cabinet colleague. Adhikari is the fifth member of the Mamata Banerjee cabinet to get infected after ministers Jyotipriya Mullick, Sujit Bose, Swapan Debnath and Soumen Mahapatra. “Suvendu (Adhikari) has been on the ground, leading from the front, through the pandemic. He did a lot of work with the people in the aftermath of Cyclone Amphan as well…. Such public representatives are more susceptible to the pathogen,” said a Trinamul leader. With the 3,190 new cases, the state’s total case count went past 2.41 lakh, of which over 2.11 lakh are recoveries, besides 4,665 deaths. Bengal’s recovery rate continued to rise and reached 87.54, ahead of the national rate of 81.74 per cent. Of the 59 deaths, 19 were from North 24-Parganas and six from Calcutta. As of Friday, the state government reported 3,982 or 85.4 per cent as deaths with co-morbidity “present”. Bengal’s overall mortality rate is now 1.93, behind the national rate of 1.58 per cent. The state logged 43,815 tests on Friday, which took the total past 30.11 lakh, at 33,464 tests per million people. The positive confirmation rate has dropped from 8.9 on August 23 to 8 per cent now. The state reported 35.46 per cent occupancy of 12,675 Covid-19 beds in 92 hospitals. Over 2.54 lakh telemedicine consultations have been provided, 4,135 of them in the past 24 hours. So far, over 20 sitting members of the Bengal Assembly, half of from the ruling party, have been infected by the novel coronavirus. Four Bengal MPs, the BJP’s Locket Chatterjee (Hooghly), Sukanta Majumdar (Balurghat) and Jayanta Roy (Jalpaiguri), and Trinamul’s Rajya Sabha member Shanta Chhetri, have also tested positive. The virus claimed the lives of CPM veteran Shyamal Chakraborty, Trinamul’s MLAs Samaresh Das and Tamonash Ghosh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-361
26-09-2020||West Bengal||Trinamul, Left and Congress hit streets ||Protests against the farm bills enacted by the Narendra Modi government brought the members of the Trinamul Congress and the Left- Congress combine to the streets of Bengal. Trinamul’s farmers’ wing, which held a slew of protest programmes across the state on Thursday, conducted a dharna before the Gandhi statue on Mayo Road in Calcutta on Friday. “This anti-people, anti-poor, anti-farmer Fascist government must go. They are trying to break the back of agriculture in India and invite a famine. We will take this fight to the finish,” said Becharam Manna, chief of the farmers’ wing of Mamata Banerjee’s party, Kisaan Khet-Mazdoor Cell. Trinamul organised demonstrations in several district headquarters on Friday. The state unit of the Left-backed All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee had targeted 92 points on national highways and 86 points on the state highways as a part of their road blockade programme on Friday. But heavy rain in north Bengal forced the committee to curtail their plans. The Left parties, along with the Congress, various trade unions and other democratic organisations took out a march from Esplanade to Shyambazar in Calcutta. Left Front chairman Biman Basu, Left legislature party leader Sujan Chakraborty, the Congress’s Rajya Sabha member Pradip Bhattacharya, leader of the Opposition and Congress veteran Abdul Mannan were part of the rally. “Farmers all over the country have taken to the streets in protest against the farm bills. The common man is beside the farmer. The fight against the BJP’s anti-farmer legislations has to be fought together,” said Jadavpur MLA Chakraborty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-361
26-09-2020||West Bengal||Elderly couple found murdered in Birbhum||An elderly couple was found bludgeoned to death at their Brahmanpara house in Birbhum’s Labhpur on Friday morning. Sources in the police said the bodies of Purnendu Chatterjee, 76, a retired teacher from West Burdwan’s Asansol, and his wife Swapna, 68, a retired railway employee, were recovered from their bedroom after the couple did not respond to repeated phone calls from their neighbour. The police recovered a weight and a hammer from the bedside. Hearing the news, the couple’s only son, Kallol Chatterjee, a travel agent in Asansol, reached the Birbhum village with his family. Police sources said the domestic help of the couple, Fuli Bagdi, knocked on the door for about 30 minutes to no response. She informed the couple’s neighbour Swadesh Ghosh who called on the mobile phone of the Chatterjees but drew a blank. Then people informed the cops who discovered the bodies. “All doors were closed from inside and we suspect the killers entered from the terrace,” a police officer said. Shyam Singh, Birbhum police chief, said one person had been detained for interrogation. A sniffer dog was assisting the probe. He said it was too early to reach a conclusion on the motive. Police ruled out robbery. Kallol said his parents started living in the remote Birbhum village, around 30km from Bolpur, four years ago. Family sources said the couple recently had a fight with a neighbour over giving a contract for fishing in a pond owned by the deceased couple, and the matter had been reported to the police.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-361
26-09-2020||West Bengal||Duo held with 17kg cannabis in trolley bag||The police seized around 17kg of cannabis on Friday night and arrested two persons, including a woman, from Rathbari More, a prominent crossing in Malda town. The duo planned to smuggle the cannabis to Calcutta, police said. On Friday midnight, Ahidi Bibi, from Katwa in East Burdwan district, and Chhottu Sheikh, from Bhaktinagar on the outskirts of Siliguri but in Jalpaiguri district, got down from a Calcutta-bound train in Malda Town station. From there, they reached Rathbari More to board a bus headed for Calcutta. “We acted on source information and intercepted the duo. They were carrying the narcotic in a trolley bag,” said Madan Mohan Roy, the inspector-in-charge of Englishbazar police station. The cannabis, sources said, was smuggled from Manipur. “Initially, they planned to go to Calcutta by train. However, the alertness of security personnel in stations and in the train changed their plan. They decided to take a bus to Calcutta from Malda. Police are trying to find out if they run a narcotic smuggling racket or are mere carriers,” said a source. In another incident, three persons have been arrested from Bamangola area of the district for stealing inverters and batteries. Abhishek Talukdar, the officer who is in charge of Bamangola police station, said Jitu Sarkar, a resident, had been running a gang to steal these items which were eventually smuggled to Bangladesh. During the past few months, the police had received a number of complaints of such thefts in the district. On Thursday night, police arrested Sarkar and two of his associates, said OC Talukdar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-361
26-09-2020||West Bengal||Rain and repair bane on NH27||Residents of Jalpaiguri town and those in its suburbs faced acute traffic congestion and in around the town from Thursday to Friday as traffic has virtually come to a standstill on the stretch of NH27 that skirts the town. On NH27, part of the four-lane expressway planned almost two decades back, there are a number of stretches where the road is yet to be widened and work is still in progress. According to officers of the traffic police wing in Jalpaiguri, construction work is in progress in different stretches, including the stretch that passes through the outskirts of Jalpaiguri. In addition, the condition of the existing road is already bad, and deteriorated because of incessant downpour. Trucks and other heavy vehicles often break down, causing the congestion. “From Thursday night to Friday afternoon, at least 14 trucks have broken down. It takes time to get mechanics or recovery vans, further adding to the congestion. The stretch between Raninagar and Teesta Bridge (two ends of the town) is dotted with craters and vehicles get stranded on a regular basis. Hundreds of vehicles are queued up since Thursday night along this stretch and it is tough to say when vehicular movement will get normal on this route,” said a police officer. Mohammad Tahir, a truck driver heading to Uttar Pradesh from Assam, said it took him six hours to cross 6km. “I drove my truck at a snail’s pace and that too occasionally. Most of the time since Thursday afternoon, I sat in the cabin, switching off the engines,” he said. Thousands of people from the suburbs who go to and fro Jalpaiguri on jobs faced problems. “The NHAI authorities should expedite construction work. This traffic congestion has become a major problem for us,” said a bank employee. Sanjeev Sharma, a project director of NHAI posted in Siliguri, said work was on in full swing. “We expect to finish the work in this stretch by December this year. Due to rainfall, some diversions are damaged. We have engaged workers to carry out repairs,” he said. In Jalpaiguri town, some residents have started avoiding two bridges over the Karala river that divides the town from Friday morning. This came as a result of a rumour that spread across the town that the pillars of both the bridges were damaged. This increased the vehicular pressure on two other bridges over the river, as most residents took detours. Later in the day, policemen and officers from state PWD inspected both the bridges and scotched the rumours. “Nothing has happened. After the monsoons, the bridge that connects the Collectorate Avenue will be repaired,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-361
26-09-2020||West Bengal||Rotten gram blot on midday meal||The East Midnapore district administration this week directed the food and supplies department to replace nearly 530 quintals rotten chhola (gram) that it had supplied for distribution for the midday meal scheme in schools across seven blocks and a municipality. Reports of rotten bags of the gram — part of a package comprising 2kg rice, 2kg potato, and a piece of soap as well given per student — surfaced over the last two weeks when parents collected their monthly quota of ration given as a substitute for children’s midday meals. Each student gets 1kg of gram.. Schools are closed amid the pandemic. Sources said that angry over the poor quality of gram distributed from September 8-10, some parents dumped the supplies in front of school gates. “The district administration, after receiving several reports, wrote to the food and supplies department on September 22, asking it to replace the rotten gram with better quality produce. It also asked school authorities in the seven blocks and one municipality to purchase gram selling at Rs 60 a kilo from the market and distribute it among the students,” said a source. East Midnapore has roughly 5,905 government schools with an enrolment this year of 6,35,743 students in Classes I and VIII. All these students are covered under the midday meal programme. “The gram supplied this month was of poor quality. It was full of bugs,” said a parent of a student in Haldia. Sheikh Mukhtiar Hossain, the father of a Class V student at Durmut High School, said he was forced to feed the recent supply of gram to his cows. The additional district magistrate has sent two letters — dated September 10 and 22 — to the district controller (food and supplies) directing the food and supplies department to replace “poor quality gram at once”. Sources said the food supply department procures potatoes and soaps for the midday meal package from local markets. It was directed this week to do the same for gram. Asked, the educational administrator of the Trinamul-run district zilla parishad said functionaries had “alerted district authorities to replace the gram immediately”. District controller (food and supplies), Saikat Chakraborty, acknowledged receipt of the ADM’s letter this week and said the food and supplies department had been informed. “We are awaiting their response,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-362
26-09-2020||West Bengal||Twin job protests in Darjeeling||A job agitation led by Trinamul in the hills was suspended on Friday, while another led by the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (Binay camp) was extended till October 2. The TMC and Binay faction of the Morcha are both in power but their agitations have not yet helped reach their goals. The TMC affiliated Darjeeling Nagarpalika Karmachari Sangtan on Friday decided to suspend their 11-day relay hunger strike following the return of their union leaders from Calcutta after meeting state officials. The civic workers are demanding post-facto approval of the jobs of 116 employees, filling up of 70-odd vacant posts, inclusion of more than 100-odd casual and contractual workers in pay-band category and appointments of next-of-kin in died-in-harness cases. “The union leaders are of the opinion that things are moving in the right direction. This is why they decided to suspend the elections for some time. If the need arises our district president, L.B. Rai, will take up the matter at a higher level,” said N.B. Khawash, spokesperson of the TMC (hills). Trinamul union leaders said that they would wait for a couple of months, and if nothing moved, they might resume their agitation. The United Employees Union of Gorkhaland Territorial Administration, on a pen-down strike from September 1, on Friday announced they would carry on with their agitation till October 2. The union, affiliated to Binay Tamang camp of the Morcha wants regularisation of more than 4,000 pay-band employees. Shekar Thapa, spokesman of the union said that they had decided to extend their pen down strike in GTA offices till October 2. “GTA chairman Anit Thapa has written about our demands to the state government, party president Binay Tamang raised our demand during his visit to Calcutta recently. We are receiving some positive feedbacks though nothing is concrete. However, we decided to extend our agitation till October 2,” said Thapa. The union leader said that they are “hopeful” of a positive outcome during chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s visit to north Bengal from September 28. “We are hearing from certain quarters that our proposal has been sent to the finance department by the hill affairs department and hence are hopeful,” said Thapa. Health and PHE departments are exempt from the agitation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-362
26-09-2020||West Bengal||Friends kill youth over car in Alipurduar district||A 21-year-old college student residing at a tea estate on the outskirts of Birpara in Alipurduar district was hacked to death by two of his friends on Thursday. The duo, nabbed by the police along with a third person suspected to be their accomplice, had also called up the victim’s father and had demanded a ransom of Rs 10 lakh. Shahbaz Ali and Ayushman Lohar were having problems with Indradeb Suri over the ownership of a car that Indradeb and Shahbaz had bought together with the plan to put the vehicle on rent. On Thursday around 9am, Indradeb, a second-year student of Birpara College and son of a grocer in Singhania tea estate, was giving tutoring school students at home when Shahbaz on a two-wheeler asked the former to accompany him to Birpara on an errand. Ayushman and Jakir Hossain, Shahbaz’s uncle, were in another two-wheeler. Indradeb did not return home throughout the day, but his family members did not worry. The situation changed around 5.30pm when Indradeb’s father Motilal received a call on his cell phone from an unknown number where the caller demanded a ransom of Rs 10 lakh and threatened to kill his son if he did not pay. Motilal was asked not to inform the police. Though worried over his son’s safety, Motilal denied paying the amount and told Birpara police. Police officers immediately jumped into action and soon, they could trace the call that was made from somewhere in Birpara. It was found that Ayushman made the ransom call. To deflect suspicion, Shahbaz went to Indradeb’s house and told his family that Indradeb was missing. “He even advised Motilal Suri to file a police complaint and went to the police station. There, our men questioned him but his answers were not satisfactory. Eventually he broke down and admitted they had murdered Indradeb,” said a police officer. Policemen located Ayushman and Jakir, both Birpara residents, and arrested them and Shahbaz. During interrogation, they admitted that they had killed Indradeb with a sharp weapon and dumped his body in Khayerbari forest, some 25km from the tea estate. “A police team went to the spot and recovered the youth’s body and the murder weapon,” added the officer. Police said that recently, Shahbaz and Indradeb had together bought a car and planned to put it on rent for earnings. “They had problems over the vehicle’s ownership that led to differences,” a source said. On Friday, all three were produced at a court here and sent to five days of police custody. On Friday morning, as the news of the murder spread, some residents rushed to Shahbaz’s house and ransacked it, brought out furniture and set them on fire. The angry mob also tried to torch the house. A police team brought the situation under control and called up firemen who doused the flames. “We need to interrogate the trio for more information. We have also posted our men in the tea estate to prevent breach of peace,” said Kuntal Banerjee, additional SP of Jaigaon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-362
26-09-2020||West Bengal||Boy held over theft at home||A second-year BA student was arrested by Haroa police on Friday for stealing cash and gold jewellery valued at Rs 4 lakh from his home as a revenge against his father’s refusal to buy him a motorcycle. Police said accused Susobhan Mondal, 22, son of a fishery owner in Haroa’s Mohanpur, was arrested after he confessed the crime during a marathon interrogation by investigating officers on Thursday night. He told police officers that he stole ornaments and cash from his home as he was annoyed with his father for turning down his demand for a motorcycle. The police on Friday recovered the gold jewelleries and Rs 60,000 in cash wrapped in a fishing net and kept at an abandoned shed behind his house. Stunned over the arrest of his son, Susobhan’s father Sasanka Mandal, 55, appealed to the police to allow him to withdraw the complaint. The cops, however, turned down the plea and produced Susobhan before the additional chief judicial magistrate’s court in Basirhat, which sent him in three days’ police remand. Officer-in-charge of Haroa police Bappa Mitra said: “Such request is legally untenable. Law must take its own course.” The theft came to light on Tuesday night when Sasanka returned home to find his almirah broken and cash and jewelleries kept inside the locker missing. He immediately lodged a complaint for theft at Haroa police station. Beginning the probe, a police team quizzed all family members including Sansanka, his wife, daughter and son Susobhan. All family members cleared the interrogation but cops found Susobhan’s statements to be inconsistent and misleading. An investigating officer said: “Preliminary investigation indicated the involvement of a family member in the theft. There was a small period when no one was at home and the culprit used the window to carry out the theft. Such precision can be achieved by someone who has specific information about the time when there will be no one at home. So, we began questioning the family members and all except Susobhan passed the grilling.” “Susobhan’s statement was inconsistent and that made us suspicious. We spoke to other family members about him and got some crucial leads. As we intensified our interrogation, Susobhan broke down and confessed to stealing the cash and gold jewelleries to take revenge on his father for denying him a motorcycle,” said an investigating officer. Sasanka said: “If I had known my son had stolen the valuables and cash, I would not have gone to the police. He is repentant and wants to be pardoned. However, I am helpless before law and my son has to pay the price for the sin.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-362
