27-09-2020||West Bengal||Raju Bista prods TMC on Sainik school failure||Raju Bista, the Darjeeling MP from the BJP, on Saturday alleged that the Bengal government had failed to sign a pact with the Centre for a Sainik school in Darjeeling despite two reminders from the defence ministry within a span of three months this year. There are currently 33 Sanik schools in the country including one in Purulia in Bengal, set up in 1962. These schools are considered as feeder institutions for the National Defence Academy, Indian Naval Academy, Indian Military Academy and Officers Training Academy. Bista in a written statement said: “I am unable to understand why the TMC-led Government of West Bengal has refused to sign the Memorandum of Agreement (MoA) with the Union Government, that will pave way for the establishment of a Sainik School in Darjeeling.” The Darjeeling MP made public a response from defence minister Rajnath Singh stating that the ministry had sent two reminders this year on June 11 and August 4 “for signing a tripartite agreement between the Government of India, State Government of West Bengal and Gorkhaland Territorial Administration…” “However, copy of agreement is yet to be received in the Ministry of Defence…,” the defence minister has written. The BJP legislators alleged that the “apathy and discrimination” meted out by TMC towards the region was apparent and termed it “ironic” as Trinamul MPs had also earlier raised the issue. The Centre had in principle agreed to set up a Sainik school in Darjeeling when the GTA was formed in 2012. The Darjeeling hill region is a strong catchment area for the armed forces. Sources said that there are more than more than 13,000 retired defence personnel in Darjeeling and Kalimpong districts presently in addition to more than 3,000 widows of personnel of armed forces. More than 150 personnel from the region have laid down their lives since 1947. Last year, Union minister of state for defence, Shripad Naik, had told Parliament that the decision to set up the school in Darjeeling had been conveyed to the Bengal government in January 2015. In 2016, GTA had said that they had identified a plot of land at Tiffin dara near Pokhriabong for the school. “I humbly request all those who are working for TMC in the hills, including their junior team (read Binay Tamang faction of Gorkha Janmukti Morcha) to pursue this matter with Hon'ble Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee ji and get them to sign the MoA, so that we can set up the Sainik School in our region,” stated Bista, who on Saturday was also appointed as one of the national spokespersons of the BJP from Bengal. Shanta Chhteri, TMC Rajya Sabha member, said she had raised the issue in Parliament a year back. “I, however, would not like to comment immediately as I am not aware of the details of the agreement Raju Bista is talking about,” said Chhetri.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-360
27-09-2020||West Bengal||Vidyasagar’s legacy now on Net||The Purulia district administration on Saturday launched an online platform named after Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar on his bicentenary of his birth to help out medical and engineering aspirants as well as motivate students to study science. The online platform — https://vidyasagar.puruliya.in — was launched on Saturday to coincide with the 200th birth anniversary of Bengal’s leading social reformer, polymath and educationist. Sources said the decision to launch the website was taken after officials found that very few students, particularly girls, were opting to study science in the higher secondary level in the district’s schools. The online platform has been linked to the official site of Purulia district administration. The website will have recorded lectures on science subjects and students can ask questions and clear doubts on visiting the website. They will be able to submit their queries in the chat section of the website. “Purulia is a district where very few students study science because of lack of infrastructure and proper coaching. Many students, particularly girls, who aspire to study engineering or medical science, fail to clear the entrance test for lack of proper coaching. We, therefore, thought of launching a platform that will address the concern of students. We planned the launch today (Saturday) as it is the birth anniversary of Vidyasagar, a person who fought for women’s education,” said Rahul Majumdar, the Purulia district magistrate. To run the website, the district administration has formed a core committee comprising 16 science teachers of the Sidho-Kanho-Birsha University and Ramakrishna Mission Vidyapith in Purulia. “We have already uploaded 63 lectures on the online platform on mathematics, physics, chemistry and biology. We will add 100 more lectures in the first phase and the process will continue. There will be doubt-clearing sessions for students,” said a district official. Mili Mandi, 18, from Khatanga village, who scored 85 per cent in her higher secondary exam this year and has taken admission to Purulia's Nistarini College to study physics, welcomed the move. “We struggled to get help in science subjects. This website will be a huge help for future students,” she said. Purulia is a district where poverty rate is very high and most students can’t afford to buy an Internet pack. Keeping the problem in mind, the district administration installed free Wi-Fi connections at  Kanyashree Bhavans in each of the district’s 20 blocks. A local cable channel has also been assigned to telecast the lectures. “We have a Kanyashree Bhavan in each 20 blocks. So, the girls and boys can come there and download the lecture by using free Wi-Fi. In our district most of the families have no ability to buy internet packages,” said a district official. Swami Shivapradananda, secretary of Ramakrishna Mission Vidyapith in Purulia, who was present at the launch, said: “It is a fact that the number of students studying science in schools and colleges in Purulia is very low. The platform will help the students, mainly girls, study science.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-360
27-09-2020||West Bengal||Madrasa teachers rally against prejudice||Teachers of madrasas joined their counterparts of other educational institutions and people from different walks of life in Malda on Renaissance Man Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar’s bicentenary of birth at a rally against the recent harassment of 10 madrasa teachers of the district who were refused rooms at a Calcutta guest house because of their identity. The rally organised by the CPM-backed All Bengal Teachers’ Association (ABTA), moved through the major roads of Malda, with the participants holding placards and banners in protest of the September 21 incident that occurred in Salt Lake. ‘Dhorme Noi Borne Porichoi’ (It is not religion but alphabets that determine one’s identity) was the theme of the protest rally. Borno Porichoi is also a primer written by Vidyasagar. The ABTA leadership, sources said, also sent an e-mail to the chief secretary of the state, seeking exemplary punishment for those had denied accommodation to the teachers. However, some of the madrasa teachers told The Telegraph that the scars had not healed. A group of 10 madrasa teachers, who had been to Calcutta for some official work, had checked into a guest house in Salt Lake. They asked to leave after sometime. From there, they went to another guest house nearby. There too, they were denied accommodation.  They eventually hired a vehicle and headed for Malda at night after getting their work done. On Saturday, Moulvi Abdul Latif, the headmaster of Harischandrapur Kawamari Suraiya Madrasah Siksha Kendra, at the rally, saidthat  the “discrimination on the basis of religion was beyond my imagination”. “The denial was only because some of us had beards and because of our clothes…they (people at the guest house) did not hesitate to drive us away despite accepting a full tariff of Rs 3,600 for three rooms in the guest house,” he said. “Would you believe that we were asked to vacate the rooms (in Salt Lake) because apparently local residents were not comfortable with our attire and look? We are not sure about the authenticity of the statement (the reason that was told to them) but it gave us deep pain,” Latif added. Mahbubur Rahman, the headmaster of Alipur Madrasah Siksha Kendra, said his wife was so afraid that she did not want him to join the Saturday rally. However, he was at the rally with some relatives who admitted they felt “insecure”. Najibar Rahman, principal of Kaliachak College, said the incident conveyed a negative message to the minority community. “Many ordinary people of the minority community have asked me if they would be getting safe accommodation in Calcutta or any of the cities in India after paying due tariff. Such is the level of fear that a peasant has decided not to take his brother to Calcutta for treatment. I had to spend a long time to assure him and arrange his journey and stay,” the principal said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-360
27-09-2020||West Bengal||Jobless migrant worker hangs self||A 38-year-old jobless migrant worker was found hanging from a tree in Birbhum’s Muraroi on Friday evening, his family members saying he was depressed as he couldn’t return to his workplace Kerala and had to spend his savings to run the family. Napu Mal, a resident of Mahurapur village of Muraroi, had moved to Kerala two years ago to work as a mason. He had been saving money from his income to build a pucca house. However, he lost his job during the lockdown and had to spend Rs 25,000 from his savings to return home from Kerala in July. “Napu lost his job because of the pandemic and had to shell out Rs 25,000 for an air ticket to get back home in July. He was getting frustrated as did not have income ever since he returned home, and there was no news of him getting back his old job in Kerala. Whatever remained of his savings was spent to run the family. This made him depressed,” said Napu’s elder brother Rupu Mal, who added that the migrant worker has left behind his wife and two children. He told that family members were aware of Napu’s frustration and had advised him to take up whatever job was available locally, but he refused to listen. Napu’s wife Sushanti Mal said: “Both my sons are minors. I don’t know how we will survive.” Though the state government had offered jobs to migrant workers under the MGNREGA, Napu was not a beneficiary. “After I came to know about the suicide of the migrant worker, I spoke to panchayat authorities. I have been told that the person had never approached the authorities for a job under MGNREGA. We have helped out at least 3,000 migrant workers who have returned from their workplace,” said Nishith Vaskar Paul, BDO of Muraroi-I. Badrunnessa Begum, the pradhan of Mahurapur gram panchayat, said: “We heard that the migrant worker was facing problems for the lack of income but neither he nor his family members approached us. However, we will try to do whatever we can for the bereaved family.” A police officer said the body had been sent to Rampurhat hospital for autopsy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-360
27-09-2020||West Bengal||Two tea estates to reopen today||Two tea estates in Alipurduar district, employing around 3,200 workers in all, will reopen on Sunday after remaining closed for around 11 months. The decision was made at a six-hour tripartite meeting at the office of the additional labour commissioner in Siliguri on Saturday. With this, the state labour department has managed to reopen three tea gardens in a short time, the third being the Longview tea estate in Kurseong subdivision of Darjeeling district. Last Wednesday, work resumed in Longview that was closed for a month. According to sources in the department, managerial representatives of the tea company that owns Raimatang and Kalchini tea estates had abandoned both the gardens on October 26, 2019. Since then, both the gardens were closed and the workers rendered jobless. “We have been consistently trying to facilitate the reopening of both these gardens. On Saturday, a tripartite meeting was held in my office that continued for around six hours. It is good that the meeting yielded results. From Sunday, the gardens will reopen. At the meeting, decisions have also been made regarding payment of dues to the workers,” said Md. Rizwan, the additional labour commissioner of Siliguri. Tea trade union leaders present at the meeting said on Sunday, the management will disburse the due wages of 16 days (of October 2019) among the workers and will also pay a month’s salary to the staff and sub-staff. “It has also been decided that workers of both gardens will receive bonus at the rate of 12 per cent and it would be disbursed by October 17. The management will also clear a portion of the due gratuity by the first week of next month,” said a trade union leader. On November 3, another round of tripartite talks would be held to review the state of affairs in the gardens and discuss other pending issues, he added. The decision has bolstered the confidence of Trinamul’s tea trade union leaders. “The state government has proved its sincerity towards the tea industry. On one hand welfare schemes have been extended to the tea population, on the other hand the government has drawn up a housing scheme for tea workers. Now, the government is focusing on reopening the closed tea gardens, and after Saturday’s decision, three gardens will reopen in the span of one week. We will highlight these developments in the tea belt, particularly because the central government is sitting idle and has not done anything for the tea industry of Bengal so far,” said Mohan Sharma, president, Cha Bagan Trinamul Congress Mazdoor Union.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-360
27-09-2020||West Bengal||FIRs against duo usurping Cyclone Amphan dole||District officials in East Midnapore’s Contai have lodged FIRs against at least two persons who had not responded to repeated notices issued since June asking them to return wrongfully received Amphan doles of Rs 20,000 each. The two are among a list of 500 persons, identified by block and district officials in East Midnapore’s 25 blocks and five municipalities in June, who had wrongfully received the doles meant for those whose homes had been ravaged by Cyclone Amphan that lashed Bengal on May 20. Out of these 500 persons, 33 are from Contai town. The district administration had carried out the verification drive to identify those who had wrongfully claimed the dole shortly after the ruling Trinamul Congress came under scrutiny for alleged widespread corruption at the panchayat and block levels. The widespread Opposition-led protests that had erupted in the Amphan-hit belt in the state over irregularities in the distribution of the state government dole had made chief minister Mamata Banerjee order the administration to fix the anomalies and take action against those who had indulged in corrupt practices. Following the chief minister’s intervention, fresh lists of beneficiaries were drawn up and those who had wrongfully claimed the compensation were identified through a massive verification drive. As the administration began to crack the whip, several people who had taken money illegally did turn up to refund the dole Many, however, refused to give in. This prompted the administration to take recourse to legal action. “We have identified 33 persons in Contai town who haven’t returned the money despite repeated reminders. We have lodged FIRs against two of them, while the bank accounts of others have been sealed,” said Contai SDO Subhamoy Bhattacharya and added that legal action would be taken against everyone involved with Amphan corruption. However, a source in the district administration said one of the two had returned the money recently. “One of the two persons against whom FIRs were lodged in Contai town returned the money this week. The other person is yet to respond. More FIRs will follow,” said a source in the district administration. Sources said the SDO’s move came in the wake of district magistrate Partha Ghosh’s direction to all block officials to act strongly against violators of the dole scheme. Sources added more comprehensive lists of existing violators were still being prepared. The administration’s step is in stark contrast to the state of affairs even two months ago when the BDO in Haldia’s Sutahata, Sanjay Sikdar, was allegedly transferred for filing an FIR against a Trinamul-run panchayat’s pradhan in the district. ‘ The BDO had accused of corruption Ashadtalia panchayat pradhan Shibani Bakuli, who claimed in July that the party intervened to put the probe against her on hold. Opposition leaders this week said district officials' initiative was “too little too late”. “Even though it is minimal, we welcome the administration’s action against the corrupt. It is the result of our widespread protests," said BJP district vice-president Pralay Pal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-360
27-09-2020||West Bengal||North Bengal University vice-chancellor flags fake email IDs||North Bengal University VC Subires Bhattacharyya has said some 100 emails were sent from two fake IDs created in his name in the past few days, cadging for favours or gift vouchers. “The fake IDs are chairman3370@gmail.com and vicechancellorp@gmail.com. ...around 100 mails have been sent to teachers, research scholars and to some vice-chancellors...that the vice-chancellor of North Bengal University needs some favour and that they should reply immediately,” said Bhattacharyya. Those who replied, he said, got another mail that he needed gift vouchers. Bhattacharyya, sources said, has filed a complaint with cyber crime police of Siliguri police commissionerate on Friday. Google has been notified as well, the source added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-360
27-09-2020||West Bengal||North Bengal rain score: 120 days out of 150||Weather experts have linked excessive rainfall this monsoon in most of the north Bengal districts to recurring landslides in the hills, and waterlogging and inundation in the plains over the last five months. “Rainfall between January and September 23 this year is close to double the average annual rainfall... Such heavy rainfall is one of the main reasons behind landslides that brought life to a standstill in parts of north Bengal,” said Gopinath Raha, a weather expert in the regional Met office, Gangtok. Not just landslides, excessive spell of rains caused havoc to agriculture in the region, he added. A senior official of the state irrigation department, who collated rainfall data, said in districts such as Darjeeling, Kalimpong, Jalpaiguri, Alipurduar and Cooch Behar, embankments along several rivers were damaged. “In some places like Alipurduar, it has rained 96 per cent more, that means, almost double the average annual rainfall, while in Siliguri, it has rained 36 per cent more. The lowest percentage of excess rainfall is 18, which indicates much more rainfall in the current monsoon season than in other years,” said Subhankar Chakraborty, the chief engineer, northeast division of the irrigation department. Such excess rainfall made weather experts at the regional meteorological office in Gangtok analyse the situation. According to them, during 150 days of monsoon months, rainfall was reported during 120 days in north Bengal. In Sikkim, it rained 112 days out of these 150 days. “Since June, southwest monsoon has been hovering steadily over the region which caused the rainfall. Also, low pressure in Bay of Bengal added to moisture and increased frequency and intensity of downpour,” said Raha. “We are analysing rain data of the past 10 years of this region to find out other factors that led to such high rainfall,” he added. In Siliguri and surrounding areas, normal life got disrupted on Saturday as it started raining from Friday midnight and continued till Saturday late afternoon. Low-lying areas of the city like Ashoknagar, parts of Champasari and Ganganagar got waterlogged. Road connectivity from Siliguri to Kalimpong, Sikkim and Dooars snapped for a couple of hours as a landslide occurred near the Kali Temple in Sevoke. A mudslide on 29th Mile on NH10 — around 45km from here — halted vehicles on the highway. “We cleared the debris, and vehicular movement in a single flank resumed within two hours,” said a representative of one of the agencies engaged in restoration work.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-360
27-09-2020||West Bengal||Mamata’s ‘A. Singh’ letter to governor||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday sent a missive to governor Jagdeep Dhankhar pointing out his recent queries into criminal investigations against an accused amounted to interference in state government’s day-to-day administration and asked if it was an attempt to influence the probe. Though Mamata’s letter termed the accused as one A. Singh, sources in Nabanna said it was none other than turncoat Arjun Singh, now BJP MP from Barrackpore, against whom a case of misappropriation of funds of a local cooperative bank is on. Sources said the governor had sent a letter to the state’s DGP Virendra on September 5 seeking details of the probe against the BJP MP. “The DGP sent a brief reply mentioning that the state police firmly adhered to the path laid down by law, but that did not please the governor, and he summoned the DGP. The chief minister wrote the letter as the governor was crossing all limits,” said a senior government official. In her letter, an “upset, anguished, and disillusioned” Mamata reminded the governor of his role as stated in Article 167 of the Constitution. “At the outset, I wish to call upon the wisdom of B.R. Ambedkar… who, while explaining Article 167 of the Constitution, had opined that the Hon’ble Governor is like the British Crown and thus the Hon’ble Governor has no right to interfere with the ‘day-to-day’ administration of the State Government,” the letter says. “He (Ambedkar) further stated that under the Article 167, the only information that the Hon’ble Governor is entitled to, is regarding executive and legislative proposals of the ministry, from the Chief Minister,” the letter added. “Sadly, your inquiry into criminal investigations in connection with a particular accused Mr. A. Singh, and seeking ‘reports’ regarding the investigation processes from the Director General of Police is not an information regarding any executive or legislative proposal and such inquiry not only amounts to interference in the day-to-day administration of the State Government but also gives rise to serious suspicions of interference in and influencing on-going investigations.” The chief minister also pointed out that the accused should have knocked the doors of the judiciary in case he had any grievance, and being a lawyer, the governor should have suggested the accused follow the path of law. As the governor wrote the letter on behalf of the accused, it might have serious consequences under law, the missive pointed out. Dhankhar in his tweets later in the evening, said the DGP did not appear as requested third time in a row, “can’t be overlooked”. “CM writes instead, on his behalf.” “Further, the accused, by successfully obtaining Hon’ble Governor’s extra-legal intervention and interference, has actually put the Hon’ble Governor in a dangerously precarious position which might have serious consequences under law,” the letter stated. The chief minister also mentioned that the instance could set a wrong example in society. “This may also give rise to a wrong impression in the mind of persons accused in various criminal cases that the Hon’ble Governor, instead of the Hon’ble Judiciary, is now the appropriate authority in the State to approach to seek redressal of grievances, if any, in an ongoing investigation process,” the letter reads.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-361
27-09-2020||West Bengal||Bengal logs 3,181 new Covid cases, 56 deaths||Bengal on Saturday logged 3,181 new Covid-19 cases, 56 deaths and 2,955 recoveries. With this, Bengal’s total cases went past 2.44 lakh, of which nearly 2.14 lakh are recoveries and 4,721 are deaths. Rising by 170, Bengal reported 25,544 active cases (minus deaths and recoveries). The state reported a rise in total active Covid-19 cases for the 19th consecutive day. Of 4,721 deaths, Calcutta so far accounted for 1,652, with 13 on Saturday. North 24-Parganas, with 14 deaths on Saturday, reached a toll of 1,064. The state government reported 4,027, or 85.3 per cent, as deaths with comorbidity “present”. Comorbidities are underlying health disorders, such as high blood pressure, diabetes, cardiovascular or kidney ailments, believed to increase chances of death for infected patients. A minister said there had been relatively less comorbid deaths over the past month. “From 87.2 per cent comorbid deaths (on August 26), we are at 85.3. Of the 1,757 deaths in this window, 82 per cent were comorbid. In the month before that (July 26), 89 per cent of deaths were comorbid,” said the minister. Bengal’s overall mortality rate remained at 1.93, still substantially behind the national rate of 1.57 per cent. However, Bengal’s recovery rate was 87.61 per cent, ahead of national 82.17 per cent. With over 11.67 lakh tests already in September, the total test count went past 30.55 lakh on Saturday, at 33,945 tests per million people. The state reported 43,285 tests on Saturday. Positive confirmation rate — the percentage of total cases found out of the total number of tests conducted — went down from 8.9 on August 23 to below 8 now, at 7.99 per cent. “Steady decline of positive confirmation rate, despite the heights we achieved in testing, is a heartening indicator,” said the minister, as decreasing positive confirmation rate indicates reducing levels of Covid-19 spread. The state reported 35.47 per cent occupancy in the 12,675 beds earmarked for Covid-19 in the 92 dedicated hospitals for the pandemic. Over 2.58 lakh telemedicine consultations for the pandemic were provided, including 4,126 in the past 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-361
27-09-2020||West Bengal||Mukul entry, Rahul exit keep BJP agog||Former Trinamul Congress No. 2 Mukul Roy was promoted as a national vice-president of the BJP and fellow Trinamul turncoat Anupam Hazra made the national secretary in the reconstituted BJP national committee that was announced on Saturday. The new committee, in which Darjeeling MP Raju Bista was also made a national spokesperson, made it clear that the party was taking its Mission Bengal seriously, but the nominations from the state further deepened the cracks in the Bengal unit of the party as some questioned the national leadership’s decision to put Trinamul turncoats in prominent positions. “It is good that the party leadership kept Bengal in focus during the rejig.… But it’s sad to see new entrants in the party getting prominent positions while the loyal supporters are getting sidelined,” said a state leader preferring to be anonymous. The murmur of discontent over Trinamul turncoats gaining prominence in the party has been brewing in the state BJP for some time. But Roy’s elevation and inclusion of Hazra on the list of national secretaries at the expense of two-time state president Rahul Sinha, who was dropped from the list, triggered outbursts. Sinha circulated a video message on Saturday evening making his displeasure clear. “After 40 years of serving the party through thick and thin this is my reward. I had to step aside to make room for someone who has switched over from Trinamul. I don’t have anything else to say,” he said adding that he will divulge his future plans within 10 to 12 days. Several state BJP leaders this correspondent spoke to said the rejig did not regard the contributions of old-timers. “If the core of the party is unhappy, the impact will be felt in the elections,” said one of the old-timers. The changes, however, were welcomed by another section in the BJP, who said the rejig was in sync with the party’s aim of wresting the Bengal Assembly. According to a senior party leader, Roy’s promotion as a national vice-president was significant as it signalled that he would play a key role in the Assembly elections. “Mukulda was one of the founding members of Trinamul... He had played a key role in building the party. Our party definitely needs his expertise,” this person said. Roy, however, was measured in his reaction. “The party has assigned me a responsibility and I’ll try my best to live up to it. In the upcoming Assembly polls, all of us in the state will work together towards success,” he said. Roy’s elevation is seen by many as a balancing act, because Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh had denied him any significant role in the party’s scheme of things here. However, Hazra’s inclusion in the list of national secretaries came as a surprise to most at 6 Muralidhar Sen Lane, the BJP state headquarters. “Is it a printing mistake?” wondered one of the state leaders. The new committee of the party’s state women’s wing was also announced on Saturday amid controversy as some existing members were dropped. Those dropped accused Agnimitra Paul, the new president who took over from MP Locket Chatterjee in June this year, of favouritism. “We don’t even know some of the new members in the state committee. We went out to the streets and worked for the party and now we get no recognition in return,” a former state committee member of the Morcha said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-361
