28-09-2020||West Bengal||Alapan Bandopadhyay named new chief secretary of Bengal||Alapan Bandopadhyay was named as the new chief secretary of Bengal on Monday. Bandopadhyay, who is at present the state home secretary, will join his new posting on October 1, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said. He will take over the new role from Rajiva Sinha who retires on September 30. Bandopadhyay is a 1987-batch IAS officer of Bengal cadre. HK Dwivedi, who is at present the finance secretary of the state, will take over as the home secretary, the chief minister said. Manoj Pant will be the new finance secretary. He is at present the principal secretary of the Land and Land Reforms and Refugee Relief and Rehabilitation Department. Sinha was appointed the chairman of the West Bengal Industrial Development Corporation, Banerjee announced. He has been appointed to the post for a period of three years, she said. "I thank him for his tireless service to GoWB, Banerjee tweeted. "Best wishes to entire team," she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-359
28-09-2020||West Bengal||Signs of Bengal rift greet changes in BJP||BJP workers clashed at two places on Sunday in a manifestation of the intensifying power struggle in the state unit between old-timers and those who had joined the party recently. At Baruipur in South 24-Parganas, old-time BJP workers agitated in front of the car of Anupam Hazra — former Trinamul MP from Bolpur who had defected to the saffron camp last year and then contested from the seat unsuccessfully. The car was blocked when Hazra, who was made a national secretary of the BJP on Saturday, was leaving after attending a BJP meeting. He got off the car and sought to pacify the agitators. Hazra left the venue and soon after, old-time BJP workers and new comers fought with each other in the presence of the party’s Baruipur unit chief Harikrishna Datta. Sources said the old-timers’ lobby got infuriated at Hazra being invited. “The old-timers attacked while a meeting was being conducted. They beat up at least seven party workers and one of them had to be hospitalised,” said a district committee member. On Saturday, BJP veteran Rahul Sinha had publicly made his bitterness clear over his exclusion from the national leadership. On Sunday, a clash occurred at Basirhat in North 24-Parganas when a group of BJP activists led by its local youth wing secretary Mrityunjay Sinha and former organising committee chief Ganesh Ghosh barged into a community hall where a party meeting was about to begin.  Hundreds of chairs were smashed in the clash. State BJP general-secretary Sayantan Basu said such clashes were “not uncommon” when the party was expanding. Additional reporting by Arkamoy Datta Majumdar||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-359
28-09-2020||West Bengal||Bengal reports 3,185 new Covid cases, 60 deaths in a day||Bengal on Sunday reported 3,185 Covid-19 infections and 60 deaths, besides 2,946 recoveries, as the total number of patients went past 2.47 lakh, of whom nearly 2.17 lakh were cured and 4,781 succumbed to the disease. The recovery rate is now 87.67 — an improvement by over 7 per cent in a month — while the national rate is 82.35 per cent. The total of active cases rose for the 20th consecutive day to 25,723 on Sunday. Calcutta alone reported 615 new cases, while North 24-Parganas had 670. But Calcutta also logged 579 recoveries, while North 24-Parganas reported 534. Calcutta, which had reached a high of 7,041 active cases by August 9, had improved to 4,067 by September 8. However, with the return of the rise, the city reported 4,944 active cases on Sunday. “But we cannot yet say that the good work of a month, till the first week of September, has been undone. The reversal of the trend of improvement has set us back by a few weeks. That’s all,” said a Bengal minister. Of the total 4,781 deaths reported, the city alone accounted for 1,669, with 17 recorded on Sunday. North 24-Parganas reported a total of 1,069 deaths, five of them on Sunday. The state government reported 4,075 deaths (85.2 per cent) as those with comorbidity “present”. Bengal’s overall mortality rate remained 1.93, still behind the national rate of 1.57 per cent. Calcutta’s mortality rate is 3.06. “The mortality rate of infected males has improved to 2.15 from 2.17 per cent in a month. Infected females’ mortality rate is now 1.55, from 1.65 a month ago,” said the minister. With 43,618 tests, the total stopped just short of 30.99 lakh, at 34,430 tests per million people. “We were at 19,073 tests per million even a month ago. In September alone — with three days remaining — we have already conducted over 12.11 lakh tests,” said the minister. Steady rise in the tests, coupled with no major increase in the number of new cases, has improved the positive confirmation rate — the percentage of total cases found out of the total number of tests conducted — from 8.9 on August 23 to 7.98 per cent. A decreasing positive confirmation rate is indicative of reducing levels of Covid-19 spread. The state reported 36.09 per cent occupancy on 12,675 beds earmarked for Covid-19 at 92 dedicated hospitals. Over 2.62 lakh telemedicine consultations for the pandemic were provided, including 4,087 in the past 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-360
28-09-2020||West Bengal||Selfies with jumbo calf at expense of safety||A three-month-old elephant calf on Sunday morning was found to have strayed from its herd, spurring hundreds of people from Manabari tea garden, some 45km from Jalpaiguri town, to take selfies with the calf, photo-shoot the animal and touch it. This selfie act by the 400-odd crowd that paid scant respect to social distancing norms also permanently separated the calf from the herd as elephants are known not to accept calves touched by humans. Sukhdeb Oraon, a resident of the closed garden, said that a herd of 11 elephants had entered the tea garden from the adjoining Bhuttabari forest on Saturday night. “Early morning we found that the calf had failed to follow the herd and strayed into the plantation,” said Oraon. The forest guards from Targhera range in Malbazar subdivision were informed and they reached by 7.30am. Soon around 30 foresters from Gorumara, Baikunthapur and Kalimpong also reached the spot but by then a 400-strong crowd had already gathered. “People wanted to touch the calf and take selfies with it even as the calf started wandering directionless in the garden,” said Madan Chhetri, another resident. The foresters struggled for nearly four hours to manage the crowd and rescue the calf. Nisha Goswami, divisional forest officer, Gorumara, said: “Our staff went to the tea garden, where the three-month-old elephant calf had strayed from the nearby forest. The rescued animal will be kept at the Gorumara National Park.” Health officials expressed concern over the assembly of such a big crowd that ignored all Covid-19 safety norms. “When a large number of people gather at a point without maintaining physical distance or wearing protective gear, there are apprehensions of the virus spreading,” Susanta Roy, the officer on special duty (north Bengal) of the state health department, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-360
28-09-2020||West Bengal||Thapa to hills: Stop blaming Bengal always||Anit Thapa, who chairs the board of administrators of Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA), on Sunday said that the hills should stop always blaming Bengal or Centre and instead focus on administering the hills properly. Thapa while addressing a function to mark World Tourism Day at Gorkha Rangamanch Bhawan said that since taking charge of the GTA he had only come across problems because efforts have not been made to solve issues since 1986. The first Gorkhaland agitation was launched in 1986 by Gorkha National Liberation Front leader Subash Ghisingh. “There are great problems like unemployment and looking back since 1986, we have only lost (on many fronts)…..Our problem is that we only blame. Sometimes we blame Bengal, sometimes we blame Centre but we have not been able to administer what we have with us and none is pondering on this issue,” said Thapa. After the 1986 agitation, Darjeeling Gorkha Hill Council (DGHC) was formed two years later. Another round of Gorkhaland agitation started in 2007, following which DGHC was repealed and the GTA formed in 2012. Bimal Gurung resigned from the GTA in 2017, a little before its five-year tenure was to end, shortly after he launched another agitation. Taking a potshot at this, Thapa said: “Our leaders blame at the end (of the tenure).” Observers believe that Thapa, avowedly practising the “politics of reality”, is perhaps trying to showcase that earlier leaders were poor administrators. “Since 1986 our leaders have only believed in short-cuts and this is why we do not have a clear policy on many issues,” Thapa said. Thapa’s Gorkha Janmukti Morcha has been trying hard for the past three years to consolidate his support base. The party, however, lost two previous elections. The GTA said that it would form an apex body as requested by the stakeholders “to start solving issues one by one” and appointed S.N. Pradhan, Prashant Raj Pradhan and Sangay Tshering from the transport and hospitality industries as its conveners. “Thapa is probably trying to divert the narrative from political issues to matters of governance before the state assembly election,” said an observer. “Covid has united us and we have fought this pandemic together,” said Thapa who stressed that the hills should continue to remain together in days to come. The GTA head also brought out the reference of Gorkha Rangamanch Bhawan and said that it felt good to organise a function at the place after years. The language protest, which culminated into a statehood agitation, had started from the premises of this town hall. Kalimpong-II Integrated Tourism Awareness Society decided to sponsor the fees of two private tutors for 50 underprivileged students residing in remote villages of Pitamchen and Mulkarga to mark the tourism day. “These remote places lack good network for online classes,” said Samdu Bhutia, president, KITAS. Subarna Mazumdar, BDO Algarah, and Nurpundee Lepcha, WBCS (Exe) Joint BDO Algarah II, were also felicitated by KITAS for doing development work.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-360
28-09-2020||West Bengal||State focus on repair of 200 bridges||The public works department has identified 400-odd bridges in distress out of 1,800 maintained by the department across Bengal, with over 200 among them needing immediate repair and restoration to avert any major mishap in the near future. “Following a thorough inspection and health scan of all the bridges across the state, it has been found that over 400 bridges are in distress. Of them, 204 need urgent renovation and restoration work. The PWD is working to start this job at the earliest,” said a senior government official. According to sources, the department had issued an order to conduct the health audit of all the bridges it maintains across the state soon after the collapse of Majerhat Bridge in Calcutta in September 2018. It took almost two years to complete the job as the department wanted to carry out a thorough inspection and safety audit of all the bridges. Districts like South and North 24-Parganas, East Midnapore, Murshidabad and Malda have the majority of distressed bridges. “The districts that have more rivers and canals have more distressed bridges. Districts like South and North 24 Parganas and East Midnapore also witnessed the wrath of Amphan, which also damaged a few bridges,” said a source. The state government is now trying to restore all the severely damaged bridges at the earliest as it does not want any other bridge to collapse ahead of the polls. “The collapse of Vivekananda Road flyover and Majerhat bridge (2016 and 2018, both in Calcutta) has tarnished the image of the state government. The BJP was raising questions over the maintenance of bridges. The ruling establishment does not want to take any risk particularly a few months before the polls,” said a bureaucrat. Sources said that even if some bridges, particularly in districts like South and North 24-Parganas were proposed to be replaced in near future, the state government wanted to undertake restoration of the bridges for the time being as the state is facing a financial crisis amid the pandemic. According to sources, the PWD sought a clearance from the finance department to spend a sum of Rs 150 crore to restore 204 bridges immediately. “We cannot take up restoration work for all 400-odd bridges right at the moment due to financial constraints. The department has sent a proposal to take up restoration and maintenance work on 204 bridges, which need urgent restoration,” said a PWD official. Sources in the department said that the restoration work for the remaining bridges could be taken up next year as the survey mentioned that those bridges, though distressed, can serve for few more years. “Most of these bridges were constructed more than 30 years ago. With little restoration, these can serve for another 10-12 years. But some bridges, constructed about 35 to 40 years ago, need replacement,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-360
