29-09-2020||West Bengal||Piyush Goyal writes to MP Raju Bista on Nepal tea imports||The Union ministry of commerce and industry and the Tea Board of India have taken a number of initiatives to stop the unbridled import of tea from Nepal and its sale as Darjeeling Tea in India. Piyush Goyal, the Union minister of railways, commerce and industry, wrote to Darjeeling BJP MP Raju Bista recently, saying the Centre was taking necessary steps to ensure that tea from Nepal was imported only if the product complied with all regulations of the FSSAI (Food Safety & Standards Authority of India). Bista had written to the minister in June, expressing concern over the dumping of tea from Nepal in India and pointing out that the product was being sold as Darjeeling Tea. “I had mentioned that it was also causing widespread losses for our tea industry and harming the Darjeeling brand. It is good that the Tea Board is taking initiatives to check the dumping of tea and has made it mandatory that tea imported from other countries will have to get a clearance from FSSAI. This would address certain areas of concern like health safety of tea drinkers and adulteration of Darjeeling Tea and would promote a healthy competition among tea producers in the neighbouring country,” said Bista. In the past few years, members of the Indian tea industry, particularly those associated with the Darjeeling tea industry, time and again flagged the issue and sought the intervention of the Centre and the Tea Board. Along with his letter, Goyal also appended a note mentioning the initiatives taken by the Tea Board — the apex government agency that looks after the tea sector in the country. It has been mentioned in the note that Nepal tea can be sold in India only in packaged form. Added to this is the compulsory clearance from the FSSAI and appropriate authorities of Nepal for each batch of tea imported from Nepal. The FSSAI has also been advised to allow the import of tea only through a single land customs station on the India-Nepal border. “In the note, it has also been mentioned that to protect the Darjeeling name and the logo under the Geographical Indication of Goods (Registration & Protection) Act, 1999, it has been made mandatory to specify the country of origin by the wholesalers, packers and retailers while selling imported tea,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-358
29-09-2020||West Bengal||Bengal Covid count crosses  2.5 lakh||Bengal went past the 2.5 lakh mark in the total number of Covid-19 cases with 3,155 infections being recorded in 24 hours till 9am on Monday. The state had recorded the first novel coronavirus patient on March 17. The state also reported 56 deaths and 2,923 recoveries in the 24-hour window. Of the 2.5 lakh cases, nearly 2.2 lakh are recoveries and 4,837 are deaths. Bengal had logged the first 5,000 Covid cases on May 30, 10,000 on June 12, 25,000 on July 9, 50,000 on July 23, 1 lakh on August 11, 1.5 lakh on August 27 and 2 lakh on September 13. “We have not been doing badly given the stage of the pandemic and the situation in the rest of the country. We are seventh on the list of states with most total cases and 12th on the list of states with the most active cases (25,899 on Monday). Given the size and density of our population, it is acceptable,” said a minister. The state’s recovery rate now is 87.73, still ahead of the national rate of 82.75 per cent. As the statewide total of active patients rose for the 21st consecutive day, Calcutta alone reported 618 new cases, while North 24-Parganas had 658. On the other hand, the city logged 472 recoveries, while North 24-Parganas reported 385. Calcutta, which had reached a high of 7,041 active cases by August 9, had improved to 4,067 by September 8. However, with the return of the rise, the city reported 5,075 active cases on Monday. Of the total 4,837 deaths reported, the city alone accounted for 1,684, with 15 till 9am. North 24-Parganas reported a total of 1,077 deaths, eight of them on Monday. The state government reported 4,120 deaths (85.2 per cent) as those with comorbidity “present”. Bengal’s overall mortality rate remained 1.93, still behind the national rate of 1.57 per cent. With 41,281 tests, the total tests went past 31 lakh, to stop just short of 31.4 lakh on Monday. The state now has 34,888 tests per million people. “We have already conducted over 12.52 lakh tests in September and will end the month with around 13.4 lakh tests. That is just about 60,000 short of the ambitious 14 lakh target we began with,” said the minister. Steady rise in the tests, coupled with no major increase in the number of new cases, has improved the positive confirmation rate — the percentage of total cases found out of the total number of tests conducted — from 8.9 on August 23 to 7.98 per cent. The state reported 35.94 per cent occupancy on 12,675 beds earmarked for Covid-19 at 92 dedicated hospitals. Nearly 2.67 lakh telemedicine consultations for the pandemic were provided, including 4,261 in the past 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-358
29-09-2020||West Bengal||Locals rescue kidnapped TMC leader after a chase||A drama unfolded at Harishchandrapur in Malda district on Monday as a group of criminals tried to abduct a Trinamul leader in broad daylight. Local people, though initially baffled by the kidnap bid by the miscreants who also fired gunshots, managed to save Jahurul Islam, a vice-president of Trinamul’s minority cell in the district. Islam, who is a quack, was abducted around 1pm when he was in his chamber at Koriali in Bhaluka. Locals said a gang of 10 to 12 miscreants reached near his chamber in four SUVs. “They got off the vehicles and fired in air to scare us. At least six rounds were fired. They then entered the quack’s chamber and soon, we found that he was being dragged by his collar by some of them. They were taking him near one of the vehicles,” said a witness. Some residents shot the video of the incident on their cellphones, while others informed police. As the four vehicles started moving out of Bhaluka, some residents in nearby areas tried to stop them on the way. The kidnappers then fired a few more rounds but suddenly, one of the vehicles lost balance and fell into a roadside ditch. The local people could find three abductors in the SUV and rescued Islam who was in the same vehicle. A police team reached the spot and arrested the trio. “We have arrested three persons and searches are on for others. Our officers are investigating the case,” said Sanjay Das, the inspector-in-charge of Harishchandrapur police station. Later on Monday, the residents demonstrated in front of Bhaluka police outpost to protest against the abduction attempt. The kidnappers, police sources said, were from Kaliachak in the district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-358
29-09-2020||West Bengal||CM in Siliguri for review meets||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee reached Siliguri on Monday on a four-day official visit during which she would hold administrative review meetings of five north Bengal districts. The visit is significant as Assembly elections will be held in less than seven months. A number of demands have gained ground both in the hills and the plains of north Bengal in the past few months and leaders of parties like the Binay Tamang faction of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha — an ally of the Trinamul Congress — are harping on them. According to sources, Mamata will stay at Uttarkanya, the branch secretariat of the state in Siliguri. She is expected to launch a number of new projects and make new announcements for the region. On Tuesday, Mamata will hold meetings with officials of Jalpaiguri and Alipurduar districts. She will conduct another round of meeting to review the progress of development works and social welfare schemes in Darjeeling, Kalimpong and Cooch Behar districts on Wednesday. The chief minister is scheduled to leave for Calcutta the following day, that is, on October 1. Political observers have said it is important for Mamata to regain the support of voters in north Bengal, the region that has 54 Assembly constituencies. In the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, Trinamul had managed to secure lead only in 12 Assembly segments, while the BJP was ahead in 38 seats. The Congress had secured the highest number of votes in the remaining four Assembly segments. “A considerable section of residents in the region wants the chief minister to make some announcements on their demands. Among the demands are land rights in the hills and tea gardens and permanency of jobs of ad hoc employees in the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration and the Darjeeling municipality. In recent times, the hill parties have been raising these issues. It would be interesting to see how the chief minister manages to address these issues,” said Soumen Nag, a social researcher. The observers also mentioned some other demands which had been raised by the Rajbanshi-dominated belts of north Bengal. On one hand, the demand for creating an autonomous council for the Rajbanshi community has been raised, particularly after a similar set-up was announced in the neighbouring state of Assam. On the other hand, former KLO militants and linkmen are asking for government jobs. Asok Bhattacharya, the CPM MLA of Siliguri, has been invited to the Darjeeling district review meeting as he is the chairperson of the board of administrators at the Siliguri Municipal Corporation. This is the first time that Bhattacharya, who is also the immediate past mayor of the city, has been invited to such a review meeting. On Monday, he received a letter from the district magistrate’s office, said sources. A CPM leader, when mentioned about the invitation, said polls to the Siliguri Municipal Corporation and the Siliguri Mahakuma Parishad are due this year. “In the Siliguri subdivision, Trinamul has never secured a majority at the SMC or the SMP. The BJP managed to establish itself as a formidable force in the subdivision and in the district as a whole. This is why it seems Trinamul is taking a softer stand at the Left as there is a notion that if the Left’s vote share goes up, BJP’s vote share will decline and can help Trinamul tide over the situation,” he said. Asked if he would attend the review meeting, Bhattacharya said: “I will discuss the matter with my colleagues at the civic body and take a decision.” Mamata might lay the foundation stone of the medical college that would come up in Jalpaiguri, said sources.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-358
29-09-2020||West Bengal||Cash crunch delays sewerage treatment system in Barrackpore||Uncertainty looms large over the commissioning of an underground sewerage system in Barrackpore of North 24-Parganas on account of a cash crunch despite the completion of two sewerage treatment plants (STPs) earlier this year. During an administrative review meeting in August, chief minister Mamata Banerjee had instructed the district administration and the municipal authorities to make the plants operational for the 32,000 households in the 24 wards of the civic area by December. However, individual domestic units are yet to be linked with the main disposal pipeline because of the paucity of funds. “Meeting the target set by the chief minister has become a big challenge to us now,” said a senior official of the North 24-Parganas administration. Barrackpore, one of the oldest urban centres of the state, has no underground domestic sewerage system. The domestic waste usually gets disposed in the septic tanks, which often creates problems. To overcome the problem, the Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA) had in 2017 taken up a project for developing an underground sewerage system for Barrackpore. The Rs 220 crore CMDA project was funded jointly by the Centre and the state government in a 70:30 ratio. It includes the two STPs constructed in the Latbagan area and on a plot of land adjacent to the Kalyani Expressway. CMDA sources said despite the financial problems, the work on the junction points of the underground disposal pipes was being carried out so that the domestic links could be provided whenever funds were made available. The CMDA has also appealed to the state government for funds to complete the project. But the state government is yet to come up with a reassurance, said a CMDA official. “At least Rs 50 crore is immediately needed to make the STPs and the entire system operational by connecting the domestic units with the underground disposal lines,” he said. An official of the Barrackpore municipality said: “If the commissioning is delayed, the STPs with their modern systems could get damaged, simply for remaining unused for long.” Since railway tracks divide Barrackpore into two, separate plants with underground disposal pipelines have been constructed for either side. On the western side, a 42km underground pipeline has been laid to link to the STP constructed in the Latbagan area. The waste from the plant would be finally disposed of in the Hooghly, after necessary treatment. On the eastern side, a 98km underground disposal pipeline has been laid for connection with the STP adjacent to the Kalyani Expressway. The waste from that end would be finally disposed of in the Ruhia canal after treatment. The chief of the board of administrators at the Barrackpore municipality, Uttam Das, has said the STPs have no utility till the domestic units are linked with the main underground disposal pipeline. “We have been persuading the state government to release funds for completing the project. But the Covid-19 pandemic came as an unforeseen obstacle for all of us,” he said. “I will speak to municipal affairs minister Firhad Hakim personally so that the uncertainty is overcome,” added Das. At the July August administrative meeting, sources in the district administration said, Mamata had come to know of the delay in the execution of the project. “At the meeting, she instructed the district magistrate, civic chief and the sub-divisional officer of Barrackpore to expedite the work so that the project could be commissioned by December. But the cash crunch has put a spanner in the works making the target difficult to meet,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-358
29-09-2020||West Bengal||Work to fence Pous Mela ground resumes||Visva-Bharati on Monday resumed work to fence the Pous Mela ground following a decision taken at a meeting on Sunday that was attended by members of a committee formed by Calcutta High Court and officials of the varsity and district administration. Sources said the four-member committee headed by Justice Sanjib Banerjee had verbally asked the Visva-Bharati to modify its earlier design of the wall by scaling down the height to 2.5ft from the earlier 4ft. The boundary will now rise to a height of 6ft with iron grill covering the area beyond the 2.5ft-high concrete structure. The work to fence the Pous Mela ground was stopped after it ran into violent opposition on August 17 with a 5,000-strong mob vandalising a gate of the varsity and a makeshift pandal. A Calcutta High Court division bench headed by Chief Justice T.B.N. Radhakrishnan had set up the four-member committee on September 18 to look into aspects of the ongoing impasse at Visva-Bharati over the construction of a wall on the Pous Mela ground and to find a solution by involving all stakeholders. The committee was formed following a public interest litigation filed by advocate Ramaprasad Sarkar in the high court seeking a CBI probe into the incident of vandalism. The bench felt that there was no necessity to take the assistance of the petitioner in the matter and issued the suo motu order. “The HC appointed committee on Sunday asked Visva-Bharati to build a 2.5ft concrete base and then fix a 3.5ft iron grill on it. The entire fencing would be 6ft high. As per the direction of the committee, work resumed on Monday. However, the actual height of the boundary will be known once the varsity issues a written order,” said a senior varsity official. However, the officiating public relations officer of Visva-Bharati Anirban Sircar did not respond to the text message The Telegraph had sent him on the issue. Birbhum district magistrate Moumita Godara Basu, who was present at Sunday’s meeting, said: “The (high court) committee has asked the varsity to start work.” The committee members have held three meetings since September 20 and the decision was taken after they spoke with local residents, Ashramiks (old timers) and traders on Saturday. Old timers of Santiniketan have welcomed the modified boundary wall plan suggested by the committee. “We have no objection with the modified height of the fencing. We were against building a high boundary wall,” said Supriya Tagore, a descendant of Rabindranath Tagore family. Supriya Tagore, along with other Santiniketan residents, had raised their voices against a wall that has been built in front of the house of Rabindra Sangeet maestro Santideb Ghosh. “The committee members assured us that they would also look into the boundary walls that we had objected to,” he said. On Monday, around 40 workers started work to build the concrete base of the boundary wall. At least 50 varsity security persons and a group of police personnel had been deployed at the site to avoid any untoward incident. Local traders and a section of residents of Bolpur have formed the Melar Math Banchao Committee to oppose building fences on Pous Mela ground. They have decided to move court and from Tuesday they launch a campaign against building of the wall. “We will fight the committee’s direction legally and on the streets under the banner of the Melar Math Banchao committee,” said Subrata Bhakat, treasurer of Bolpur Traders’ Association. Apprehending trouble, the Visva-Bharati on Monday evening wrote to the district magistrate, superintendent of police and sub-divisional officer seeking imposition of Section 144 of the CrPc in the mela ground area. Basu, however, said she was yet to receive any such letter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-358
29-09-2020||West Bengal||Sulking Rahul Sinha cold to  BJP peacemakers’ calls||The central leadership of the BJP has made the first move to pacify former Bengal party president Rahul Sinha who went public to express his anger at being removed as a national secretary. “Rahulda’s video message expressing discontent over his removal has prompted senior leaders to get in touch with him,” a BJP source said. The source added that Kailash Vijayvargiya, Arvind Menon and a person from Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan’s office had made calls to Sinha. “However, Rahulda did not show interest in speaking to any of them,” the source said. According to sources, Sinha’s discontent has prompted him to hold meetings with many of his supporters and leaders loyal to him to discuss his next course of action. On Sunday, a person from Pradhan’s office had tried to contact Sinha but he remained out of reach. On Monday, Vijayvargiya tried to get in touch with Sinha but sources said the call got disconnected. Sinha, however, took Menon’s call but showed little interest in speaking to him. “Menonji wanted to come to Rahulda’s place and meet him. But Rahulda said he would be busy,” the source said. A section of BJP leaders feels Sinha doesn’t have the clout to harm the party in a big way. They believe that though Sinha is upset, he doesn’t have much choice and will remain loyal to the BJP. In his video message, Sinha had said he would divulge his next course of action within 10-12 days. “Why do you think he is waiting for 10 days? He is just testing waters and trying to raise his value,” said a source close to state president Dilip Ghosh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-359
29-09-2020||West Bengal||Modi govt wants to chain us to big money: Bengal farmers||After three farm bills had been passed in Parliament, Krishak Sabha gave a call to block national highways at 92 places and state highways at 86 points across Bengal on 
September 25. On that day, lakhs of people protested the legislations enacted by the Narendra Modi government, said Amal Halder, the secretary of the Bengal unit of the All India Krishak Sabha, the peasant wing of the CPM.“The spontaneous participation of people in the protests had come as a surprise for us,” said Halder while adding that the movement would continue in the form of conventions and regular meetings in the rural areas of the state. Similarly, the ruling Trinamul Congress had also last week organised several protest programmes across the state, which drew participation of farmers. As the non-BJP parties draw up their future course of action with a pledge to carry on with their movements, The Telegraph spoke to some of the farmers, who had taken part in the protests. Dalim Munshi, 45 Place: Supur near Bolpur in Birbhum district Land: Two acres Cultivates: Paddy, mustard and potato Annual income: Rs 2 lakh Why he opposes the farm bills: The new farm laws remind us of our history book lessons on how the British had made farmers cultivate indigo. Like what the British did, the Narendra Modi government wants to do the same through the contract farming provision in one of the bills. A trap has been laid to drag farmers to contract farming. I responded to the call of the Krishak Sabha to protest against the bills that seek to turn farmers into slaves. Pratap Das, 72 Place: Kamarda near Khejuri in East Midnapore district Land: 1.4 acres Cultivates: Paddy, potato, vegetables, flowers and betel leaves Annual income: Rs 1.5 lakh Why he opposes the farm bills: Once the big players jump in, they will drive away our independence to sell our produce. The Modi government is claiming that the bills seek to free farmers but the fact is that the Centre wants to chain our independence to big money. Private players will employ strategies to force us to sell our produce to them at a price decided by them and not by us. We need to join hands to fight the bill and chose to participate in the anti-farm bill rally called by the CPM. Nimai Roy, 55 Place: Khandoghosh in East Burdwan district Land: 1.5 acres Cultivates: Paddy and potato Annual income: Rs 70,000 Why he opposes the farm bills: The Centre is mum on reining in the rising price of fertilisers. We don't want big private business to dominate the lives of farmers but we need infrastructure to reap a good harvest. The farm bills among other things talk about privatising mandi trade, but we know how to sell our produce. We need easy and cheap access to farm equipment and fertiliser. The bills are silent on the real problems of farmers and this made me join the protest rally of the  Krishak Sabha. Aziz Mandal, 47 Place: Dharampur near Bongaon in North 24-Parganas district Land: One acre Cultivates:  Rice, jute and vegetables Annual income: Rs 2 lakh Why he opposes the farm bills: The Centre has been giving us a lot of assurances of protecting the interest of farmers but the BJP’s track record on agriculture gives us no reason to trust them. The entry of big companies has never been helpful for small farmers. The farm bills are trying to legitimise the monopoly of big companies in the farm sector and rob farmers of their rights. As I think Trinamul has the power to take on the might of the BJP, I joined the protest called by the party to resist the farm bills Manindra Nath Burman, 60 Place: Borosakdol in the Dinhata 2 block of Cooch Behar district Land: 7 acres Cultivates: Paddy, jute and vegetables Annual income: Rs 8 lakh Why he opposes the farm bills: The arrival of big players will create shortage of agricultural produce at local markets. The provision of contract farming will change a region’s crop pattern and that will be detrimental to the cause of farmers. The bill is also mum on minimum support prices. The Krishak Sabha has raised these issues of the farmers and I joined their protest call. Mihir Sarkar, 51 Place: Chapduar, Subhashganj, North Dinajpur Land: 1.5 acres Cultivates: Paddy and vegetables Annual income: Rs 2 lakh Why he opposes the farm bills: There is a huge uncertainty as to whether the farmers will get appropriate prices for their produce. A cartel of agents and private players will be unleashed in the farm sector. This will harm the stakeholders involved in the farming community. There is no way but to protest the anti-farmer measures of the government and I have joined the Krishak Sabha in the fight for our rights.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-359
29-09-2020||West Bengal||Four from Bangladesh held over plan to kill TMC leader||An alleged plan to gun down a Trinamul leader in Birbhum was nixed with the arrest of six persons, including four contract killers from Bangladesh, and seizure of firearms and explosives from a house in Santiniketan on Sunday night. Police sources said during interrogation, the six had disclosed that they had been hired to kill Sheikh Kajal, who is the working block president of Nanoor. “They were given a contract of Rs 5 lakh to kill the Trinamul leader,” said a police source. The six were produced in the subdivisional court in Bolpur and sent in 14 days’ police remand. A police officer said Birbhum district police and Special Task Force were jointly looking into the case to find if there was any other connection, including terror links, with those arrested. “We have arrested six persons, including four Bangladesh nationals with arms and explosives. We have taken them in police custody to find out their assignments and motives,” said Shyam Singh, Birbhum police chief. Police sources said the four Bangladesh nationals were identified as Rafique Fakir, Mohammed Bilal Hossain, Delwar Mia and Mohammed Murad Murshid. All are residents and known criminals of Bangladesh’s Dhaka and adjoining areas. They had sneaked into India through the border in North 24-Parganas and had been sheltered by Syed Anwar Ali and Kajal Sheikh at a rented house in Santiniketan. Both Ali and Kajal Sheikh have been arrested. The police said five firearms, including two 7mm and one 9mm pistols, and 5.6kg of explosives had been seized from the arrested men. The arrested six have been charged under various sections of the Arms Act, Explosive Substances Act, 1908, And Foreigners’ Act, 1946. “The four Bangladesh nationals are intruders and do not possess valid visas to enter India. Their plan was to kill the Trinamul leader and escape into Bangladesh,” said a police officer. Police officers said they were looking out for four others who were involved in the conspiracy of murder. The police sources, however, said they were trying to find out the reason behind the plan to kill the Trinamul leader and whether it was a fallout of political rivalry. “The two local men who were arrested with the four Bangladesh nationals had past connections with Nanoor and had to leave the area because of rivalry with Kajal. We need time to find out the actual motive behind their plan to kill the Trinamul leader,” said a police officer. Sheikh Kajal, brother of Trinamul MLA from Ketugram Sheikh Shahnawaz, is a known face in the ruling party who had running rivalry with district Trinamul president Anubrata Mondal. “Now Kajal has no rivals in the party and is looking after the party’s organisation in Nanoor,” said a Trinamul leader. Sheikh Kajal when contacted said: “I know about the arrest. They had planned to kill me to ruin the party’s organisation in Nanoor.” Abhijit Sinha, the Trinamul vice-president in Birbhum, said: “It was a conspiracy to kill our leader ahead of the Assembly elections. We suspect there could be more party leaders on the hit list.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-359
29-09-2020||West Bengal||Malda ire over Bengal omission||Thousands of Congress supporters and all six MLAs of the party in Malda district participated in a sit-in demonstration in front of the district magistrate’s office, demanding inclusion of Malda district in Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana. The inclusion in the scheme, the Congress claimed, would help thousands of migrant workers in the district. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had launched the Garib Kalyan Rojgar Abhiyaan on June 20 to boost employment and livelihood opportunities for migrant workers, millions of whom had returned to their native places in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak and the resultant lockdown. As a part of the scheme, skill mapping of the migrant workers would be done to help them work near their homes, Modi had announced then. However, no district in Bengal was brought under the scheme although thousands of migrant workers from the state, including from districts like Malda, work in different states. So far, 116 districts from states like Bihar, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Odisha were brought under the project that is supposed to be in force for 125 days. “The central government is spending people’s money on the scheme and it has no right to discriminate against the migrant workers of Bengal. All those who are from the district should get monetary benefits of the scheme and food grains as was announced by the PM,” said Mostaq Alam, a Congress MLA and the district president of the party. Other Congress MLAs of the district — Arjun Haldar, Isha Khan Choudhury, Asif Mehbub, Mottakin Alam and Al Birun Zulkarnine — said the state government did not take necessary initiative to ensure that the Centre included districts like Malda in the scheme. “The provision was to include a district having 25,000 or more migrant workers in the scheme. Malda has at least 50,000 migrant workers and they are yet to get the benefits of the scheme,” Alam said. The Congress also claimed that the party had filed an RTI with the district administration to know the exact number of migrant workers in Malda. “Although delayed, the district administration has finally informed us that it has a list of around 48,000 migrant workers, who returned home from different states during the lockdown,” said a senior Congress leader. According to Congress leaders, Adhir Chowdhury, party’s leader in the Lok Sabha, would visit the Union labour and employment ministry in New Delhi with a plea to extend the scheme to the migrant workers from Bengal. Rajarshi Mitra, the district magistrate of Malda, however, claimed that he had not received any official communication about the scheme so far. “I do not have details of how a migrant worker would benefit from the scheme. But once I receive an official communication, we can act on it,” Mitra said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-359
29-09-2020||West Bengal||Governor Dhankar says will be forced to look into Article 154||Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Monday said he would be “forced to look at Article 154”, if the Constitution was not protected in the state. Article 154 (executive power of state) says: “The executive power of the state shall be vested in the governor and shall be exercised by him either directly or through officers subordinate to him in accordance with this Constitution.” “If the Constitution is not protected, I will have to act. The office of the governor has been ignored here for long. I will be forced to look at Article 154 of the Constitution,” the governor told a media conference. Dhankhar’s statement came two days after chief minister Mamata Banerjee sent him a letter urging him to act “within the mandates” of the Constitution. The state government had also refused to sanction around Rs 50 lakh additional funds to run the Raj Bhavan. Sources in Nabanna said the government was not taking the governor’s  threat seriously. For exercising executive power “directly”, the imposition of the President’s rule through Article 356 is a must…. There is no deeper significance to this, nor a cause for worry,” said a senior state government official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-359
29-09-2020||West Bengal||Alapan Bandyopadhyay named new Bengal chief secretary||Alapan Bandyopadhyay, a 1987-batch IAS officer and currently the home secretary and the information and cultural affairs secretary, has been appointed as the new chief secretary of the state. He will replace Rajiva Sinha, who is set to retire on September 30. Sinha would take over as the chairman of the WBIDC for a period of three years. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee, who left the city for Siliguri on Monday morning to hold review meetings of five north Bengal districts, took to twitter to announce the appointment of Bandyopadhyay. “I am pleased to announce that Alapan Bandyopadhyay, now Addnl Chief Secy (Home & information) is appointed as the new Chief Secretry of WB,” she tweeted. A chain of changes in the bureaucracy followed Bandyopadhyay’s elevation as the chief secretary. The state government appointed H.K. Dwivedi, a 1988-batch IAS officer and the state finance secretary for the past nine years, as the new home secretary. Manoj Pant, a 1991 batch IAS officer, currently holding the dual charges of land and land reforms department and the PHE department, will be the new finance secretary. Pant would continue to hold the land and land reforms department as an additional charge. The appointment of Bandyopadhyay was expected, said sources at Nabanna, as he is the senior-most IAS officer and has vast experience of discharging duties in various important positions. “He is perhaps the only IAS officer who worked as the district magistrate in North 24-Parganas and South 24-Parganas, which are considered to be most critical districts in the state. Besides, he has experience of discharging duties as the commissioner of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation,” said an official. Besides, he had also worked as secretary in departments like municipal affairs, information and cultural affairs, industries and MSME, in addition to the home department. “In brief, he has vast experience of handling all important affairs in the state. In a critical juncture when the state is battling the spread of Covid-19, Bandyopadhyay can lead the state in the right direction,” said an official. Bandyopadhyay recently monitored the state’s battle against the spread of Covid in Calcutta as a nodal officer. Besides, he had camped for few days in North 24-Parganas to help the district administration restore normalcy in the post-Cyclone Amphan period. The government posted Santanu Basu, a 2000-batch IAS officer, as the secretary of information and cultural affairs department. “This appointment is important as the chief minister decided to bring in a young and efficient officer in the department that works to help several people, including rural artisans and handles the government’s public relations exercise. Ahead of the 2021 Assembly polls, the role of I&CA secretary will be important,” said an official. Basu will retain the additional charge of the state power distribution and transmission companies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-359
