30-09-2020||West Bengal||Rapid Covid tests a must for SARI patients||The Mamata Banerjee government has asked hospitals with special wards for SARI (severe acute respiratory illness) to conduct rapid antigen tests on patients as soon as they get admitted to identify and isolate Covid-19 positive patients at the earliest. “This will help prevent spread of the disease and bring down the number of deaths in the state,” a senior government official said. Sources said majority of the state-run hospitals in the districts and in the city have special SARI wards as part of the state government’s plans to deal with the spread of Covid-19. The state has already identified more than 8,000 SARI patients through a statewide survey conducted by ASHA workers. “They are being tracked continuously... But patients with respiratory complaints outside those who are being monitored are coming to the hospitals. As one of the major symptoms of Covid-19 is respiratory distress, we want to make sure that no Covid positive patient is kept at the SARI wards,” an official said. Another official said that if a Covid positive patient admitted to the SARI ward was not identified at the earliest, it could trigger a spread of the disease. “Those suffering from respiratory distress are most vulnerable to the virus. So isolating Covid positive patients from other patients suffering from respiratory distress is a must,” said a source. While the RT-PCR test gives 100 per cent confirmation in identifying the status of a suspect, the rapid antigen test often gives 40 per cent false negative reports, a senior official said. “Still, the rapid antigen test is recommended to identify positive patients in a short period. In case a suspect tests negative in the rapid antigen test, it is advised that he undergoes the RT-PCR test,” the official said. The health department has also stated that once someone tests positive, he or she could be transferred to Covid hospitals from SARI wards. But no patient should be shifted in an unstable condition to prevent death during transit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-357
30-09-2020||West Bengal||BJP pradhan held for marrying underage girl||Police on Tuesday arrested the head of a BJP-ruled gram panchayat in Nadia’s Bhimpur for allegedly marrying a 16-year-old schoolgirl. Adyanath Sarkar, 38, a prominent face of BJP’s youth wing in Nadia, was arrested from his home in Bhimpur’s Kulgachi on the outskirts of Krishnagar, 10 hours after the district child marriage prohibition officer of Nadia lodged  complaint against him with Bhimpur police for marrying the Class X student from Memari, East Burdwan. The pradhan or head of a gram panchayat is by default the chairman of the local child protection committee. An official of the state social welfare officer said: “This  is a bizarre act by a man who by the virtue of his position is assigned to protect minors.” Adyanath, head of Poragacha gram panchayat, was charged under Section 9 of the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006, and produced before an additional district and sessions judge’s court in Krishnagar that remanded him to 14 days’ judicial custody. The police recovered the girl from the BJP leader’s home and produced her before a court through the child welfare committee. She was later handed over to her parents. The police also charged the priest of the temple under Section 10 of the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006, for solemnising the marriage of the minor girl. The priest is absconding. If found guilty, both the accused are liable to rigorous imprisonment extending up to two years and pay a fine up to Rs 1 lakh, a lawyer said. A defiant Adyanath said on phone: “I found nothing wrong in marrying a teenager. Girls in rural areas are often married at that age.” The incident has left Nadia BJP embarrassed.“The party never supports child marriage,” said BJP’s Nadia North organising district committee president Ashutosh Pal. Local sources said Adyanath allegedly married the Class X student on September 9 at a temple in Nadia. Adyanath planned to throw a reception on September 25, said sources, and posted many pictures of his bride on his Facebook wall, prompting many to question the age of the girl. Alerted, a Childline team, along with the police, recently visited the BJP leader's home and asked him to show his wife’s proof of age. An infuriated Adyanath abused the Childline officials and drove them out, said a member of the team. Childline India Foundation is the nodal agency of the Union ministry of women and child development that manages and monitors the Childline 1098 service all over the country. The team informed the district administration. SDO, Krishnagar (Sadar) Manish Verma said: “We received a complaint from Childline and began an inquiry. We checked the Kanyashree database that corroborated her (the bride’s) age as 16. Eventually a police complaint was lodged.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-357
30-09-2020||West Bengal||Yogi Puja effect on Bengal BJP||Swapan Dasgupta, a Rajya Sabha member who echoes the BJP’s priorities, has termed as “discriminatory” the decision of the Yogi Adityanath government in Uttar Pradesh not to permit the public celebration of Durga Puja this year while allowing Ram Leela shows to go ahead. Adityanath was quoted as saying during a meeting with officials on Monday night: “There will not be any public celebration of Durga Puja in the wake of Covid-19. No pandals will be installed. People can celebrate Durga Puja privately in their homes. Ram Leela shows will, however, happen (with restrictions) because it is an ancient tradition of India.” Dasgupta tweeted on Tuesday: “UP Govt’s order that Durga Puja should be done at home is unfair & even absurd. Like the allowances for Ram Lila, Durga Puja should be permitted with harsh but sensible restrictions. Otherwise it is discriminatory.” Dasgupta’s tweet comes at a time Trinamul has been underscoring the BJP’s “anti-Bengali” image. However, Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh supported the Uttar Pradesh order, citing the need to keep “people safe”. Dasgupta told The Telegraph he was echoing the concerns of several Bengali organisations in Uttar Pradesh. Asked if he had received any communication from the Adityanath government, Dasgupta said: “I don’t want communication, I want action.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-358
30-09-2020||West Bengal||3,188 new cases and 62 deaths||Bengal on Tuesday logged 3,188 Covid-19 cases, 62 deaths and 2,961 recoveries as the total number of patients went past 2.53 lakh, of whom nearly 2.23 lakh were cured and 4,899 died. The recovery rate inched closer to 88, reaching 87.8, ahead of the national rate of 83.01 per cent, despite a relative slowdown in recent weeks. With more new cases found than recoveries in the 24-hour period till 9am on Tuesday, the total number of active cases rose for the 22nd consecutive day to 26,064. Calcutta alone reported 691 new cases, while North 24-Parganas had 634. On the other hand, Calcutta logged 608 recoveries and North 24-Parganas 304. “After quite a remarkable turnaround till the first week of this month, we have been undergoing a bit of a dampener. But despite the negatives, our recovery rate has been relentlessly rising. We are trying to find a way to stem the tide of daily number of new cases and deaths,” said a minister. Of the total 4,899 deaths reported till date, Calcutta alone accounted for 1,699, with 15 reported on Tuesday. North 24-Parganas reported a total of 1,088 deaths, 11 of them on Tuesday. The state government reported 4,169 deaths (85.1) as those with comorbidity “present”. Bengal’s overall mortality rate remains 1.93, still substantially behind the national rate of 1.56 per cent. “We began the month with a mortality rate of 1.98 and had the chief minister’s specific instructions to ensure that it falls to less than 1. But that turned out to be a tall ask, as we kept having 50-60 deaths daily,” said the minister. “Just two districts (Calcutta and North 24-Parganas) keep reporting 30-odd deaths daily, which makes it very difficult to lower the state-wide toll,” he added. On the plus side, having already conducted nearly 13 lakh tests in September, the total test count is over 31.83 lakh now. The state reported 43,759 tests on Tuesday. The tests per million count is now 35,374, which was 20,974 even at the beginning of September. Steady rise in the tests, coupled with a plateauing out of the number of new cases being found, improved the positive confirmation rate from 8.9 on August 23 to 7.97 per cent. The state reported 35.77 per cent occupancy on 12,675 beds earmarked for Covid-19 at 92 hospitals. Over 2.71 lakh telemedicine consultations for the pandemic were provided, including 4,139 in the past 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-358
30-09-2020||West Bengal||State seeks stay on Pous Mela wall||A division bench of Calcutta High Court on Tuesday admitted a state government plea seeking a stay on the ongoing construction of a wall around Pous Mela ground on Visva-Bharati campus in Santiniketan. The bench comprising Chief Justice T.B.N. Radhakrishnan and Justice Shampa Sarkar kept the matter pending for hearing on Wednesday. Moving the petition for the state, advocate-general Kishore Datta said that after the wall’s construction  started on Monday, many residents of Bolpur and Santiniketan started an agitation. Datta said police could control the mob on Tuesday but anything might happen on Wednesday. “The state is not in a position to control the mob,” the advocate-general has submitted. The Chief Justice said if the police failed to control the people, the court would have to control it. “The court will have to face the situation. How can the people go against the court order?” the Chief Justice said. Visva-Bharati authorities had to stall the construction of the wall on Pous Mela ground after protesters turned violent on August 17. A Calcutta High Court division bench headed by the Chief Justice had set up a four-member committee on September 18 to look into aspects of the ongoing impasse at Visva-Bharati over the wall on the Pous Mela ground and find a solution involving all stakeholders. The committee was formed following a public interest litigation filed by advocate Ramaprasad Sarkar in the high court seeking a CBI probe into the vandalism. The bench felt that there was no necessity to take the assistance of the petitioner in the matter and issued the suo motu order. Work to build the wall resumed on Monday following a decision taken at a meeting on Sunday by members of the committee formed by Calcutta High Court, varsity and district administration officials. The four-member committee included the advocate-general who pleaded with the division bench on Tuesday to allow him to quit the panel. The bench recorded it but is yet to consider the issue. In Bolpur on Tuesday, traders under the Pous Melar Math Banchao Committee staged a protest against the decision of Visva-Bharati to go ahead with the wall. The district administration deployed 200 armed police personnel and a water cannon at the Pous Mela ground to prevent any untoward incident. Aminul Huda, a trader in Bolpur, said: “We do not want any barricade around Pous Mela ground. We held a peaceful movement on Tuesday and will continue with our protest.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-358
30-09-2020||West Bengal||Mamata: Did a lot  but result different||Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday rued that although her government had executed a lot of development projects in north Bengal, “the eventual fallout was different” — an oblique reference to the Trinamul Congress’s drubbing in the 2019 general election in the region. Chairing a review meeting here, the chief minister instructed home secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay to intensify the publicity campaign of the government’s development works.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-358
30-09-2020||West Bengal||Homes for tea garden workers||Mamata Banerjee has announced that homes will be built for over 3,500 workers of various tea gardens in the first phase of the Bengal government’s Cha Sundari project and jobs will be provided to more than 300 former militants and linkmen of the Kamtapur Liberation Organisation. The chief minister made the two announcements while holding a meeting in Siliguri on Tuesday to review different development projects in Alipurduar and Jalpaiguri districts. State finance minister Amit Mitra had announced Cha Sundari, a scheme to build homes for tea garden workers, in the budget for the 2020-2021 fiscal earlier this year. A sum of Rs 500 crore was allotted for the project in the budget. Speaking at the review meeting at Uttarkanya, the north Bengal branch secretariat, Mamata said: “We will initiate the project shortly and 3,694 tea garden workers’ families will be provided with homes in the first phase. Of these houses, 2,641 will come up in Alipurduar, while 1,053 will be built in Jalpaiguri. We want to ensure that all homeless tea garden workers have their own houses. The plan is to finish the project within three years.” In the second major announcement, Mamata announced jobs for former KLO militants and linkmen. “In total, around 300 such people who have returned to the mainstream would be provided with jobs. They are from different districts of north Bengal. Today (Tuesday), we are providing jobs to 130 ex-KLO activists. Another 161 would be provided with jobs tomorrow (Wednesday),” the chief minister said. Mamata also announced Rs 5 crore for the Kamtapuri Bhasa Academy constituted by the state government for conservation of Kamtapuri (a variant of the Rajbanshi language). She set aside another Rs 5 crore for the renovation of the Buxa Fort in Alipurduar district. “The chief minister made a meticulous move to win back the support of the tea garden population and the Rajbanshi community through her new announcements. There are 12 Assembly constituencies in Jalpaiguri and Alipurduar districts and a party that has the support of tea garden residents and Rajbanshis can win most of these seats,” said a political observer. In the course of the review meeting, Mamata also laid emphasis on the distribution of land rights, yet another prominent issue in the Dooars. “All those residing in refugee colonies will be provided with land rights. Work has already started and people would be provided with secured land tenures,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-358
30-09-2020||West Bengal||Bengal bypoll deferred ||Byelections to 56 Assembly seats in several states and one parliamentary constituency in Bihar will be held along with the Bihar polls in November. However, the Election Commission on Tuesday indefinitely deferred bypolls to seven Assembly constituencies in four states, including Bengal, which had cited difficulties in conducting the elections, especially due to rising Covid-19 cases. Of the 56 Assembly seats going to the polls, 28 are in Madhya Pradesh, where several Congress MLAs defected to the BJP and resigned to bring down the earlier Kamal Nath-led government. The rest are eight in Gujarat, seven in Uttar Pradesh, two each in Manipur, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Nagaland and Odisha, and one each in Chhattisgarh, Haryana and Telangana. Manipur has 11 more vacant seats for which election petitions are pending in court. In a statement, the commission said that it “has decided not to announce the conduct of elections at this stage” in two seats each in Assam, Kerala and Tamil Nadu, as well as Bengal’s Falakata Assembly seat. These states had given detailed requests that they are facing “difficulties in conduct of elections”. The term of the Assemblies of these states expire in May and June next year, and they are unlikely to have bypolls. A source said that rising coronavirus cases were one of the reasons cited by all these states. Bihar’s Valmiki Nagar parliamentary seat, which fell vacant due to the death of Janata Dal United MP Baidyanath Mahato in February, will also go to the polls on November 7, along with its Assembly segments. Both Manipur seats will vote on the same day. The rest of the bypolls will take place on November 3. Polls to four Karnataka legislative council seats were also announced which will be held on October 28.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-358
