06-03-2021||India||SSR drug case: NCB files charge sheet, names Rhea Chakraborty, others as accused||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Friday filed a 11,700-page charge sheet before a special court under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act in connection with the drug case that the agency probed in connection with the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput (SSR).The charge sheet names in 33 accused, including Rajput’s girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty, her brother Showik, and Kshitij Ravi Prasad, a former executive producer of Dharma Productions. So far, 25 of the accused have been released by various courts on bail, whereas the remaining eight are still behind bars, said Sameer Wankhede, zonal director of NCB.NCB recovered six kgs of contraband from some of the accused and also seized ₹35 lakh in Indian and foreign currency. Also Read | Sushant’s sister Shweta says she’s ‘falling into an abyss’ waiting for closureThe agency in the charge sheet has reiterated its stand that Chakraborty and Showik were actively involved in procuring and financing narcotic substances for Rajput, and invoked charges of financing and harbouring an offender under the NDPS Act against the siblings. Some others are also accused of being part of drug distribution channel.The central agency has listed statements of around 160 witnesses in its endeavour to prove the case. It has also submitted supporting documents, voice messages and chats exchanged by and between the accused. These statements would be corroborated with other evidence such as chats, messages and bank transactions, said an NCB officer.An NCB officer said statements of actors Sara Ali Khan and Shraddha Kapoor also form part of the charge sheet, but their names do not appear in the list of witnesses cited by the agency.The agency has added relevant portions of chat of Chakraborty, Showik, Rajput’s house manager Samuel Miranda and Dipesh Sawant; indicating that Chakrborty and Showik were actively involved in procurement of narcotic substances, for which payments were mostly done by Chakraborty.Miranda has, in his statement to NCB, said that in the first week of November 2019, he contacted Karamjeet Singh Anand for marijuana and told him to deliver the contraband to Prim Rose, Juhu. He paid Anand ₹2,500 in cash for one packet of weed and gave it to Showik Chakraborty.In the last week of November 2019, he again gave a packet of ganja to Showik. Payment for both the consignments was made from Sushant Singh Rajput’s fund. He further disclosed that he had told Anand to deliver two packets of weed for SSR and the same were delivered in the fourth week of January 2020.Miranda also said that on March 17 last year, acting on the directions of SSR, Suryadeep and Showik told him to buy ganja from Zaid Vilatra and Suryadeep forwarded Vilatra’s contact through WhatsApp and also handed over Rhea Chakraborty’s ATM card to withdraw ₹10,000.NCB has claimed that in last week of November 2019, the delivery of drugs was made at Chakraborty’s residence with her consent. “Thus Chakraborty facilitated her house to Rajput for consumption of drugs and this is a violation of the provisions of NDPS Act,” said an officer.The probing agency has also claimed that Chakraborty took delivery of drugs at her residence, thus drugs were stored at her house. Hence NCB states that Rhea has facilitated a channel of supply of drugs with the help of her brother Showik.The NCB started the probe in drugs-related aspects of Rajput’s death after the Enforcement Directorate stumbled upon WhatsApp chats disclosing drug procurement and consumption.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ssr-drug-case-ncb-files-charge-sheet-names-rhea-chakraborty-others-as-accused-101614929935845.html
06-03-2021||NA||Highlights: Punjab logs 818 new cases, 11 more deaths||Global cases of Covid-19 rose past 115.5 million as the virus continues to spread across the world. The death toll exceeded 2.5 million, as per the Bloomberg report. Meanwhile, countries inoculated more than 279 million against the Covid-19, it also reported.In India, the surge in number of daily infections has triggered fears of a second wave. On Friday the caseload was increased by 16,838 new cases, pushing the tally to over 11.17 million, as per the health ministry's coronavirus tracker.The death toll of the country now stands at 157,548.Meanwhile, calls for an independent investigation into the origin of Covid-19 grew as a group of scientists called for a probe to consider all hypotheses and nail down whether the virus came from an animal. Many scientists signed an open letter demanding the independent probe and said the mission isn’t independent enough as the WHO considered scrapping an interim report.Follow all the updates here:Punjab logs 818 new cases, 11 more deathsPunjab on Friday recorded 818 fresh coronavirus disease cases and 11 more deaths and 400 recoveries. The caseload has climbed to 186,189 while the recoveries stand at 173,630, according to the state health department's bulletin. Italy reports 24,036 new Covid-19 cases, 297 more deathsItaly on Friday registered 24,036 fresh Covid-19 disease cases and 297 more deaths which pushed the caseload to 3.02 million. The health ministry said that 378,463 tests were carried out on Thursday, compared to the 339,635 tests on Wednesday. Nearly 1.4 million vaccinated in India on Thursday, highest in a day so far: ReportOfficial sources told news agency PTI on Friday that nearly 1.4 million people were vaccinated against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Thursday, the highest in a day so far, taking the total number of vaccine doses administered in the country to over 1.8 crore.Maharashtra registers highest single day spike of 10,216 Covid-19 cases since beginning of 2021.Maharashtra on Friday added 10,216 fresh coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases and 53 more related deaths which pushed the overall tally and death toll to 2,198,399 and 52,393 respectively. Friday's tally has been the highest ever since the mid-October last year.Delhi reports 312 new Covid-19 cases, 3 deathsDelhi reports 312 new #COVID19 cases, 312 recoveries and 3 deaths in the last 24 hours.Total cases 6,40,494Total recoveries 6,27,797Death toll 10,918Active cases 1779 pic.twitter.com/zrkecC5wKYDelhi reported 312 new Covid-19 cases and three deaths, taking the tally to 640,494 cases and 10,918 deaths, reports ANI.Goa reports 79 new Covid-19 cases in last 24 hoursGoa's coronavirus caseload went up by 79 and reached 55,291 on Friday, while the day also saw one death from the infection and 42 people recovering, an official said, reports PTI.Andhra Pradesh reports 124 new coronavirus casesActive coronavirus cases in Andhra Pradesh rose to 900 as 124 were added afresh in 24 hours ending 9 am on Friday as the caseload now touched 8,90,441, reports PTI.Japan extends Covid emergency in TokyoJapanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga announced that his government is extending a state of emergency in the Tokyo region for another two weeks because its medical systems are still strained by Covid-19 patients, reports AP.Odisha reports 91 new Covid-19 casesOdisha's Covid-19 tally mounted to 3,37,620 on Friday as 91 more people tested positive for the infection, a health department official said, reports PTI.South Africa to miss Covid vaccination target due to shortfallSouth Africa expects to miss its target of inoculating 1.5 million people by the end of this month because sufficient shots aren’t available, reports Bloomberg.Mumbai: 10 employees in restaurant test Covid-19 positiveTen out of 35 employees of a restaurant in Andheri area of Mumbai have tested positive for coronavirus and were shifted to the mega Covid care centre in Bandra Kurla Complex, a civic official said on Friday, reports PTI.Punjab CM Amarinder Singh gets first dose of Covid-19 vaccinePunjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh takes his first dose of the #COVID19 vaccine, at Civil Hospital in Mohali. pic.twitter.com/zz3p3pymfJMade in India Covid vaccine supplied to 50 countries: PM ModiMade in India vaccine was given to 50 countries, and in coming days, we will supply Covid-19 vaccines to many other countries, said PM Modi while addressing the India-Sweden virtual summit.Australia asks EU not to ban AstraZeneca Covid vaccine exportsAustralia is seeking assurances from the European Union's executive arm that future shipments of vaccines will not be blocked, after Italy banned a large export of the AstraZeneca coronavirus shots, reports AP.Romania reports first case of South African Covid-19 variantRomania has reported its first two cases of the coronavirus variant first identified in South Africa, online news publication HotNews said on Friday, citing data by private clinic MedLife, reports Reuters.Moldova in Europe first to receive Covid vaccines from COVAXMoldova became the first European country to receive Covid-19 vaccines from the global COVAX scheme, Moldovan President Maia Sandu said on Friday, reports Reuters.Prakash Javadekar inoculated with first dose of Covid-19 vaccineReceived my first shot of #Covid19 vaccine today at Dinanath Mangeshkar Hospital in Pune.Vaccination process is easy & #MadeinIndia vaccine are fully safeI appeal all citizens to get vaccinated as & when they become eligibleटीका है सुरक्षा कवच #Covishield #LargestVaccineDrive pic.twitter.com/s2h3qauG34Union Minister Prakash Javadekar inoculated with first dose of Covid-19 jab at Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital in Pune18 states, UTs report no death in last 24 hours: GovtAndaman and Nicobar Islands, Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Chandigarh, Daman and Diu, Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Ladakh, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Odisha, Puducherry, Sikkim, Tripura and Uttarakhand have not reported any Covid-19 deaths in the last 24 hours: Government of IndiaUnion minister Giriraj Singh inoculated with first dose of Covid-19 vaccineUnion minister Giriraj Singh receives the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine at Sadar Hospital in Begusarai, Bihar.India's Covid-19 tally rise by 16,838India's Covid-19 tally rise by 16,838 fresh cases. The caseload now stands at 11,17,3761.Japan to extend state of emergencyThe Japanese government plans to extend a state of emergency to combat Covid-19 for Tokyo and three neighbouring prefectures until March 21, says economy minister Yasutoshi Nishimura on Friday.China's Covid-19 tally rises by 9 fresh casesChina reported 9 new coronavirus cases in the mainland for March 4, compared with 10 cases a day earlier, the country's health commission said on Friday.India's phase 2 of vaccination drive stuck in first gearRajasthan is the runaway leader in the first three days of the second phase of India’s Covid-19 vaccination drive, having given doses to 5,187 per million residents, although an HT analysis of data from the first three days of the expanded drive indicates a slow start across the country. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-covid-19-india-world-latest-news-death-toll-march-5-101614908562074.html
06-03-2021||India||Union minister proposes collection drive for beautification of Jagannath Temple||Wary of the Naveen Patnaik-led Biju Janata Dal walking away with all the credit of beautification of major temples like the Jagannath Temple in Puri, the opposition BJP in Odisha now proposes to start a fund collection drive for the 12th century iconic temple on the lines of the Ram Temple in Ayodhya.In a letter to Puri king Gajapati Dibya Singha Deb, Union minister for petroleum and natural gas, Dharmendra Pradhan urged him to launch and lead a mass fund collection drive to enable contribution by crores of devotees of Lord Jagannath and Odias all over the world for the development of the ₹3200 crore Jagannath Temple heritage corridor.“The drive should be transformed into a revolution in which all the Hindus across the globe would get a chance to serve Lord Jagannath both physically and through donation for the development of the 12th century shrine,” wrote Pradhan, drawing parallel to similar efforts for the proposed Ram Temple in Ayodhya town of Uttar Pradesh. He also assured the Centre’s help in waiving off income tax on the funds from the devotees in the country as well as abroad. Besides, several banks will come forward to extend their help in this regard,” he said.Last week, the 45-day-long nationwide Ram Temple Nidhi Samarpan campaign managed to collect nearly ₹2100 crore for the construction of Ram Mandir, at least ₹1000 crore more than what the fundraisers had estimated initially.Pradhan, who recently donated ₹1 lakh to the Jagannath Temple, requested the Gajapati to act like a bridge between the Centre and state for smooth operation of the fund collection drive. Pradhan's appeal to the Puri king came a day ahead of BJP's Bhubaneswar MP Aparajita Sarangi taking out a heritage walk through the old town area of the city dotted by numerous heritage temples demanding that the state government should not bulldoze and demolish heritage structures in the periphery of monuments during beautification drives.Sarangi, who last week wrote a long letter to chief minister Naveen Patnaik seeking answers on why the state administration bulldozed several heritage mutts around Jagannath Temple over the last 2 years, said people in Puri are aghast that mutts associated with the most revered saints have been razed to the ground in Puri.“People are left with a sense of disbelief that Mathas/heritage monuments which were so closely associated with our religious belief system, integral to the daily and special rituals of Lord Jagannath, have been demolished,” she said.Political analysts said Pradhan's letter to the Puri king and the Bhubaneswar MP's heritage walk is a clever attempt by the BJP not to allow BJD to walk away with all the credit on the temple front.“BJP does not want to be seen as opposing the beautification drive of temples. Pradhan through his letter to the Puri king wants to ensure that BJP remains a part of the temple beautification drive. In a deeply religious state like Odisha, BJP is acutely aware of the importance of the temple card. While the NMA draft bylaws on heritage temples put a brake on the BJD's plan, it wants to endear itself to the Odia people through a fund collection drive for Jagannath Temple,” said political analyst Rabi Das.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/union-minister-proposes-collection-drive-for-beautification-of-jagannath-temple-101615053421492.html
06-03-2021||India||Cumulative Covid-19 vaccinations cross 20-million mark: Government||India administered more than a million doses of Covid-19 vaccine in a single day for the third straight day on Saturday, the Union ministry of health and family welfare said, with over 1.1 million doses administered in the country until 7pm. “Total 1,164,422 vaccine doses were given till 7 pm today, the fiftieth day of nationwide COVID19 vaccination,” the health ministry said in a statement. With this, the cumulative vaccinations have crossed the 20-million mark so far. “A total of 20,662,073 vaccine doses have been given, as per the provisional report till 7pm today,” the ministry noted.#LargestVaccineDriveMore than 2.06 Cr #COVID19 vaccine doses administered.11.64 lakh vaccine doses given till 7 pm today. https://t.co/blkGl0oyj4 pic.twitter.com/7724LwU61DThe ministry’s statement comes on a day when India reported a fresh spike of 18,327 Covid-19 infections and 108 related deaths. Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu continue to report a surge in the daily new cases, the ministry said earlier in the day. Meanwhile, high-level teams have been rushed to Maharashtra and Punjab by the central government to curb the spread of the disease.Also read | Amid surge in Covid-19 cases, these states have imposed fresh restrictionsDay 50 of the vaccination driveAccording to the latest data from the ministry, 1,164,422 doses of the vaccine comprising 944,919 first doses and 219,503 second doses were administered on Saturday. Healthcare workers received 57,198 first doses and 165,842 second doses while frontline workers have been given 146,880 first doses and 53,662 second doses.The ministry said 626,805 people over the age of 60 and 114,036 between 45 and 59 years of age with co-morbidities have received the first dose of the vaccine, the ministry said. They will get the second dose of vaccines after 28 days.Watch | Dalai Lama gets Covid vaccine jab; urges people to get vaccinatedCovid-19 vaccination drive so farIndia has administered 20,662,073 doses of the vaccine so far of which 6,972,859 healthcare workers have received the first dose and 3,522,671 have got the second dose. Also, 6,502,869 front line workers have received the first dose and 197,853 have received their second.The government started the second phase of its vaccination drive on March 1 after the first one started on January 16. Since then, 3,005,039 people over 60 years of age and 460,782 between 45 and 59 years with comorbidities have received their first dose of the vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cumulative-covid-19-vaccinations-cross-20-million-mark-government-101615052855405.html
06-03-2021||India||Need to develop military into ‘future force’: PM Modi at top commanders’ meet||Addressing the country’s top military leadership in Kevadia, Gujarat on Saturday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi highlighted the need to develop the Indian military into a “future force” in the backdrop of the swiftly changing technological landscape, break down civil-military silos and expedite decision making, the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) said in a statement.Speaking on the concluding day of the Combined Commanders’ Conference at Kevadia in Gujarat, the PM asked the three services to rid themselves of legacy systems and practices that are no longer relevant. He also appreciated the “resolute dedication” shown by the armed forces over the past year while dealing with the challenging situation on the northern border and also the Covid-19 pandemic.Issues discussed during the conference included a review of the country’s security situation at a time when India’s borders with China and Pakistan are in focus, the military’s operational readiness, the ongoing theaterisation plans and aspects related to modernisation and indigenisation, officials familiar with the matter said, asking not to be named.Chief of defence staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat briefed the PM about the discussions that took place during the three-day conference.The PM stressed the importance of enhancing indigenisation in the national security system, not just in sourcing equipment and weapons but also in doctrines, procedures and customs, the statement said. The PM also told the top commanders to optimise manpower planning in both military and civilian parts of the national security architecture.“The Combined Commanders’ Conference at Kevadia was a fruitful one. There were extensive deliberations on various strategic subjects. Highlighted the need for making India Aatmanirbhar in the defence sector and reiterated the Government’s support for it,” the PM tweeted.The PM’s remarks during the top conference are extremely relevant in terms of how the military must develop going forward, said former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General DS Hooda (retd). The focus on technology, rethinking reliance on legacy systems, and indigenisation is absolutely vital, he said.“The PM’s call for a review of civil-military structures is also addressing an area that has hobbled a cohesive national approach to strategic planning. The one area I would be cautious about is the message to indigenise procedures and customs followed by the armed forces. Current military customs and traditions have created a powerful ethos in our military that does not need any unnecessary tinkering,” Hooda said.The conference was held at a time when India and China are negotiating disengagement in eastern Ladakh and the military is putting finishing touches to its theaterisation plan. It also comes on the back of Indian and Pakistani militaries announcing that they had begun observing a ceasefire along the Line of Control from the midnight of February 24.The scope of the conference was expanded this year to make it “a multi-layered, interactive and informal event”, with the added participation of 30 officers and soldiers of various ranks from the three services. Middle-rung officers, junior commissioned officers (JCOs) and non-commissioned officers (NCOs) took part in the conference for the first time.The prime minister appreciated the inclusion of the JCOs and the NCOs in this year's conference.The military’s theaterisation was one of the key topics discussed at the conference, HT has learnt. On the eve of the conference on March 4, chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat said India’s military leadership will have to more than match the political vision that has mandated the creation of theatre commands. He said service parochialism will have to make way for a combined services outlook to take theaterisation forward.The Air Defence Command and the Maritime Theatre Command are set to be launched by May. India is expected to have three other integrated commands to secure its western, northern and eastern fronts - these will be rolled out by December 2022. In addition, a logistics command is in the works to avoid duplication of efforts and resources.The conference was attended by defence minister Rajnath Singh, the CDS, the three service chiefs, secretary-ranked officers from the defence ministry and top military officials.The conference was traditionally held in Delhi till 2014. In the past, it has been held on India’s solitary aircraft carrier INS Vikramaditya, Indian Military Academy, Dehradun and Air Force Station, Jodhpur.Noting that the country will be celebrating 75 years of its independence next year, the PM asked the military brass to use the occasion to undertake activities that inspire the country’s youth. He also said “brave veterans” should also be involved in the celebrations.“Every Indian is very proud of our armed forces. Their courage is remarkable. Urged the armed forces to think about various reforms that would make the forces even stronger. Also discussed ways to integrate brave veterans in the celebrations to mark 75 years of Independence,” the prime minister said in another tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/need-to-develop-military-into-future-force-pm-modi-101615052575231.html
06-03-2021||India||Transgender help desk set up at police station in Hyderabad||A help desk for the transgender community has been at a police station here. The desk is the world's first-ever help desk for that community, a press release claimed. Cyberabad Police Commissioner V C Sajjanar, who inaugurated the desk, said it is a historic day as the community has suffered through their life due to discrimination. "We get hurt for small things that happen occasionally. But the transgender community has been suffering discrimination all through their life. The help desk is a small step towards a great journey. It will herald a huge difference," the release quoted him as saying. Noting that the idea of the help desk came from the community itself during a meeting 10 days back, he said the entire credit for the initiative must go to the community. The police are only facilitating it, he said. Among others, the desk would work towards inclusiveness of the community facilitating their journey towards a dignified life, he said. The desk was set up by Cyberabad Commissionerate in collaboration with Society for Cyberabad Security Council and Prajwala (NGO), the release said. According to the release, the desk would be managed by a police liaison officer and a transgender person who is designated as the community coordinator. The desk would be the focal point for grievance redressal among the community in the Commissionerate. The desk would provide support to file cases in offences related to violence or discrimination. Among other services, the desk would provide counselling, legal aid, life-skills, soft skills training, job placements, and referral linkages to welfare schemes in partnership with the Department of Women and Child Welfare and District Legal Services Authority, the release said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/transgender-help-desk-set-up-at-police-station-in-hyderabad-101615051867115.html
06-03-2021||India||In Rajasthan’s Jodhpur district, 2 arrested for brandishing gun at wedding||A 22-year-old man was arrested on Saturday for brandishing a country-made pistol while dancing at a wedding in Pithavas village in Jodhpur district. A 45-second video of the incident also turned viral on social media.According to the police, some young men were dancing at the DJ night in a wedding ceremony, during which one of the accused pointed the pistol at the forehead of another youth.Deputy Commissioner of Police (East) Dharmendra Singh Yadav said that on the night of March 4, it was reported to the police control room that a young man was dancing while brandishing a pistol at a wedding in Pithavas village. Based on this information, a police patrolling team reached the spot, but by then the young man who had been brandishing a pistol had escaped.“On the basis of the viral video and information gathered from the people present on the spot, the youth was identified as Sanjay Bishnoi, a resident of Pithavas, against whom a search was carried out while lodging the case and he was arrested on Saturday,” he added.On the basis of Sanjay’s interrogation, the police also arrested his accomplice Vishnu Bishnoi (23) and recovered the illegal pistol from his possession.Yadav said that both the accused are being interrogated for the purchase of illegal arms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-rajasthan-s-jodhpur-district-2-arrested-for-brandishing-gun-at-wedding-101615051634769.html
06-03-2021||India||As farmers protest completes 100 days, Cong says ‘100 days of BJP's arrogance’||As the farmers' protest against the Centre's new farm laws completed 100 days, the Congress on Saturday said the period was a "black chapter" in India's democracy for the treatment meted out to the protesters and also marked 100 days of the ruling BJP's "arrogance".Congress leader Rahul Gandhi hit out at the Centre over the farmers' protest and said nails were laid at Delhi's borders for those, whose sons risk their lives at the country's borders.His attack came after the farmers' agitation completed 100 days with the protesting union leaders asserting that their movement is far from over and they are "going strong".In a tweet in Hindi, Gandhi said, "Whose sons risk their lives at the country's borders, for them nails have been laid at the borders of Delhi. 'Annadaatas' demand their rights, government commits atrocities."Farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at several border points of Delhi, including Tikri, Singhu and Ghazipur, since November 28 last year, demanding a repeal of the three new farm laws and a legal guarantee on the minimum support price (MSP) for their crops.The government has denied allegations that it is trying to put an end to the MSP and the "mandi" (wholesale market) systems through the new laws. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has also assured the farmers that the MSP system would continue.Farmer leaders have made it clear that they would not settle for anything less than a repeal of the new agriculture laws.Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra also hit out at the Centre in a tweet in Hindi.She said, "100 days of farmers' struggle, of fight for rights, of respect for 'annadaatas', of the path shown by Gandhiji, Sardar (Vallabhbhai) Patel, Nehruji, (Lal Bahadur) Shastriji, Shaheed Bhagat Singh."With the hashtag '100DaysOfBJParrogance', she said, "100 days of BJP government's arrogance, of assault on farmers, of lies and scorn for farmers."Congress' chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said the defeat of the BJP in the upcoming assembly elections in four states Tamil Nadu, Kerala, West Bengal and Assam, and and Union Territory Puducherry will lead to the victory of the farmers."The Modi government is blinded by the arrogance of its majority. It sees nothing but selfish power. Democracy is run in a 'public' way, not 'arbitrary way'," he said.The defeat of the Modi government in these states will open the way for the farmers getting minimum support price and the withdrawal of "anti-farmer black laws", Surjewala said in a statement."Let us pave the way for 'BJP's defeat' and 'victory of the country'," he said.The BJP government has crossed all limits of "cruelty and barbarity" in dealing with the protesting farmers in these last 100 days, Surjewala alleged."Farmers were hit by water cannons in the bitter cold, roads were dug, sticks were used on them, tear gas shells were fired. Not only this, attempts were made to book them under the anti-terrorism laws and even spikes of nails and thorns were put in their way," he said.The farmers tried their best to resolve the issue through talks but the government having an approach of 'Hum Do, Humare Do' paid no heed to their pleas, the Congress leader said.He alleged that the Modi government is aware that the three laws will "destroy" the mandi system, farmers will not get MSP and their lands will be "usurped", but it is only interested in helping its crony capitalist friends.Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera said the protesting farmers have been braving all odds -- of nature and the might of the State -- for the last 100 days."They have braved all kinds of insults heaped upon them by the government and pro-government media. Today, what we are witnessing is an attempt to wipe out the narrative of the farmers, to wipe out the narrative of their protest from the media," he alleged at a press conference here."Each one of us, whichever category we may belong to, have our own struggles and that is the awareness on which the government depends," Khera said.There is one section of the society that has found time to come out and protest -- farmers -- against these "black laws" and they are "our voice", he added."The country has seen through this government's efforts for headline management...a cornered regime is there and how it will react now is for us to wait and watch," the Congress leader said."The farmers have called this day a black day. We think this is a black chapter in our democracy, where everything was done to disrupt this peaceful protest. They (farmers) were demonised, all kinds of conspiracies were hatched against them, but they stayed on," he added.The Congress demands that the three new farm laws should immediately be repealed, Khera said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-farmers-protest-completes-100-days-cong-says-100-days-of-bjp-s-arrogance-101615050572330.html
06-03-2021||India||Supreme Court to begin limited physical hearing on trial basis from March 15||The Supreme Court will begin limited physical hearing of old/regular matters on three days in a week beginning March 15 where lawyers will have the option to either appear in person or argue through videoconferencing.A circular was issued in this regard by the Supreme Court Secretary General on March 6 stating that the hearing of cases through the hybrid mode is a pilot scheme carried out on an experimental basis following requests to restart physical hearing of cases received from Bar Associations. Even a Committee of Judges of the Supreme Court comprising the top seven senior most judges had held wide-ranging consultation with lawyer bodies and recommended to start limited physical hearing in August last year. Lawyers were asked for consent but only three to four lawyers consented which led to the plan being junked.In January this year, Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde ruled out any reopening of courts for the present. Sitting in a three-judge bench composition, CJI remarked, “We have received medical advice from medical authorities that it is dangerous for people to congregate at this time. If physical courts are started, the number of fatalities will increase.”The present circular issued by SC Secretary General said, “As a pilot scheme, the final hearing/regular matters listed on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays may be heard in the hybrid mode, as may be decided by the Hon’ble Bench, considering the number of parties in a matter as well as the limited capacity of the Court rooms.” All other matters, including fresh matters listed on Mondays and Fridays shall continue to be heard through video/tele-conferencing mode, the circular added.As per Covid-19 norms, only 20 people per courtroom will be granted entry. The lawyer or litigant appearing in person who wishes to appear through physical hearing will be required to give their option in advance, latest within 24 hours of the weekly list being published or by 1 pm the following day of the weekly list being out. The weekly list for the coming week is generally out by Friday of the previous week. In case the advocate/litigant makes no specific request for physical hearing by the stipulated time, it shall be presumed that counsels for the party seek to appear through video/teleconferencing mode.If the bench receives requests for physical hearing in a case where the number of lawyers are more than the average working capacity of 20 in a courtroom, the matter shall invariably be listed for hearing through videoconferencing. In a case listed for hybrid hearing, every party to the case will be allowed to have an arguing counsel, the advocate-on-record (one who files the case in Supreme Court), and a registered clerk to carry the files/books required during arguments.Supreme Court Advocates-on-Record Association (SCAORA) President Shivaji Jadhav said, “Our demand was to begin full-fledged physical hearing of cases and not limited physical hearing. We are happy at least this has started. But consent from lawyers may not be forthcoming in cases where a stay is operating or where the client has defaulted on payment of fees. However, this was much needed as the litigants and lawyers were suffering a lot in the post-lockdown phase.”Entry into the courtroom for the physical hearing will require lawyers to make “special hearing passes” to be issued by the SC Registry. They will be permitted into the courtroom ten minutes prior to the beginning of their case. Till then they will be seated in the bar longue or library. After following the sanitization procedures, on entering the courtroom, the lawyers/litigants will be required to maintain minimum prescribed physical distancing norms by sitting on chairs at the earmarked places.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-to-begin-limited-physical-hearing-on-trial-basis-from-march-15-101615048093301.html
06-03-2021||India||Nepal Police hand over body of Indian man killed in firing in Pilibhit||The body of the young man allegedly killed in firing by the Nepalese Police was handed over to Indian authorities after several rounds of talks following which his family performed the last rites here, officials said on Saturday.Govinda Singh, 24, was shot at Thursday in a village in Nepal near the India-Nepal border. His body was given late Friday night after a post-mortem examination by Nepalese authorities, said Pilibhit Superintendent of Police Jai Prakash Yadav.He said Nepalese officials were terming it a case of smuggling, but locals maintain the firing took place following a minor argument.Though authorities had initially said Nepalese Police had fired at three people, police said late Friday that the incident in a market in Nepal's Kanchanpur district involved four men, all in their 20s. They were from Bhumidan Raghavpuri Tilla Chaar village in Pilibhit and were working in a field near the border.While Govinda was killed, Gurmez Singh, 29, was injured and referred to Lucknow's King George's Medical University for treatment. Two of them, Resham, 22, and Pappu Singh, 27, managed to escape and were questioned at Pilibhit’s Kamlapuri guest house in the presence of senior officials.Nepalese officials had alleged that the four entered Nepal for the smuggling of narcotics. They also claimed to have recovered "brown sugar", a pistol and a machine used to print fake currency notes from Govinda Singh.According to SP Yadav, the body was handed over to Indian authorities on Friday after a post-mortem examination in Nepal and the family performed the last rites at night itself.He said several rounds of talks were held with Nepalese authorities on Friday and the administration has sent its report to the state government.The Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) has also sent a detailed report of the incident to the Union government, he said.Yadav refused to comment on the smuggling charge, saying it is part of the investigation.However, family members of the deceased termed the Nepalese Police's version of events unfounded and far from the truth.Gurdev Singh, Govinda Singh's uncle, told officials in Pilibhit that the four men had been working in a field between Pillar No. 38 and 39 adjacent to the Nepal border for the past 12 days. He alleged that the firing happened on the Indian side of the border and the Nepalese Police took the body with them. Nepalese Police fired at them after Govinda had an argument with them while going for work, he said.While the first shot was fired in the air, the second one hit Govinda, who fell on the spot and a third hit Gurmez Singh, according to the uncle. Resham and Pappu Singh managed to escape, Govinda's family claimed.Bareilly zone Additional Director General of Police Avinash Chandra said the statements of the family are being examined. Nepalese officials have also assured an impartial inquiry into the incident, he said.In view of the prevailing tension, patrolling has been intensified on the border.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nepal-police-hand-over-body-of-indian-man-killed-in-firing-in-pilibhit-101615049353537.html
06-03-2021||India||AIADMK, DMK yet to close deal with key allies for Tamil Nadu assembly polls||The DMK on Saturday moved forward in its ongoing seat-sharing exercise with allies by giving six seats to MDMK though a deal with the Congress and CPI(M) was elusive, while the ruling AIADMK's negotiations with DMDK remained inconclusive. The MDMK would, however, contest on the rising sun symbol of its partner DMK according to the pact inked today by the leadership of both parties. This is the first time the MDMK would face the Tamil Nadu Assembly election together with the DMK since it was founded in 1994 after Vaiko was ousted from the then M Karunanidhi-led DMK. Vaiko, when asked if his party has given a list of preferred constituencies to DMK, said 'no.' On agreeing to contest on the 'rising sun' symbol, which is a 'change of heart,' he said it was due to practical reasons. The MDMK chief had previously said his party would contest on a separate symbol. A party would be allotted a single, common symbol by the Election Commission only if it contested from at least 12 constituencies and if not, there was a possibility of separate symbol in each of the six segments, he said. To avert such a scenario and considering practical aspects like less number of days to campaign, the party decided to contest on the rising sun symbol, he said. He hit out at the 'Sanathana forces,' a reference to the BJP, and praised Stalin as a very capable leader for the post of Chief Minister. The DMK has allotted 23 seats to allies. MDMK, Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi and CPI have got six each, the IUML three and Manithaneya Makkal Katchi two. After the second round of talks, CPI(M) state secretary K Balakrishnan said the number of seats indicated by the DMK for allocation to his party was not agreeable and hence they have conveyed their preference. He hoped for a resolution soon on seat sharing with DMK. Asked if his party could get more than the six seats earmarked by the Dravidian party for its ideological sibling CPI, he said there was no question of comparison with any other party. The Marxist party leader said negotiations with the DMK centred around the allocation for his party and not a word had been spoken by them on what was set part for others. The AIADMK allocated 20 seats to BJP succumbing to pressure from it, he alleged and compared the ruling party-led combine to a 'scrap' shop. While the Congress party held interviews for ticket aspirants here, there was no progress on finalising seat sharing with the DMK. Similarly, the AIADMK's negotiations with allies the DMDK and former Union Minister G K Vaasan led Tamil Maanila Congress (Moopanar) were yet to reach the finalisation stage. An ally of the AIADMK, MLA Karunas-led Mukkulathor Pulippadai walked out of the alliance and vowed to work against the ruling combine in 84 constituencies where the Mukkalathor community held a sway. Kamal Haasan-led Makkal Needhi Maiam too held interviews for aspirants and indicated backchannel talks with the Congress party which appeared miffed with the offer of less number of seats (22) by the DMK. MNM's general secretary Kumaravel hinted at talks "at different levels," with the Congress and declined to elaborate. Seeman's Naam Tamizhar Katchi is going solo for the election. While the AIADMK concluded interviews for party ticket aspirants in a single day on Thursday, the DMK completed the exercise, which commenced on March 2, today. The ruling party late Friday night signed a pact with the BJP allotting it 20 Assembly seats and the Kanyakumari Lok Sabha seat. The saffron party has named its senior leader, Pon Radhakrishnan, also a former Union Minister as the candidate for the Kanyakumari bypoll, ahead of Union Home Minister Amit Shah's campaign there on Sunday. Stalin, after addressing a mega public meeting tomorrow at Tiruchirappalli, would resume campaign on March 12 from Salem, home to Chief Minister K Palaniswami and cover Dindigul and Madurai the next day. It is part of his sixth phase of 'Stalin in your constituency' campaign.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aiadmk-dmk-yet-to-close-deal-with-key-allies-for-tamil-nadu-assembly-polls-101615047373196.html
06-03-2021||India||At top commanders’ meet, PM Modi calls for army to become 'future force'||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday stressed the importance of enhancing indigenisation in the national security system, not only in sourcing equipment and weapons but also in the doctrines, procedures and customs practised in the armed forces. The Prime Minister also conveyed his appreciation for the dedication shown by the Indian armed forces over the past year during the coronavirus pandemic as well as the challenging situation on the northern border, his office said in a statement. He was addressing the Combined Commanders’ Conference at Kevadia in Gujarat. “Every Indian is very proud of our armed forces. Their courage is remarkable. Urged the armed forces to think about various reforms that would make the forces even stronger. Also discussed ways to integrate brave veterans in the celebrations to mark 75 years of Independence,” PM Modi later tweeted.Highlighting the rapidly changing technological landscape, the Prime Minister emphasised the need to develop the Indian military into a 'future force'. He also stressed the need to optimise manpower planning in both military and civilian parts of the national security architecture, according to the Prime Minister’s Office. At the Combined Commanders’ Conference, saw some of the innovations by our armed forces that were showcased in the exhibition. pic.twitter.com/3mvjklO7vMModi called for a holistic approach, focused on breaking down civil-military silos and on expediting the speed of decision making as he advised the forces to rid themselves of legacy systems and practices that have outlived their utility and relevance.The Prime Minister also pointed out that the country would be celebrating 75 years of its Independence next year, and called upon the armed forces to use the occasion to undertake activities and initiatives that would inspire the youth of the country. The conference in Kevadia comes at a crucial time when the Indian and Chinese troops were negotiating disengagement in the eastern Ladakh sector. It also comes days after the announcement by Indian and Pakistani armies that they have begun observing a ceasefire along the Line of Control (LoC) from the midnight of February 24. Defence minister Rajnath Singh, Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat, the three service chiefs, secretary-ranked officers from the defence ministry and top military officials attended the event.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-top-commanders-meet-pm-modi-calls-for-army-to-become-future-force-101615046689138.html
06-03-2021||India||Punjab reports over 1,000 daily new Covid-19 cases for second time in March||Punjab witnessed a spike in its daily new Covid-19 cases on Saturday as the state reported 1,179 infections and 12 related fatalities, taking its caseload to 187,348 and death toll to 5,910, according to a health department bulletin. The state had reported 1,074 cases of Covid-19 on Thursday—the highest since the 1,062 cases reported on October 5, 2020. There were fewer cases of the coronavirus disease on Friday with 818 infections.The bulletin showed that the active caseload too witnessed a spike on Saturday with 7,164 patients—up from 6,661 reported on Friday. SAS Nagar with 928 active cases and Jalandhar with 926 remain the top two districts with a maximum active caseload.Also read | Delhi logs over 300 new Covid-19 cases for second straight dayThe state also reported 644 patients have recovered from the viral disease, taking the tally to 174,274, according to the bulletin. So far, 5,159,683 samples have been collected in Punjab of which 32,721 were taken on Saturday and the government conducted 34,388 Covid-19 tests, the bulletin showed.The Union ministry of health and family welfare on Saturday had noted that Punjab along with four other states accounted for 82 per cent of the new Covid-19 cases reported in India. The ministry also said that Punjab is one among the eight states and Union territories (UTs) that are witnessing a surge in the daily new cases.Also read | Return to ‘test, track, treat’ fundamentals: Centre to states reporting Covid-19 resurgenceAccording to data from the health ministry, daily cases in Punjab have been steadily increasing since February 22 with a dip on only two days—February 28 and March 1. The ministry rushed two high-level teams to Punjab and Maharashtra “to assist the State Health Departments in COVID-19 surveillance, control and containment measures,” it said in a statement.Meanwhile, 1,300 healthcare and 1,872 frontline workers received their first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine on Saturday, along with the 1,443 health workers who received their second dose. With this, 97,172 healthcare workers and 84,371 frontline workers have been administered the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine in the state. Also, 47,170 healthcare workers and 2,216 frontline workers have been given their second dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-reports-over-1-000-daily-new-covid-19-cases-for-second-time-in-march-101615046246809.html
06-03-2021||India||NIA files chargesheet against 3 Bodo militants for killing Assam police officer||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has filed a chargesheet against three Bodo militants for killing a police officer in Assam in 2014.The chargesheet was filed on Friday before a special NIA court against the accused persons-Bishnu Narzary, Nitul Daimary and Runiluish Daimary under several sections of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, Indian Penal Code and Arms Act.The case pertains to an ambush by militants in January 2014 at Dhekiajuli which resulted in the death of Gulzar Hussain, the then additional superintendent of police, Sonitpur district, a civilian Anlark Basumatary and injuries to several policemen.The case was first handled by Assam Police and in 2019 the investigation was taken over by NIA.As per the NIA chargesheet, the ambush was carried out by the National Democratic Front of Bodoland-Songbijit (NDFB-S), a Bodo militant outfit.Two of the accused in the present case-Bishnu Narzary and Nitul Daimary-have been convicted in another case in which Narzary has been given death sentence while Daimary has been sentenced to life imprisonment.Two other NDFB-S cadres, Kham Kham Daimary and Junu Basumatary, who were involved in the case, have already been killed in separate encounters with security forces.Further investigation into the case is on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-files-chargesheet-against-3-bodo-militants-for-killing-assam-police-officer-101615041399227.html
06-03-2021||India||Over ₹25,000 million collected for Ram Temple’s construction: VHP||The Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) said on Saturday said that ₹25,000 million has been collected so far for the construction of the Ram Temple in Uttar Pradesh Ayodhya. “As per banks receipts till March 4, donation of ₹25,000 million has been collected for the construction of the Ram Temple,” VHP leader Champat Rai was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Rai said that door-to-door collection of funds for the Ram Temple construction has also been stopped. Rai, who is also the general secretary of the Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust, a body entrusted with the responsibility of constructing the Ram Temple in Ayodhya, said that people interested in donating can visit the trust’s website to do so. “We are in talks to acquire land for a ground in front of the temple. The temple will be built in three years,” Rai was also quoted as saying by ANI.The mass contact and contribution campaign for the construction of the grand temple in Ayodhya started on January 15 and ended on February 27. A five-judge bench of the Supreme Court in November 2019 headed by the former chief justice of India Ranjan Gogoi ruled in favour of Ram Lalla and had directed the government to form a trust that will oversee the construction of a Ram Temple at the site which spreads over approximately 2.7 acres. Prime Minister Narendra Modi performed the bhoomi pujan for the construction of Ram Temple on August 5 last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-rs-25-000-million-collected-for-ram-temple-s-construction-vhp-101615043906343.html
06-03-2021||India||Amid surge in Covid-19 cases, these states have imposed fresh restrictions||Several states have imposed fresh restrictions on the movement of people amid a surge in the cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in several districts. The Centre has reminded some states that are witnessing a high active caseload to employ the strategy of “test, track and treat” adding that it had been effective in yielding results at the height of the coronavirus pandemic. The eight states and two Union territories told to increase testing and contact tracing are Haryana, Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, Goa, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Delhi and Chandigarh. The central government has also rushed high-level multi-disciplinary public health teams to Maharashtra and Punjab in view of the increase in the number of daily new Covid-19 cases being reported by these states.Here’s a list of states that have imposed fresh restrictions or have existing ones to curb infection spread:1. PunjabThe Punjab government imposed a night curfew in four districts of Jalandhar, Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar, Kapurthala and Hoshiarpur. The night curfew will be in place in these districts from 11pm to 5am until further notification, an order has said. Punjab has been witnessing a rise in coronavirus cases for almost four weeks now. On Saturday, the state reported 1,179 new cases and 12 deaths taking the overall tally to 187,348 cases and the death toll to 5,910 respectively.Watch Covid update: Passenger causes chaos on plane; Xi Jinping skips mask at event2. MaharashtraEven as Maharashtra reported 10,187 fresh coronavirus cases and 47 related deaths on Saturday, restrictions on movement in some districts of the state are already in place since last month. While Nagpur district has clamped down on social, political, cultural events and ordered shutting of schools, colleges, and coaching classes till March 7, Aurangabad city has imposed a night curfew till March 8. Pune district administration has also imposed restrictions in the city till March 14. The state has also imposed restrictions on movement on people in Mumbai, Nagpur, Pimpri Chinchwad, Nashik, Aurangabad, Thane, Navi Mumbai, Kalyan-Dombivli, Akola, Yavatmal, Washim and Buldhana. The overall tally of the state stands at 2,208,586 and the death toll at 52,440.3. Madhya PradeshRestrictions on assembly and night curfew were imposed in Madhya Pradesh's Balaghat district, 450 kilometres from Bhopal, to prevent an upsurge in daily coronavirus figures on February 23 and are still in place until further notification. The state reported 457 new coronavirus cases on Friday, taking the tally of infections to 263,747.4. GujaratThe Gujarat government has imposed a night curfew in the districts of Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot till March 10 in view of a spike in the coronavirus disease cases in the state. Gujarat recorded 515 new coronavirus cases on Friday, the highest single-day spike in one-and-half months, which took the caseload to 272,240.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-surge-in-covid-19-cases-these-states-have-imposed-fresh-restrictions-101615042924948.html
06-03-2021||India||‘Will modify Covid travel restrictions with Kerala’: Karnataka govt to HC||The Karnataka government informed the state’s high court on Friday it had offered to modify several Covid-19 related travel restrictions that were imposed in the neighbouring state of Kerala amid an increase in its caseload, according to a report by Live Law (livelaw.in).The submission was made by the Karnataka government’s counsel to a division bench comprising chief justice Abhay S Oka and Justice Vishwajith Reddy. While hearing the oral submission made by the counsel, the bench observed that inter-state roads could not be blocked and added that the state government should abide by the Centre’s guidelines on inter-state travel, according to the report.The bench also said that the Karnataka government should facilitate an infrastructure to check the RT-PCR test reports of travellers arriving from Kerala at the border points rather than sealing them. “If you want to create infrastructure for checking of reports etc you can do it. Otherwise, you cannot simply keep the roads closed like this. Create infrastructure and allow,” it added.The Centre’s counsel said during the hearing that the government had not ordered for the closure of roads under its guidelines and roads would have to be kept open. “As far as testing is concerned that only district authorities can take a decision, there is no restriction for the movement of any person. The order issued is extended till March 31,” the counsel pointed out.Karnataka had sealed several roads and national highways with Kerala on February 22 after the former had seen the emergence of two Covid-19 clusters in Bengaluru. People from Kerala were only allowed entry after they produced a negative RT-PCR test report which was not older than 72 hours.In what was seen as an immediate response to this, Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on February 23 and sought the Centre’s intervention on these new restrictions imposed. Vijayan mentioned that people, vehicles carrying essential goods and patients going for medical treatment faced ‘undue hardships’ at Karnataka’s borders due to these rules. He also said that the inter-state travel restrictions opted by states were contrary to those of the Centre. “I request your urgent intervention in this matter so that the hardship of people from Kerala travelling to the neighbouring state of Karnataka can be avoided,” the Kerala CM’s letter read.However, Karnataka health minister Dr K Sudhakar clarified that the state government had not restricted inter-state travel with Kerala. Attaching a copy of Vijayan’s letter to PM Modi and the Karnataka government’s circular, Sudhakar said, “However, as a precautionary measure, guidelines have been issued that travellers entering Karnataka from Kerala must mandatorily possess a negative RT-PCR test report not older than 72 hours.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-modify-covid-travel-restrictions-with-kerala-k-taka-govt-to-hc-101615043850372.html
06-03-2021||India||News updates from HT: Covid-19 vaccination for Army veterans to begin next week, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Covid-19 vaccination for veterans to begin at service hospitals next week: ArmyVeterans and their dependents eligible for Covid-19 vaccination under the government’s guidelines will be able to get vaccinated at service hospitals starting next week, the Indian Army said on Saturday. Read moreCBI launches probe into smuggling of rotten betel nuts to IndiaThe Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has launched a probe into a scam involving alleged evasion of customs duty worth ₹15,000 crore annually in the smuggling of substandard Betel Nuts/Areca Nuts in the garb of SAARC Preferential Trading Agreement (SAPTA) and South Asia Free Trade Area (SAFTA). Read moreVaccination centre for eligible MPs set up inside Parliament complexThe Indian parliament has set up its exclusive vaccination centre for MPs inside the parliament complex, which would cater to lawmakers in the second half of the budget session that begins on Monday. Read more Suvendu Adhikari is BJP’s choice against CM Mamata Banerjee on Nandigram seat in Bengal pollsThe Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Saturday announced Suvendu Adhikari as its candidate from Nandigram where he will take on chief minister Mamata Banerjee in the upcoming West Bengal assembly elections. Read moreLock, stock and three spinning barrels as India crush England for 3-1 Test series winBen Foakes, England’s wicketkeeper and a decent player of spin, used the depth of his crease to flick a Washington Sundar ball to the on side and ran a single. Simultaneously, all the spectators present at the Motera on Saturday clapped; the wash of applause soon drew hysterical laughter. Read moreReliance Jio Vs Vi vs Airtel: Top prepaid plans under ₹500Data plans have become one of our lifelines ever since the pandemic forced everyone to work and study from home. Be it the classes or the board meetings, almost every role that didn't require a physical presence was shifted to a work-from-home setup. Read moreKareena Kapoor Khan recaps first year on Instagram in nostalgic post, but fans want baby picsActor Kareena Kapoor has shared a post commemorating her first year on Instagram. Kareena joined the platform in March 2020, and has shared a mixture of personal photos and sponsored posts. Read moreShould you eat dates before bed or empty stomach to reap maximum health benefit?As an energy-rich snack that can be consumed daily, dates are high in calories and easy to overeat in one sitting. Apart from having an excellent nutrition profile, dates are high in fiber which is important for our overall health, benefits digestive health by promoting regular bowel movements, provide various antioxidants that help reduce the risk of several diseases and also help in improving the brain function. Read moreWatch: Baby turtles swarm beach as they're released into the sea in Rameswaram||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-covid-19-vaccination-for-army-veterans-to-begin-next-week-and-all-the-latest-news-101615040218701.html
06-03-2021||India||Vaccination centre for eligible MPs set up inside Parliament complex||The Indian parliament has set up its exclusive vaccination centre for MPs inside the parliament complex, which would cater to lawmakers in the second half of the budget session that begins on Monday.Nearly half or 366 out of 777 MPs are eligible for Covid-19 vaccines in the category of elderly people. 47% of MPs are above sixty years of age and meet the criteria for elderly people who can get vaccinated in the current phase. Prime Minister Narendra Modi took his first dose at AIIMS on Monday morning. Those above 45 with comorbidities are also eligible but parliament doesn't keep a health record of its members.“For the welfare of Members of Parliament, a Covid-19 vaccination centre has been set up in Parliament House Medical Centre from March 9,” said an internal circular of the Lok Sabha.The vaccines would be administered on all working days by a trained healthcare worker.While the government is encouraging the targeted population to take the vaccines, the vaccination in the parliament complex would be entirely voluntary. Though the MPs have to undergo mandatory RTPCR tests to attend the session, the vaccination will be voluntary. Family members of the MPs too, will get vaccines.“2 vaccination centres have also been set up for the family members of MPs, one at CGHS Dispensary North Avenue and the other at CGHS Dispensary South Avenue. Members can undertake vaccination in their respective constituency also,” said the circular.According to parliamentary data, 36% Lok Sabha MPs are above 60 years of age. The Rajya Sabha, popularly called as the House of the Elders, naturally has more eligible candidates with 62% of its MPs above that age bracket.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaccination-centre-for-eligible-mps-set-up-inside-parliament-complex-101615040159813.html
06-03-2021||India||Covid-19 vaccination for veterans to begin at service hospitals next week: Army||Veterans and their dependents eligible for Covid-19 vaccination under the government’s guidelines will be able to get vaccinated at service hospitals starting next week, the Indian Army said on Saturday.“Approval of Ministry of Health and Family Welfare for vaccination of veterans (includes their dependents) and dependents of Armed Forces personnel in Service hospitals has been received,” the army said on Twitter.There are more than 3.2 million ex-servicemen (ESM) in the country, and many of them have been waiting to get vaccinated at service hospitals. Their dependents include spouses, sons (till the age of 25 or when they start earning, whichever is earlier), unmarried/divorced daughters, parents with a monthly income of less than ₹9,000 and special children for life.The number of dependents is around 2.3 million but only those who meet the eligibility criteria will be able to get the shots at service hospitals, said people familiar with ESM issues. The same applies to dependents of serving military personnel.Also read: Maharashtra reports over 10,000 Covid-19 cases for second consecutive dayCitizens above 60 years of age and those above 45 suffering from comorbidities are being covered during the current phase of vaccination.The vaccination drive for eligible veterans will kick off at service hospitals next week.“The process is likely to commence next week after the completion of registration of Armed Forces medical facilities on Co-WIN platform. Guidelines for the same will be issued in a few days,” the army said in another tweet.Some veterans - aged over 60 or 45 with comorbidities - have already got themselves vaccinated at government-approved centres after the drive for the general public began on March 1.Roughly 20,000 centres that are currently being used for the vaccine drive are hospitals, private as well as public, while many primary and secondary health centres at present are kept out of the programme.The government is planning to more than double the number of vaccination centres and reach deeper into rural parts of the country, as reported by Hindustan Times on Saturday.Government data shows 1.4 million doses were administered on Thursday, a record for the country, but a breakdown shows only about half of this number (700,000) was of people from the general public who became eligible to get doses on March 1. The remaining were health and frontline workers, who were the first in line to get doses when the drive began on January 16, and 330,000 were second booster shots.The makers of the two vaccines that India is using, the Serum Institute of India (SII) and Bharat Biotech, told the Delhi High Court on Thursday that they have excess stocks but supplies can be made available only upon the government’s permission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-vaccination-for-veterans-to-begin-at-service-hospitals-next-week-army-101615039993077.html
06-03-2021||India||Gujarat health official tests positive for Covid-19 after taking two doses of vaccine||A health official in Gujarat has tested positive for coronavirus days after taking the second dose of the vaccine against the infection, officials said Saturday.The man, a health officer in Gandhinagar's Dehgam taluka, had taken the first dose on January 16 and the second one on February 15. He had fever and and his samples were examined, which detected the Covid-19 infection on February 20 said Gandhinagar's Chief Health Officer Dr MH Solanki."He is in home isolation as his symptoms are mild. He has told me that he is fit to join work from Monday," Solanki added.The CHO said it generally takes around 45 days for antibodies against the infection to develop after both the doses of the vaccine are administered.He also said one must wear a mask and adhere to all Covid-19 protocols like social distancing etc. even after taking both doses of the vaccine against the infection in order to be on the safe side.As on Friday evening, Gujarat has a caseload of 2,72,240, including 4,413 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-health-official-tests-positive-for-covid-19-after-taking-two-doses-of-vaccine-101615037767465.html
06-03-2021||India||Protesting farmers block expressway in Haryana as agitation completes 100th day||Farmers protesting the Centre's three farm laws on Saturday blocked the six-lane Kundli–Manesar–Palwal (KMP) Expressway at some places in Haryana to mark the completion of 100 days of their agitation at the Delhi borders.The road blockade began at 11 am and continued till 4 pm.Farmers holding black flags and wearing black armbands and some women protesters with black 'dupattas' shouted slogans against the BJP-led government for not acceding to their demands.Protesters in Sonipat and Jhajjar districts and some other places brought their tractor-trolleys and other vehicles and parked them in the middle of the KMP Expressway in some stretches.The Haryana Police had made arrangements for traffic diversions and deployed adequate personnel.The call for blocking the expressway was given by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of protesting farmer unions which is spearheading the agitation against the legislations.Protesting farmers squatted on the expressway and criticised the Narendra Modi government for not withdrawing the farm legislations, which they called as "black laws"."Our agitation against the three farm laws will continue unless the Centre withdraws these laws. We will not step back," said a protester in Sonipat.Farmers held protest at the KMP Expressway near Mandothi village in Jhajjar district. Some people from nearby villages joined them."We are holding our protest in a peaceful manner,” said a farmer, adding that they were also observing “black day” on Saturday.Protesting farmers said the government should withdraw these laws.Farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal, while addressing a gathering on the KMP Expressway, asked the Modi government to withdraw these laws.This agitation will certainly put pressure on the central government, he said.Farmers claimed that their five-hour protest remained peaceful.Sonipat Superintendent of Police Jashandeep Singh Randhawa said arrangements were made for traffic diversions.Heavy vehicles were diverted from Panipat and others from Ganaur to Delhi, said officials.Traffic was also diverted from Murthal via Sonipat city to Narela and Bawana and from Bahadurgarh to Baghpat, they said.Officials said traffic resumed at KMP expressway after famers lifted their blockade at 4 pm.In Palwal district also, farmers staged a 'dharna'.At some places in Haryana, farmers even put up black flags atop roof of their houses as a mark of their protest against the government for not withdrawing the farm laws.The 136-km Kundli-Manesar-Palwal Expressway is also known as the Western Peripheral Expressway.The 53-km Manesar-Palwal section was inaugurated by Union Minister Nitin Gadkari in 2016 and 83-km Kundli-Manesar section was inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in 2018.The KMP Expressway was built to decongest the ever-busy roads of Delhi, especially by reducing the number of trucks entering the national capital, thus helping to curb pollution.It provides high-speed link between northern Haryana and southern districts and gives uninterrupted high-speed link for traffic, especially commercial traffic, from Haryana to neighbouring states.Thousands of farmers have been protesting since late November at the Delhi borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, demanding a rollback of the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; and Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.The protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporations. However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring better opportunities to farmers and introduce new technologies in agriculture.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/protesting-farmers-block-expressway-in-haryana-as-agitation-completes-100th-day-101615038071546.html
06-03-2021||India||Himachal Pradesh budget 'directionless', says Congress||Himachal Pradesh Congress on Saturday termed the state budget presented by Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur as "directionless", saying the government has failed to give relief to the people from rising inflation.Leader of Opposition Mukesh Agnihotri said the budget presented in the HP Assembly was a "half-baked document" in which false promises had been made to the people of the state."The state government presented a deficit budget in the assembly in which there is no mention of the total debt on the state and gap funding," he added.Thakur presented his fourth budget in the HP Assembly on Saturday. He said the ₹50,192 crores budget for 2021-22 is ₹1,061 crore higher than ₹49,131 crore in the last fiscal despite the COVID-19 crisis.Observing that it is unfortunate that the state government did not mention any of these points in the budget document, he said such things have not happened in the past.Agnihotri said though the chief minister claimed to have presented a tax-free budget, there were chances that the government will impose taxes during the year to meet revenue deficit gap.The document was also silent on loans or funding for the schemes that were announced in the budget, he said.The leader of opposition accused the BJP government of not providing any relief to the people from rising inflation and said the government should have lowered VAT on petrol and diesel to ease the burden of price-rise.Besides, the government should have provided subsidy on LPG gas cylinders as the people were bearing the brunt of rising prices, he said.  Agnihotri further stated that the state government had only refurbished the central government schemes in the budget and was giving false hopes to the people.The leader of opposition also took on the government on the promise of filling 30,000 functional posts and said the decision would pave way for back-door entry in jobs in the state.Agnihotri said,"The state government had made new false promises to the people of the state while it hadn't delivered on schemes that were announced in the last budget."The state has recorded negative growth but the chief minister has tried to lure people by presenting old schemes in a refurbished manner," he said, adding the budget was directionless and a half-baked document.The leader of opposition added that the Congress will demand a white paper from the state government on fiscal health of the state as the government had indulged in financial mismanagement in its three-year tenure.Lone Communist Party of India (Marxist) MLA Rakesh Singha also termed the budget "fictional" and said the chief minister has made big announcements without any provision of funds.Singha said there was complete mismatch between the Economic Survey and budget presented by the BJP government.The budget is good at the micro level as the state government had announced to increase in wages of employees in various sectors but there is nothing on the macro level, he added.Singha said, "It was also not clear where the government will source funds and how the deficit will be covered and from which scheme of the budget. It seems that the BJP government will resort to backdoor taxes on the people later."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/himachal-pradesh-budget-directionless-says-congress-101615036851845.html
06-03-2021||India||Senate works through night with virus aid on path to passage||The Senate worked through the night and past sunrise Saturday on Democrats' showpiece $1.9 trillion Covid-19 relief bill after a deal between leaders and moderate Sen. Joe Manchin on emergency jobless benefits broke a logjam that had stalled the package.The compromise, announced by Manchin, D-W.Va., and a Democratic aide late Friday and backed by President Joe Biden, cleared the way for the Senate to begin a marathon series of votes on amendments before eventual approval of the sweeping legislation. The bill then would return to the House, which was expected to give it final congressional approval and send it to Biden to sign.Biden’s foremost legislative priority is aimed at battling the killer pandemic and nursing the economy back to health. It would provide direct payments of up to $1,400 to most Americans and money for Covid-19 vaccines and testing, aid to state and local governments, help for schools and the airline industry and subsidies for health insurance.Shortly before midnight, the Senate began to take up a variety of amendments in rapid-fire fashion. The votes were mostly on Republican proposals virtually certain to fail but designed to force Democrats into politically awkward votes. It was unclear how long into the weekend the “vote-a-rama” would last.By daybreak Saturday, senators had worked through more than a dozen amendments without substantially changing the overall package.The lengthy standoff underscored the headaches confronting party leaders over the next two years — and the tensions between progressives and centrists — as they try moving their agenda through the Congress with their slender majorities.Manchin is probably the chamber’s most conservative Democrat, and a kingmaker in the 50-50 Senate. But Democrats cannot tilt too far center to win Manchin’s vote without endangering progressive support in the House, where they have a mere 10-vote edge.Aiding unemployed Americans is a Democratic priority. But it’s also an issue that drives a wedge between progressives seeking to help jobless constituents cope with the bleak economy and Manchin and other moderates who have wanted to trim some of the bill’s costs.Biden noted Friday's jobs report showing that employers added 379,000 workers — an unexpectedly strong showing. That's still small compared with the 10 million fewer jobs since the pandemic struck a year ago.“Without a rescue plan, these gains are going to slow," Biden said. “We can’t afford one step forward and two steps backwards. We need to beat the virus, provide essential relief, and build an inclusive recovery."The overall bill faced a solid wall of GOP opposition, and Republicans used the unemployment impasse to accuse Biden of refusing to seek compromise with them. “You could pick up the phone and end this right now,” Sen. Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., said of Biden.But in an encouraging sign for Biden, a poll by The Associated Press-NORC Center for Public Affairs Research found that 70% of Americans support his handling of the pandemic, including a noteworthy 44% of Republicans.The all-night amendment process did little to change the outcome.Sen. Susan Collins, R-Maine, sought to swap in Republican centrists’ $650 billion alternative proposal, which Biden had panned as inadequate. That and other amendments failed, including one from Sen. Jon Tester, D-Mont., on the Keystone XL pipeline.One proposal that did pass, from Sen. Maggie Hassan, D-N.H., would require schools, within 30 days of receiving money from the bill, to develop publicly available plans for in-person instruction. It appeared designed to fend of Republican criticisms that Biden’s package does not do enough to swiftly reopen schools.The House approved a relief bill last weekend that included $400 weekly jobless benefits — on top of regular state payments — through August. Manchin was hoping to reduce those costs, asserting that level of payment would discourage people from returning to work, a rationale most Democrats and many economists reject.As Friday began, Democrats asserted they'd reached a compromise between party moderates and progressives extending emergency jobless benefits at $300 weekly into early October.That plan, sponsored by Sen. Tom Carper, D-Del., also included tax reductions on some unemployment benefits. Without that, many Americans abruptly tossed out of jobs would face unexpected tax bills.But by midday, lawmakers said Manchin was ready to support a less generous Republican version. That led to hours of talks involving White House aides, top Senate Democrats and Manchin.The compromise would provide $300 weekly, with the final check paid on Sept. 6, and includes the tax break on benefits.Before the unemployment benefits drama began, senators voted 58-42 to kill a top progressive priority, a gradual increase in the current $7.25 hourly minimum wage to $15 over five years. Eight Democrats voted against that proposal, suggesting that Sen. Bernie Sanders, I-Vt., and other progressives vowing to continue the effort in coming months will face a difficult fight.That vote began shortly after 11 a.m. EST and was not formally gaveled to a close until nearly 12 hours later as Senate work ground to a halt amid the unemployment benefit negotiations. It was among the longest votes in modern Senate history.Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., chided Democrats, calling their daylong effort to work out the unemployment amendment a “spectacle."“What this proves is there are benefits to bipartisanship when you're dealing with an issue of this magnitude," McConnell said.Republicans criticized the overall relief bill as a liberal spend-fest that ignores that growing numbers of vaccinations and signs of a stirring economy suggest that the twin crises are easing.“Democrats inherited a tide that was already turning.” McConnell said.Democrats reject that, citing the job losses and numerous people still struggling to buy food and pay rent.“If you just look at a big number you say, ‘Oh, everything's getting a little better,'" said Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y. “It's not for the lower half of America. It's not."Friday's gridlock over unemployment benefits gridlock wasn't the first delay on the relief package. On Thursday Sen. Ron Johnson, R-Wis., forced the chamber's clerks to read aloud the entire 628-page relief bill, an exhausting task that took staffers 10 hours and 44 minutes and ended shortly after 2 a.m. EST.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/senate-works-through-night-with-virus-aid-on-path-to-passage-101615035927466.html
06-03-2021||India||CM Adityanath meets farmers from western UP, says farm laws will double their income||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday met a delegation of farmers from western Uttar Pradesh at his government residence and said the new farm laws are enacted with the objective to double the income of farmers."The farmers will get the benefit of the new agricultural laws implemented by the central government. The farm laws have been enacted with the objective to double the income of farmers. These laws will ensure a continuous increase in farmers' income," Adityanath said in the meeting."The state government is implementing the programmes and schemes in the interests of farmers. It is a result of this that under the Prime Minister Kisan Samman Nidhi, Uttar Pradesh has been awarded the first prize for the best performance in the country," the CM added.He further added that the state government is making sincere efforts for the welfare of farmers under the guidance of Prime Minister Narendra Modi as farmers are government's priority.According to a statement by the state government, the members of the delegation said the agricultural laws implemented by the central government are farmer-friendly. These laws are an effort to empower farmers. Small and marginal farmers will get the most benefit from these laws. That is why they support these laws.Rajendra Singh Malik, Subhash Walian Sarvekhap Minister, Rajveer Singh Malik Thambedar, Harveer Singh, Rajpal Singh, Feru Singh, Karan Singh, Sunil Kumar, Ramveer Singh, Arvind Malik, Sarveer Singh, Sarvender Singh and Dharamvir Singh were present in the delegation under the leadership of MLA Umesh Malik.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cm-adityanath-meets-farmers-from-western-up-says-farm-laws-will-double-their-income-101615034976561.html
06-03-2021||India||CBI launches probe into smuggling of rotten betel nuts to India||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has launched a probe into a scam involving alleged evasion of customs duty worth ₹15,000 crore annually in the smuggling of substandard Betel Nuts/Areca Nuts in the garb of SAARC Preferential Trading Agreement (SAPTA) and South Asia Free Trade Area (SAFTA).The agency has registered a First Information Report (FIR) naming unknown officials of Central Excise and Customs and unknown private persons for causing huge losses adding up to several hundred crores to the government exchequer. The High Court of Judicature at Bombay, Nagpur Bench, had ordered a CBI probe in the matter on February 25 on a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) which claimed that substandard, unsafe and unfit Betel Nuts/Areca Nuts were being smuggled to India by fake persons using fake bills.Areca nut is widely consumed in India, particularly in the form of pan masala and gutkha.As per the agreements under SAPTA and SAFTA, concessions are exchanged vide preferential rates on customs duty so as to promote mutual trade and the economic cooperation amongst the member countries. The customs duty at the rate of 13% is applicable on Betel Nut of origin of member countries whereas 113% customs duty is levied in case of non-member countries. The members include India, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Maldives, Nepal, Pakistan and Sri Lanka.The CBI FIR, reviewed by HT, states that “Unscrupulous traders, in connivance with the public servants, are indulged in smuggling of betel nuts/areca nuts of Indonesian origin falsely claiming the same to be originating from member countries, on the basis of fake Certificates of Origin, bogus and undervalued bills/invoices and forged clearance certificates and thus causing evasion of Customs Duty to the tune of ₹15,000 crore annually.”Explaining the modus operandi, CBI FIR, lodged on Friday, adds - “Such illegal imports of Indonesian betel nuts are purportedly facilitated by fake entities registered in India, Indonesia and SAARC countries. Moreover, rotten betel nuts are being imported under the guise of cashew peels (combustible material) to circumvent the lab test”.In June 2016, a stock of 23 wagons of substandard and hazardous betel nuts, smuggled internationally in the name of fake importers, was detected by Railways, Nagpur unit.Instead of taking action, the concerned Customs department officials didn’t look into the matter earnestly and extended favours to the traders involved, CBI FIR says.Subsequently, a Directorate of Revenue and Intelligence (DRI) probe in 2017 revealed import of betel nuts and evasion of customs duty in Nagpur. The four consignments investigated by DRI were related to smuggling of consignments of 106.11 MTs (metric tonnes), 109.273 MTs and 81.42 MTs of betel nuts of foreign origin from Indo-Myanmar border, and confiscation of 40 MTs of trucks carrying betel nuts on way to Nagpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-launches-probe-into-smuggling-of-rotten-betel-nuts-to-india-101615034098942.html
06-03-2021||India||Oppn questions probe into death of 'owner' of vehicle found near Ambani's house||A day after the purported owner of the vehicle with explosives parked near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's house was found dead, the opposition BJP said on Saturday that it appeared to be a murder and questioned the investigation by police.Shiv Sena leader and Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Raut said the Sena-led Maharashtra government should not be put in the dock over the death of a prime witness, but finding out the truth was imporant for the coalition government's image.Mansukh Hiren (46), who the police had said was the owner of the stolen Scorpio with gelatin sticks parked near Ambani's residence in south Mumbai on February 25, was found dead in a creek in neighbouring Thane on Friday morning.Home Minister Anil Deshmukh, who belongs to the NCP, announced transfer of the probe to the Anti-Terrorism Squad on the same evening. He also said Hiren was not the owner of the SUV but was in its possession for carrying out some interior work."It is wrong to politicise this death and put the government in the dock. There are doubts whether Mansukh Hiren's death was a suicide or murder. He was an important witness in the case," Raut said here."The home department should unearth the truth at the earliest. It is important for the prestige and image of the Maha Vikas Aghadi government," he said.On the transfer of the probe from the Mumbai crime branch to the ATS, the Sena leader said the BJP wanted the National Investigation Agency (NIA) to probe it, but it would not guarantee that the case would be solved immediately."The home minister has handed over the case to the ATS, which is capable of solving it. Let us have faith in it," Raut said.State BJP chief Chandrakant Patil, on the other hand, questioned the "seriousness of the probe"."Prima facie he was murdered. But I have my doubts about the seriousness of the investigation," Patil told reporters.He also accused the state government of "promoting criminalisation of politics"."In less than two years, several ministers have faced serious allegations but none of them stepped down, except the recent resignation of forest minister," he said.Forest minister Sanjay Rathod resigned earlier this month after his name was linked to the death of a young woman in Pune."It gives an assurance to criminals that they can join politics and get protected. The BJP protested strongly due to which the MVA government was forced to accept Rathod's resignation," Patil said.Ashish Shelar, another BJP leader, questioned the presence of an "encounter specialist" police officer at Hiren's autopsy."His presence is suspicious as he is neither part of Thane police nor the ATS. It gives impression that there is something this government wants to hide," he said.Shelar also asked what prompted the home minister to hand over the probe to the ATS shortly after praising the job done by the Mumbai crime branch and Thane police.Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) leader Sandeep Deshpande demanded inquiry by a sitting judge.As per police, Hiren, who was in vehicle spare parts business, went missing after leaving his shop in Thane around 8.30 pm on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oppn-questions-probe-into-death-of-owner-of-vehicle-found-near-ambani-s-house-101615034681638.html
06-03-2021||India||Smriti Irani attacks Rahul Gandhi, accuses him of 'insulting' people of Amethi||Union Minister Smriti Irani launched a scathing attack on former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Saturday, accusing him of "insulting" the people of Amethi by comparing voters in the north with those in Kerala.The Amethi MP, who laid the foundation stone for a bus stand in Tiloi, said the people of the town gave Gandhi immense love for 15 years despite him "not doing anything for its development"."It is wrong for Rahul Gandhi to say that there is a lack of understanding among the people of Amethi than those in Kerala. I believe that there is no dearth of understanding in the people of Amethi. Rather it is in Rahul Gandhi," she said.Her remarks come after Gandhi at a public gathering in Kerala's Thiruvananthapuram recently said, "For the first 15 years, I was an MP in the north, I had got used to a different type of politics. For me, coming to Kerala was very refreshing as suddenly I found that people are interested in issues, and not just superficially, but going into detail."Attacking the Gandhi family, Irani said a political family of the country ruled Amethi for 30 years but never thought about its development."Instead of developing Amethi and opening a medical college here, they continued to get their guest house constructed," she claimed.Talking about farmers, Irani said in 2013, when Gandhi's party was in power only 800 farmers got the benefit of minimum support price in Amethi while in 2020, as many as 23,800 farmers benefitted from MSP here.The Union minister said it is a matter of concern that there was not a single fertilizer rack centre in Amethi and claimed that the farmers had to face lathis for fertilizers.She said after the BJP came to power in Uttar Pradesh, a fertilizer rack centre was formed in Gauriganj in Amethi and construction work for a bypass and over bridge started in the town.Irani said the benefits of development schemes are reaching the common man directly, the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Sammann Nidhi has given financial strength to the farmers and people have benefitted directly from Ayushman Bharat Yojana, Ujjwala Yojana and Saubhagya Yojana.Earlier in the day, she took part in a ground-breaking ceremony of the bus stand to be constructed in Tiloi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/smriti-irani-attacks-rahul-gandhi-accuses-him-of-insulting-people-of-amethi-101615029626682.html
06-03-2021||India||Centre asks states witnessing spike in Covid-19 cases to accelerate vaccination||The Centre has asked states and union territories witnessing surge in new Covid-19 cases and high active caseload to continue with the strategy of "test, track and treat" that had yielded rich dividends at the height of the pandemic and accelerate vaccination for priority population groups in districts reporting higher infections on mission mode.In a meeting held on Saturday, they have been asked to collaborate with private hospitals to open up vaccination time-table for a minimum of 15 days and maximum of 28 days at a time.They have been asked to increase the share of RT-PCR tests in districts dependent on high levels of antigen testing, refocus on surveillance and stringent containment of those areas in selected districts which are seeing cluster of cases and carry out an average close contact tracing of minimum of 20 persons per positive case.Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan and NITI Aayog Member (Health) Vinod K Paul on Saturday interacted with health secretaries and mission directors of the National Health Mission of Haryana, Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, Goa, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and the union territories of Delhi and Chandigarh, the Union Health Ministry said."These states and UTs have in the recent past seen increased positivity and increased number of daily positive cases," it underlined.They reviewed the ongoing public health measures of surveillance, containment and management of Covid cases in wake of the steep rise in daily new cases of Covid and the high number of active caseload being reported from these eight states and UTs, the ministry said in its statement.In a detailed presentation, it was pointed out that nine districts in Delhi, 15 in Haryana, 10 in Andhra Pradesh, 10 in Odisha, nine in Himachal Pradesh, seven in Uttarakhand, two in Goa, one in Chandigarh continue to be of concern as these districts are seeing a decrease in total tests being conducted, low share of RT-PCR tests, increase in weekly positivity and low number of contact tracing of the Covid positive cases.These together can pose high risk of transmission to the neighbouring states and UTs. A granular analysis of the Covid-19 response in the districts was shared with the states and UTs for further action, the statement said.States were specifically asked to continue with the effective strategy of 'test, track & treat' that had yielded rich dividends at the height of the pandemic, improve overall testing in districts reporting reduction in testing and increase share of RT-PCR tests in districts dependent on high levels of antigen testing.They have been asked to refocus on surveillance and stringent containment of those areas in selected districts which are seeing cluster of cases, carry out an average close contact tracing of minimum of 20 persons per positive case and focus on clinical management in districts reporting higher deaths, the ministry in the statement.They have been asked to actuate their health infrastructure to provide effective clinical management to all the patients as a surge in cases also affects the case fatality rate in those districts."Accelerate vaccination for priority population groups in districts reporting higher cases. Make optimal use of the available vaccine doses and focus on critical districts," the ministry said.They have been asked to collaborate with the private hospitals to open up vaccination time-table for a minimum of 15 days and maximum of 28 days at a time and promote Covid-appropriate behaviour through communication and enforcement, the statement said."Stress was laid on prompt isolation and on medical supervision of those active cases presently in home isolation for early identification of progressive deterioration of the disease. The states were also asked to actively watch out for super-spreading events and share their best practices in breaking the chain of transmission," the statement stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centres-asks-states-witnessing-spike-in-covid-19-cases-to-accelerate-vaccination-101615031393538.html
06-03-2021||India||Raped 27 yrs ago, woman lodges complaint after son asks father's name||Raped on several occasions by two men at the age of 12 about 27 years ago, the victim, who had become a mother, has now lodged a case against the accused on court orders after her son enquired about his father's name.About 27 years ago, the victim was living in the city with her sister and brother-in-law. One Naki Hasan of her locality had entered the house when she was alone and allegedly raped her, Superintendent of Police (City) Sanjay Kumar told PTI on Saturday.Referring to the police report lodged on the basis of the woman's complaint, Kumar said after the accused, his younger brother Guddu also raped her. The victim has alleged that she was raped by both the accused on multiple occasions.She was 12 years of age at the time of the incident, the SP said.According to the complainant, she became pregnant at the age of 13 and gave birth to a boy in 1994. The infant was given to a person belonging to the victim's native village Udhampur, located within the Shahabad police station limits, while she moved to Rampur as his brother-in-law got transferred there.The SP said the victim's brother-in-law got her married to a man in Ghazipur district, but after 10 years, when her husband came to know that she was raped, he divorced her and she returned to Udhampur.Meanwhile, the boy who had grown up by now enquired about his mother and father and was told his mother's name.The boy met the victim and got to know about the incident, the SP said, adding that on Friday evening, a case of gangrape was lodged against the two accused at the Sadar Bazar police station on the basis of her complaint.Kumar said the police are investigating the case and the DNA test of the boy would be conducted.The woman had moved the court after the police refused to entertain her complaint.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/raped-27-yrs-ago-woman-lodges-complaint-after-son-asks-father-s-name-101615016421218.html
06-03-2021||India||Myanmar asks Mizoram govt to handover eight cops who fled country||Myanmar has requested the administration in Mizoram to send back eight policemen, who have apparently crossed over to the northeastern state to take refuge, following last month's military coup in the neighbouring country, an official here said.Mizoram shares a 510-km-long porous border with Myanmar, where mass demonstrations are being held in protest against the declaration of a year-long emergency by the country's armed forces.According to Maria CT Zuali, the deputy commissioner in Champai district, her counterpart in Myanmar's Falam has sought the "handover of eight police personnel who fled the neighbouring country and entered India"."I have received a letter from the deputy commissioner of Falam district in Myanmar seeking the detainment and handover of eight police personnel to Naypyitaw as a friendly gesture," Zuali told PTI on Saturday.The letter, a copy of which was available with PTI, said that eight police personnel from Myanmar have escaped to India."In order to uphold friendly relations between the two neighbouring countries, you are kindly requested to detain eight Myanmar police personnel who had arrived in Indian territories and handover to Myanmar," the letter undersigned by Falam district deputy commissioner Saw Htun Win stated.A top official of the state's home department had said on Friday that 16 people from Myanmar have crossed over to India over the last few days, of which 11 have claimed that they were police personnel.He also said that the Union Ministry of Home Affairs has been apprised of all the latest developments, and the state government is waiting for a "direction" from the Centre.Sources in the Assam Rifles, which guards the Mizoram-Myanmar border, said about 35 Myanmarese have sneaked into the state so far.Assam Rifles DIG Brigadier Digvijay Singh, on his part, said security has been stepped up along the border to stop infiltration from the trouble-torn country."Several people have attempted to cross the border... We did not push them back by force but politely told them that they cannot illegally enter the Indian Territory. Many of them have returned," Singh, who is camping at Champhai, told PTI over phone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/myanmar-asks-mizoram-govt-to-handover-eight-cops-who-fled-country-101615030652612.html
06-03-2021||India||News updates from HT: Rajasthan schools, colleges to close due to Covid surge, says minister and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Rajasthan schools, colleges to close due to Covid surge, says ministerRajasthan transport minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas said on Saturday schools and colleges in the state would have to be closed due to the increased spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Khachariwas said he would further speak to chief minister Ashok Gehlot and place a request for the closure of all educational institutions in Rajasthan. Read moreDalai Lama turns down offer to get vaccine jab at home, goes to dispensaryThe 14th Dalai Lama, Tenzin Gyatso, 85, who lives at McLeodganj, was given the shot at Zonal Hospital, Dharamshala, early in the morning. Read moreCPI (M) leader Kodiyeri’s wife summoned by Customs for builder’s smartphone giftThe Customs department on Saturday summoned Vinodini Balakrishnan, the wife of former Communist Party of India (Marxist), or CPI(M), secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan for questioning on March 10 in connection with an expensive smartphone allegedly gifted by builder Sanotsh Eapen, who faces probe for alleged irregularities in the Life Mission project in Thrissur. Read moreNasa’s Perseverance rover sends images from its first drive on MarsThe first drive served as a mobility test, one of many milestones for mission control, assuring the team that the drive system is good to go for surface operations after the rover landed on the Red planet on February 18. Read moreIndia outclass England by inn & 25 runs to win series 3-1, qualify for WTC finalIn the end the series that started with such a loud bang for Joe Root and his England side, ended with a whimper as India won the fourth and final Test match in Ahmedabad by an innings and 25 runs within three days to win the series 3-1 and also qualified for the final of the World Test Championship. Read more5 WhatsApp security features you should knowOn the occasion of International Women’s Day, WhatsApp has shared some security features that can help women keep their privacy safe on the messaging app. These security features can be helpful for all WhatsApp users as well. Read moreNawazuddin Siddiqui reacts to wife Aaliya withdrawing divorce notice against him, says 'children should not suffer'Actor Nawazuddin Siddiqui has said that his children are the priority, after his wife, Aaliya, had a change of heart about wanting to divorce him. Last year, she'd filed divorce papers, seeking to end their decade-long marriage. Read moreHappy Birthday Janhvi Kapoor: 11 times she was the queen of ethnic fashion, picsJanhvi Kapoor turned 24 today. The daughter of Boney Kapoor and late Sridevi, who made her debut in Bollywood opposite Ishaan Khatter in July 2018 with the film Dhadak, made a place for herself in the hearts of the Indian audience with her acting and dancing skills. Read moreWatch: Delhi to have its own school education board: Kejriwal explains the goalsDelhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal announced that the cabinet has approved the formation of the Delhi Board of School Education. ‘The new board has three main aims - to raise kids who are patriotic and contribute to the country's development, children who break these walls of caste and religion and treat each other as fellow human beings, and children who can stand on their own feet and won't have to struggle to find a job. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-rajasthan-schools-colleges-to-close-due-to-covid-surge-says-minister-and-all-the-latest-news-101615028119430.html
06-03-2021||India||Goa Cong demands state election commission to suspend civic polls till SC order||Goa Pradesh Congress Committee (GPCC) chief Girish Chodankar on Friday demanded the State Election Commission (SEC) to suspend the municipal election till the Supreme Court decides on the legality of the entire process.In a letter to Goa State Election Commission, Chodankar said "The Supreme Court has only stayed the directives of the Bombay High Court and not ordered the resumption of the election process."He argued that the Supreme Court's order, which was given on March 4, is applicable only for the Sanguem municipality."It is therefore requested of your esteemed office to accord due respect to the process of law and suspend the farcical exercise of election process till the myriad legal points in issue are deliberated and finally decided by the Supreme Court," the Congress leader said."As a Constitutional authority, the State Election Commission is bound to be independent and bound to act fairly. However, with the Law Secretary of Goa having been appointed to hold charge as State Election Commissioner, it is but natural that given the sordid manner in which the announcement of the elections was done, the State Election Commission is not functioning as an independent authority, but behaving like a stooge of the Government," he stated.Chodankar said that the civic poll process cannot be halted and then restarted and if stopped, then the entire process has to be initiated all over again.The elections for 11 municipal councils and the Corporation of City of Panaji (CCP) will be held on March 20 and counting will be held on March 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-cong-demands-state-election-commission-to-suspend-civic-polls-till-sc-order-101615020725361.html
06-03-2021||India||Return to ‘test, track, treat’ fundamentals: Centre to states reporting Covid-19 resurgence||The Centre has told the governments in eight states and Union territories, recording a steep rise in daily cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), to return to the strategy of ‘test, track and treat,’ the Union ministry of health and family welfare said on Saturday. Follow latest updates on Covid-19 hereUnion health secretary Rajesh Bhushan and NITI Aayog member Dr Vinod K Paul held a meeting with health secretaries of Haryana, Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, Goa, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Delhi and Chandigarh. They reviewed health measures for surveillance, containment and management of Covid-19 cases in the wake of increased positivity and increased number of daily infections in the recent days in these areas. According to the health ministry, a high active caseload is being reported from these eight states and UTs.The health ministry said it was pointed out that nine districts in Delhi, 15 in Haryana, 10 in Andhra Pradesh, 10 in Odisha, nine in Himachal Pradesh, seven in Uttarakhand, two in Goa, one in Chandigarh continue to be of concern as they are witnessing a decrease in the number of tests being conducted, low share of RT-PCR tests, increase in weekly positivity and a low number of contact tracing of the Covid-19 positive cases. “These together can pose a high risk of transmission to the neighbouring States and UTs,” the ministry warned. The Centre told states to promote Covid-19-appropriate behaviour through communication and enforcement and continue with the effective strategy of ‘test, track and treat’ that yielded rich dividends at the height of the pandemic. They were asked to improve overall testing in districts reporting a reduction in testing and increase the share of RT-PCR tests in districts dependent on high levels of antigen testing.The central panel asserted states must refocus on surveillance and stringent containment of areas that have clusters of cases and must carry out an average close contact tracing of a minimum of 20 people per positive case.The states must focus on clinical management, actuate their health infrastructure to provide effective clinical management to all the patients as a surge in cases also affects the case fatality rate. They also need to accelerate vaccination for priority population groups, make optimal use of the available vaccine doses and focus on critical districts, according to the health ministry statement. State authorities can also collaborate with the private hospitals to open up vaccination time-table for a minimum of 15 days and a maximum of 28 days at a time, the government has said.The states were also asked to actively watch out for super-spreading events and share their best practices in breaking the chain of transmission.As of Saturday, India’s active caseload reached 180,304 with a single day spike of 18,327 cases of the coronavirus disease. The active cases currently account for 1.61% of the nation’s total positive cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/return-to-test-track-treat-fundamentals-centre-to-states-reporting-covid-19-resurgence-101615027304762.html
06-03-2021||India||2 years on, Pakistani woman still waits for Indian visa to unite with husband||Nehpal Singh Bhati, 27, and his brother, Vikram Singh Bhati, 25, married Pakistani women in Sindh province in January 2019. They stayed back for three months hoping they would return with their brides once their visas are cleared. Little did they realise that their wait will continue two years on.The visas were initially denied on technical grounds and remained pending as tensions heightened between India and Pakistan after the February 2019 Pulwama attack prompted New Delhi to conduct a cross-border airstrike. Pakistan retaliated and captured an Indian pilot before releasing him two days later. But tensions persisted with regular cross-border firing.India and Pakistan's reaffirmation of commitment to a cease-fire along the border held out hope for cross-border couples like the Bhatis who have been forced to live separately for the want of visas.Vikram Singh Bhati looked forward to being united with his wife as the Centre also promised last month to grant visas to Pakistani women married to Indians. But to his shock, the Indian high commission in Pakistan denied his wife, Nirmala Bai, a visa again. The last thing that he imagined was that Bai's passport has been blacklisted even as she never visited India before.Vikram Singh Bhati said he was shocked when he was informed that the visa application of his wife has been rejected. “I am clueless about the reason why the government has blacklisted the passport of my wife. She never visited India or any other country. Even the passport of my wife was issued after our engagement," said Singh, who has not even seen his son who was born in Pakistan.He said on February 9, the Indian high commission asked Pakistani women married to Indians to submit their documents for visas after Union minister Kailash Choudhary, who represents Barmer in parliament, intervened on their behalf.Choudhary said he has been informed about the blacklisting of Bai’s passport. “I am looking into the matter. "I have been informed that Vikram’s wife never visited India, so there may be some technical error in declaring her passport black-listed. I have asked the officials of the external affairs ministry to sort out this case on humanitarian grounds,” said Choudhary.Nehpal's wife was luckier and has been granted a visa.Barmer and Jaisalmer are located along the border with Pakistan’s Sindh province where a bulk of Pakistani Hindus are concentrated. Cross-border marriages among common in the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-years-on-pakistani-woman-still-waits-for-indian-visa-to-unite-with-husband-101615027625995.html
06-03-2021||India||Prez Kovind asks judicial academies to train staff for quick disposal of cases||President Ram Nath Kovind on Saturday appealed to judicial academies in states to provide training to quasi-judicial staff along with judges in district courts for the speedy disposal of cases."The academies should set up a permanent platform for the exchange of legal knowledge and information for them (the judges and quasi-judicial staff in district courts) to discuss on simplifying court process and legal procedures for the speedy disposal of cases," the President said while addressing the inaugural function of the two-day All India State Judicial Academies Directors' Retreat at Manas Bhawan here in Madhya Pradesh.The Retreat is organised jointly by the Madhya Pradesh High Court and the Madhya Pradesh State Judicial Academy (MPSJA).Kovind also acknowledged the efforts of the MPSJA for optimum utilisation of available resources in conducting online training programmes during the coronavirus pandemic."The MP Academy carried live telecasts of lectures and uploaded essential educational literature and recorded lectures on its website during the pandemic," he added.The President also hailed the rise in the usage of technology in the judicial system, saying computerisation of 18,000 courts in the country has been completed."The usage of technology facilitated hearing of 76 lakh cases through virtual mode by courts in the country after the lockdown to contain the COVID-19 came into force, till January," he said.The President said the judicial system in the country is being praised abroad for having the national judicial data grid and for putting in use the unique identification code and QR code technology in handling of cases."The e-adalat, video conferencing, e-proceedings, e-filing, e-sewa kendra have facilitated the judicial administration to reduce dependency on the paper, which helps conservation of natural resources," Kovind said.Observing that some high courts do provide judgements in local languages, the President underlined the need for more such efforts.The President also suggested that high courts provide translation of judgements on important public issues in local or regional languages in respective areas of functioning.Kovind praised the efforts of the Supreme Court in executing his suggestion to provide translation of judgements on important public issues in different languages."Now the (top) court provides translation of judgements in nine languages," he added.The President is on a two-day visit to Madhya Pradesh which began on Saturday.In evening, he will attend the Narmada 'aarti' at Gwarighat on the banks of the river and participate in a cultural programme organised in the Madhya Pradesh High Court premises here, an official had said.After a night halt in Jabalpur, Kovind will leave for Jalhari village in Damoh district at 9.30 am on Sunday, from where he will go to Sangrampur village to attend 'Janjatiya Sammelan' organised by MP Tribal Welfare Department.He will leave for New Delhi around 3.20 pm on Sunday, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prez-kovind-asks-judicial-academies-to-train-staff-for-quick-disposal-of-cases-101615027320516.html
06-03-2021||India||West Bengal elections: Congress deems offering ISF more seats 'problematic'||The discussions between the Congress, Left and the Indian Secular Front (ISF) on seat-sharing and alliance ahead of the assembly polls in West Bengal is yet to be concluded, said Congress Leader Pradeep Bhattacharya on Saturday.After getting 30 seats from the Left, the ISF is asking for more seats from Congress. However, with only 90-92 seats, Congress believes offering more seats will be 'problematic'."It is true that our discussion has not yet concluded. The Left Front and Congress had a discussion and we arrived at a solution. But ISF appeared in the scene and the question of leaving them some seats arose," Bhattacharya told ANI."Though I told them repeatedly not to give them so many seats because it's a new party and we do not know their organisational strength, the Left offered them 30 seats. Now the problem is that they (ISF) are asking Congress for more seats. We have only 90- 92 seats. How we are going to offer them more?" Bhattacharya added.The Congress party believes that giving them seats means cutting down on their own, and if they cannot get more seats from the Left front, it will be difficult."To resolve this problem, the party president Adhir Ranjan Choudhury should talk to the Left Front chairman directly. We have narrowed down some seats but we don't have much time left and we have to solve this at the earliest," Bhattacharya said.The candidate list of the Sanyukt Morcha consists of the Left front, the Congress party and Furfura Sharif's Indian Secular Front (ISF). They announced their candidate list for the first two phases on Friday at Alimuddin.However, crucial seats of Nandigram, Pingla and Egra, Daspur is on hold and yet to be announced.Also watch: 'Right person now in the right party’: JP Nadda on Dinesh Trivedi joining BJPChairing the press conference on Friday, Left Front chairman Biman Bose said that there were a few lists where the final decisions are yet to be taken.The elections for the 294 Assembly seats in West Bengal will begin on March 27. The state is going to witness eight-phase Assembly polls this year.West Bengal Assembly elections for 294 seats will be held in eight phases starting from March 27 with the final round of voting taking place on April 29.The state is likely to witness a triangular contest this time with Trinamool Congress, Congress-Left-ISF alliance, and the BJP in the fray.The counting of votes in the state will take place on May 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/west-bengal-elections-congress-deems-offering-isf-more-seats-problematic-101615024589145.html
06-03-2021||India||Need to make new women voters this year: Assam Cachar's DC Keerthi Jalli||To make new women voters aware of how to take part in the voting process, the Cachar district administration in south Assam is taking various steps to attract all electors, especially young voters, to cast their ballot in the upcoming Assembly hustings.Under this effort, a mock polling centre 'Poll Express' has been put into motion, said a district administration release on Friday.Cachar Deputy Commissioner Keerthi Jalli, DIG Southern range Devajyoti Mukherjee and Superintendent of Police Bhanwar Lal Mina inaugurated the 'Poll Express' which will mainly travel to the border areas and rural areas of the district.Demos of the voting process will be shown to the general public through the vehicle with new voters encouraged to cast their votes under the SVEEP initiative in Cachar district.The deputy commissioner said the goal is to make women voters aware this year. "I am a woman myself and our election officer is also a woman. We especially want to make aware the new women voters this year", she said."As well as making all people aware of how to take part in the voting process, we will also be showing them how to take part in the voting process. We are also making young voters aware through various measures", Jalli said.Also read: Lok Sabha elections 2019: 102-year-old voter inspiring people to celebrate ‘festival of democracy’The DIG Southern Range said the police and administration was taking all necessary steps to ensure smooth conduct of elections and voters are being encouraged to exercise their constitutional right.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/need-to-make-new-women-voters-this-year-assam-cachar-s-dc-keerthi-jalli-101615010362793.html
06-03-2021||India||NIA chargesheets 3 Bodo militants for killing Assam police officer in 2014||Guwahati, Mar 6 (PTI) The NIA has filed a chargesheet before a special court here against three Bodo militants for their alleged involvement in carrying out an ambush in which two people, including an additional superintendent of police, were killed in 2014, an official said on Saturday.Bishnu Narzary, Nitul Daimary and Runiluish Daimary have been charged under provisions of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA), the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Arms Act, he added.The chargesheet was filed before the Special NIA Court in Guwahati on Friday.The case relates to an ambush that resulted in the death of Gulzar Hussain, the then Additional Superintendent of Police, Sonitpur, and a civilian, Anlark Basumatary, and injuries to several police personnel in Assam's Sonitpur district.The National Investigation Agency (NIA), which took over the probe in the case in August 2019, said members of the National Democratic Front of Bodoland (NDFB-S) had laid the ambush.Two of the accused named in the chargesheet -- Narzary and Nitul Daimary -- have been convicted in another case, in which the former has been given a death sentence while the latter has been sentenced to life imprisonment.Two other NDFB cadres -- Kham Kham Daimary and Junu Basumatary -- who were involved in the case, were killed in separate encounters with security forces.Further investigation in the case continues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-chargesheets-3-bodo-militants-for-killing-assam-police-officer-in-2014-101615025704025.html
06-03-2021||India||Approached court to prevent hit-and-run smear campaign, says Karnataka minister||A day after six Karnataka ministers moved to a local court here in connection with a sex tape case, Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar on Saturday said there is a big political conspiracy to defame opponents by misusing media and have approached the court to prevent this hit-and-run smear campaign.Speaking to the media, the minister said that these kinds of hit jobs tarnish the image of individuals and destroy the goodwill gained from years of good work."It is necessary to put an end to this kind of conspiracy. The government is also thinking to bring a law to check this kind of mischief, he added."It is not confined to only politicians. Celebrities from various walks of life are subjected to this kind of conspiracy. Both mainstream media and social media platforms are being misused to broadcast misinformation and fake news," he said.A total of six ministers in the B S Yediyurappa government on Friday moved a Bengaluru court seeking a stay against media outlets from publishing or broadcasting anything defamatory against them.The six Karnataka ministers have moved to Civil Court here in connection with a sex tape case allegedly involving Ramesh Jarkiholi, who recently resigned as minister. A case was registered against Karnataka Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi on Tuesday for allegedly sexually assaulting a woman.Sudhakar further claimed if there is truth in allegations then no one can be protected but a smear campaign to tarnish image and goodwill is not acceptable."If there is truth in allegations, no one can be protected. Culprits must be punished. No one is above law. But smear campaign to tarnish image and goodwill is not acceptable. Those who feel they are victimised can go to court and seek justice. But there is a new trend to indulge in hit-and-run allegations. This is unethical, immoral and illegal," said Dr Sudhakar.He further said that the only reason to move the court for the injunction is to prevent any attempt of defamation."The victims have not come forward to lodge compliant or approached courts for justice. There must be a thorough investigation in the case," the minister added."In the recent case, it is being reported that videos have been uploaded from Russia and other countries. Isn't it sounding weird? There seems to be a deliberately planned conspiracy behind this. It is quite natural for those in public life to be cautious about their image and goodwill. Any defamatory content must be checked for its veracity. If found true I have no objection to broadcast it 24 hours," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/approached-court-to-prevent-hit-and-run-smear-campaign-says-karnataka-minister-101615025248658.html
06-03-2021||India||Centre rushes high-level team to Maharashtra, Punjab for Covid-19 assistance||Following a sudden spike in coronavirus infections in Maharashtra and Punjab in the recent days, the central government on Friday deputed high level multi-disciplinary public health teams in the two states. “They are being deployed to assist the State Health Departments in COVID-19 surveillance, control and containment measures,” the Union ministry of health and family welfare said in a statement. The move comes a day after Maharashtra reported over 10,000 cases of the coronavirus disease in a day, the highest single-day rise since October 17 last year. On October 17, the western state had reported 10,259 cases while the figures had dropped to 9060 the next day. The state’s total tally has gone up to 2,198,399 and over 52,300 people have died of the viral infection. Follow latest updates on Covid-19 hereMeanwhile, Punjab reported over 1,000 cases on Thursday, for the first time in five months. The daily tally dropped to 818 on Friday. The situation, however, remains worrisome as the state’s infection tally has climbed to 186,189 and it among the eight states in the country where the virus is re-spreading, according to the Centre.The central teams will visit the hotspot areas in the two states and ascertain the reasons for the surge, the health ministry stated, adding that they will brief the chief secretary/secretary (home) on their observations and remedial measures to be undertaken by the state health authorities.Explaining the significance and role of the teams, the health ministry said, “These teams interact with the State/UT authorities and get a first-hand understanding of the challenges and issues being faced by them so as to strengthen their ongoing activities and remove bottlenecks.”According to the ministry, Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu are among the states that continue to report a spike in daily new cases. Following the daily spike, which reached 18,327 on Saturday, India’s active caseload has reached 180,304, which accounts for 1.61% of the positive cases so far.While Kerala, Chhattisgarh and Tamil Nadu have shown a reduction in the active cases in the last 24 hours, Maharashtra, Punjab, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat and Haryana have displayed a rise in the active cases during the same time period, according to the health ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-rushes-high-level-team-to-maharashtra-punjab-for-covid-19-assistance-101615023441521.html
06-03-2021||India||Five states account for 82% of daily new Covid-19 cases: Govt||Maharashtra, Kerala and Punjab continued to report a high number of daily infections of coronavirus disease (Covid-19). As per the health ministry's statement, the three states along with Karnataka and Tamil Nadu cumulatively account for 82 per cent of the new cases reported in the past 24 hours in the country.In a single-day spike, Maharashtra reported 10,216 new cases. Kerala followed it with 2,776 fresh cases. Punjab, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu added 818; 677; 543 cases respectively.Also Read | Covax vaccinations bring relief to Africans suffering from Covid-19In view of the increase in daily Covid-19 cases, the Centre on Saturday rushed high-level multidisciplinary public health teams to Maharashtra and Punjab, the government said in a statement. The teams are being deployed to assist the state health departments in surveillance, control and containment measures.Meanwhile, the nationwide tally is above 11.19 million and the death toll stands at 157,656. The country added 18,327 fresh cases. The Covid-19 active caseload has increased to 1,80,304 which now comprises 1.61 per cent of the total infections.Before this, 18,855 new infections were recorded in a span of 24 hours on January 29. Since then, the number of daily infection has remained below the 18,000-mark.India is witnessing a resurgence of Covid-19, at a time when the pandemic was appearing to slow down globally and in the country as well. Though a massive vaccination drive is underway in the country, the second wave, if hits India, could still be very threatening for the country.During the peak of the first wave, the daily number of cases had touched 98,000. Currently, the number of daily cases has been below 20,000. On Thursday, it reported a sharp spike of more than 17,000 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/five-states-account-for-82-of-daily-spike-centre-rushes-health-teams-to-maharashtra-punjab-101615022639241.html
06-03-2021||India||Delhi HC issues notice to MHA on plea seeking to disband Central IPS Association||New Delhi [India], March 6 (ANI): The Delhi High Court has issued a notice to the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) on a plea against the running of the Central Indian Police Service Association (CIPSA).The court has directed the MHA to file an affidavit as to what action has been taken against the functioning of CIPSA.The court issued the notice while hearing a plea seeking direction to immediately disband the said "illegal association", freeze their bank accounts, register an FIR against the office bearers and their members as well as initiate departmental inquiries against such officers who are part of the said organization in violation of the Police Forces (Restriction of Rights) Act, 1966 as well as All India Service Rules.The plea stated that the various members of this association are officers of the police forces, Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), paramilitary forces, National Investigation Agency and the Intelligence Bureau (IB).A single-judge bench of Justice Prathiba M Singh, in an order passed on March 3, had sought the response of the MHA along with CBI, CISF, CRPF, ITBP and others and slated the matter for May 20 for further hearing in the matter.29 petitioners in the matters who knocked the doors are themselves serving and retired officers in various paramilitary forces. Advocate Ankur Chhibber appeared for the petitioner and submitted that they have repeatedly made representations to the MHA to take action against the said association. However, no action has been taken, the petitioner submitted.The high court noted the reference made in a CIC order dated January 7, 2021 that the MHA has taken a specific position that this association is not a recognised association.The plea stated that on the representation of one the petitioner, CIC communicated that "MHA has not recognised or approved Central IPS Association (CIPSA), hence, Police-I Division, Ministry of Home Affairs has no comments to offer in the matter."The petitioner, through this plea, has prayed for quashing the order dated January 7, 2021.The petitioner has alleged that the respondents (despite admitting that the MHA has not recognised or approved the Central IPS association) has not taken any action against the erring officers and has simply disposed of the representation by stating that the ministry has no comments to offer in the matter.The petitioners have prayed for the court's direction, directing the respondents to immediately disband the said illegal association, freeze their bank accounts, register an FIR against the office bearers and their members as well as initiate departmental inquiries against such officers who are part of the said organization in violation of the Police Forces (Restriction of Rights) Act, 1966 as well as All India Service Rules.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-hc-issues-notice-to-mha-on-plea-seeking-to-disband-central-ips-association-101615021722538.html
06-03-2021||India||Maoists kill man branding him as police informer in Andhra’s Vizag forests||Communist Party of India (Maoist) activists hacked to death a 35-year-old tribal suspecting him to be a police informer in Andhra Pradesh’s Visakhapatnam district late on Friday night, police said Saturday.The incident happened at Kothapalem tribal village of Gudem Kotha Veedhi block on the Andhra-Odisha border. The deceased was identified as Korra Piluku, a Koya tribal farmer.According to G K Veedhi police sub-inspector Pasupureddy Anish, a group of Maoists barged into the house of Piluku in Kothapalem and attacked him with lethal weapons in front of his wife and four children.They told his family that he had been acting as an informer of the police, despite several warnings and so he had to be killed.The police denied the allegations of the Maoists that Piluku was one of their informers. r. “In fact, he had earlier worked as a member of Maoist militia and surrendered to the police a couple of years ago. We do not know why the Maoists killed him,” Anish said.The SI said the Maoists had not left any letter or note with the family before killing him. “We are yet to bring the body to the hospital for autopsy, as it is deep in the forest. We have booked a case and are investigating,” he said.The Maoists had asked the tribal villages to boycott the gram panchayat elections held last month, but the district administration, with the help of the police, conducted the elections successfully. In G K Veedhi block, more than 56 per cent of tribals exercised their franchise, ignoring the poll boycott call given by the Maoists.The G K Veedhi block is considered to be a stronghold of the Maoists belonging to Andhra-Odisha Border Special Zone (AOBSZ) and regularly witnesses exchange of fire between them and the police forces.In September 2018, the Maoists killed two former Telugu Desam Party MLAs Kidari Sarveshwar Rao and Siveri Somu alleging that they were supporting the bauxite mining in the tribal areas. A year later, the police shot dead three Maoists who were believed to be involved in the killing of the two TDP leaders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maoists-kill-man-branding-him-as-police-informer-in-andhra-s-vizag-forests-101615022431987.html
06-03-2021||India||Mumbai man dies by suicide after killing father, grandfather, say police||A young man allegedly stabbed his father and grandfather and then died by suicide in Mulund area in the eastern suburbs of Mumbai, police said Saturday.The murders and suicide took place in Vasant Oscar Buiding in Mulund (West) in the morning.The 20-year-old man first killed his father (55) and then his 85-year-old grandfather before jumping off the sixth floor, police said.According to the police, the young man was mentally unstable.Joint commissioner of police (law and order) Vishwas Nangre Patil visited the spot in the morning.A team of Mumbai police crime branch visited the site and enquired with neighbours about background of the family, especially that of the young man whose mother and sister have been living separately in Ghatkopar area because of some family disputes, people familiar with the development said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-man-dies-by-suicide-after-killing-father-grandfather-say-police-101615020493472.html
06-03-2021||India||HP MLAs to get full salary from April, MLALAD fund fully restored||Himachal Pradesh Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur announced on Saturday that the salaries of state MLAs will be paid in full from April 1 and the MLA local area development (MLALAD) fund will be fully restored.The state government had last year decided to cut 30 per cent salaries of its MLAs and suspend the MLALAD fund for two years to fight the COVID-19 pandemic.Presenting the budget for the fiscal 2021-22, Thakur announced in the assembly that the MLAs will get their full salary from April 1.Thakur, who also holds the finance portfolio, said the MLALAD fund will not only be restored but it will be hiked by ₹5 lakh from the earlier ₹1.75 crore to ₹1.80 crore.Presenting his fourth budget, Thakur said the Planning Department of the state would be renamed as Niti Vibhag.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hp-mlas-to-get-full-salary-from-april-mlalad-fund-fully-restored-101615012804096.html
06-03-2021||India||CPI (M) leader Kodiyeri’s wife summoned by Customs for builder’s smartphone gift||The Customs department on Saturday summoned Vinodini Balakrishnan, the wife of former Communist Party of India (Marxist), or CPI(M), secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan for questioning on March 10 in connection with an expensive smartphone allegedly gifted by builder Sanotsh Eapen, who faces probe for alleged irregularities in the Life Mission project in Thrissur.People aware of the matter said the irregularities in the free housing project for the homeless came to light as central agencies were probing the gold and dollar smuggling activities routed through the United Arab Emirates (UAE) consulate in Thiruvananthapuram.They added Swapna Suresh, the main accused in the smuggling case, has told investigators that ₹one crore in cash allegedly found in her locker was the commission she received for clinching a deal with international aid agency Red Crescent which funded the project.The people said during the investigation, Eapen told central agencies that besides ₹4 crore commission in ₹20 crore project, he also gifted four mobile phones as asked by Suresh. Later all three phones were located and seized. But the agencies could not trace the expensive phone worth ₹1.13 lakh which the customs now claim was later traced to Vinodini Balakrishnan, the people added.The people said after the smuggling case came to light in July last year, the user stopped using this phone before it was allegedly traced to Vinodini Balakrishnan through a sale code and SIM card. She has been asked to appear at the Customs office in Kochi.The Balakrishnans were immediately unavailable for comments. The copy will be updated when they respond to requests for a response to the summon.Kodiyeri Balakrishnan was forced to resign from the party post last year after his son, Bineesh, was arrested in drug smuggling and money laundering cases in Bengaluru.At least five central agencies including the National Investigation Agency are probing the gold smuggling and related cases.The customs department cited Suresh and told the Kerala high court on Friday that chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, three ministers of his Left Democratic Front cabinet, and the Speaker of the assembly were aware of the smuggling.Vijayan and the ruling CPI(M) dismissed the allegations as a “cheap poll-time gimmick” ahead of elections in the state next month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cpi-m-leader-kodiyeri-s-wife-summoned-by-customs-for-builder-s-smartphone-gift-101615019171782.html
06-03-2021||India||Supreme Court to commence hybrid physical hearings from March 15||The Supreme Court, which is hearing cases through video-conferencing since March last year due to the Cov-19 pandemic, will commence hybrid physical hearing from March 15.The apex court has issued the standard operating procedure (SOP) for the hybrid physical hearings.The top court has been hearing cases through video-conferencing since March last year due to the pandemic and several bar bodies and lawyers have been demanding that physical hearings should resume immediately."On an experimental basis, and as a pilot scheme, the final hearings/regular matters listed on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays may be heard in the hybrid mode, as may be decided by the bench, considering the number of parties in a matter as well as the limited capacity of the courtrooms; all other matters, including those listed on Mondays and Fridays, shall continue to be heard through video/tele-conferencing mode," said the SOP issued by the apex court."The hybrid physical hearings are to commence with effect from March 15, 2021," it added.It said unless otherwise directed by a bench, the final hearings or regular matters where the number of lawyers for the parties is higher than the average working capacity of the courtrooms according to Covid-19 norms, that is 20 per courtroom at any given time, shall invariably be listed for hearing through the video or tele-conferencing mode."...however, in case the bench directs hearing of such matters to be held through the hybrid mode, the appearance of the parties, whether by physical presence or through video/tele-conferencing, will be facilitated as per the directions of the bench," the SOP said.It said if the number of parties is higher than the specified number in a matter listed for hybrid hearing, then one advocate-on-record (AOR) and one arguing counsel per party would be allowed entry.It said one registered clerk per party, as may be chosen by the AOR, shall be allowed entry to carry paper-books or journals of lawyers up to the courtrooms."In any such matter as may be listed for hybrid hearing, all the counsels appearing for one party can appear either through physical presence or through video/tele-conferencing," it said.The SOP said AORs may submit their preferences for appearing before the court either physically or through the video or tele-conferencing mode within 24 hours or by 1 pm the next day after the publication of the weekly list of final hearings or regular matters."If the advocate-on-record for a party does not opt for either mode i.e physical or video/tele-conferencing mode, it shall be presumed that counsels for the party seek to appear through video/tele-conferencing mode and will be facilitated accordingly," it said."In case of a matter directed to be listed for hybrid hearing by the bench, none of the parties opts for physical hearing, the matter would be taken up for hearing through video/tele-conferencing," the SOP said.It said entry into the high-security zone of the apex court through proximity cards or long-term passes shall be kept suspended till further orders."Entry of counsels/parties or such other stakeholders to appear inside courtrooms for hybrid hearings will be through daily 'special hearing passes', which will be issued by the registry on the basis of authorisation by the concerned advocate on record," it added.The SOP said subject to the capacity of a courtroom, the entry of parties in a matter will be permitted not earlier than 10 minutes prior to the start of the hearing of the matter."It may be noted that wearing of masks, frequent use of hand sanitiser and maintaining physical-distancing norms are mandatory for all entrants into the Supreme Court premises, including into the courtrooms," it said."Advocates/counsels having more than one case for hybrid hearings in the courtrooms shall be issued separate special hearing passes for each case and after the hearing of one case is complete, they may wait in the designated staging/waiting area(s) for the purpose of appearing for the next hearing(s)," it said.The SOP added that in order to facilitate video or tele-conferencing for advocates, a dedicated VC facilitation centre is there in the additional building complex of the apex court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-to-commence-hybrid-physical-hearings-from-march-15-101615018846661.html
06-03-2021||India||15 lakh people vaccinated against Covid-19 on March 5, highest in a day: Centre||Nearly 15 lakh people were inoculated against coronavirus on March 5, the highest in a day so far, taking the total number of vaccine doses administered in the country to over 1.94 crores, official sources said on Saturday.The countrywide Covid-19 vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16 with healthcare workers (HCWs) getting inoculated. The vaccination of frontline workers (FLWs) had started on February 2.Administering of the second dose of the Covid-19 vaccine started on February 13 for those beneficiaries who had completed 28 days after receipt of the first dose.The next phase of the Covid-19 vaccination drive commenced on March 1 for those above 60 years of age and for people aged 45 years and above with specified co-morbid conditions.As of Day 49 (March 5) of the vaccination drive, a total of 14,92,201 Covid-19 vaccine doses were given. Out of which, 11,99,848 beneficiaries were vaccinated across 18,333 sessions for the first dose (HCWs and FLWs), and 2,92,353 HCWs and FLWs received the second dose of Covid-19 vaccine, the Health Ministry said.These beneficiaries (11,99,848) include 1,10,857 individuals, aged between 45-60 years, having specified comorbidities, and 7,61,355 people aged above 60 years.More than 1.94 crore (1,94,97,704) vaccine doses have been administered through 3,57,478 sessions, as per the provisional report till Saturday at 7 AM.These include 69,15,661 HCWs (first dose), 33,56,830 HCWs (second dose), 63,55,989 FLWs (first dose) and 1,44,191 FLWs (second dose), 3,46,758 beneficiaries aged more than 45 years with specific co-morbidities (first dose) and 23,78,275 beneficiaries aged more than 60 years, it said.Meanwhile, the ministry said, Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu have reported a high number of Covid-19 daily new cases, cumulatively accounting for 82 per cent of the new cases reported in a span of 24 hours.A total of 18,327 new cases were registered in a span of 24 hours, it said.Maharashtra has reported the highest daily new cases at 10,216 followed by Kerala with 2,776 cases, while Punjab reported 808 new cases.Eight states are displaying an upward trajectory in daily new coronavirus cases, the ministry highlighted.India's total Covid-19 active cases have reached 1,80,304, comprising 1.61 per cent of the country’s total number of infections.On the other hand, 21 states and Union territories (UTs) have less than 1,000 active cases, the ministry said.Arunachal Pradesh has reported only three active cases.Showing the change in active cases for states/UTs in 24 hours, the ministry said Kerala, Chhattisgarh and Tamil Nadu have shown a reduction in the active cases in a span of 24 hours.On the other hand, Maharashtra, Punjab, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat and Haryana have displayed a rise in the active cases during the same time period, it noted.Besides, 108 deaths due to the disease were reported in a day, it said.Six states account for 85.2 per cent of the new deaths. Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties (53). Kerala follows with 16 daily deaths and Punjab reported 11 deaths in a span of 24 hours.Eighteen states/UTs have not reported any Covid-19 deaths in a span of 24 hours. These are Gujarat, West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh, Goa, Uttarakhand, Lakshadweep, Puducherry, Assam, Sikkim, Manipur, Ladakh, Meghalaya, Arunachal Pradesh, Tripura, Nagaland, Mizoram, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/15-lakh-people-vaccinated-against-covid-19-on-march-5-highest-in-a-day-centre-101615018134766.html
06-03-2021||India||100 days of farm laws protest: Farmers block major expressways. See pictures||The farmers' protest against the three new farm laws completed 100 days on Saturday. The three borders of the national capital- Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur - have been the main locations of the protest where farmers from all across the country had come and settled to protest against the Centre until the laws are repealed.To mark the 100th day of the landmark protest, protesting farmers' unions decided to observe March 6 as the 'Black Day'. As part of the protest, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha called for the blocking of the KMP (Kundli–Manesar–Palwal) expressway or the western peripheral for five hours between 11am and 4pm.Here is how the road blockade is going on:Even with several rounds of talks between the farmers' representatives and the government, deadlock still persists. No conclusion has come out of the talks and the farmers are adamant on their demand of withdrawing the three contentious laws.Women too have been a part of the movement since its beginning. As the protest entered its 100th day, women in large numbers came forward to continue the protest by taking part in blocking the KMP expressway.The protest has "reinforced the identity of women farmers”. "Women farmers have been able to assert themselves and make their presence and participation felt," PTI quoted Kavitha Kuruganti of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee as saying.Farmers have also blocked the eastern peripheral expressway in Ghaziabad to observe the 'Black Day'. Farmers have been concerned that the laws will take away the Minimum Support Price (MSP) system and will do away with the 'mandi' system as well. One of their demands is a legal guarantee of MSP.Protesting farmers are marching on the KMP expressway with the flag of the farmers' unions to agitate against the laws. Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait on Friday accused the government of introducing the laws for the benefits of its corporate friends and said that the government is working as the puppets of the businessmen. He also highlighted that the godowns were built first and the laws came after."The government is working as a puppet in the hands of industrialists, the government is doing what the traders are telling them. Godowns were built first, laws were made later," Tikait's tweet, in Hindi, read.The farmers from all across the country, mainly from the states of Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh have been protesting against the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act passed by Parliament last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/100-days-of-farm-laws-protest-farmers-block-major-expressways-see-pictures-101615011636078.html
06-03-2021||India||3 killed, 9 injured as dispute over land turns violent in Bihar’s Munger||Three people were killed and at least nine others including three policemen were injured when a land dispute turned violent in Bihar’s Munger town late Friday evening, police said.The dead included two of a family.Those killed were identified as ITC employee Jay Ram Shah (52) his son Kundan Kumar (20) and Sagar Kumar Mahto (18). The land is said to belong to a ‘mutth’ but two groups had been trying to build a boundary wall on it for a long time.Police said that the tension began around 8.30 pm when a group of people reached the site and asked some people running an illegal business from the disputed land to vacate the site. Thereafter both the parties went to the police station and submitted applications asking the police to maintain peace.Police said a group of people led by Prameshwar Mahto later attacked on the house of Jay Ram Shah over the land dispute. The crowd ransacked his house, thrashed family members including women and fired in the air indiscriminately.In self defence, Jay Ram’s son Chandan, an army jawan, also fired on the attackers leading to the death of Sagar Mahto. In retaliation, the crowd caught Jay Ram and his son Kundan dragged them from house thrashed mercilessly and shot them.On getting information a police team reached the spot but came under attack from the mob which pelted them with pelted stones on police causing injuries of three including station house officer of the Kashimbazar police station.A heavy police force has been deployed in the area. Eyewitnesses told police that the two groups had exchanged several rounds of fire."On Friday night, a clash between two sides occurred over a land dispute in Mokbira Chayn Tola locality of Kashimbazar police station area of the district. In the incident, a father and son from one side and one person from the other side were killed," said Manavjit Singh Dhillon, Superintendent of Police (SP).He went on to say, “An Army jawan identified as Chandan Shah has been arrested in this connection. We have detained six others in this matter and further investigation is on.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-killed-9-injured-as-dispute-over-land-turns-violent-in-bihar-s-munger-101615015386937.html
06-03-2021||India||Farmers gather at western peripheral expressway as agitation completes 100 days||The farmers, agitating against the Centre's three farm legislation, on Saturday blocked the Western Peripheral Expressway to mark 100 days of the movement. Farmers from all age group gathered at the six-lane expressway outside the national capital with their cars, trucks and tractors as they staged a five-hour-long blockade. It will continue till 4pm. Commuters are advised to check traffic advisory before travelling on Kundli–Manesar–Palwal (KMP) Expressway.The protests are continuing since November 26 last year and in these 100 days of the agitation, farmers mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh have braved harsh weather conditions while remaining firm on their demands. As the capital braces for scorching summers and the harvesting season begins, farmers gathering on Saturday asserted that they had no plans to turn back until their demands were met."Bitter cold didn't affect our movement, and neither will deathly heat," news agency Reuters quoted Raja Singh, a 58-year-old farmer from Punjab, as saying. "The government has left us no option but to protest," said another farmer from Punjab, Reuters reported.The farmers are protesting at Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur borders. They are protesting against the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.The laws open up the agriculture sector to private players and have been hailed by the government as "historic" and long-needed reforms. However, the farmers fear that the legislation will end the mandi system where they are they have assured of the minimum support price for their produce.The agitating farmers want the Centre to repeal the laws, meanwhile, the government has assured that it is ready to make amendments and claimed that laws will give farmers the freedom to sell their produce anywhere in the country.While the protests have been mostly peaceful, a brief spate of violence on January 26 led to the death of a protestor and many policemen being injured. Following the violence during the tractor rally, Delhi police put barricades around the protests sites of Ghazipur and Tikri borders. They also installed barbed wire to restrict the movement of the protesting farmers.Meanwhile, earlier in the day, Congress' Rahul Gandhi who has been supporting the protests since the beginning, criticised the Centre over the controversial laws. He alleged that the government is torturing the farmers who are fighting for their rights."Nails have been laid at the Delhi borders for sons of those who sacrifice their lives on the borders of the country. 'Annadata' ask for their rights, government tortures!" Gandhi tweeted in Hindi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-gather-at-western-peripheral-expressway-as-agitation-completes-100-days-101615015711778.html
06-03-2021||India||'Now, he is in the right party': Nadda welcomes Dinesh Trivedi to BJP||Ahead of the crucial West Bengal Assembly Election 2021, former Trinamool Rajya Sabha MP Dinesh Trivedi on Saturday joined the BJP in the presence of party president JP Nadda in Delhi. Union minister Piyush Goyal was also present. The former Trinamool MP resigned from the Rajya Sabha on February 12, delivering an unexpected and emotional speech in the House, where he lauded Prime Minister Narendra Modi, thanked Trinamool Congress for sending him to the Upper House, but said it was time to respond to his inner voice asking him to something for West Bengal.I do not have to wait to speak to PM Modi, at least he listens: Dinesh TrivediWelcoming the former railways minister into the party, Nadda said, "Dinesh Trivedi was the right person in the wrong party, now he is in the right party." Trivedi, on the other hand, said it was the golden moment he had been waiting for.Watch | ‘Right person now in the right party’: JP Nadda on Dinesh Trivedi joining BJPIn his final speech in the Rajya Sabha, Trivedi said, "The way violence is being unleased in my side, democracy is being attacked, I am feeling uneasy sitting here. I am feeling uneasy sitting here. I am from the land of Subhash Chandra Bose, Khudiram, Rabindranath Tagore...There are limitations here. My party has sent me here so I am grateful. But now I can't take any more what is happening. I am feeling suffocated and that's why I want to resign from here and want to work for my Bengal."Dinesh Trivedi joining the BJP was only a matter of time after his resignation from the Rajya Sabha and the party with which he has been associated since the beginning of the party.Earlier when Trivedi was asked whether his resignation means he would be joining the BJP, he told HT, "It would be a privilege to join the BJP as it is the No. 1 party in the world. [Communist Party of India (Marxist) leader] Sitaram Yechury is also a good friend; so is [Maharashtra chief minister] Uddhav Thackeray. I meet [Nationalist Congress Party leader] Sharad Pawar; everybody is a friend."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dinesh-trivedi-after-emotional-speech-in-rajya-sabha-joins-bjp-101615014391196.html
06-03-2021||India||India airlifts Covid-19 vaccines to Somalia||Continuing its Vaccine Maitri initiative to assist countries in their fight against the coronavirus pandemic, India airlifted Made-in-India vaccines to the Horn of Africa - Somalia on Saturday.The information about the consignment was shared by the External Affairs Minister, S Jaishankar through his Twitter account. He tweeted, "Reaching across the Indian Ocean. Made in India vaccines arriving in Somalia."Under the Vaccine Maitri initiative, India has been providing coronavirus vaccines to its neighbouring countries.Twenty-five nations across the world have already received Made-in India vaccines and forty-nine more countries will be supplied in the coming days, ranging from Europe, Latin America and the Caribbean to Africa, South-East Asia and the Pacific Islands.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-airlifts-covid-19-vaccines-to-somalia-101615013178003.html
06-03-2021||India||PM Modi's Brigade rally: BJP clarifies about Mithun Chakraborty, Sourav Ganguly||As West Bengal BJP is gearing up for Prime Minister Narendra Modi's Brigade rally in Kolkata on March 7, where the party is expecting to see a gathering of around 10 lakh people, it has also cleared the air about Mithun Chakraborty, Sourav Ganguly attending the meeting — speculation doing the rounds ahead of the mega event. In BJP's clarification, however, there is no dismissal.Two names that have been doing the rounds are Mithun Chakraborty, who was a Trinamool Rajya Sabha MP till 2016, and Indian cricket board president Sourav Ganguly. The speculations are two-fold: they are likely to attend PM Modi's mega-event and also likey to join the BJP.On Mithun Chakraborty, BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya said he is welcome to attend the event. But it will be an event of only PM and the public. Terming PM Modi the biggest celebrity, Vijayvaargiya said, "We will welcome those coming in public, including Mithun Chakraborty.""If he joins, it will be good for both the party and the state. And if he shares the stage with PM Modi, then people of Bengal will be happy," West Bengal BJP vice president Arjun Singh said. On whether there has been any discussion regarding this among the party workers, he said, "I am not the authorised person."Speculations around Mithun were triggered when the actor hosted RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat at his Mumbai home recently. But dismissing any political angle in it, Mithun said he had a "spiritual relationship" with Mohan Bhagwat."I have a spiritual relationship with him. It is a very deep spiritual relation. There was a plan that he would come to my home when he visits Mumbai. It so happened that I returned to Mumbai from Lucknow after a shoot and he too is in Mumbai. So 'jud gaye hum (we connected)'," he told reporters.On Ganguly joining the BJP, a speculation that has been going around for quite some time, West Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh said he had no idea about this and this was not discussed in the meeting of the core committee either.But will Ganguly be present at PM Modi's Brigade rally? BJP spokesperson Shamik Bhattacharya said Sourav Ganguly is most welcome, if he decides to attend the programme, his health permitting."We know Sourav is under rest at home. If he considers attending the meeting, health and weather conditions permitting, he will be most welcome. If he is present, we think he will like it. The crowd will also like that. But we don't know. It is for him to decide," Bhattacharya said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-s-brigade-rally-bjp-clears-air-about-mithun-chakraborty-sourav-ganguly-101615011435946.html
06-03-2021||India||Odisha: State govt to increase funds for MSMEs, says CM Patnaik||Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik on Thursday said that the funds for the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) department will be substantially increased by the state government in the next state budget.While inaugurating the MSME Trade fair 2021 through Video conferencing, the Chief Minister said "In the next financial year, the budget of MSME Department is being substantially increased. My Government will always go the extra mile to help and encourage the MSMEs to encourage them to participate and contribute in building a vibrant and globally competitive new resurgent Odisha."Stating that the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic has been far beyond the public health sector, the Chief Minister said due to restrictions which were required to control the spread of the virus, the economy has been severely affected. "The MSME sector particularly has been affected and it will take a long time to recover fully," he said.He said that the government will continue to engage with the MSMEs and ensure that the Covid-19 impact is minimised."We have been working closely with millions of our micro-entrepreneurs in the form of Mission Shakti groups. I am glad to know that the Trade Fair has provided a special platform for them to showcase their products," the Chief Minister said.He further said that Odisha is also doing well in the startup landscape for which it has been recognized at national level as a leader state. "The Startups are the future of industry and MSME because of their innovative and disruptive ideas," he added.The Chief Minister announced that to provide a better eco-system, the government is constructing a dedicated state-of-the-art incubation centre in Odisha known as O-Hub."I am happy that this year we are able to organise MSME trade fair and meet today inspite of the Covid-19 pandemic situation since last year. Thankfully, with the cooperation of all, Odisha has been able to successfully overcome the Covid-19 health crisis," Patnaik said.Different PSUs of the national and state levels are participating this year. Women entrepreneurs and Mission Shakti groups, startups and the food processing units are the focal sectors for this year's event.Keeping in view the prospective contribution of Mission Shakti groups in the socio-economic development of the state, special emphasis is being given for up-grading their members into successful entrepreneurs. An MoU in this regard has been signed between MSME Department and Mission Shakti.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-state-govt-to-increase-funds-for-msmes-says-cm-patnaik-101615005693016.html
06-03-2021||India||Rajasthan makes negative Covid report mandatory for visitors from 4 more states||Visitors to Rajasthan from Punjab, Haryana, Madhya Pradesh, and Gujarat need to have negative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction test (RT-PCR) reports for Covid-19 for entry into the state, chief minister Ashok Gehlot's office said in a statement. The rule is also applicable to visitors from Maharashtra and Kerala which was notified earli.The statement cited rising Covid-19 cases in the neighbouring states and added it necessitated the latest move. It said classes up to class 5 and Anganwadi centers in the state will also remain closed till March 31 in view of the pandemic.Gehlot urged people to continue to take precautionary measures to prevent more infections. “Residents should follow the health protocols such as wearing of masks, maintain proper distances, and frequent hand washing."He called negligence in following Covid-19 protocols a matter of serious concern and directed the concerned departments to speed up the awareness campaign again.Gehlot said the Covid-19 vaccination drive was underway at a good pace but there is a need to accelerate it.Health minister Raghu Sharma said he has held talks with the Centre to ensure a proper supply of Covid vaccines.“In view of the good performance of Rajasthan in comparison to other states of the country, Rajasthan has demanded more doses of Covid-19 vaccine from the central government,” Sharma said.Secretary (medical and health) Siddharth Mahajan said the number of cases in the state dipped to below 100 in February. He added there has been an increase in the cases this month.“Rajasthan has a positivity rate of 5.05%, recovery rate 98.66%, and active cases of 0.47% which is better than the national average.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-makes-negative-covid-report-mandatory-for-visitors-from-4-more-states-101615006435318.html
06-03-2021||India||Nagpur man befriends nurse on matrimonial site, dupes her of ₹40 lakh||The Mumbai police have booked a Nagpur resident for duping a 28-year-old woman whom he met on a matrimonial site and cheated her of ₹40 lakh under the pretext of marrying her.Police said the complainant, a nurse with a civic hospital, on November 25, 2018 received a request from one Rhunal Dilip Jambhulkar, a Nagpur resident. She accepted the request following which they started calling and chatting.Jambhulkar had told the woman that he works in a private firm which has been not releasing his salaries regularly for which he was facing financial challenges every other day."He told me that he had a medical issue and was taking treatment for the same at a local hospital. Under the pretext of his medical treatment he took money from me on various occasions in last two years," the complainant stated in the FIR.As he started giving excuses for marriage, the woman suspected foul play and checked his Facebook account and found out that he was regularly chatting with another woman, who turned out to be his wife.On Tuesday she approached police in Antop Hill and lodged a cheating case against him. "On the basis of her complaint we have booked Jambhulkar under sections 406 (criminal breach of trust) and 420 (cheating) of Indian Penal Code," said Prashant Raje, senior inspector of Antop Hill police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nagpur-man-befriends-nurse-on-matrimonial-site-dupes-her-of-rs-40-lakh-101615005145088.html
06-03-2021||India||'India-China border tensions reflect growing Chinese aggression': Kahl||The current India-China border tensions reflect a disturbing trend of growing Chinese aggression and assertion in the region and toward allies and partners of the United States, President Joe Biden’s pick for top Pentagon policy job, Colin Kahl, has told lawmakers.In his submission to the members of the Senate Armed Services Committee during his confirmation hearing for Defence Under Secretary for Policy, Kahal, however, expressed the US resolve to stand by its allies and partners. “The India-China border tensions reflect a concerning trend of growing aggressiveness and assertiveness by China in the region, including toward allies and partners of the United States,” said Kahl. “We will, however, continue to stand by our allies and partners and support their ongoing efforts to deescalate the situation. If confirmed, I will continue to monitor the situation closely as both parties work toward a peaceful resolution,” he said, in his written answers to the questions for his confirmation hearing. The past decade has seen promising trends in the US-India defence trade and technology relationship, he said, adding if confirmed, he will work to sustain these trends, including through a focus on major procurements and high-end technology. Responding to a question on India, Kahl said if confirmed, he would continue to operationalise India’s status as a “Major Defence Partner” by positioning the US and Indian militaries to cooperate more closely to advance shared interests in the Indo-Pacific region. “To this end, I would support efforts to strengthen interoperability, expand bilateral and multilateral security cooperation across the region and deepen defence trade and technology sharing,” he said. He added that he would also leverage regular senior-level bilateral and multilateral engagements with likeminded partners to bolster the relationship. “To continue elevating the US-India partnership, I would prioritise a few promising areas of cooperation. These include deepening information-sharing and mutual logistics operations, growing our defence trade and technology relationship, and expanding high-end cooperation in the maritime domain, including in the Indian Ocean region and southeast Asia,” Kahl said.“Importantly, I would also seek to expand multilateral cooperation with like-minded partners in the region, including through the Quad, Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) mechanisms, and other regional engagements,” he added.Responding to questions from Senators during his confirmation hearing on Thursday, Kahl said the biggest opportunity is the growing concern and recognition that a more assertive China has produced. “That is, I think that a lot of our allies and partners are nervous. Frankly, I think that the pandemic and China's early cover-up of the pandemic, and some of its heavy ended, wolf warrior diplomacies during the pandemic have also created opportunities for us to lean in with countries who are increasingly worried about Beijing,” he said. “I could not agree with you more about the importance of emphasising our alliances and our partnerships.It is one of the biggest asymmetric advantages that the United States has. No other global power has a network of allies and partners that we have. And if I'm confirmed, a huge part of my job will be in nurturing those relationships,” he added. The United States has enormous opportunities in the Indo-Pacific, he said. “I think that the last administration made some important strides in this area, as did the Obama administration. I think we have opportunities to work not just with our treaty allies like Japan and South Korea and Australia and the Philippines, but with countries like Singapore and Vietnam and others in ASEAN. And I think there are growing opportunities with India. So, I actually think this is an area where we have an enormous possibility,” Kahl said. Senator Jack Reed, Chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee said the US must take a long term approach to strategic competition with China, a challenge Defence Secretary Lloyd Austin has appropriately described as the pacing threat for the Department of Defense. “Competing effectively with China requires that we develop new technologies to rival China's advancements in new operational concepts to ensure the desired effect against Chinese aggression,” he said. According to Kahl, China is the only country in the world that can challenge the United States systematically that is in the economic domain, the technological domain, the military domain, and frankly, in shaping international order more broadly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indiachina-border-tensions-reflect-growing-chinese-aggression-kahl-101615003767429.html
06-03-2021||India||Active Covid-19 cases above 1.8 lakh, with 18,327 new infections in 24 hours||For the first time in months, India's number of active Covid-19 cases reached above 1.8 lakh as 18,327 fresh infections were reported in the last 24 hours, according to the Union health ministry dashboard data on Saturday. New infections surpassed recoveries as against 18,327 fresh cases, 14,234 recoveries were reported in the last 24 hours. A total of 108 deaths took the overall toll to 1,57,656, while India's present Covid-19 tally stands at 11,192,088.On Friday, India recorded 16,838 fresh cases and 113 deaths.The number of active cases denotes the number of people who are actively carrying the infection. A rise in this number implies that the spread of the infection remained unabated. In India's case, the spread has increased as the active number of cases saw a sharp decline in December, January.Maharashtra contributed to Saturday's rise the maximum as it reported 10,216 fresh infections on Friday. Kerala on Friday reported 2,776 fresh cases.While Tamil Nadu recorded 543 new infections, Delhi too saw a rise in daily cases in nearly 1.5 months as it reported 312 fresh infections. Punjab on Friday reported 818 new cases. West Bengal reported 255 fresh infections in the last 24 hours.Maharashtra, Punjab, Haryana, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Delhi are reporting maximum new cases.Apart from these, Sikkim, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab, Chandigarh, Goa, Kerala and Maharashtra have a weekly positivity rate higher than the national average, the union minister has said.As states are bringing back travel restrictions to ensure Covid-19 cases are not imported from other states, Rajasthan has been the latest to make a Covid-19 negative report mandatory for people travelling from Punjab, Haryana, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat.In Madhya Pradesh Indore, six persons have been found infected with the UK variant of the virus, while none of them had gone on foreign tours recently.Maharashtra's Arvi village has been brought under Section 144 after 16 residents of the village in Parbhani district tested positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/active-covid-19-cases-above-1-8-lakh-with-18-327-new-infections-in-24-hours-101615002542514.html
06-03-2021||India||Final hearing of Alwar lynching case to be held today. Here's a recap of this 2018 case||An Alwar Court in Rajasthan is scheduled to hold the final hearing of the Alwar lynching case on Saturday. The court on Monday had denied further arguments in the case and had decided to hold the final hearing of this 2018 caseHere is a recap of the caseRakbar Khan was allegedly killed by people who claimed to be 'gau rakshaks' in suspicion of cow smuggling.On July 20, 2018, the youth, a resident of Haryana, was killed in Alwar while transporting cows to his village Kolgaon.He had allegedly purchased the cows from Ladpura village and were taking the cows to their home through a forested area in proximity to Lalawandi village when they were attacked by the mob.Rakbar and his friend Aslam were beaten up. While Aslam managed to escape, Rakbar succumbed to his injuries and died in an Alwar hospital.Also read | PM Modi to address Combined Commanders' conference in Kevadia todayDharmendra Yadav, Naresh Kumar, Paramjit Singh and Vijay Kumar — all residents of Lalawandi village — are the accused in the case as per the FIR registered in the Ramgarh police station of Alwar.The victim's (Rakbar) mother had also accused the Additional Sessions Judge adjudicating the trial of favouring the accused in the case and had so demanded the transfer to a different court last week, PTI reported petitioner’s counsel Qasim Khan as saying.The state government had appointed a special public prosecutor in the lynching case.The case is said to follow the lines of the previous Pehlu Khan lynching case of Alwar when Khan, along with his son and companions, were beaten and killed in the same fashion by self-proclaimed 'gau rakshaks' on suspicion of cattle smuggling. The Pehlu Khan incident took place in 2017, sparking nationwide outrage. The local court had acquitted six out of nine accused on the basis of lack of evidence in Pehlu Khan lynching. The two sons of Khan were also on trial under the Rajasthan Bovine Animal Act that prohibits cattle smuggling.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/final-hearing-of-alwar-lynching-case-to-be-held-today-here-s-a-recap-of-this-2018-case-101614997248536.html
06-03-2021||India||News updates from HT: PM Modi to address Combined Commanders' conference and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.PM Modi to address Combined Commanders' conference in Kevadia todayPrime Minister Narendra Modi will address the country's top military leadership at the Combined Commanders' Conference in Gujarat's Kevadia today. He will be addressing such a conference for the first time in his career and as part of it.. Read morePM to head committee, Sonia and Tendulkar among 259 membersPrime Minister Narendra Modi will head a high-level committee of 259 eminent personalities from various fields, including Union home minister Amit Shah, Congress president Sonia Gandhi and Chief Justice.. Read moreDraw of lots for DDA Housing Scheme 2021 on March 10The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) will hold the draw of lots for its Housing Scheme 2021 on March 10 and the entire proceedings will be live-streamed, the land-owning agency officials said.. Read moreSC seeks Centre’s response to trace Army captain in Pakistani jail since 1997The Supreme Court has asked the Centre to inform it within four weeks about the whereabouts of an army officer who went missing 2 years ago and is believed to be in a Pakistani jail.. Read moreGreta's comments on farm stir not bilateral issue between India, Sweden: MEAYoung Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg's recent comments on the farmers' protests in India do not form a bilateral issue between India and Sweden.. Read more'A batsman who seems extremely insecure': Sanjay Manjrekar not happy with India batsman's performanceManjrekar’s comments came after India Test vice-captain Ajinkya Rahane was out for another low score on Day 2 of the India-England fourth Test in Ahmedabad.. Read moreJanhvi Kapoor on why she can't watch mother Sridevi's Chaalbaaz: 'They were very mean to her'With Roohi, actor Janhvi Kapoor explores two ‘extremes of humanity’ in the same film, and that was the reason she was drawn to it. “It was so exciting to do it and I really thought it would open me up and be very liberating as an actor.. Read moreNo weights, no problem: Aditi Rao Hydari shows how to exercise without equipmentYou might have had those moments, especially during the lockdown, when you wanted to work out and do weight training but the gyms were shut and you had no access to weights.. Read moreAt least 20 killed, 30 wounded by suicide car bomb in Somalia capitalAt least 20 people were killed and 30 wounded by a suicide car bomb just outside a restaurant near the port in Somalia's capital Mogadishu late on Friday, an emergency services official said.. Read moreDemocrats split on jobless benefits slows Covid relief bill in SenateDemocrats set aside one battle over boosting the minimum wage but promptly descended into another internal fight Friday as the party haltingly tried moving its $1.9 trillion Covid-19 relief bill through the Senate.. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-pm-modi-to-address-combined-commanders-conference-and-all-the-latest-news-101614999720156.html
06-03-2021||India||ITBP jawan killed in Maoist IED blast in Chhattisgarh’s Narayanpur||A police personnel was killed in an improvised explosive device (IED) blast triggered by Maoists in Chhattisgarh’s Narayanpur district of Bastar region on Friday evening, police said.The Indo Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) personnel died after an IED planted by Maoist in the Kohkametta area exploded.“The jawan Mangesh Ramteke who hailed from Nagpur died in an IED blast while retreating from road security operation near Kihkad village about 5 km from Kohkametta police station,” said Sunderaj P, inspector general of police (IGP), Bastar.The IED was planted around 100m away from the road, IGP said.On Thursday, a constable of the Chhattisgarh Armed Force (CAF) was killed in an IED blast, planted by Maoists in Dantewada.Police said that the incident took place in the jungles of Pahurnar village under Geedam police station area where a team of security forces was providing security for construction work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/itbp-jawan-killed-in-maoist-ied-blast-in-chhattisgarh-s-narayanpur-101614999338489.html
06-03-2021||India||SC seeks Centre’s response to trace Army captain in Pakistani jail since 1997||The Supreme Court has asked the Centre to inform it within four weeks about the whereabouts of an army officer who went missing 2 years ago and is believed to be in a Pakistani jail.The top court’s direction on Friday came on a petition by an 84-year-old woman whose son went missing during a patrol at Indo-Pakistan border near Rann of Kutch in 1997.Not limiting it just to the officer in question, a three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) asked the lawyer appearing for the woman to compile a list of similarly placed officers of the Indian armed forces still languishing in Pakistani jails. The court is expected to hear the matter next on April 23.The petitioner, Kamla Bhattacharjee informed the Court that during the past 23 years neither has she been able to communicate with her son nor has she received any specific information about her son’s location. The petition states that her son, Captain Sanjit Bhattacharjee was part of a platoon patrolling along the Indo-Pak border in the Rann of Kutch, Gujarat. On April 19, 1997 Captain Sanjit along with Lance Naik Ram Bahadur Thapa went missing while 15 others belonging to the platoon returned to their camp. The captain’s family was informed the same day he went missing.Four days later, the Army informed the family that the captain had been apprehended by Pakistani authorities and remained untraceable. The same year the Army came across a radio intercept confirming that captain Bhattacharjee was captured by Pakistan Rangers and subsequently handed over to the Pakistan Army. In 2004, the Army issued a letter informing that the missing officer was presumed to be dead. Yet in 2010, Army prepared a list of 54 missing prisoners of war in which captain Bhattacharjee’s name was included.Representing the mother of the petitioner, advocate Saurabh Mishra informed the court that all that the petition seeks to achieve is a direction to the Centre to take necessary action for the search and release of captain Sanjit Bhattacharjee languishing in Pakistan jail without any criminal case lodged against him.“The Petitioner’s son has been deprived of his fundamental right under Article 21 i.e. right to protection of life and personal liberty, which has been described as the heart of fundamental rights,” the petition statedThe bench headed by Chief Justice SA Bobde while issuing notice apprised the petitioner’s lawyer to research on similarly placed Indian prisoners of war in Pakistan jails. “We are told there are more persons who are similarly situated. I was consulted in a similar case that came up from Nagpur. I believe they are still not free,” said CJI Bobde. The bench, also comprising Justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian sought responses from the Ministry of Defence and Ministry of External Affairs.In 2019, the Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan told the Parliament that 83 Indian prisoners of war are languishing in Pakistan jails. Even the Government and Army have claimed helplessness as Pakistan denies the presence of Indian POWs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-seeks-centre-s-response-to-trace-army-captain-in-pakistani-jail-since-1997-101614997774302.html
06-03-2021||India||'End the dowry system': Leaders speak up after Gujarat woman allegedly dies by suicide over harassment||Days after a video of a woman shot right before she died by suicide went viral on social media, several leaders have spoken up against the dowry system. Maulana KR Firangi Mahali of the Islamic Centre of India said the incident was disturbing and that the woman's video should prompt all Muslims to put an end to the social evil."The recent incident in Gujarat wherein a girl died by suicide is disturbing. Her video is a message to all Muslims to end the dowry system as it is illegitimate and forbidden," he said.The 23-year-old woman allegedly jumped into Ahmedabad's Sabarmati river soon after she shot the video in which she is seen troubled due to her relationship with her husband. The woman's husband was arrested on March 1 for abetting her suicide.According to news agency PTI, the FIR lodged by the woman's father at Sabarmati Riverfront (West) police station says that the accused had allegedly tortured her and told her "die if you want to, and send me a video."Days after the alleged accused was arrested, All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) chief Asaduddin Owaisi expressed grief over the incident and said harassing a woman over dowry was no sign of manhood. "I appeal to all of you, irrespective of your religion, to put an end to the system of dowry. If you are a man, you should know that harassing your wife is no sign of manhood," Owaisi said while addressing the AIMIM cadre.He furthered his attack on the family of the woman's husband and said they should be ashamed for putting her through the torture. "What kind of men are these that hit women and demand dowry? You can fool the world but you can't fool the god," he said. If you need support or know someone who does, please reach out to your nearest mental health specialist. Helplines: Aasra: 022 2754 6669; Sneha India Foundation: +914424640050 and Sanjivini: 011-24311918||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/-end-the-dowry-system-leaders-speak-up-after-gujarat-woman-allegedly-dies-by-suicide-over-harassment-101614996775786.html
06-03-2021||India||Maharashtra adds over 50k new cases in 6 days: What ministers said on lockdown||The uptick in the number of daily infections in Maharashtra is not anymore sudden as it has become the trend in the state for the past few weeks starting from mid-February. In the past week, the state continues to add around 7,000 cases on average, with an exception on Mach 1, when the state witnessed a slight dip and recorded 6,397 new cases. In total, between February 28 and March 5, the state added 51,612 fresh infections.On February 28, the number of daily infections in Maharashtra was 8,283. On March 1, the tally dipped to 6,397 only to increase to 7,863 on March 2. A total of 9,855 new cases were reported on March 3 and on March 4, the number was 8,998. On March 5, the state reported the highest-ever hike since October 17, 2020, when the daily spike was recorded at 10.259.Mumbai too is following a rising trajectory contributing 900 daily infections to the caseload.Lockdown in districtsA decision on whether to extend lockdowns in districts like Amravati which are still reporting a surge will be taken soon as most of the restrictions are till February 8. Schools and educational institutes are closed in districts.Deadline of 8-15 daysAddressing a press meet on February 21, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said that the situation will be reviewed in eight to 15 days. Till then, no statewide restriction was imposed apart from barring any social, cultural, religious, political gathering in the state.Feb spike of Covid-19 in several states: What we know about mutants, variantsWhat ministers have said so far on lockdownAlmost a year after the national lockdown was imposed, it is not considered feasible to impose major restrictions on the movement of people and on the functioning of establishments.Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray expressed his unwillingness to impose another lockdown in the state, but he left the room open as he said, ""I do not want to impose it but 'majboori' (helplessness) is also something." After Thackeray said this on February 28, cases are on the rise.Maharashtra minister Vijay Wadettiwar said last week that the state government will be considering restricting Mumbai locals timing, services of which have been thrown open to the public on February 1.Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation addition commissioner Suresh Kakani has said the civic body is not planning to impose any additional restriction specific to Mumbai as it is relying on increasing test and surveillance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-adds-over-50k-new-cases-in-a-week-what-ministers-said-on-lockdown-101614996392809.html
06-03-2021||India||Court restrains media from airing Karnataka minister's alleged sex tape||A civil and sessions court in Bengaluru on Friday restrained the media from broadcasting or publishing contents of the alleged sex tape involving Karnataka’s former water resources minister Ramesh Jarkiholi.An unverified video of a man resembling the minister with an unnamed woman has gone viral and had been aired by TV news channels in Karnataka. In a complaint filed with Bengaluru police, social activist Dinesh Kalahalli had claimed that the minister had sought sexual favours from the woman seen in the video. After the footage went viral, Jarkihol resigned from the cabinet on Wednesday.The order was issued after hearing an injunction suit filed by Jarkiholi’s lawyers on Wednesday. The suit had named 68 media houses, channels and others.“The Defendant Nos. 1 to 14, 16 to 68 are hereby restrained by an order of an exparte ad¬ interim injunction from telecasting or publishing or broadcasting or distribution in any form or manner of the contents of the alleged C.D. or any other material, negatively, referring to the Plaintiff leading to defamatory act, his dignity assassination or creating sarcastic views about him in any manner including showing the footages and pictures involving negative spectrum, till the next date of hearing,” read the order.This order of injunction, however, added that publishing the authenticated and true news, after due verification, without making any defamatory remarks against the plaintiff, will be allowed.Meanwhile, Dinesh Kalahalli, who had refused to appear before the police citing threat to his life, appeared before Cubbon Park police on Friday. On Thursday, he had informed the police officials that he will appear for questioning only on March 9.Talking to the media outside the police station, Kalahalli said he is not in touch with the woman in the video. “The investigation is on, they (the police) have said they will file a case as per the procedure following this investigation,” the social activist said.He reiterated that the video was provided by the woman’s family members. He, however, refused to elaborate on the statement stating the case is currently under investigation. “I have given whatever information I have. Now, the police department should investigate further,” Kalahalli said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/court-restrains-media-from-airing-karnataka-minister-s-alleged-sex-tape-101614996165486.html
06-03-2021||India||British envoy says farmers' protest is India’s 'internal issue'||Ahead of a debate on the farmers’ protest in the UK Parliament on March 8, British high commissioner Alex Ellis on Friday described the stir as an “internal issue” that has to be resolved by the Indian government.However, Ellis pointed to UK foreign secretary Dominic Raab’s remarks during a visit to New Delhi last December about Indian politics resonating in British domestic politics because of the presence of a large Indian diaspora, and said such matters are likely to be debated around the world as India’s significance grows.Asked about the planned debate in the British Parliament at his first media briefing since taking over last month, Ellis described the protest by farmers against three farm laws as an “internal issue for India”. The debate was scheduled in response to a public petition and “issues related to India are quite regularly debated in our Parliament”, he added.“This is something which is done by Parliament...the government has to participate and the government has to answer. But it’s really parliamentarians, as you’d expect, raising issues of concern to them and their constituents,” Ellis said.“But the government views something like the farmers’ protest as an internal Indian matter. We observe it, of course, but that is for India to resolve,” he said.Ellis said more such debates around the world should be expected as India takes on a greater role on the global stage.“As the Indian diaspora grows, and it’s very successful in many countries in the world, you’re going to see more of this. I think it’s one of the things that as India grows, as India becomes more international (and) ever more significant in the world, there will be more debates about Indian issues,” the envoy said.Noting that Raab had said “your politics are our politics”, Ellis explained that “things that happen in India have ripples in the UK, partly because you do have such a big diaspora community”.According to British parliamentary convention, petitions that garner 10,000 signatures on the UK government and Parliament website get a response from the government. Petitions that get 100,000 signatures are almost always debated.Influential UK lawmakers such as Claudia Webbe and Tanmanjeet Singh Dhesi have been at the forefront of efforts to raise the farmers’ protest in the British Parliament. In the face of pressure from the British MPs, Raab raised the farmers' protest with his Indian counterpart during his visit to New Delhi in December.Asked about the debate in the UK Parlaiment, external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava told a regular news briefing that Indian missions around the world are providing accurate information on the farmers’ protest to the people and governments of their host countries.“In this context, the Indian high commission and consulates in UK have provided information on the three farm bills to the British government, lawmakers, civil society and others,” he said.They are also giving information on the Indian government’s efforts to engage the farmers’ unions on the three laws and to resolve the issue through talks,” he added.The government’s handling of the farmers’ protest, which began on November 26 last year, has been criticised by lawmakers and political leaders in several countries. The government has defended the three new laws as necessary for long overdue reforms in the agricultural sector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/british-envoy-says-farmers-protest-is-india-s-internal-issue-101614994765429.html
06-03-2021||NA||Highlights: Ireland administers 500,000 Covid-19 vaccine doses||The coronavirus caseload in the country has reached over 11.17 million with a death toll of 157,656, as of Saturday, according to the Union health ministry data. The Covid-19 cases in the country are rising again in some parts of the country. Six states, Maharashtra, Punjab, Haryana, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Delhi, are witnessing a spike in the daily coronavirus cases. These states have contributed more than 84 per cent to the active caseload of the country on Wednesday.On the other hand, India has vaccinated more than 1.90 crore beneficiaries against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in 49 days.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19The global coronavirus tally is over the 116 million-mark with the death toll crossing 2.5 million, as per the John Hopkins University coronavirus tracker. The US states have started easing several curbs imposed due to the pandemic. Theatres in New York, the second-largest movie market is set to open this weekend, Oregon, too, has issued an order to bring children back to school, theme parks and stadiums might also open in California in April. In Europe, the vaccine supply crunch has prompted Italy to take some major steps like refusing to export thousands of AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccines to Australia. The World Health Organization will also be releasing its full report and summary on the origins of coronavirus this month. More than 283.5 million vaccines have been administered globally, as per the Oxford University's vaccine tracker, OurWorldInData.Follow all the updates here:Iraq reports 4,068 new Covid-19 casesIraqi on Saturday added 4,068 new coronavirus cases, bringing the total nationwide infections to 723,189, according to the health ministry. Eleven new deaths pushed the toll to 13,548 while recoveries are over 657,000.K'taka's Covid-19 tally over 954,000; 580 fresh cases addedKarnataka on Saturday added 580 fresh coronavirus disease cases, 355 recoveries and five more deaths which pushed the caseload to 954,393, according to the state health department's bulletin. The active cases have climbed to 6,594 while 935,421 people have recovered till now.Punjab's daily Covid cases cross 1,000 for the second time this monthPunjab reports 1,179 new #COVID19 cases, 644 recoveries and 12 deaths today.Total cases: 1,87,348Total recoveries: 1,74,274Death toll: 5,910Active cases: 7,164 pic.twitter.com/gUfgYSmRX9Punjab on Saturday logged 1,179 fresh Covid-19 cases and 12 more deaths which pushed the overall tally to more than 187,000. This is the second time that the daily figures crossed the 1,000 mark in March. Saturday's tally is also the highest in the state since the last five months.Maharashtra logs more than 10,000 Covid cases for second consecutive dayMaharashtra on Saturday recorded more than 10,000 fresh Covid-19 disease cases (10,187 exact) for the second consecutive day, taking the caseload to mroe than 2.2 million. As many as 47 people died during this period which pushed the state's toll to 52,440.Rajasthan records 233 new Covid-19 cases, 114 more recoveriesRajasthan reports 233 new COVID-19 cases and 114 recoveries in the last 24 hours, as per State Health Department. No new death reported during this period.Total cases: 3,21,356Total recoveries: 3,16,864Active cases: 1,703Death toll: 2,789 pic.twitter.com/CBX8EFbPr2Rajasthan on Saturday added 233 new coronavirus disease cases and 114 more related recoveries which pushed the caseload and total recoveries to 321,356 and 316,864 respectively, according to the state health department's bulletin.Kerala reports 2,791 new Covid-19 cases,Kerala reported 2,791 new Covid-19 cases, including 15 health workers, and 16 related deaths on Saturday, taking the caseload to 10,75,576 and the toll to 4,287.Delhi reports 321 fresh cases, one fatality in 24- hoursDelhi adds 321 new Covid-19 cases to its overall tally on Saturday. One fatality took the death toll to 10,919. The total cases now stands at 6,40,815.State, UTs urged to return to fundamentals as daily cases spikeThe states and union territories exhibiting surge in daily new Covid-19 cases and high active caseload were urged to return to fundamentals of “Test, Track and Treat,” says union health ministry in a statement.Ethiopia to get 2.2 million doses of Covid vaccines from COVAXEthiopia is scheduled to receive its first 2.2 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines from COVAX on Sunday morning, said the country's Federal Ministry of Health on Friday, reports ANI.March 5 records highest Covid vaccinations in a dayNearly 15 lakh people were inoculated against coronavirus on March 5, the highest in a day so far, taking the total number of vaccine doses administered in the country to over 1.94 crore, official sources said on Saturday, reports PTI.Odisha reports 54 new coronavirus casesOdisha on Saturday reported 54 new Covid-19 cases, pushing the coronavirus caseload to 3,37,674, a health department official said, reports PTI.Karnataka minister Sadananda Gowda gets first dose of Covid-19 vaccineKarnataka: Union Minister Sadananda Gowda took his first dose of the #COVID19 vaccine today in Bengaluru. pic.twitter.com/joq7WIQGV8Union minister Narendra Singh Tomar receives first dose of Covid vaccineDelhi: Union Minister Narendra Singh Tomar took his first dose of the #COVID19 vaccine, at RML hospital today. pic.twitter.com/HnHyLDl0ywUnion minister Nitin Gadkari, his wife get first dose of Covid vaccineMaharashtra: Union Minister Nitin Gadkari and his wife Kanchan Gadkari took their first dose of #COVID19 vaccine at AIIMS Nagpur today. pic.twitter.com/XCQEdlx8beArunachal Pradesh reports one new Covid-19 caseThe Covid-19 caseload in Arunachal Pradesh rose to 16,839 as one more person has tested positive for the disease, a health department official said on Saturday, reports PTI.Andaman and Nicobar Islands report no new case of Covid-19Andaman and Nicobar Islands did not report any new Covid-19 case in the last 24 hours, an official said on Saturday, reports PTI.Italy records 24,036 new Covid cases, takes tally to over 3 millionItaly surpassed 3 million confirmed coronavirus cases on Friday, the third straight day this week that daily new caseloads exceeded 20,000 cases, reports AP.Dalai Lama gets first jab of Covid-19 vaccineHimachal Pradesh: Dalai Lama took his first shot of the #COVID19 vaccine at Zonal Hospital Dharamshala, this morning. pic.twitter.com/N6lBve0qp6India reports 18,327 new Covid-19 cases, 108 deaths in last 24 hoursIndia on Saturday reported 18,327 new coronavirus cases and 108 deaths. The total coronavirus case tally has reached 11,192,088, as per the health ministry data.Maharashtra: Thane logs 689 new Covid-19 casesWith the addition of 689 coronavirus cases, the infection count in Thane district of Maharashtra mounted to 2,68,319, an official said on Saturday, reports PTI.WHO concerned about Brazil, warns others to not relax effortsThe arrival of Covid-19 vaccines should not tempt countries to relax efforts to fight the pandemic, top World Health Organization officials said on Friday, citing concern that Brazil's epidemic could spread to other countries, reports Reuters.US: Wisconsin reports first case of South African Covid variantWisconsin reported first case of South African variant of coronavirus on Friday. The strain is considered to be more transmissible and has shown reduced efficacy of some Covid vaccines, reports Bloomberg.China reports 10 new cases of coronavirus in last 24 hoursMainland China reported 10 new Covid-19 cases on March 5, compared with nine cases a day earlier, the country's national health authority said on Saturday, reports Reuters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/live-china-reports-10-new-cases-of-coronavirus-in-last-24-hours-101614991657129.html
06-03-2021||India||PM Modi to address Combined Commanders' conference in Kevadia today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the country's top military leadership at the Combined Commanders' Conference in Gujarat's Kevadia today. He will be addressing such a conference for the first time in his career and as part of it, is expected to give directions to the defence forces for being prepared for the challenges in the future.The conference, a three-day meeting of the high ranking officials, began on Thursday."The PM would arrive here on Saturday morning to address the gathering. He is scheduled to leave on the same day," news agency PTI quotes a senior official as saying.Also Read: PM Modi to address top military commanders in Kevadia in March 2021During the event, the PM is expected to be intimated about the progress made in the creation of the theatre command. In a step towards restructuring the defence forces, the defence ministry would be creating the Air Defence Command.The Defence Ministry has plans of creating the Air Defence, Maritime and Logistics command along with the area-specific commands comprising of elements from all three services, according to news agency ANI.Along with a briefing on the progress made by the agencies created to handle warfare in cyber and space domains, the PM is also expected to be given an update on the restructuring of the Army formations in view of the recent Chinese aggression in the Ladakh sector.Also Read: Top military meet in new avatar, to be ‘multi-layered and informal’Union defence minister Rajnath Singh, who arrived in Kevadia to take part in the conference on Thursday, also addressed the situation at the Line of Actual Control (LAC) to Line of Control (LoC).Among the attendees of the conference are Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat, Chief of Army Staff General M M Naravane, Chief of Naval Staff Admiral Karambir Singh, Chief of Air Staff Air Chief Marshal R K S Bhadauria and Defence Secretary Dr Ajay Kumar.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-address-combined-commanders-conference-today-101614991317284.html
06-03-2021||India||‘No teeth’: SC wants stricter OTT rules||A day after it sought “screening” of content on over the top (OTT) platforms, commenting that some even air pornography, the Supreme Court on Friday said that the central government’s recently notified redressal and regulatory mechanism for such companies “do not have teeth” and asked them to consider a legislation that could also provide for “prosecution”.The court, while hearing a pre-arrest bail plea by Amazon Prime’s content chief Aparna Purohit (which it eventually granted) in connection with the ongoing investigation in Uttar Pradesh against the web series Tandav, used the words “screening”, “regulation” and “legislation” with reference to the content, leading to fears that it could mean not just the certification and grievance redressal envisaged in the government regulations, but even censorship.“These rules do not have any teeth. They do not have any provision for prosecution, etc. These are just some guidelines. This is no satisfactory mechanism,” commented a bench of justices Ashok Bhushan and R Subhash Reddy after going through the new rules that were notified by the government on February 25.The bench was emphatic in telling solicitor general Tushar Mehta, who was appearing for the government: “Without legislation, you cannot control it (content on OTT platforms). Your rules are only in the nature of guidelines. There are no effective guidelines on screening or taking action against those who do not comply with the guide lines.”Mehta agreed with the court, saying: “No censorship, and self-regulation seem to be the idea behind the new regulations. But we can come up with a draft within two weeks on the suggestions that have come from the court. We are trying to balance everything. We can come up with something for the court’s consideration. This certainly needs examination.”Giving two weeks to the government to come back with its response, the bench then formally recorded in its order that one of the issues that has caught its attention is “uncontrolled and unscreened viewing of films” on Amazon Prime Video and other OTT platforms.“The rules do not list anything about the appropriate action to be taken against those who do not abide by the guidelines. Solicitor general says the government shall give further and appropriate consideration for any regulations or legislation to be brought and that shall be placed before the court,” stated the order.Meanwhile, the bench also granted protection from arrest to Purohit in connection with the first information report lodged in Greater Noida on the condition that she would continue cooperating with the investigators in this case as well as in another one lodged at Lucknow.Both FIRs were against the top Amazon Prime executive (and others associated with the show) for alleged derogatory depiction of Hindu deities and promoting religious enmity through the series. The scenes that caused offence have since been deleted, and the makers as well as the OTT company have apologised.Purohit had to approach the SC after the Allahabad high court on February 25 declined to give her protection from arrest while noting that “such people make the revered figures of the religion of majority community source of earning money in a most brazen manner taking benefit of the liberal and tolerant tradition of the country”.Representing Purohit in the apex court, senior counsel Mukul Rohatgi and Sidharth Luthra, succeeded in convincing the bench that she has been assisting with the investigations and already been given pre-arrest bail by the Allahabad high court related to the FIR at Lucknow.Rohatgi, on his part, also urged the S-G to watch the web series and suggest deletions, if any. “Let the solicitor watch it and we will remove whatever he says. This court or the S-G, let anybody watch and tell us and we are willing to remove any other objectionable part. We have already removed two scenes,” he said.At this, the bench retorted: “We will see if the Union of India comes up with some other regulations or legislation.”Rohatgi then referred to the comments made by the bench a day ago. “This court observed that there is porn on these platforms. Let me tell you that (Amazon) Prime or Netflix don’t show pornography at all.”Mehta told Rohatgi that the court meant “pornographic” and not “porn”. The banter continued as Rohatgi kept up: “I can show 1,000 movies and there is no pornographic material at all. There are some great movies on these platforms in fact. I watch them every evening.”To this, justice Bhushan replied: “Mr Rohatgi, we are not saying great movies are not shown. But we are concerned about some other content.”As Rohatgi requested Mehta to watch movies and shows on the OTT service providers, Luthra quipped that the S-G might not have the time for fun. Rohatgi was quick to respond: “The solicitor sends me jokes in the evening every day. He certainly has time to watch movies too.”On February 25, the Centre notified the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021, that will govern online content. The rules envisage a three-tier regulatory framework, which will apply to social media, digital media, and OTT companies: self-regulation; a body like the Press Council of India headed by a retired judge of the Supreme Court; and, at the apex, an oversight body of the government, with an interministerial committee to ensure adherence to the norms.Besides, OTT platforms will also have to self-classify the content into five age-based categories: U (Universal), U/A 7 years, U/A 13 years, U/A 16 years, and A (Adult), in addition to providing a mechanism of parental lock in their services.The rules have also brought OTT platforms and the digital news organisations under the ambit of section 69A of the Information Technology Act, authorising the information and technology secretary to block public access to a specific content without giving the platform an opportunity of hearing, in case of an emergency.Nikhil Pahwa, a digital rights activist and founder of mobile and digital news portal Medianama, said: “Why should there be a separate law to regulate streaming services when what is illegal is already illegal under the existing laws. Such a license raj will destroy the flexibility for streaming services, e-commerce providers, etc, to innovate, shape-shift.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-teeth-sc-wants-stricter-ottrules-101614984717011.html
06-03-2021||India||Widen network, say experts as India aims to boost Covid vaccination drive||The government is planning to more than double the number of coronavirus vaccination centres and reach deeper into rural parts of the country, targeting a massive expansion that experts believe is possible only if policies are relaxed and India’s vast immunisation infrastructure is tapped into.Government data shows 1.4 million doses were administered on Thursday, a record for the country, but a breakdown shows only about half of this number (700,000) was of people from the general public who became eligible to get doses on March 1. The remaining were health and frontline workers, who were the first in line to get doses when the drive began on January 16, and 330,000 were second booster shots.The roughly 20,000 centres being used for the vaccine drive at the moment are hospitals, private as well as public, while many primary and secondary health centres at present are kept out of the programme.The makers of the two vaccines India is using, Serum Institute of India (SII) and Bharat Biotech, told the Delhi high court on Thursday that they have excess stocks but supplies can be made available only upon permission of the Union government.“Currently there are about 20,000 vaccination centres functional across the country, and the plan is to take it up to at least 50,000 and eventually it could even be 100,000. The numbers will automatically increase to reach closer to the target of 5 million vaccinations per day,” said Dr NK Arora, member, National Task Force on Covid-19 matters.“The focus will be on adding more centres in smaller cities and rural areas as bigger cities already have adequate number of centres functioning. Also, not just increasing centres, the focus will also be on effective utilisation of existing centres. If you see, we have been able to utilise just about half of our capacity at the moment and that needs to be ramped up first,” said Arora.In all, India has given about 18 million doses of Covaxin and Covishield to people in three priority groups: health care workers, frontline workers (such as police and military), and people above the age of 60 (or those older than 45 with a certain set of illnesses that raise their risk of death in Covid-19 infections).Experts, however, say the pace is still significantly short of what India needs not only to cover its vast population of high risk groups but also avert a second wave of infections.“Although it is heartening to see an increase in pace, it is sort of under accomplishment to go at this rate as India has the capacity to cover 7-10 million per day. Covering 10 million a day will ensure that we will cover the entire vulnerable population within a month,” said Dr Giridhara Babu, head, epidemiology, Indian institute of Public Health. “Given the proactive and strong leadership shown by India so far in tackling Covid-19 so far, the ambitious goal to cover within 30 days will take us ahead of the virus. This ambition is a necessity, not for any records,” he added.In absolute terms, the 14. million doses given on Thursday in India has only been eclipsed by the US, which has been administering roughly 2 million doses a day on an average over the last week. Both countries have a similar target population at the moment: India is seeking to cover 300 million most at risk while the US is aiming to get doses to its entire population of 330 million.In India’s case, however, after the immediate target is achieved, a larger section of the remaining 1 billion population will still need to the vaccinated.“It (vaccine drive) is being scaled up and the number of vaccinations has increased significantly over the past few days. In fact, between March 1 and 4, the numbers have gone up from about 600,000 to at least 1.4 million. It will further increase in coming days,” said Rajesh Bhushan, Union health secretary.Arora, too, said the country was easily capable of vaccinating people at a much faster rate. “For polio we vaccinated at least 170 million children in a week, so 300 million is not an impossible number. It is very much doable and we will do it,” he added.A second expert said tapping into the immunisation network for Covid-19 may not be easy. “For Covid immunisation drive, the government has involved private players in a big way, unlike the universal immunisation programme that is largely government dependent. It would have been a good idea to involve national immunisation network resources but we need to keep in mind that there is also routine immunisation to take care of. The government needs to balance out Covid vaccination drive and routine immunisation drive,” said Dr K Srinath Reddy, founder, Public Health Foundation of India.A third expert highlighted the need to ensure adequate supplies. “The scale up is happening and if you see the numbers during the past few days, the numbers have grown significantly; almost doubled. The government focus is also to reach rural areas and while opening it up like they do under regular immunisation programme will be ideal, it also depends on the vaccine supplies. They can’t expand unless the vulnerable population is covered,” said Dr Naresh Trehan, founder, Medanta Hospital.Another expert flagged the need to ensure vaccine coverage across the country is more equitable. “Once we get to rural India, there may be less demand and also weaker supply channels. That could slow down the coverage,” said Ramanan Laxminarayan, director, Centre for Disease Dynamics, Economics and Policy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/widen-network-say-experts-as-india-aims-to-boost-drive-101614983519071.html
06-03-2021||India||New Delhi rejects report as ‘misleading, misplaced’||India on Friday rejected a report by the US government-funded NGO Freedom House that downgraded the country’s status as a democracy and free society to “partly free”, describing it as “misleading, incorrect and misplaced”.A detailed statement from the government rebutted points raised in the report titled “Freedom in the World 2021 - Democracy under Siege”, and pointed out that “many states” in the country were ruled by parties other than the one at the national level, and that the election process is free and fair and conducted by an independent election body.“This reflects the working of a vibrant democracy, which gives space to those who hold varying views,” the statement said.The external affairs ministry, which too rejected Freedom House’s report, also took exception to the depiction of Jammu and Kashmir in the map used in the document.“The political judgements of Freedom House are as inaccurate and distorted as their maps,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava told a regular news briefing.“For example, on the Covid-19 situation, there is a widespread appreciation in the world of our response, of our high recovery rate, and our low fatality rate,” he added.“India has robust institutions and well-established democratic practices. We do not need sermons, especially from those who cannot get their basics right,” Srivastava he said.The report said India “appears to have abandoned its potential to serve as a global democratic leader”, and that the country’s fall “from the upper ranks of free nations could have a particularly damaging impact on global democratic standards”.Freedom House’s reports for 2018, 2019 and 2020 rated India as “free”, though the country’s scores on a scale of 100 declined in this period from 77 to 71. In the latest report, India has a score of 67. The report mentioned last year’s Delhi riots, the country’s management of Covid, internet shutdowns, and the action under the Foreign Currency Regulation Act against Amnesty International.On the issue of “discriminatory policies against Muslims” and last year’s riots in northeast Delhi, the government statement said all citizens are treated “with equality as enshrined under the Constitution...and all laws are applied without discrimination”. Due process is followed in law and order matters, “irrespective of the identity of the alleged instigator”.In the case of the riots, the law enforcement machinery “acted swiftly in an impartial and fair manner” and “proportionate and appropriate actions were taken to control the situation”.On the use of the sedition law, the statement said “public order” and “police” are state subjects and the responsibility for maintaining law and order, including investigation and prosecution of crimes, rests primarily with state governments. “Therefore, measures as deemed fit are taken by law enforcement authorities to preserve public order,” it said.The statement, while referring to the government’s response on human rights organisations, said the Constitution provides adequate safeguards for protecting human rights, while the National Human Rights Commission and state commissions work to protect such rights. The national panel also works to investigate and make recommendations in cases of violation of rights.The statement said the government attaches “highest importance to the safety and security of all residents...including journalists”, and has issued a special advisory to states on the safety of journalists. “Discussion, debate and dissent is part of Indian democracy,” it added.Temporary suspension of telecom services, including the internet, are governed by the Temporary Suspension of Telecom Services (Public Emergency or Public Safety) Rules, 2017, and such suspensions need the authorisation of the secretary in the ministry of home affairs or of the secretary in-charge of the home departments in states. The “temporary suspension of telecom/internet services is resorted to with the overarching objective of maintaining law and order under strict safeguards”, it said.It pointed out Amnesty International received permission under the FCRA Act only once and that too 20 years ago. Since then, Amnesty International had been denied FCRA approval despite its repeated applications. “However, in order to circumvent the FCRA regulations, Amnesty UK remitted large amounts of money to four entities registered in India, by misclassifying the remittance as Foreign Direct Investment (FDI),” it said. This “malafide rerouting of money was in contravention of extant legal provisions”, it added.The statement also defended the government’s response to the Covid-19 pandemic, saying a nationwide lockdown was put in place across the country as any “mass movement of people would have spread the disease rapidly”. The government took various measures to ensure people didn’t face “undue distress”, such as allowing state governments to use the State Disaster Response Fund for providing food, healthcare, shelter to homeless people and migrant workers, and a relief package of ₹1.7 lakh crore that covered migrant workers.“The lockdown period allowed the government to ramp up production capacity of masks, ventilators, Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) kits etc and thereby effectively prevent the spread of the pandemic,” the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-delhi-rejects-report-as-misleading-misplaced-101614981484335.html
06-03-2021||India||OCIs need nod for Tablighi, journalistic work: Centre||Overseas Citizen of India (OCI) cardholders can’t undertake Tablighi Jamaat, journalism, research or mountaineering activities without special permission from the Centre, according to rules prepared by the Union home ministry.A home ministry spokesperson said these rules prepared by the Foreigners’ Division were part of a brochure issued on November 15, 2019. The rules were consolidated and notified on Thursday.The OCI cardholders, including PIO cardholders, are foreign nationals holding the passport of another country and are not citizens of India.According to the notification, starting from March 4, OCI cardholders are “entitled to multiple entry lifelong visa for visiting India for any purpose provided that they will have to take a special permission or a Special Permit from the competent authority or the Foreigners Regional Registration Officer or the Indian mission concerned for undertaking any research; any Missionary or Tabligh or Mountaineering or Journalistic activities; internship in any foreign diplomatic missions or foreign government organisations or to take up employment in any foreign diplomatic missions here; or to visit any place which falls within protected or restricted or prohibited areas as notified by the Central government”.There was a crackdown on activists of the Tablighi Jamaat – an organisation that works to exhort Muslims to follow Islam as it was practised during the times of Prophet Mohammed – in March-April 2020 during the initial phase of the Covid-19 pandemic in the country, after one of their gatherings in Delhi turned into a superspreader event.The notification said OCI cardholders will be exempted from registering with the Foreigners Regional Registration Officer or Foreigners Registration Officer for a stay of any length in India, but they must inform authorities by email whenever there is a change in their permanent residential address and their occupation.Like NRIs, OCI cardholders can appear for the national entrance tests such as NEET, JEE (Mains) and Joint Entrance Examination (Advanced), or other tests to make them eligible for admission only against any NRI seat or any supernumerary seat, provided the cardholder shall not be eligible for admission against any seat reserved exclusively for Indian citizens, the notification said.They can also purchase and sell immovable properties in India, other than agricultural land or farm houses, and pursue professions such as doctors, dentists, nurses, advocates, architects, chartered accountants and pharmacists according to provisions of applicable relevant statutes or laws.Milan Vaishnav, a South Asia expert with Carnegie Endowment for International Piece, said, “I think the new rules regarding OCI cardholders should be seen in conjunction with the recent leaked GoM report on combating “anti-India” media and popular narratives. By circumscribing the activities of OCIs, the government hopes to exert a tighter grip on the narrative. The irony, however, is that if OCIs are deterred from writing or researching about India, the narrative will be defined by those who are even more far-removed from the realities on the ground.” He does not have an OCI card yet but is in the process of applying for one.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ocis-need-nod-for-tablighi-journalistic-work-centre-101614981055910.html
06-03-2021||India||K’taka ministers move court against airing of ‘defamatory content’||Six cabinet ministers of Karnataka have moved the city civil court in Bengaluru in what appears to be a move to restrict the media from publishing or broadcasting “defamatory content” against them.The six ministers include Shivaram Hebbar, Dr K Sudhakar, Byrathi Basavaraj, B.C Patil, ST Somashekar and Narayana Gowda, according to the original suit filed at the Additional City Civil and Sessions Judges in Mayo Hall in Bengaluru.All six ministers could not be reached for comment and text messages seeking a response went unanswered.The filing of the case comes days after their ministerial colleague, Ramesh Jarkiholi, was forced to resign from B.S.Yediyurappa-led cabinet after a complaint of alleged sexual exploitation was filed against him.The case has 68 defendants, including all major Kannada and English TV news channels, newspapers among others. The defendants list also includes Google and other social media platforms like Facebook, Twitter and YouTube.Hindustan Times has viewed the copy of the case that has been filed even though there is no clear mention of the exact prayer sought by the petitioners.The six leaders who have moved the court are the same who had helped the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) form the government by defecting the H. D.Kumaraswamy-led Janata Dal (Secular) or JD(S)-Congress coalition government in 2019.Jarkiholi, considered the catalyst of the defection drama, had also helped others to jump ship to the BJP that brought Yediyurappa to power for the fourth time in the state.After the allegations on Jarkiholi, there were unverified reports of several similar videos and other sex scandals against other cabinet ministers.The developments are not helping Yediyurappa, who has spent the last two years in power dousing one crisis after another, managing expectations of the turncoats and scrambling to get some revenue to the cash-starved state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ktaka-ministers-move-court-against-airing-of-defamatory-content-101614980718399.html
06-03-2021||India||India set to achieve Paris pact targets before deadline: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said India is set to achieve its targets under the Paris climate agreement well before the deadline while emphasising that behavioural change was the most powerful way to fight climate change.“Friends, it would make you all happy that over the last seven years India’s forest cover has grown significantly. The population of lions, tigers, leopards and waterfalls have grown. These are great indicators of positive behavioural changes. It is this changes that convince us that India is well on track to achieve its Paris Agreement targets well before the target date of 2030,” Modi said at the virtual event CERAWeek 2021, an annual energy conference organised by IHS Markit.India is a signatory to the Paris Agreement under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. As part of its Nationally Determined Contribution (NDC), India has three quantitative climate change goals -- reduction in the emissions intensity of gross domestic product (GDP) by 33 to 35% by 2030 from the 2005 level, achieving about 40% cumulative electric power installed capacity from non-fossil fuel based energy resources by 2030 and creating an additional carbon sink of 2.5 to 3 billion tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent through additional forest and tree cover by 2030.PM Modi on Friday received the CERA Week Global Energy and Environment Leadership Award instituted to recognise commitment of leadership on solutions and policies for energy access, affordability and environmental stewardship.“It is with great humility that I accept the CERA Week Global Energy and Environment Leadership Award. I dedicate this award to the people of our great Motherland, India... I dedicate this award to the glorious tradition of our land that has shown the way when it comes to caring for the environment,” he said.Modi said a close bond between nature and people was central to Indian culture and people of India were leaders when it came to caring for the environment. “Nature and divinity are closely linked. Our gods and goddesses are associated with some or the other tree or animal. Trees and animals are also sacred,” he said.He said Mahatma Gandhi was the greatest environment champion to have ever lived. “If humanity had followed the path given by him we would not have faced many of the problems we do today,” he said.Explaining India’s tradition of water conservation, he urged people to visit Mahatma Gandhi’s hometown of Porbandar in Gujarat where underground tanks were constructed about 200 years ago to save rainwater.Speaking about Mahatma Gandhi’s principle of trusteeship, he gave the concept of “consumption with compassion”. At the core of trusteeship were “collectiveness, compassion and responsibility” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-set-to-achieve-paris-pact-targets-before-deadline-pm-modi-101614980359379.html
06-03-2021||India||CM in 1st list; DMK-Cong hit stalemate||The ruling AIADMK on Friday announced candidates for six constituencies for the upcoming assembly election, including those of chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami and his deputy O Panneerselvam while the opposition DMK allocated six seats to the Communist Party of India (CPI), a day after it gave the same number to the VCK.The All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) announced that Edappadi Palaniswami will contest the Edappadi constituency in his home turf of Salem district, while deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam will contest Bodinayakanur. The two leaders are seeking re-election from the seats they won in the 2016 assembly elections.The other names include fisheries minister D Jayakumar who will contest Royapuram and law minister CV Shanmugam from Villupuram. Former minister SP Shanmuganathan will contest Srivaikuntam and legislator S Thenmozhi has got the reserved constituency of Nilakottai.The AIADMK is seeking a third consecutive term in these elections to be conducted in a single phase to 234 assembly seats on April 6.The party late on Friday declared that the BJP will contest on 20 assembly seats and the Kanyakumari Lok Sabha seat, where bypolls are due. It has also allotted 23 assembly seats to the PMK but is yet to reach a seat-sharing pact with the DMDK.On Wednesday, former AIADMK interim general secretary V K Sasikala announced her decision to step aside from politics, a huge relief to the present AIADMK leadership of Palaniswami and Panneerselvam.On the other hand, the DMK’s stalemate continued with its main and long standing ally, the Congress, on seat sharing. According to party leaders, state Congress chief KS Alagiri was upset at the DMK not offering an adequate number of seats.“He was so upset with the way the DMK treated us in the first round of seat-sharing talks. When he brought up the question of the Congress’s self- respect, he couldn’t speak anymore and there was just silence in the room,” said a senior Congress leader on condition of anonymity.“Then everyone rallied for him. Congress members spoke up saying we will all support the decision whether he wants to break up the alliance with the DMK or stay.”The Congress sought more than 40 seats in the first round but the DMK offered 18, which later went up to 24.“They’re also saying 27 now but all these are just floating figures, nothing is concrete,” said the Congress leader.The DMK camp said the Congress had to understand that they were allotted 41 seats in the 2016 elections when there were fewer allies in the coalition.“We have to accommodate seven parties now and if the Congress was seeking this for a Lok Sabha election, it would have been different. Since it’s an assembly election, the DMK wants to contest a high number of seats so that we have a comfortable majority,” said a DMK leader not wishing to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cm-in-1st-list-dmk-cong-hit-stalemate-101614979715293.html
06-03-2021||India||EC orders removal of PM’s images from vaccine certificates: Officials||The Election Commission has asked the Union health ministry to ensure that the photograph of Prime Minister Narendra Modi is removed from the Covid-19 vaccination certificates in the four states and one Union territory headed for polls, people familiar with the matter said on Friday.Saying that the photos violate the model code of conduct, the EC told the health ministry that “the point of the model code of conduct is to ensure a level playing field, this goes against that as it can count as undue publicity,” one of the people said. The development came days after the EC sought a response from the ministry on a complaint of Trinamool Congress MP Derek O’Brien who said that through the certificates, the PM was “exploiting his post and powers”.The health ministry in its response said that the vaccination systems were designed before the elections were announced, the person cited above said. “The ministry explained that the certificates were being issued as per the ongoing scheme. The model code of conduct kicked into force later. And certificate is system generated,” the person said citing the response of the ministry.The EC announced the poll schedule for West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Assam and Puducherry on February 26.The person said it was imperative that the photographs are removed from certificates distributed in the poll bound states, adding that the system can continue in other states.India kicked off the second phase of its vaccination drive on March 1 by expanding the vaccine coverage to people over 60 years of age and those over 45 with significant comorbidities.O’Brien’s complaint, accessed by HT, stated that the use of the Prime Minister’s image on the certificates is a clear violation of part VII (Party in Power) of the Model Code of Conduct. “The party in power whether at the Centre or in the State or States concerned, shall ensure that no cause is given for any complaint that it has used its official position for the purposes of its election campaign and in particular…(4) Issue of advertisement at the cost of public exchequer in the newspapers and other media,” O’Brien said in the complaint.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ec-orders-removal-of-pm-s-images-from-vaccine-certificates-officials-101614978855923.html
06-03-2021||India||PM to head committee, Sonia and Tendulkar among 259 members||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will head a high-level committee of 259 eminent personalities from various fields, including Union home minister Amit Shah, Congress president Sonia Gandhi and Chief Justice of India Sharad Bobde, to commemorate 75 years of the country’s independence, the government notified on Friday.Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla, former President Pratibha Patil, economist Amartya Sen, cricketer Sachin Tendulkar, spiritual leader Baba Ramdev, chief ministers of states and senior political leaders are among those included in the panel.“The Committee will provide policy direction and guidelines for formulation of programmes for the commemoration of 75th anniversary of Indian Independence, at the national and international levels,” the culture ministry said in a statement.As reported by HT on Thursday, the Centre has decided to launch a grand celebration to mark 75 years of Independence with events, exhibitions, rallies and tourism outreach programmes. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will kick off the festivities in Gujarat on March 12, the 91st anniversary of the historic Dandi March, officials said on Wednesday.The programme – Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav – will commence 75 weeks prior to August 15, 2022, and end on August 15, 2023.The culture ministry is the nodal point for all events, which will include exhibitions on freedom fighters Mahatma Gandhi, Vallabhbhai Patel and Subhas Chandra Bose, the officials quoted above said. All government departments and state governments will come up with their own plans to mark the occasion.Exhibitions on Gandhi, Patel and Bose will be organised by the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting across various locations; states will hold exhibitions on other unsung heroes of the freedom struggle. The celebrations will last through the 25 days of the Dandi March, undertaken by Gandhi and his followers in 1930 to protest a colonial salt tax, and conclude on April 5.Chief secretaries of all states will choose two or three places of historical significance, with a total of 75 destinations selected across the country. Youth clubs, National Service Scheme, National Cadet Corps volunteers, in collaboration with the department of youth affairs, will organise cycle rallies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-to-head-committee-sonia-and-tendulkar-among-259-members-101614978471169.html
06-03-2021||India||NIA probes Jamaat-e-Islami’s Jammu and Kashmir chapter||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has launched an investigation against the Jamaat-e-Islami (JeI), Jammu & Kashmir, and its office-bearers on allegations that they support terror activities in the Valley in association with the Hizbul Mujahideen and other terror outfits at the behest of Pakistan, people familiar with the matter said.In its first FIR registered against JeI, J&K a few weeks ago, the central anti-terror probe agency invoked terror charges on specific information that the organisation was funding and supporting anti-India activities with an ultimate goal of secession of J&K from India, the people cited above added.The Cabinet Committee on Security (CCS) banned JeI after the Pulwama terror attack in 2019, in which 40 Indian troopers were killed and which brought India and Pakistan to the brink of war. Over 100 JeI, J&K members, including its chief Abdul Hameed Fayaz were arrested by the J&K Police at that time. Fayaz continues to be behind bars.An NIA officer, who asked not to be named, said they will “examine the funding of Jamaat-e-Islami [J&K] over the years, its properties, its links with separatist leaders and terror outfits – particularly Hizbul Mujahideen, since several members of the Hizb’s cadre at some point were JeI members”.JeI, J&K is intrinsically linked with United Jehad Council (based in Pakistan) which is the “umbrella organisation” of all major terrorist outfits, he added.When JeI, J&K was banned under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) on February 28, 2019, the Centre said: “JeI [J&K] stands for securing right of self-determination/independence from Indian dominion. However, its militant wing headed by Mohammad Yousuf Shah alias Syed Shah-ud-Din (formerly Ruken JeI) stands for merger of J&K with Pakistan. In order to achieve its goal, JeI is operating through Kashmir Centre at Lahore, for giving International publicity drive to the ongoing movement where one Mohammad Sofi alias Safi (Ruken JeI) having clandestinely exfiltrated is co-ordinating the activities of JeI related militant groups as well.”The government added: “At the international level, its activists like Ghulam Nabi Fai, Executive Director, Kashmir American Council USA and Syed Nazir Geelani (London based) are spearheading the anti-Indian campaign aimed at secession of the Jammu & Kashmir from Union of India. These people and their organizations issue press statement about baseless alleged human rights violations in order to malign the Indian forces combating terrorism in Jammu & Kashmir.”The Jamaat-e-Islami came into existence in 1941, spearheaded by Moulana Abul Alla Madoodi and with its headquarters at Lahore. After Partition, JeI Hindi separated from this body and established its headquarters in Rampur, Uttar Pradesh.A branch was established in Jammu & Kashmir in 1945 and Pir Saad-ud-Din as its Amir (chief).The Jamaat-e-Islami was formed in 1941, with its headquarters in Lahore, under the leadership of Moulana Abul Alla Madoodi. After the partition, the outfit was split into three separate independent organisations based in India, Pakistan and Bangladesh, each.According to Indian agencies, the JeI has maintained that J&K is a disputed territory.JeI Hind, headquartered at Uttar Pradesh’s Rampur, advocates for the righteous way for peace and abiding well-being.“The aims and objectives of the party at the time of its inception were to propagate Islamic teachings and creation of an Islamic State with life based on Shariat. However, after the accession of Jammu & Kashmir with India, JeI, J&K started to follow the instructions and directions imparted by JeI of Pakistan and began to question the accession of the J&K with Union of India,” according to a ministry of home affairs document seen by HT.The document added that the Hizbul Mujahideen, constituted in 1989, is the military wing of JeI, J&K.“With the aforesaid political ideology, this militant outfit has been indulging in acts of armed violence for more than two decades now and is the biggest subversive group spearheading the current secessionist movement in the valley, with Pak/POK support in terms of arms training, supply of arms and ammunition and guidance. Both JeI and Hizb-ul-Mujahedeen (HM) are currently engaged in increasing their influence through vicious means including merger of smaller militant groups with it,” the document added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-probes-jamaat-e-islami-s-j-k-chapter-101614973701557.html
06-03-2021||India||YSRC bags all 6 MLC seats unopposed; silent on abolition of legislative council||The ruling YSR Congress party in Andhra Pradesh has won all the six seats in the state legislative council without any election, taking its strength in the 58-member council to 20.On Thursday, the last day for filing of nominations for the six MLC seats under MLAs’ quota, only YSRC candidates filed their papers and the opposition Telugu Desam Party stayed away from the contest as it does not have enough numbers in the assembly to field its candidates.As a result, all the six YSRC candidates – Balli Kalyan Chakravarthy, Challa Bhagiratha Reddy, Mohammad Iqbal, Duvvada Srinivas, C Ramachandraiah and Kareemunnisa – are elected to the stat3e legislative council unanimously.“An official declaration of the elected candidates will be done on March 8, after the last date for withdrawal of nominations,” an official in the state legislature secretariat said.Of the six YSRC members, Kalyan Chakravarthi is the son of former Tirupati MP late Balli Durgaprasada Rao and Bhagiratha Reddy is the son of former MLC Challa Ramakrishna Reddy. Both Durgaprasada Rao and Ramakrishna Reddy died of Covid-19 in the last six months.Interestingly, the election of the six YSRC members comes at a time when a resolution adopted by the Jagan Mohan Reddy government in the state assembly in January 2020, seeking abolition of the legislative council, is still pending with the Union home ministry.During the adoption of the resolution on January 27 last year, the chief minister strongly pitched for the abolition of the legislative council stating that it had become a burden on the state exchequer and a stumbling block in the government’s efforts to pass crucial bills.Jagan took the decision to abolish the legislative council with the TDP, which had 30 members in the 58-member council as against 10 members of YSRC, stalled the passage of several bills, including the most crucial bill for the formation of three capitals for decentralisation of administration and also the one on introduction of English medium in the government schools.He also argued that the state government was incurring ₹60 crore annual expenditure on the council and a poor state like AP could not afford it.Subsequently, the number of YSRC members in the legislative council gradually started going up, as the vacancies arose. Former TDP MLCs Dokka Manikya Varaprasad and Pothula Sunitha, who resigned from their posts, got re-elected to the council on YSRC tickets. Two other YSRC leaders – Pandula Ravindra Babu and Zakia Khanum-- were nominated to the council under the governor’s quota, taking the YSRC tally to 14.By June, the YSRC is expected to get absolute majority in the legislative council when some more sitting members complete their term. There would be 10 vacancies under local bodies’ quota and the YSRC is expecting to win all of them, besides three more seats under the Governor’s quota.“By June 9, the YSRC is going to get absolute majority in the state legislative council. We are sure to win all the seats in the elections to be held for the vacant seats,” government whip G Srikanth Reddy said.Asked whether the state government has dropped its resolution sent to the Centre seeking abolition of the legislative council, Reddy said no such decision had been taken. “It is for the Centre to take a decision. Till such time, filling up of the vacancies arising in the council is a Constitutional obligation,” he said.A senior YSRC leader, quoting anonymity, said the Jagan government will not pursue the matter with the Centre on abolition of the council. “When we get enough strength in the council, why should we insist on the abolition? At the same time, we shall not withdraw our proposal,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ysrc-bags-all-6-mlc-seats-unopposed-silent-on-abolition-of-legislative-council-101614973288491.html
06-03-2021||India||Andhra CM Jagan Reddy urges SC to restart Amravati land scam probe||The Andhra Pradesh government told the Supreme Court on Friday that the probe into the Amravati land scam involving the state’s former Advocate General and daughters of a sitting Supreme Court judge, should go on and the state has no objection if the same is court-monitored and handled by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI).The statement came forth in a petition filed by Andhra Pradesh government challenging an order of the Andhra Pradesh High Court which imposed a blanket ban on media in September 2020 to report on contents of the first information report (FIR) registered by state’s Anti Corruption Bureau. The FIR disclosed the alleged role played by former Advocate General Dammlapati Srinivas and 12 others in purchasing land in Amravati - the proposed state capital – at a throwaway price. On November 25 last year, the Supreme Court had lifted the media gag order imposed by the HC.When the matter came up before a bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and R Subhash Reddy on Friday, the bench adjourned it to April 7 as it had no time for a full fledged hearing. Senior advocate Rajeev Dhavan who appeared for the state government told the Court that it was willing to concede to three demands put forth by the alleged accused. “No coercive action will be taken against the accused. Let the case be investigated by the Central Bureau of Investigation and it can be court-monitored. These are some assurances we are willing to give that will cover nearly three quarters of the case of the other side. But let the investigation continue.”The bench said, “The other side have heard what you have said. They will respond to your suggestion by the next date of hearing.” This is not the first time the YS Jagan Mohan Reddy government has offered to transfer the case to CBI. In September 2020, Reddy had met Union Home Minister Amit Shah and requested the Centre to order a CBI probe into the alleged irregularities in Amravati land deals during the previous Telugu Desam Party (TDP) regime.Presently, the case investigation has been stalled by the same order of the High Court by which the media gag was imposed. The apex court has not disturbed the directions of the HC staying investigation and no coercive action against Srinivas. The top court, however, restrained the High Court not to finally decide the writ petition pending before it.As per the FIR, between June and December 2014, speculation was rife about Amravati being the prospective new capital of the state. Srinivas was Additional Advocate General from June 2014 to May 2016 and Advocate General from May 2016 to May 2019. Preliminary probe by ACB revealed that Srinivas was privy to information about exact location of future capital and with an intention to make pecuniary gain, his brother-in-law acquired close to 16 plots near Amravati. Some of these plots were sold to Srinivas, his wife and father-in-law at the same rates at which it was purchased from landowners. Certain plots were similarly sold to other individuals named in the FIR, which included close relatives of a senior Supreme Court judge, Justice NV Ramana.Action in this case began on March 23, 2020 when the state government wrote to Union Government seeking probe by Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into alleged irregularities in allotment of land at Amravati. This was based on findings of a Cabinet sub-committee in December 2019. A special investigation team was constituted in February 2020 which too got stayed by the High Court. On September 5, a fresh complaint raising the same allegation was filed that was marked to ACB. A preliminary enquiry led to lodging of FIR on September 15.Srinivas told the Court on the previous date that as the state’s law officer he appeared in several criminal cases lodged against the present Chief Minister. His lawyers argued that it was “absurd to say that a law officer had prior knowledge of the exact location of capital” and told the Court that he was forced to approach the HC as secret investigation was started against him by digging information from income tax department and registration of FIR in order to “defame and scandalize” his reputation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-cm-jagan-reddy-urges-sc-to-restart-amravati-land-scam-probe-101614972457100.html
06-03-2021||India||6 new cases of UK’s Covid-19 strain found in Indore, warning issued||After six new cases of the UK strain of Covid-19 was found in Indore, the divisional commissioner issued a warning and said if the condition deteriorates, night curfew will be imposed in the district.The active coronavirus cases in Indore touched 1330 i.e., 37% of the total 3308 active cases in Madhya Pradesh. On Thursday, as many as 1776 cases were reported from Indore.Indore divisional commissioner Pawan Sharma said, “In all 106 samples have been sent to Delhi to check for the new strain in February. The six people, who have tested positive for the new strain, don’t have any national or international travel history. This is a serious issue because the infection of the new strain spreads very fast. Earlier, the new strain was confirmed in two people, who had returned from UK in January.”Sharma said the numbers of active cases are increasing by the day. If the condition doesn’t improve in the next three days, we have to write to the home department to seek permission to impose night curfew in the district.Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan also held a review meeting on Friday to discuss with the divisional commissioners the steps being taken to contain the spread of the infection.After Indore, the highest number of active cases have been reported from Bhopal, Jabalpur, Betul, Ujjain and Chhindwara on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6-new-cases-of-uk-s-covid-19-strain-found-in-indore-warning-issued-101614971477658.html
06-03-2021||India||Container Corporation of India to push production, end dependency on China||State-run Container Corporation of India (Concor) on Friday said it will no longer depend on China for its requirements for containers and will meet its need for around 8, 000 containers from domestic manufacturers.“As of now, all containers are imported because there is no manufacturing capability in India. We want to push India as a manufacturing hub for containers… Our requirement is 8,000 containers every year for the next five years. This is enough to support the start of manufacturing in India,” V Kalyana Rama, chairman and managing director of Concor, said at a press conference on Friday.Concor, which spends about ₹200 crore annually on procurement of containers, has already given a developmental order for 1,000 containers each to Bharat Heavy Electricals (BHEL) and Braithwaite & Co -- both public sector undertakings. Concor said it will soon issue tenders for the remaining 6,000 containers wherein only domestic firms will be able to participate as per certain government rules.He added that it is important that containers made in India are globally competitive as there is a huge demand for containers in the global market. However, currently, there is a cost difference of about 25-30 per cent in containers made in India and abroad. “We need to see how we can reduce the cost of production to compete globally,” he said.He also added that two companies are developing prototypes currently and testing results should be out by next month||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/container-corporation-of-india-to-push-production-end-dependency-on-china-101614970449671.html
06-03-2021||India||BJP releases first list of 70 candidates for Assam polls||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), heading the coalition government in Assam, released a list of 70 candidates on Friday for the first two phases of the assembly polls in the state.National general secretary of the party Arun Singh released the list in Delhi in the presence of chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal, Assam unit president Ranjeet Kumar Dass and senior minister Himanta Biswa Sarma.As per the seat-sharing formula decided after several meetings in Delhi over the past two days, the BJP will contest 92 of the total 126 seats while alliance partner Asom Gana Parishad (AGP) will contest 26. Eight seats have been allotted to new ally United Peoples’ Party Liberal (UPPL).Voting for the election to the Assam assembly would take place in three phases on March 27, April 1 and April 6. Names of the remaining BJP candidates will be announced later.Sonowal will contest his present constituency Majuli while Dass and Sarma would contest the Patacharkuchi and Jalukbari seats (which will go to the polls in the third phase) respectively. Dass represented the Sarbhog seat in 2016.“The decision to allot the Patacharkuchi seat to our state unit chief was taken as per the wishes of local party workers. Hence respecting their demand, Dass would contest a new seat,” Sarma said.In the first list, 11 of the BJP’s sitting MLAs have been replaced with new faces. There is speculation that upset with denial of tickets, several of these legislators could join other parties or contest as independent candidates.Two former Congress ministers, Gautam Roy and Ajanta Neog, who joined the BJP a few months ago were given tickets from the Katigorah and Golaghat seats, respectively.The alliance partners decided not to give a ticket to former chief minister and AGP founder Prafulla Kumar Mahanta from the Barhampur seat, which he has been winning consecutively since 1991.Mahanta who was undergoing treatment in Delhi returned to Guwahati on Friday. There is speculation that a miffed Mahanta might split the party and field candidates on 15 seats or even join the Congress-led alliance.Mahanta’s seat will be contested by the BJP this time. The saffron party will also have candidates in three other seats, Lakhimpur, Kamalpur and Naharkatiya, which the AGP won in 2016. Similarly, the AGP got the Raha and Chabua seats won by the BJP five years ago.Addressing the press conference, AGP president Atul Bora announced the names of the 26 seats the party would contest, without disclosing candidates’ names. The list of seats allotted to the UPPL and its candidates will be announced later in Guwahati.In 2016, the BJP fielded candidates on 84 seats and won 60 while the AGP contested 24 and won 14. The Bodoland Peoples’ Front, which was part of the BJP-led coalition but joined the Congress-led grand alliance this time, won 12 of the 16 seats it contested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjpreleases-first-list-of-70-candidates-for-assam-polls-101614968219326.html
06-03-2021||India||Kerala CM and Speaker knew about gold smuggling, HC told||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, three ministers of his LDF (Left Democratic Front) cabinet and the Speaker of the assembly were aware of the gold and dollar smuggling activities routed through the United Arab Emirates (UAE) consulate in Thiruvananthapuram, the customs department told the Kerala High Court on Friday, citing the main accused in the case, Swapna Suresh.In the affidavit customs commissioner Sumit Kumar said the accused (Suresh) revealed in her statement that the CM and the former consular general had close connections and were part of several illegal monetary transactions. He added that Suresh also claimed that former principal secretary of the CM M Sivasankar, a senior IAS officer, was the main link between politicians, consulate officials and the smuggling syndicate. She further said that since she knew Arabic she was often called to translate their conversations, the affidavit added.The submission created a stir in the poll-bound state (elections are on April 6), with the chief minister and his CPI(M) dismissing it as a “cheap poll-time gimmick”.The Congress (it heads the UDF, the LFD’s main rival in the state) and the BJP sought the immediate resignation of the chief minister. “He has no right to continue in power for a minute. He has brought shame to the state,” said opposition leader, the Congress’ Ramesh Chennithala. “The CM and his ministers’ involvement is clear now. Vijayan can’t cling on to power now,” said BJP president K Surendran.Those named in Suresh’s statement, given last year to a magistrate under Section 164 of the Indian Penal Code, may be asked to explain things by the Enforcement Directorate, which on Friday, filed a fresh application in court seeking copies of the customs department’s affidavit and Suresh’s statement.Sivasankar has already come under fire for his connections with Suresh, was arrested, and is now out on bail.“The respondent (Swapan Suresh) clearly stated about the improper and illegal activities of the CM, three ministers and the Speaker. She also further stated about the involvement and kickbacks received by high-profile persons from various deals,” said the customs affidavit.HT has reviewed a copy of the affidavit. “The role of former principal secretary (M Sivasankar) in acting as the link between the high-profile politicians of Kerala and UAE consulate officials as well as some others in co-ordinating illegal financial dealings under the cover of various activities and projects of the state government was also revealed by her (Suresh),” it said.“She has stated with clarity about smuggling of foreign currency at the instance of the Chief Minister and Speaker.” .The customs filed this affidavit in response to a petition by the state government challenging certain remarks made by the chief judicial magistrate court (economic offence) in Kochi. Presently lodged in women jail in Thiruvananthapuram, Suresh requested the court last year to provide special security to her in jail and family members outside. A senior official of the customs said the Speaker, P Sivaramakrishnan will be summoned next week for questioning.The CPI(M) said central agencies are trying to discredit the state government. The party has announced protest rallies outside customs offices at several cities in response. “BJP has unleashed central agencies on Kerala in an effort to torpedo our unprecedented development. The Congress is in cahoots with them. People will not bow down to such anti-Kerala elements,” tweeted the Chief Minister. “It is move to denigrate the state and CM,” said CPI(M) acting secretary A Vijayaraghavan.The sensational gold smuggling case came to light last July after customs seized 30 kg gold from a consignment that came in the name of an official of the UAE consulate in Thiruvananthapuram as diplomatic baggage. Later the case was handed over to the National Investigation Agency (NIA) and at least four other central agencies are part of the probe now. The NIA and other agencies arrested 30 persons in connection with the case including the CM’s former principal secretary, M Sivasankar, and questioned a minister and many others. The central agencies also filed cases related to the smuggling of dollars and other crimes related to the main offence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-cm-and-speaker-knew-about-gold-smuggling-hc-told-101614968159305.html
06-03-2021||India||'Quad summit to become feature of Indo-Pacific engagement': Morrison||The leaders of the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue or Quad are set to hold their first summit in a virtual format this month, with the US administration taking the initiative to set up the meeting, people familiar with developments said on Friday.Confirmation about the meeting came from Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison, who told a news conference that he had discussed the matter with US President Joe Biden, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga in recent conversations.“So, I am looking forward to that first gathering of the Quad leaders. It will be the first-ever such gathering,” he said in response to a question from a reporter on whether he had received an invitation for the meeting.The people cited above said on condition of anonymity that the virtual summit is expected to be held on March 12.There was no official word from the Indian side on the development.Also read: 'India wants normal ties with all neighbours, including Pakistan' - MEAThe US had also taken the lead in organising the third meeting of the foreign ministers of the Quad on February 18, against the backdrop of continuing concerns over China’s actions across the region. That meeting had reiterated the group’s commitment to a rules-based world order underpinned by respect for territorial integrity and sovereignty.Formed in 2007, the Quad was revived in 2017 as a gathering of senior officials of the four countries. It was upgraded to the level of the foreign ministers in September 2019, reflecting the desire of the four countries to work more closely on shared interests in the Indo-Pacific and India’s comfort with the group.Morrison told the news conference that the four Quad leaders are looking forward to the first virtual summit and follow-up face-to-face meetings.“This will become a feature of the Indo-Pacific engagement but it’s not going to be a big bureaucracy with a big secretariat and those sort of things. It will be four leaders, four countries working together constructively for the peace, prosperity and stability of the Indo-Pacific, which is good for everyone in the Indo-Pacific,” he said.“It’s particularly good for our ASEAN friends [and] those throughout the southwest Pacific to ensure that they can continue with their own sovereignty and their own certainty for their own futures,” he added.Morrison said the Quad Summit was one of the first things he and US president Joe Biden had discussed when they spoke on phone on February 3. The Quad, he added, was central to ongoing arrangements between Australia and the US.“The Quad is very central to the US and our thinking about the region and looking at the Indo-Pacific also through the prism of our ASEAN partners and their vision of the Indo-Pacific,” he said.Biden and US secretary of state Antony Blinken had made clear that their re-engagement in multilateral organisations is “key to building stability and peace in the Indo-Pacific”, Morrison said. “We share that view, we encourage that view, and we strongly welcome that view,” he added.The move to hold the first Quad Summit fits in with the Biden administration’s position that China is its biggest security challenge and competitor on the global stage.While the former Trump administration had talked of formalising and expanding the Quad, questions have been raised on whether the Biden administration will adopt a more cautious approach to the group as a counter-balance to China.Chinese officials have likened the Quad to a “mini NATO” and said its activities are aimed at targeting third parties, a charge rejected by the four members of the group.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1st-virtual-quad-summit-to-promote-prosperity-stability-of-indopacific-101614966986134.html
06-03-2021||India||Natural hazards, infra development magnified Chamoli disaster: ICIMOD||Kathmandu-based International Centre for Integrated Mountain Development (ICIMOD) has underlined the link between the February 7 glacier breach disaster in Uttarakhand’s Rishi Ganga river with infrastructure development, particularly the construction of hydropower projects in the higher reaches of the Himalayas.In its analysis of the disaster published on March 3 titled “Understanding the Chamoli flood: Cause, process, impacts, and context of rapid infrastructure development” by cryosphere experts, hydrologists, climate scientists have concluded that the Hindu Kush Himalayas are a multi-hazard environment and that hydropower projects, apart from amplifying disaster risk, impact environmental flows, water quality, and the health of aquatic and terrestrial ecosystems. On the other hand, these projects are also facing risks from climate change-related flow variations, extreme events, erosion and sedimentation, and glacial laker outburst floods (GLOFs)/ Landslides Dammed Outburst Flood (LDOFs).Also Read | Experts slam claim that human activity not behind Chamoli disasterThe analysis is significant because the Defence Geo-informatics Research Establishment, under Defence Research and Development Organisation, had recently said the tragedy was not “immediately” a human-induced disaster. “There is a need to look upon the demographic pressures in a systematic way but as far as this particular tragedy is concerned in our preliminary investigations the role of human activity is not the immediate cause... It [glacial breach] was far away from the area where several constructions [NTPC hydel power project in Tapovan and Rishi Ganga hydel plant] are taking place,” said Lokesh Sinha, director of DGRE.“HKH is a multi-hazard environment. Often these hazards are of a cascading nature with multiple hazards interconnected with a primary hazard trigger and a chain of secondary and tertiary hazards. Human interference in the mountain environment is rapidly increasing. Mountain settlements are increasing in size and land use patterns are changing. Infrastructure such as roads and hydropower projects are rapidly penetrating mountain landscapes. The interplay between natural hazards with human settlements and infrastructure is an important aspect, which can significantly escalate the impacts of event like the Chamoli flood,” ICIMOD said in its analysis.A cascading disaster is a common phenomenon observed in the Hindu Kush Himalayas region and one of the prominent recent examples is the Uttarakhand flood of 2013, which started with heavy rainfall and caused a chain of events, including landslides, flash floods, and the Chorabari lake outburst and debris flow, which killed more than 6,000 people and damaged roads, bridges, and buildings, the analysis said, adding that “Similar hazard events or in combination with other geophysical processes can damage several hydropower stations, which can be further exacerbated with future floods in the context of global climate change also suggest that snow avalanches involving wet snow even in winter will occur more frequently in the mountainous regions.”There are 105 existing hydropower projects (HP) (≥ 40 MW) with an installed capacity of 37 GW, 61 projects (≥40 MW) currently under construction (39 GW) and 890 projects (≥10 MW) in various stages of planning (242 GW) in the Karakoram-Himalaya region. Most of the existing hydropower projects were built in the past two or three decades. Now projects are gradually moving upstream where the exposure to mountain hazards is high, the chances of multiple hazards happening in combination and occurring more frequently, and cascading effects can create compounding impacts on the system.Overall, ICIMOD has concluded that the Chamoli flood was not caused by a GLOF as there were no significant glacial lakes in the area. The flood was triggered by a massive rockslide just below Ronti peak, of ~22 million m3 of rock mixed with ice and snow. The energy of the fall melted the ice creating the source of flood. This also remobilised the debris and ice on the valley floor and created an excessive flood wave. A couple of days prior to the flash floods, a strong western disturbance had resulted in heavy precipitation, which may have increased the flood magnitude downstream.The disaster and related debris flow are likely to have caused damage to four hydropower projects along the Rishi Ganga, Dhauliganga and Alaknanda river path. The Rishi Ganga Hydropower Project (13.2 MW) near Raini village, located 14km downstream from the impact site was the first to be hit by the debris after the rockslide. The unfinished Tapovan Vishnugad Hydropower Project (520 MW) , 8km downstream from Rishi Ganga Hydropower Project, was the second hydropower plant hit by the flood. The Vishnuprayag Hydro Electric Project 35km downstream and Vishnugad Pipalkoti Hydro Electric Project 55km downstream may have also been impacted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/natural-hazards-infra-development-magnified-chamoli-disaster-icimod-101614942658848.html
06-03-2021||India||Didn’t expect a bed of roses, but the armed forces groomed me: Lieutenant General Madhuri Kanitkar||Her journey in the Indian Army began at a time when cadets still marched in traditional sarees to become officers. Clad in a smart uniform with her hair up in a bun, Lieutenant General Madhuri Kanitkar’s (AVSM, VSM) voice asking everyone, “How’s the Josh?!” reverberated through the NCC auditorium filled with cadets and officers of the armed forces attending the exclusive screening of National Geographic’s Women’s Day special film - Women of honour : Destination Army. Being the senior most woman officer in the Indian Army, Kanitkar is the third woman to attain this position. Serving in the defence for a span of thirty seven years in capacity of a medical professional, Dr Kanitkar’s life hasn’t exactly been a bed of roses. “When you’re working in any job the challenge is to balance your family and professional life. In the army it probably compounds more because you’re always on the move because of postings, and you’re moving your children and your family too and if you don’t have your spouse with you the difficulties seem more,” shares Kanitkar who had to stay away from her husband to serve the nation for many years.Not one to accept defeat, Kanitkar’s journey as a woman officer in the armed forces to rising to such a celebratory rank was successful because of her resilient attitude of taking everything in her stride! “Every time there was a challenge, I overcame it and said to myself ‘Ab yeh karliya toh ab main kuch bhi kar sakti hun,’ till the next challenge came and then the next, until today when I look back and say I think it was all worth it,” she shares adding, “Today the Army’s processes are so pro women! Postings are helped out. 24 years me and my husband were not posted together but I stand here being an empowered woman because I have the support of the army and my husband and I think that is what is important. And with each of these challenges I felt that I was becoming a stronger person.”When Kanitkar joined the armed forces, which still remains to be a feel dominated by male presence, was she mentally prepared for every challenge that would come her way and as an organisation, is the Indian Army gender sensitive? “I feel I came in the Indian army with my eyes open and I was not expecting a bed of roses so there were difficult times but the armed forces groomed me. It’s an organisation which toughens you and gives you an opportunity to become an officer, remain a lady, do your profession, and the whole nation looks up to you. Indian army is one of the most respected organisation, it’s the safest places to work in and you’re really respected. You’re respected not for a women, you’re respected as an individual as an officer and then you’re also a women,” shares Kanitkar.It’s natural to wonder how it feels to be a woman in a force where you’re surrounded by men at high ranks in a field that tests your mental resilience and physical strength. The armed forces is now slowly seeing an increase in the presence of female youngsters, “Your gender doesn’t matter. Soldier doesn’t have a gender. When I was the dean, the dean did not have a gender. Gender is something in our mind but we use that gender because that gender is power. We have an extra X chromosome. We have the ability to multi task and a fire in our belly and we are here to prove that we can do everything along side with our dream.” Author tweets @fizzybuddhaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/didnt-expect-a-bed-of-roses-but-the-armed-forces-groomed-me-lieutenant-general-madhuri-kanitkar-101614934316431.html
