07-03-2021||India||Woman, 32, mother of two rappels down 155-feet mountain blindfolded in record 58 seconds||A 32-year-old-woman and mother of two daughters made a world record by rappelling down blindfolded from a 155-feet mountain in 58 seconds.Selvi at the age of 32 rappelled down blindfolded from a 155 feet high rock mountain at Malaipattu village in Sriperumbudur Taluk of Kancheepuram district in Tamil Nadu.Speaking to ANI, Muthamil Selvi said, "Being an Indian woman and mother of two daughters, I wanted to achieve something. When I stood at a height of 155 feet, I just closed my eyes and imagined about the women in our society. Thus slowly, gathering courage, I triumphed over the struggle and achieved this world record."She also added, "All women are potentially capable of doing anything and everything. Men need to support them. Let all women shine in the world and all men support them in their lives.The record was entered in the UNICO Book of World Records and was certified by an official adjudicator R. Sivaraman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-32-mother-of-two-rappels-down-155-feet-mountain-blindfolded-in-record-58-seconds-101615139404203.html
07-03-2021||India||Women are not pleading, they’re leading: Smriti Irani||New Delhi: On the eve of the International Women’s Day, union minister for women and child development Smriti Irani spoke to HT on the challenges and opportunities the women have in the country, her role as a minister and the BJP’s battle axe against the Congress. Edited excerpts: We’re talking on the eve of the International Women’s Day. What’s your objective take on the status of women in our society?We’re at a point in our history where we’ve recognized that women not only have to be empowered but they, as citizens, must lead the change. For too long the empowerment narrative gave the impression that we were the weaker lot who needed additional support. More and more women--be they the younger age-bracket or those who have seen struggle--now know that all they needed was equal opportunity to compete, equal access to resources and credit and an acknowledgement of their achievement. When the Prime Minister speaks of women-led development, it’s a tectonic shift in narrative terms. Women are not pleading; they’re leading in all spheres of life.You may be right up to an extent. There are aberrations galore…I don’t say that there aren’t any challenges. The challenges have been aplenty before but today there’s an affirmation that irrespective of the challenges we can move towards change on the socio-political and economic front.Public outreach has to be there to sensitize the other gender. We’ve seen so many incidents (of violence against women)…. Our country has had an equal number of men who stood up for (gender) equality, who recognized the need to correct past wrongs. To paint all Indian men with one brush will be a disservice not only to the male gender but also to the female. Till such time that there’s recognition that both genders, for that matter all genders, need to work towards emancipation, I don’t think we’ll have a balanced outreach. Yes, there have been men who objectified women, who dissuaded women from reaching their full potential, who consistently broken the law, who ensured that women were kept away from resources and denied credit and respect. That said, there also have been men who stood shoulder to shoulder with their daughters, their wives. It’s a day also to acknowledge those men. You cannot look at all men in an inimical fashion.Nobody looks at them inimically. There’s a need to co-opt the other gender to empower our womenfolk.One of our achievements as a society has been that the gender narrative has acquired centrality. It’s not dismissed to the shadows, to just one day of celebration of international women’s day. There’s an affirmation: why only one day; why not apply yourself to solutions for women everyday; why not consistently celebrate the female potential?Your averments prompt the question: Women’s empowerment which is a much discussed issue in metropolitan India gets diluted as we move to million plus cities and the countryside.If you look at the political demography--- the voter turnout from 1962 to 2019--- it’s a matter of joy that the female participation has increased by 25-27 percent as compared to male voter turnout that’s up just about 7-8 percent. That predominantly has happened in rural areas. The trend shows an engaged voter consciousness among women. Many surveys and analysis brought to the fore that women have started voting on issues of development, infrastructure, security and the promises kept. What researchers call the sticky-ness factor showed that women stood steadfast with political organisations/representatives who delivered on issues of governance and development. It shows the maturity of the understanding women have of policies. Why’s it that stringent penal provisions against rape and other forms of violence against women, haven’t been a good enough deterrent….Deterrence comes from firm application of the law; by ensuring that investigation is speeded up. It comes with access to evidence-based justice, not justice which dis-balances (sic) the scale just because a decision has to be given in favour of a woman. There has been legislation which made the law more stringent; there’s effort as much to recognize that investigative and judicial processes need equal strengthening. Under the Nirbhaya fund we pronounced establishment of over one thousand fast-track courts especially in districts where the volume of crime against women and POCSO related cases was going up. That was a targeted intervention to support judicial processes additionally with funds. Looking at data from states, we’ve supported with funds police stations that do not have a women’s help desk. There’s a follow up by the MHA on these aspects. For the first time, we took steps to ensure that there’s an anti-human trafficking unit in each district of the country. The PM was insistent on ensuring that there’s a one-stop crisis centre in every district. West Bengal made the exception of not coming along on that process. But we today have 700 functional one-stop crisis centers that provide under one roof, medico-legal and police help to women victims. There’s a national emergency number (112). Its response time is less than 15 minutes. The emergency network replied to crores of calls in collaboration with state governments. Laws come into play after the incidents. Isn’t prevention the key?The national education policy which came to fruition after three decades has, for the first time, a gender-inclusion fund. It empowers the states fiscally by ensuring that there is money behind including gender not only up to grade VIII of education but also in enhancing the gender component in higher education. When we talk about societal change, we also have to focus on empowerment through STEM (science, technology, engineering and mathematics). Six years ago when I began the conversation about women in science, particularly STEM, the first steps I took (as education minister), with the PM’s blessings, was to have a woman lead the IIT council. Till 2014, we had never had a female lead the council! I remember walking into a room full of men and look at some of the most celebrated scientific minds and IIT leaders. I asked why there wasn’t woman in the room. They looked at me and said: don’t you suffice? I said I’m not the scientist or the technical mind. To that, a very celebrated scientist replied: well, we don’t have many women. Thereafter, I remember walking out of that room and calling Tessy Thomas, the lady who was with Dr APJ Abdul Kalam, working on the missile programme. I told her: Tessy, would you accept my invite to lead the IIT council? She obviously accepted because she’s a very conscientious woman in science. When I met her, she said: Smriti, nobody ever thought of me before. So it’s not that women do not exist in terms of competencies, it’s just that they don’t get recognized. That’s particularly challenging for women who don’t come from a pedigreed position.That makes all the more important the need for the promised (33 per cent) quota for women in Parliament and state assemblies. Your party now has the legislative strength to make it a happen. I was in the Rajya Sabha when it passed the women’s reservation bill (in 2008). The UPA (then in power) was in disarray on the issue. There was absolutely no support the Congress party had on it. Our leadership stood up and said they’d support the passage of the Bill-- and we did! Apart from the fact that the BJP is steadfast in its commitment for passing the Bill, what fascinates me--- when I speak of pedigreed women--- that there’s that nuance and bias even in politics. We have today 1.3 million women serving in our panchayats. It seems we never consider them politically potent enough to be mentioned. There’s a report that comes out every year on gender inequality index. When I took position as WCD minister, asked: do they consider these women at the panchayat level when they describe the process of political empowerment, when they speak (on international platforms) about women in positions of power? It was saddening to find that they weren’t recognised. When we talk of women in politics, one of the toughest jobs is to lead the panchayat, to be the sarpanch or the zilla panchayat head. We do a great disservice to women’s political talent when we don’t recognize that. It’s time that we gave equal importance to the prowess of women in panchayats. When the WCD ministry team sat down with the 15th finance commission, I told Mr N K Singh that we never had devolution of funds with a gender lens. They put it up in their suggestions to the government. I’m happy that for the first time, multi-sectoral/ multi-agency fiscal transfers will have gender as a consistent facet. It has never happened in any other country; it has happened for the first time in India. That too ought to be recognized and celebrated.You didn’t address the core of my question— the likelihood of women’s reservation bill getting passed.Has the BJP under the leadership of Narendra Modi ever shied away from its pronouncements in the manifesto? Aren’t Article 370 and Ram Janmabhoomi evidence enough? My party is resolute in its support of the bill. On the International Women’s Day, let’s also celebrate the potential of that woman who steps out of her home to take poll position as a sarpanch. They also need your attention. Yours has been a long journey to politics from issue-based television and the entertaining industry. Has that helped? I don’t why but I’m the only female politician who’s also recognized by her former vocation. It never happened to any other woman who possibly was a professional in another sphere and had come into politics. I recognize the bias in that. When you say oh, she used to be an actor you indicate that she possibly is not very serious on issues of policy and administration. It becomes that inflection point that helps to dismiss her capacities, her potential….. It becomes interesting when you look at the fact that as education minister, I made the first ever national ranking framework. Is there any recognition accorded to me for it? I conducted the largest ever consultation on education policy in our democracy. Would I get any kind of acceptance for that? On the PM’s direction, I created a network that had some of the best academicians from the world over, coming to India and teaching in government institutions. Under the PM’s leadership, we started a project called Imprint that brought together all research bodies, dedicating research to what India needs in the next decade and a half. It was dedicated to the country by then President Pranab Mukherjee. So it’s easier to dismiss the administrative capacity of Smriti Irani if you refer to her as former actor; to dismiss maybe what happened in I&B (ministry) where I processed the amalgamation of institutions working in silos. In the textile ministry we not only made India self reliant in PPE manufacturing but became the second largest exporter in the world in just three months? Absolutely it’s easy to dismiss Smriti Irani because you can just tag her as a former actress and not look at her administrative potential or contribution. There’s an incessant need (sic) to tag my previous vocation with my current avatar as a politician because otherwise, how can you reduce my capacities?  Your past is remembered because you were as a popular television person. Didn’t Sachin Tendulkar remain the champion cricketer and Lata Mangeshkar the legendary singer, as members of the Rajya Sabha? They never did policy….none of them did policyYou’re the BJP’s battle axe against the Congress and the Gandhis. There’s story recounted in a book on the Amethi election you won. It says, you turned away a local politician who at a meeting with you, used low-brow language for Priyanka Vadra. Is that true? When does the woman in you take over from the politician? The presumption is wrong if you think that they are in any way separate. I’ve never been afforded the same courtesy, be it Ms Vadra or her immediate friends circle or Mr (Rahul) Gandhi (and) his political positioning and support to men who sexually objectified me, mocked me or made explicit comments about me. I have not been afforded that compliment, that particular respect by the (Gandhi) siblings. That’s what makes me different from them. My value system is such that irrespective of the muck that they’ve thrown my way; irrespective of the explicit trolling, which was sexually very, very loaded, that their echo system unleashed against me, when it came to be measured it seems that I was a better woman. So, the incident happened…I will not comment because I’ve not read the book….I don’t understand why my politics has to be tugged to a star that’s drowning. My politics is much beyond the rambling siblings. I’ve spent a few years as an Opposition member as well. On the POCSO legislation I spoke on behalf of the entire Opposition in the Rajya Sabha. In 2013, I was a prominent speaker on the sexual harassment at workplace bill, not only from the Opposition but also the middle benches. When Meira Kumar was Speaker, I represented the Asia-Pacific region on the Syrian crisis in the International Parliamentary Union. I’m saying this today because, like I said, if a woman does not come from a pedigreed position, she’d be denied public recognition of her achievements. There wasn’t even a murmur when the world economic forum announced me as a young global leader in 2015. If some twiddling siblings were recognized with even a normal domestic award, there would’ve been much hoopla about it. As a minister I’ve spoken on issues which a BJP member wouldn’t conventionally be outspoken about. I stood up for women irrespective of ideologies and politics. I’m grateful that my party never admonished me for standing up for the value system that I hold dear.Mamata Banerjee made the grade without being pedigreed. But you’d be campaigning against her as WCD minister in the upcoming Bengal polls.Do you see the bias in your question? Would you ask a man to show deference to another man against whom he’s competing? I’m asking because she’s the only sitting woman CM in our country… That’s where the bias is. Why would you presume that a woman would not live up to the expectations of her organization or her politics by competing fairly? Why am I supposed to defer to a woman from another political ideology-- just because I’m a woman-- and do disservice to my ideology and my party? Isn’t there something that you admire in Mamata Banerjee as a fellow politician and a woman?  I’m mindful of you seeking compliments (for Mamata) to bring a new twist to the campaign. But I will desist and tell you why. If she wants to use the women’s card, then why does she refuse to implement the one-stop crisis center that’ll help in every district the women who are victims of violence? Why’s she not implementing processes which will help better nutritional facilities for women and children? If she wants to use the gender card, she must do it holistically and answer why women (and children) in West Bengal will be denied protection, nutrition or administrative services that women across the country have been given.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/women-are-not-pleading-they-re-leading-smriti-irani-101615138033200.html
07-03-2021||India||Telangana government declares holiday for women employees on International Women's Day||The Telangana government has declared a holiday for all the women employees in the state on March 8, which is celebrated as International Women's Day.According to a press statement issued by the Chief Minister's office on Sunday, on the occasion of Women's Day on March 8, the state government has declared a holiday for all women employees in the state and the Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao instructed the Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar to issue orders in this regard."Women are competing with men in all the fields and are excelling. Women, who constitute 50 per cent of the population, would do wonders if they were given a chance," Chief Minister said in the statement issued."The state government is taking a series of measures to take women on the path of development and progress. This include setting up of the SHE teams, pensions for the old age women, single woman and widows, schemes like Shadi Mubarak and Kalyan Laxmi, KCR Kits, increase in salaries of ASHA workers, Anganwadi teachers," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-government-declares-holiday-for-women-employees-on-international-women-s-day-101615135993381.html
07-03-2021||India||APJ Abdul Kalam's brother Mohammed Muthu Meeran passes way at 104||Former President, the late APJ Abdul Kalam's elder brother Mohammed Muthu Meeran Maraickayar died here on Sunday, family sources said. Maraickayar(104) died of old age, they said. He is survived by a son and two daughters. His wife had predeceased him. Tamil Nadu deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam and DMK president M K Stalin condoled the passing away of Maraickayar and expressed their sympathies with the family of the deceased.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/apj-abdul-kalam-s-brother-mohammed-muthu-meeran-passes-way-at-104-101615137072102.html
07-03-2021||India||Aircraft doesn't know if man or woman officer is flying it: IAF’s Shaliza Dhami||Indian Air Force (IAF) wing commander Shaliza Dhami said on Sunday if women were incapable of serving in the armed forces, they would not have made so much progress. “I have put in more than 17 years of service and there are so many others like me,” she told news agency ANI. A day before International Women’s Day on Monday, Dhami ruled out gender bias and expressed confidence in one's skills. “It will be almost three decades for women officers in IAF. Aircraft doesn't know whether it's a male or female officer who is flying it. It is the journey to sit in the aircraft that says everything -- whether we will be able to do it or not,” she said. Her statement comes months after the controversy over actor Janhvi Kapoor starrer ‘Gunjan Saxena: The Kargil Girl.’ Delhi High Court had in October last year refused to pass any interim order to restrain the streaming of the film based on allegations by the Centre that the Netflix film depicts the IAF in poor light and dents its image. In recent years, many women have been seen performing leading roles in the defence sector. In January, flight lieutenant Bhawana Kanth became the first woman fighter pilot to take part in the Republic Day parade. She was part of the Indian Air Force's (IAF's) tableau that displayed mock-ups of the light combat aircraft, light combat helicopter and the Sukhoi-30 fighter plane. Kanth had joined the fighter squadron in November 2017 and flew the first solo on MiG-21 Bison in March 2018. At present, she is posted at an airbase in Rajasthan where she flies the MiG-21 Bison fighter plane.During the Budget Session in Parliament last month, the government informed that the headcount of women in the military has increased almost three-fold over the last six years. There are 9,118 women currently serving the army, navy and air force, with the services giving them more opportunities to boost career progression, the government said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aircraft-doesn-t-know-if-man-or-woman-officer-is-flying-it-iaf-s-shaliza-dhami-101615136397375.html
07-03-2021||India||Will hold meeting with Kolkata farmers on March 13: Farmer leader Rakesh Tikait||Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait on Sunday said he would hold a meeting with farmers on March 13 in Kolkata."We are going to Kolkata on March 13. We will speak with farmers there about their concerns and ask if their produce are being bought at MSP or not," Tikait said interacting with reporters while visiting Bala Sahib Dialysis Hospital in Delhi."The government has gone to Kolkata. They will return in one and a half month. We are also going there. We will meet the government there only," he added.When asked about the stalemate between farmers and the Centre even after more than 100 days, Tikait said that the government, sooner or later, will have to pay heed to farmers' issues.Speaking about the hospital he said it is a free-of-cost hospital for kidney dialysis for the poor and is fully funded by the Sikh community.Farmers have been protesting on the different borders of the national capital since November 26 against the three newly enacted farm laws - Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-hold-meeting-with-kolkata-farmers-on-march-13-farmer-leader-rakesh-tikait-101615135398790.html
07-03-2021||India||No leadership challenge from G-32 leaders, says Digvijaya Singh||The group of 23 senior Congressmen demanding far-reaching reforms in the party have accepted the leadership of Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi and they do not pose any challenge, Rajya Sabha MP Digvijaya Singh said on Sunday.These leaders, also being called G-23, had written a letter to Sonia Gandhi seeking dissolution of power to state units, revamp of the CWC etc, and had recently held a meet in Jammu."They are not at all a challenge (to the party leadership. They have said their leaders are Sonia and Rahul Gandhi," Singh said referring to the G-23.Speaking on other issues, Singh made light of the entry of actor Mithun Chakraborty into the BJP in poll-bound West Bengal, and praised its chief minister Mamata Banerjee as a gutsy and sentimental fighter with her feet on the ground.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-leadership-challenge-from-g-32-leaders-says-digvijaya-singh-101615133537251.html
07-03-2021||India||News updates from HT: Harsh Vardhan says India is in 'pandemic endgame' and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Harsh Vardhan says India is in the endgame of Covid-19 pandemic"We are in the end game of the COVID-19 pandemic in India" and to succeed at this stage, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan on Sunday said, politics should be kept out the Covid-19 vaccination drive. Read moreHow women’s clothes became the first line of defence for protesters in MyanmarSeveral photographs from multiple protest sites in Myanmar have made their way to social media in which pro-democracy demonstrators can be seen using women’s clothes as the first line of defence. Read more'India, for me, are pound for pound the best team in the world': Michael VaughanFormer England captain Michael Vaughan on Sunday hailed Team India’s emphatic series win against Joe Root & Co. Read moreVirat Kohli and Anushka Sharma let their hair down at Wriddhiman Saha’s son’s birthday party. See photosCricketer Virat Kohli and his wife, actor Anushka Sharma, made a joint appearance at the birthday bash of cricketer Wriddhiman Saha’s son, Anvay, who turned one on Saturday. Read more‘Pure cobra...’: Mithun Chakraborty after joining BJP ahead of West Bengal pollsAfter joining Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) ahead of the West Bengal Assembly elections, actor Mithun Chakraborty on Sunday raised a new poll slogan "Ek chhobole chhobi" (finish in one attack), in a veiled attack on the Trinamool Congress (TMC). Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-harsh-vardhan-says-india-is-in-pandemic-endgame-and-all-the-latest-news-101615129105551.html
07-03-2021||India||Goa Cong says Centre's new OCI notification will 'finish Goans working abroad'||In a scathing attack on the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led Central government, Goa Pradesh Congress Committee (GPCC) president Girish Chodankar on Sunday said the 'draconian Overseas Citizens of India (OCI)' notification issued by the Union Home Ministry will 'finish the hard working Goans abroad'.Addressing a press conference here, Chodankar said that since coming to power, the ruling BJP government in the state "is all out to sell Goa to crony capitalists friends of Prime Minister Narendra Modi with the three linear projects, Railway Double Tracking and Coastal Zone Management Plan (CZMP)."The Congress leader said the Union Ministry of Home Affairs' (MHA) notification issued on March 4 dramatically altered the status of OCIs (including Non-Resident Goans)."The notification issued under Section 7B of the Citizenship Act, 1955, supersedes three earlier notifications issued during the UPA Government's time and laid down the rights of the OCIs. The new notification humiliates and illegally classifies OCIs as "foreign nationals" and introduces a series of new restrictions that dramatically curtails the rights and liberties of OCIs of India," said Chodankar. He alleged that the Central government is working on the behest of Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) and implementing their ideologies to create more troubles for people."They together want to sell Goa to crony capitalist friends of PM Modi," the Congress leader claimed.Further attacking Chief Minister Pramod Sawant-led government in the state, he said "Goa government is not able to give jobs to the people of this state, hence our youths find jobs overseas. This new notification will disconnect them with Goa and also will create hurdles to send money, by creating a wall of bureaucracy, to their families. Hence this notification should be immediately withdrawn as it will further collapse the economy."Chodankar further claimed that non-resident Goans abroad will now not be able to send money to their families in India without having to go through the hardships of Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA) regulations."Goan OCIs, especially those with Portuguese passports, will not be able to participate in religious activities such as organizing feasts and donating to temples, churches, mosques and gurudwaras in Goa," he said."I want to remind the BJP Government that the OCI privileges were a gift and a right extended to the Goans overseas from Indian National Congress. Congress Party had implemented the concept not to just give people of Indian origin with foreign national citizenship a right-filled pass to participate in the future of their country of origin but was the first experimental step towards dual citizenship where people like Goans with Portuguese passports would be able to vote in elections in India," he added.He further claimed that after the new notification, children of OCIs will not be able to study in India at par with other Indian citizens."Goans children residing abroad wishing to study in IITs, IIMs, AIIMS will not be able to do so anymore, claimed Girish Chodankar... This bill does not just deny people of Indian origin living abroad their lifelong wish of dual citizenship, it severs the legal and emotional link they have to their motherland," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-cong-says-centre-s-new-oci-notification-will-finish-goans-working-abroad-101615130775574.html
07-03-2021||India||Harsh Vardhan says India is in the endgame of Covid-19 pandemic||"We are in the end game of the COVID-19 pandemic in India" and to succeed at this stage, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan on Sunday said, politics should be kept out the Covid-19 vaccination drive.He said people should trust the science behind vaccines and ensure that their near and dear ones get vaccinated on time.Speaking at the Delhi Medical Association's (DMA's) 62nd Annual Delhi State Medical Conference (MEDICON 2021) in collaboration with Dharamshila Narayana Hospital on Sunday, Vardhan said over 2 crore Covid-19 vaccine shots have been administered so far and the vaccination rate has been increased to 15 lakhs per day. Follow latest updates on Covid-19 here "Unlike most other countries, we have a steady supply of COVID-19 vaccines that are safe with proven immunogenicity and efficacy. Based on the initial results, these Made in India vaccines have shown some of the lowest adverse events following immunization (AEFI) anywhere in the world," he said.Vardhan asserted that today children in the entire world need to be vaccinated against poliomyelitis only because Pakistan and Afghanistan failed to eradicate this disease from their respective countries, the statement said."Similarly, India cannot be safe from coronavirus and COVID19 if rest of the world continues to be unsafe, which is why it is essential to curb COVID-19 vaccine nationalism. "If poor and underdeveloped countries continue to harbour the novel coronavirus, we shall not be able to ensure safety for all. A fair and equitable distribution of the vaccine is the biggest need of the hour," he said.Under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, India, has emerged as the world's pharmacy, and it supplied 5.51 crore Covid-19 vaccines to 62 different countries, he said."At a time of global crisis, under the leadership of Modi Ji, India has emerged as an example to the world in international cooperation," he was quoted as saying in the statement."It was Modi ji's insistence that COVID-19 vaccines should be provided with no strings attached, and the countries without the vaccine supply should not be taken advantage of at the time of a global humanitarian crisis," he said.Looking at the possibility of eradication of Covid-19 in India, Vardhan said, "We are in the end game of the COVID-19 pandemic in India, and to succeed at this stage, we need to follow 3 steps: Keep politics out of the COVID-19 vaccination drive, trust the science behind COVID-19 vaccines, and ensure our near and dear ones get vaccinated on time.”The government has already involved private players in Covid-19 vaccination, and if hospitals want, they can conduct vaccination 24x7, the minister said."My request to everyone is that just like people embraced 'Jan Andolan for COVID-19 appropriate behaviour', they should embrace Jan Andolan for COVID-19 vaccination and get all COVID-19 vaccine shots whenever they are eligible," he said. Delhi Medical Association (DMA) honoured Vardhan for his contribution to the medical fraternity and outstanding service and exemplary work during the Covid-19 pandemic, the health Ministry said in a statement. Healthcare workers (HCWs) and frontline workers, not just in this room, but across India, rose to the occasion and sacrificed not only their time with family, but also their own mental, physical and emotional health for this beloved nation, Vardhan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/harsh-vardhan-says-india-is-in-the-endgame-of-covid-19-pandemic-101615128329364.html
07-03-2021||India||Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot says Centre should increase spending on Covid-19 research||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Sunday asked the Union government to spend more on research related to the Covid-19 pandemic.He urged people to keep following all Covid-19 protocols and stressed that those with comorbidities should be extra cautious."It is necessary for all of us to follow Covid-19 protocols and save others from getting infected," Gehlot said in a statement.Claiming that the US and UK are carrying out Covid-19-related research at a cost of USD 1 billion and 18.5 million pounds, Gehlot said the Union government has allocated only ₹2,663 crore for health research in the general budget, which is 34.4 per cent less than the revised estimate of ₹4,062 crore for the financial year 2020-21.It cannot be said for how long the pandemic will persist and the Centre should increase the budget for Covid-19-related research, he said.Gehlot said his government had recently announced the establishment of the Institute of Tropical Medicine and Virology in Jaipur for the investigation, treatment and research of virus-borne diseases.It is hoped that with the establishment of this institute, there will be cooperation in overcoming such diseases early in the future, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-cm-ashok-gehlot-says-centre-should-increase-spending-on-covid-19-research-101615128768168.html
07-03-2021||India||Rohingyas in Jammu fear deportation to Myanmar after police detain over 150||Indian police have detained more than 150 Rohingya refugees found living illegally in the northern region of Jammu and Kashmir and a process has begun to deport them back to Myanmar, two officials said on Sunday.Dozens of Rohingya are in a makeshift "holding centre" at Jammu's Hira Nagar jail after local authorities conducted biometric and other tests on hundreds of people to verify their identities."The drive is part of an exercise to trace foreigners living in Jammu without valid documents," said one of the two officials, who declined to be named as they are not authorized to speak to the media."We have started the process of deportation of these refugees," the official added.Prime Minister Narendra Modi's federal government scrapped Jammu and Kashmir's special status in August 2019 and now administers the region from New Delhi.The Hindu nationalist government regards the Rohingya, who are Muslim, as illegal aliens and a security risk, and has ordered that thousands of them living in scattered settlements be identified and repatriated.Hundreds of thousands of Rohingya were forced to flee their Buddhist-majority homeland after a crackdown by Myanmar's military in 2017. Most are in ramshackle camps on the border with Bangladesh.Myanmar denies accusations of genocide and says the army was fighting a legitimate counter-insurgency campaign.Rohingyas living in Jammu said they were concerned about the weekend's detentions and the threat of deportation."We will go back when peace returns to our country," said Sufeera, 28, who said her uncle and brother had been sent to the holding centre, leaving her alone with her children.Another refugee, 48-year-old Sadiq, said members of his family had also been detained."We have been told that we will be deported," he said. "They took mother and father ... Who will take care of them?".India rejects a United Nations position that deporting the Rohingya violates the principle of refoulement – sending refugees back to a place where they face danger.Rohingyas staying in India have said conditions are not conducive for them to return to Myanmar after fleeing violence and persecution over the years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rohingyas-in-jammu-fear-deportation-to-myanmar-after-police-detain-over-150-101615127578656.html
07-03-2021||India||Bachendri Pal to lead all women team aged above 50 in a 5 month long Himalayan expedition||The first Indian woman to conquer world's highest summit Mount Everest, Bachendri Pal will lead a 10-member team of women aged above 50 in a five-month long expedition from eastern to western Himalaya beginning in May.The 'FIT@50 Women's Trans Himalayan Expedition ’21' will start in the first week of May from Arunachal Pradesh and cover around 4,500 kilometres across about 40 mountain passes including the 17,320 feet Lamkhaga Pass, considered one of the toughest.Organised by the Tata Steel Adventure Foundation in collaboration with the Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports under the FIT India banner, the expedition is slated to conclude in the Karakoram range of Jammu and Kashmir in the second week of October."The expedition will inspire and motivate women of all age groups to include fitness activities in their daily lives to stay healthy," the legendary Indian mountaineer told PTI."In the pandemic era, women’s health and fitness plays a key role both in the families and towards nation building. The expedition will provide a hope and create a new path for senior citizens, including 50 or even 60 , to pursue their dreams. It will also signify women empowerment," she added.The team members, drawn from across India, comprise three women Everest summiteers, retired professionals and homemakers.The 10-member team will commence the journey from the misty mountains of Arunachal Pradesh at Bomdila and will then enter Bhutan.From there, the expedition will traverse through Bhutan, cross over into Sikkim and cover Chitrey, Kala Pokhari and Sandakphu.The team will then move into Nepal, where the route enters Dhaulagiri range and cover Salpa Pass, Lamajura Pass and also cross Thorang la (17,769 ft) around Annapurna Massif.From western Nepal, the trail goes from Jumla and enters Kumaon district in Uttarakhand at Dharchula. From here, the expedition will cross Lamkhaga Pass (17,320 ft) -- one of the toughest passes, which connects Kinnaur district of Himachal Pradesh with Harshil of Uttarakhand.The team will then traverse to Himachal and then will trek through Spiti to cross Kaza, Kibber and cross Parang La (18,307 ft).The expedition will conclude in the Leh-Ladakh region where the team will cross Khardungla (18,380 ft), Saser La (17,753 ft), Depsang La (17,869 ft) and finish at Karakoram Pass (18,175 ft).Team:Bachendri Pal, Leader (67 years, Jamshedpur), Chetna Sahoo (54, Kolkata), Savita Dhapwal (52, Bhilai), Shamala Padmanabhan (64, Mysuru), Gangorti Soneji (62, Baroda), Chaula Jagirdar (63, Palanpur), Payo Murmu (53, Jamshedpur), Dr Sushma Bissa (55, Bikaneer), Major Krishna Dubey (59, Lucknow), and Bimbla Deoskar (55, Nagpur)Support staff: Mohan Rawat (41), Amla Rawat (47) and Randev Singh (30), all from Uttarakhand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bachendri-pal-to-lead-all-women-team-aged-above-50-in-a-5-month-long-himalayan-expedition-101615126350417.html
07-03-2021||India||Activist withdraws complaint that led to Ramesh Jarkiholi’s resignation||Dinesh Kalahalli, a self proclaimed social activist, on Sunday withdrew his earlier complaint of sexual harassment and exploitation against Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislator and former Karnataka minister Ramesh Jarkiholi.In a letter to the Cubbon Park police station, Kalahalli said that the complaint had taken a sinister turn wherein the character of the alleged victim was being questioned."If the cloth falls on a thorn or a thorn falls on a cloth, only the cloth tears," Kalahalli said in his letter to emphasise on the reports raising questions on the victim's character.Kalahalli could not be reached for comment.The activist's complaint on March 2 had forced Jarkiholi on the back foot and he eventually resigned from chief minister BS Yediyurappa's cabinet.A video of what appears to be Jarkiholi getting physically intimate with an unnamed woman was played by Kannada TV news channels. A phone call allegedly between the Jarkiholi and the unnamed woman was also being played repeatedly.In one such call, a person believed to be Jarkiholi is heard stating that Yediyirurappa was indulging in corruption.Jarkiholi was among the 17 legislators who had defected from the HD Kumaraswamy-led Janata Dal (Secular) or JD(S)-Congress coalition government in 2019 and helped Yediyurappa come to power."This is a big political conspiracy to defame Ramesh Jarkiholi, our family and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)," Balachandra Jarkiholi, a BJP legislator and Ramesh Jarkiholi’s brother said on Sunday.He said that there were two main conspirators and seven others backing themHe alleged the conspirators had paid around ₹15 crore to upload the video from Russia and that seven servers were used for this.He added that they would consult legal experts to discuss the way forward.Balachandra also said that it was possible that Kalahalli was also "misguided" by the main conspirators.Balachandra first said that this was a possible case of honey trapping, possibly implying that his brother Ramesh was indeed the man in the video.He later said that the video itself was "100%" fake that was edited and stitched together with the help of the latest technology..Since the complaint, Kalahalli has kept a low profile and is reported to have shared very minimal details with the police about the alleged victim or her family.Since the video of Ramesh Jarkiholi, at least six other ministers from the Yediyurappa government have approached the courts seeking injunctions against the publishing or broadcasting of any material that may be considered defamatory.The six ministers are K.Sudhakar, Narayana Gowda, Shivaram Hebbar, BC Patil, Byrathi Basavaraj and ST Somashekar. All seven, including Jarkiholi, were among the 17 turncoats who defected to the BJP and were made ministers by Yediyurappa.The incident has left Yediyurappa in a tough spot as he had taken it upon himself personally to placate the turncoats into his cabinet as a reward for helping him to power for a record fourth term as chief minister.The scandal involving Jarkiholi had left the BJP red-faced in Karnataka, further pushing them into a corner ahead of the budget, scheduled to be presented on March 8.Balachandra Jarkiholi also said that this case should be given to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) since the video was allegedly uploaded on YouTube from Russia.He also said that the home and law minister were preparing a draft law to punish people who use fake cases to blackmail eminent citizens.The case also gave more ammunition to the opposition to attack the Yediyurappa government.Former chief minister HD Kumaraswamy had said that there was an alleged exchange of ₹5 crore in the scandal.His predecessor from the Congress, Siddaramaiah said that the case can be withdrawn but the video of the former minister (Ramesh Jarkiholi) was there for everyone to see.Ramesh Jarkiholi has kept a low profile since the complaint but it remains to be seen if Yediyurappa can reinstate the leader into his cabinet or wait till the case runs its course.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/activist-withdraws-complaint-that-led-to-ramesh-jarkiholi-s-resignation-101615125833785.html
07-03-2021||India||Lawyer seeks mask violation case against Raj Thackeray||An advocate in Aurangabad on Sunday submitted an application to police demanding registration of a complaint against Maharashtra Navnirman Sena chief Raj Thackeray for mask violation amid the coronavirus outbreak.Advocate Ratnakar Choure, in his application, has stated he saw a news programme that showed Thackeray traveling from Mumbai to Nashik without wearing a mask though it is mandatory to do so as per Covid-19 norms put in place by the state and Central governments.The application, which was submitted in Kranti Chowk police station, seeks that Thackeray be charged under relevant provisions of Epidemic Diseases Act.A Kranti Chowk police station official confirmed the receipt of Choure's application but said further action on it would be decided by higher authorities in the force.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lawyer-seeks-mask-violation-case-against-raj-thackeray-101615124833863.html
07-03-2021||India||Delhi entering endemic phase of Covid-19, pandemic phase over: Satyandar Jain||The national Capital is witnessing a spike in the number of daily Covid-19 infections in March, but the situation is not yet worrying, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said on Sunday. The pandemic stage of Covid-19 in the Capital is ending and the endemic stage is going to begin, the health minister said.When a disease becomes natural and permanent to a region or population, it is called endemic. Pandemic refers to a global epidemic spread across continents. What Delhi's health minister implies is that Delhi is past that time when the city was importing cases from outside and the infection was spreading at a rapid rate putting immense pressure on the healthcare system.Delhi reports less than 300 new Covid-19 cases after 2 days, active cases up slightly"Coronavirus is nearing an endemic phase in Delhi. Experts say some cases continue to occur in the endemic phase. Delhi witnessed a swine flu outbreak around 10 years ago, but still some cases are reported every year. Coronavirus is not going to end completely... we will have to learn to live with it," Jain said, as quoted by news agency PTI.However, the Union health ministry lists Delhi as one of those eight states which are displaying an upward trajectory in daily cases.Since January, Delhi's daily number of infections remained within 250. On February 26, the Capital recorded 256 new infections — the highest in February. Since March 2, the cases are on the rise. On March 1, there were 175 new infections. On March 2, the figure shot up to 217, to only further to 240 on March 3. On March 4, the Capital recorded 261 cases, more than February's highest, and on March 5, Delhi reported the highest daily cases in the last one-and-a-half month, with 312 cases. On March 6, the number further hiked to 321. On Sunday, the number again dropped and settled at 286.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-entering-endemic-phase-of-covid-19-pandemic-phase-over-satyandar-jain-101615123649352.html
07-03-2021||India||Bihar police suspend 2 cops for forcing man to walk with son’s body for 3 km||The Bihar police on Sunday suspended two policemen who forced a man to carry the decomposed body of his teenage son in a plastic bag for a distance of 3 km on foot to reach the nearest police station in Katihar district and denied him an ambulance to reach Bhagalpur Sadar hospital for postmortem.The suspended police officers are sub-inspector of Gopalpur police station Rajdeo Raman and assistant sub-inspector of Kursela police station, who had refused the man a vehicle to carry his son’s body for postmortem.On February 26, the 13-year-old boy Hariom Yadav had fallen down from a boat while crossing the Ganga near Tintanga under Gopalpur police station of Naugachhia police district, but his body could not be traced.On March 3, the boy’s decomposed body was found in Kharia Ganga ghat under Kuresala police station. On getting information, policemen from Kursela and Gopalpur police stations arrived at the spot. The victim’s father Teju Yadav also arrived at the spot and identified the body.However, the police teams reportedly did not take the matter seriously and left the scene without taking possession of the body for autopsy.The police headquarters swung into action after the matter went viral on social media following which a DSP rank officer was asked to investigate the whole matter, people familiar with the development said.The investigation revealed a hapless Teju Yadav managed to procure a plastic bag to carry his son’s body and walked 3 km to reach the Kursela police station where he was subsequently referred to Bhagalpur Sadar hospital for post mortem. His pleas to the policemen for arranging a vehicle or ambulance fell on deaf ears. Yadav eventually made his own arrangements to take the body to Bhagalpur for autopsy.On Sunday, the police headquarters suspended sub-inspectors Rajdeo Raman of Gopalpur police station and Nand Lal Choudhary of Kursela police station on charges of dereliction of duty.“When the matter came to light a probe was ordered. The SDPO (Sadar), Katihar had found allegations against the two officials true on which basis the suspension has been made with immediate effect,” ADG (headquarters) Jitendra Kumar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-police-suspend-2-cops-for-forcing-man-to-walk-with-son-s-body-for-3-km-101615123309987.html
07-03-2021||India||FICCI's Overall Business Confidence Index has witnessed a decadal high of 74.2||FICCI's Overall Business Confidence Index has witnessed a decadal high of 74.2 in the current round on account of improvement in present conditions as well as expectations, the industry body said on Sunday.The Index had stood at 70.9 in the previous survey and 59 a year ago, noted the survey. It revealed recovery of demand conditions, improved capacity utilisation and a promising outlook on various operational parameters.With regard to the constraining factors for business, the demand situation has improved on back of the release of the pent-up demand build up during the lockdown.However, rising raw material costs is emerging as a bothersome factor for members of India Inc. The rise in fuel and other commodity prices is beginning to exert pressure on the input costs of companies, FICCI stated on the survey.Companies participating in the survey cited high input costs including man power costs, weak demand conditions and lack of availability of affordable credit as their top-most concerns for the year 2021. A near-unanimity was observed as far as input costs were concerned. This along with high interest costs on loans, higher inward and outward transport and logistics costs, greater compliance burden on the back of frequently changing statutory compliances and increased manpower costs are further pushing the cost of doing business in India, FICCI stated.Also read: ‘Haryana’s quota for jobs will spell disaster for state’, says FicciThis does not bode well in the current environment wherein a shift in global supply chains is being witnessed, it added."In this context, respondents also added that leaving trade policy issues unaddressed will create an even bigger challenge with China as well as other countries including Vietnam regaining market share to become global suppliers."Lack of adequate export incentives is also making it difficult for Indian entrepreneurs to compete globally," the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI) stated.Improvement in conditions as well as expectations have pulled the Overall Business Confidence Index value to a decadal high in the current survey, FICCI said.The Union Budget 2021-22 has been forward looking, said FICCI.This, together with measures announced as part of the Atmanirbhar Bharat package, has infused optimism among industry members and the same is corroborated in the improved outlook for various operational parameters, it added.Improved economic conditions and greater pricing power are likely to drive profits of corporate India over the next two quarters. The percentage of participants citing higher profits over next six months increased to 36 per cent in the latest survey from 33 per cent respondents stating likewise in the previous round, the survey showed.Outlook on employment and exports also reported a discernible improvement, as about 35 per cent respondents were optimistic about better hiring prospects over the next two quarters, up from 22 per cent stating the same in the previous round.Export prospects were reported to be better in the current round with 41 per cent respondents, indicating higher outbounds shipments. The corresponding number in the previous round was 27 per cent.Furthermore, the proportion of respondents citing 'higher to much higher' investments in the coming six months witnessed an upswing in the current survey when compared to the previous round.With demand situation slowly turning positive, an improvement was also noticed in capacity utilisation rates. In the current survey, around 77 per cent participating companies reported capacity utilisation of more than 50 per cent, compared with 68 per cent stating likewise in the previous round.Companies expect higher export orders in the coming months on the back of global economic recovery led by large scale vaccination drive against Covid-19 around the world.Respondents emphasised that given the current global sentiment, India could easily become the preferred sourcing destination for western countries if adequate and timely steps taken to support this change.In addition, companies stressed the need for reducing customs duty on imports to curtail rising domestic prices of raw materials. Commodity prices have risen drastically in the past few weeks and this is impacting profitability and viability of business.Participants highlighted that restrictions on imports must be removed at least until India achieves some level of self reliance in production of industrial inputs such as components and parts.The current survey drew responses from a wide array of sectors and was conducted during January and February this year. It gauges expectations for the period January to June 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ficcis-overall-business-confidence-index-has-witnessed-a-decadal-high-of-742-101615118997918.html
07-03-2021||India||Satellite set for Mar 28 launch will provide near real time images of borders, quick monitoring of natural disasters||India plans to launch on March 28 an earth observation satellite that will provide it near real-time images of its borders and also enable quick monitoring of natural disasters. GISAT-1 is slated to be lofted into space by GSLV-F10 rocket from Sriharikota spaceport in Andhra Pradesh's Nellore district, about 100 kms north of Chennai. "We are looking to launch this Geo imaging satellite on March 28, subject to weather conditions", an official of the Bengaluru-headquartered Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) told PTI on Sunday. The rocket will place the spacecraft in a geosynchronous orbit. It will be subsequently positioned in geostationary orbit, about 36,000 kms above earth's equator, using its onboard propulsion system. The launch of GISAT-1 onboard GSLV-F10 rocket was originally planned for March 5 last year but postponed a day before the blast-off due to technical reasons. Experts said positioning the state-of-the-art agile earth observation satellite in geostationary orbit has key advantages. "It's going to be a game-changer in some sense for India", a Department of Space official said. "With onboard high resolution cameras, the satellite will allow the country to monitor the Indian land mass and the oceans, particularly its borders continuously." Listing the objectives of the mission, ISRO has earlier said the satellite would provide near real-time imaging of the large area region of interest at frequent intervals. It would help in quick monitoring of natural disasters, episodic and any short-term events. The third objective is to obtain spectral signatures of agriculture, forestry, mineralogy, disaster warning, cloud properties, snow and glacier and oceanography. GISAT-1 will facilitate near real-time observation of the Indian sub-continent, under cloud-free condition, at frequent intervals, ISRO said. The planned launch of GISAT-1, weighing about 2,268 kg, comes close on the heels of the successful February 28 PSLV- C51 mission that orbited Brazil's earth observation satellite Amazonia-1 and 18 co-passengers, including five built by students. Secretary in the Department of Space and ISRO Chairman K Sivan told PTI last week that the technical issues that led to postponement of GISAT-1 mission have been resolved and the further delay in the launch was due to Covid-19-induced lockdown which affected normal work.According to sources, GISAT-1 will be followed by the maiden flight of Small Satellite Launch Vehicle, ISRO's compact launcher, likely in April. SSLV has been designed to meet "launch on demand" requirements in a cost-effective manner for small satellites in a dedicated and ride-share mode. It is a three-stage all solid vehicle with a capability to launch up to 500 kg satellite mass into 500 km low earth orbit (LEO) and 300 kg into Sun Synchronous Orbit (SSO). By comparison, PSLV -- the workhorse launch vehicle of ISRO -- can take up to 1,750 kg payload into SSO of 600 km altitude. With lower per kg launch cost, the mini launcher will have multiple satellite mounting options for nano, micro and small satellites. Sivan had earlier termed the SSLV an innovative vehicle which can be assembled in just 72 hours. "Instead of 60 days (for building a PSLV), it (SSLV) will be assembled in three days; instead of 600 people (needed to build a PSLV), it (SSLV) will be done by six people", he had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/satellite-set-for-mar-28-launch-will-provide-near-real-time-images-of-borders-quick-monitoring-of-natural-disasters-101615122664849.html
07-03-2021||India||IT department finds ₹1000 crore undisclosed income at TN jeweler's premises||The Income Tax Department carried out searches on Thursday in premises of a leading bullion trader in Tamil Nadu and one of the biggest jewellery retailers in South India which resulted in the detection of undisclosed income of more than ₹1,000 crores, said the Union Ministry of Finance on Sunday.A statement released by the Finance Ministry today said that unaccounted cash of ₹1.2 crores has been seized so far in the investigation.The pieces of evidence found in the premises of the bullion trader revealed that there were unaccounted cash sales, according to the statement."Bogus cash credits from its branches, cash credits in dummy accounts in the guise of advance for purchases, unexplained cash deposits during the demonetization period, bogus outstanding sundry creditors and huge unexplained stock variations were detected in the search operation," it said.As per the statement, the evidence found in the premises of the jewellery retailer revealed that the taxpayer received and repaid cash loans from local financiers."The jeweller retailer had given cash loans to builders and made cash investments in real estate properties, made unaccounted gold bullion purchases, claimed wrongful bad debts and inflated wastages in the conversion of old gold to fine gold and jewellery making," the statement read.The search operation was carried out at 27 premises located in Chennai, Mumbai, Coimbatore, Madurai, Trichy, Trissur, Nellore, Jaipur and Indore.The investigation is underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/it-department-finds-rs-1000-crore-undisclosed-income-at-tn-jeweler-s-premises-101615118959749.html
07-03-2021||India||‘Hasn't Kashmir become paradise after 2019?' Omar Abdullah taunts BJP||Former Jammu and Kashmir Chief Minister and National Conference vice-president Omar Abdullah on Sunday taunted the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for the remarks of its leader Suvendu Adhikari that West Bengal will become like Kashmir if the Trinamool Congress came back to power in the upcoming assembly election.“But according to you BJP wallas Kashmir has become paradise after August 2019 so what’s wrong with West Bengal becoming Kashmir?,” Abdullah questioned in a tweet.On August 5, 2019, the Centre revoked Jammu and Kashmir’s special status and split the erstwhile state into two union territories – J&K and Ladakh.Omar termed Adhikari’s comment as stupid and tasteless.“Anyway, Bengalis love Kashmir & visit us in large numbers so we forgive you (for) your stupid, tasteless comment,” he said.Omar had also shared Adhikari’s statement reported by a news agency saying “If they (Trinamool Congress) come back to power, West Bengal will become Kashmir”.Adhikari, a former TMC heavyweight, crossed over to the BJP in December. He faces his former boss and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee in his home turf Nandigram in the election.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hasnt-kashmir-become-paradise-after-2019-omar-abdullah-taunts-bjp-101615121032283.html
07-03-2021||India||Farm laws made for farmers or for Modi’s ‘kharabpati’ friends?: Priyanka Gandhi||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi on Sunday continued to attack Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the Centre over the farmers’ agitation against the government’s three farm laws. Addressing a ‘Kisan Mahapanchayat’ in the Meerut district of Uttar Pradesh, Gandhi questioned whether the laws were drafted for the farmers or for PM Modi’s ‘kharabpati’ (trillionaire) friends. The protest against the new laws has been going on for more than 100 days with farmers camping at several border points in Delhi since November 26 last year.“Today 100 days are over, lakhs of farmers have been stationed at several border points in Delhi… If these farm laws were made for you, then why are you still stationed here?” Gandhi asked during the gathering.Reiterating her previous point that the Prime Minister never spoke to the protesters in Delhi, Gandhi alleged that Modi was not visiting any border points in the Capital because he did not respect the farmers. His government did not work for them or the citizens and was only functioning in the interests of the industrialists and trillionaires, she added.ये जो 3 कानून हैं..ये क्या आपके (किसान) भलाई के लिए बनाएं गए हैं या मोदी जी के खरबपति मित्रों के भलाई के लिए बनाएं गए हैं? आज 100 दिन पूरे हो गए हैं,लाखों किसान बॉर्डर पर बैठें हैं..अगर ये कानून आपके लिए बनाया गया है तो आप में से लाखों लोग बॉर्डर पर क्यों बैठे हैं?:प्रियंका गांधी https://t.co/2BrTkCA4c2 pic.twitter.com/XYMicaTk1U“Shouldn’t the Prime Minister and the Centre show respect to the protesting farmers who have been camping in Delhi? Are they (farmers) so worthless that you can’t even meet them?” Gandhi asked. She pointed out that the farmers stayed determined to their cause despite surviving in harsh weather conditions and facing electricity cuts at protest sites but the Centre still thinks that it should not meet them.As the movement against the farm laws completed 100 days, the Congress party said on Saturday that this period was a ‘black chapter’ in the country’s democracy due to the way in which the protesters were being treated and it also marked 100 days of the Centre’s arrogance. Several party leaders including Priyanka Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi and Randeep Surjewala etc. used the hashtag #100DaysOfBJParrogance on Twitter to highlight the plight of the farmers and the Centre’s arrogant approach towards them.Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar once again appealed to the farmers on Saturday by saying that the Centre was committed to their welfare and was ready to make amendments to the new laws. Tomar added that the new laws were passed to boost investment in the agriculture sector and give independence to the farmers to sell their produce anywhere and at any price. Accusing the opposition parties of doing politics over this issue, Tomar said that they were doing this at the cost of the country’s agriculture economy and were also hurting the interests of the farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-laws-made-for-farmers-or-for-modi-s-kharabpati-friends-priyanka-gandhi-101615120140506.html
07-03-2021||India||Coast Guard seizes 3 Sri Lankan boats laden with drugs off Kerala coast||Three Sri Lankan boats carrying narcotic drugs were seized by the Coast Guard off Kerala’s Vizinjam coast and 12 people were detained on Sunday, a senior official said.Two hundred kg of cocaine, 60 kg of hashish and some equipment were seized from the boats registered in Sri Lanka, a senior official of the Coast Guard said. He said details will be known only after questioning the detained people.The Coast Guard did not immediately reveal the market value of the seized drugs.According to initial reports large quantities of drugs were dumped into the sea when the Coast Guard encircled the three boats. The boats carried 19 people and seven of them jumped into the sea and a search was on with the help of local fishermen to locate them.Preliminary reports suggest these vessels were bound for Karnataka and Goa coasts. Later all three vessels were brought to Vizinjam.A spokesman of the Coast Guard said details will be released later after questioning the detained in detail. He said officials of the Intelligence Bureau and other central agencies will also question the detained, suspected to be members of a global drug racket.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coast-guard-seizes-3-sri-lankan-boats-laden-with-drugs-off-kerala-coast-101615119587830.html
07-03-2021||India||Vice President Venkaiah Naidu values researchers for finding tech solutions for dealing with pandemic||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Sunday said resilience, research and re-invention have helped India become a torch-bearer in the global fight against Covid-19.He also appreciated the efforts and ingenuity of Indian researchers and scientists for finding technological solutions to the challenges thrown by the pandemic.Addressing the first Graduation Day ceremony of the Employees' State Insurance Corporation Medical College (Faridabad) held in New Delhi, Naidu praised doctors, scientists and policymakers for fight against the virus."I salute the entire medical fraternity from doctors to nurses, para-medical staff and sanitary workers, technicians and ASHA workers in villages, who, as Team India came together as one to fight the pandemic," he said.Naidu also lauded the Indian industry for ramping up production of essential items such as PPE kits, surgical gloves, face masks, ventilators and vaccines. He also appreciated the medical and paramedical institutes being run by the ESIC for their role in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic.During the ceremony, the vice president was glad to see that all the medal winners were girls.He congratulated them and underlined the need to provide equal opportunities to women in every field.Also read: Budget session of Parliament likely to be cut short due to assembly polls"I have always believed that if you serve humanity with a spirit of selfless dedication, you will derive boundless satisfaction," he told the passing out students.Referring to the largest vaccination drive in the world against Covid-19 being undertaken in India, the vice president said the worst phase of the pandemic appears to be over.However, he cautioned people to remain vigilant and continue to take all the necessary precautions till the country defeats the virus decisively.In his address, Naidu also referred to several other health challenges that need to be addressed such as low doctor-patient ratio, shortage of medical colleges, inadequate infrastructure in rural areas, and low adoption of health insurance.Expressing concern over high out-of-pocket expenditure on health in India, Naidu called for ensuring quality healthcare for all at affordable rates.The vice president praised ESIC for running India's largest social security programme covering roughly 10 per cent of the country's population.Naidu also appreciated ESIC for several new initiatives such as MoU with the National Health Authority (NHA) wherein the beneficiaries of the ESI scheme in selected districts can access services at Ayushman Bharat-empanelled hospitals. He also appreciated the ESIC's initiative to open its underutilised hospitals to the general public on a nominal user charge basis.Naidu also expressed satisfaction over India emerging as an attractive medical tourism hub in the region due to its state-of-the-art facilities and highly skilled professionals.On this occasion, Labour Minister Santosh Gangwar said, "A historic task of amalgamating 44 labour laws into four codes. After the implementation of the Code on Social Security 2020, which is one of those codes, Employees State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) services would be expanded to all districts in the country."Labour Secretary Apurva Chandra said the ESIC would cover unorganised workers including gig and platform workers under its social security ambit.Gig and platform workers are those workers that work outside of traditional employers and employees relationship. The platform workers are attached to a online platform to provide their services like Ola, Uber, Zomato or Swiggy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vice-president-venkaiah-naidu-values-researchers-for-finding-tech-solutions-for-dealing-with-pandemic-101615112457708.html
07-03-2021||India||Seer on fast for closure of all hydel power projects on Ganga writes to PM Modi||A seer who has been on a fast for the past 12 days has refused to end it, stressing he has resolved to go ahead with his agitation for an indefinite time until his demands of closing all hydropower projects on the Ganga and its tributaries are met.Bahamchari Atmabodhanand of Haridwar's Matri Sadan ashram who has been on a diet of water, lemon, salt and honey, also wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, describing his fast as ‘tapasya’, a fight against corruption and for preserving the environment.A native of Kerala, the computer science graduate took to spiritualism in 2014 after a pilgrimage to Badrinath where he met Matri Sadan ashram founder Swami Shivanand Saraswati who took him under his wing.Brahmachari Atmabodhanand who has lost 2 kg body weight since February 23 when he started his fast, reiterated that unless all his demands are sincerely met he won’t give up his agitation.Atmabodhanand is also demanding the prohibition on stone crusher units within 5 km periphery of Ganga riverbed, a blanket prohibition on quarrying from Raiwala till Bhogpur, the formation of Ganga Council, speedy enacting of Ganga Act and ensuring a free unhindered flow of Hinduism\s holiest river.“It is of utter dismay that mining is continuing in the restricted areas and Ganga river’s flow is being stopped by means of numerous hydropower projects which off late has resulted in environmental implications leading to the Kedarnath flash floods way back in 2013 and recently glacier breach in Tapovan, Chamoli on Rishi Ganga-Dhauli Ganga stretch,” Atmabodhanand wrote in his letter to PM Modi.Brahamchari Atmabodhanand has a record of going on fasts. He had fasted a record 194 days from October 14, 2018 till May 4, 2019 on similar demands for prohibition on quarrying and hydropower projects.His last agitation lasted 41 days in February-March 2020 prior to the lockdown imposition when he sat on agitation in support of Sadhvi Padmavati, another disciple of Swami Shivanand Saraswati, who also staged 100 days of agitation last year demanding a ban on quarrying.Prior to Brahamchari in October 2018, Sant Gopal Das had also started fast unto death agitation at Matri Sadan ashram, within hours of the demise of Gyan Swarup Sanand, a former Indian Institute of Technology professor.Swami Sanand had started his fast on June 20, 2018 demanding total ban on quarrying, removal of all stone crushers from Ganga river bed, stopping of hydropower projects on the eco-sensitive zone of Bhagirathi, Alaknanda and Ganga. He died after 112 days on October 11, 2018.On the same demands another Matri Sadan seer Swami Nigmanand had died on June 13, 2011 after 114 days of indefinite fast carried at Matri Sadan ashram which brought global attention towards illegal quarrying and the ill effects of hydro power projects on Ganga and ecology.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/seer-on-fast-for-closure-of-all-hydel-power-projects-on-ganga-writes-to-pm-modi-101615118659282.html
07-03-2021||India||Delhi Fire Services plan tech overhaul, reduce response time, improve efficiency||From GPS-enabled computer systems for automatically redirecting calls to area fire stations to equipping firefighting vehicles with tablets and WiFi for receiving instructions from control rooms in real-time, the Delhi Fire Service is planning a technology overhaul to reduce response time and increase efficiency.The National Informatics Centre (NIC) and the National e-Governance Division (NeGD) have been asked to study the working of the fire department and accordingly give suggestions to modernise its functioning, officials said on Sunday.Last month, a proposal in this regard was discussed at a meeting. For the NIC-NeGD study, a survey has been carried out and a report is awaited, they said."We are in the process of modernising our way of functioning. But it's in the initial stage currently. We have given an expression of interest and asked the NIC and the NeGD to conduct a study on the working of the fire department," a senior Delhi Fire Service (DFS) official said.Following their study, the NIC and the NeGD will suggest the DFS ways to modernise its functioning using technology in an effective manner to increase efficiency for quicker response, he said.Citing an example, the fire service official said the department has been using basic technology when it comes to dispatching fire tenders to the spot of incident. Dispatching, among many protocols, includes determining the shortest route to the place of incident, he said."So, we are planning to introduce GPS-enabled systems in the DFS' control room, so that any distress call can be directly received by the system, which will also guide the nearest fire station to that particular fire call. Fire tenders, accordingly, will be dispatched from the fire station concerned," the official said.Currently, the central control room receives calls on helplines and a department staffer logs in details of a distress call, including location, in a register. However, when the new computer systems are in place, details of a caller like the person's location will automatically get saved in the system, he said.In case the call gets disconnected, the caller can be contacted again as all details will be recorded digitally, the official said.The DFS said that WiFi-enabled IP address cameras and computer tablets are also likely to be installed in fire tenders.The camera and the tablet will be connected with the central control room so that it can automatically guide firefighting crews to the spot of incident by suggesting the shortest routes. This will lead to quicker response, the fire department said."The idea behind fitting cameras in fire vehicles is that it will help us to keep track of them. In case a fire tender is stuck in traffic, we can mobilise fire tenders from other nearest fire stations. The camera feed will also help those at the control room judge the intensity of a fire and accordingly, strategise and deploy resources," the official said.He said that currently when a distress call is received, a fire station alerts its crew by sounding a siren, but with tablets attached to fire tenders, the device will automatically get an alert from the control room.The in-charge of the fire tender and its crew will also receive SMS about the location of the call and can be guided to it with details of the shortest route.In addition, through the process of data mining, all raw data generated through the system can be used for analysing and identifying hotspots from where the highest number of fire calls are received and to further study the reasons behind high number of incidents, the Delhi Fire Service said.Through modernisation, the fire department also hopes to minimise human interface as much possible to enhance efficiency and effectiveness, DFS officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-fire-services-plan-tech-overhaul-reduce-response-time-improve-efficiency-101615112446473.html
07-03-2021||India||'Sex ratio better here': President Kovind praises gender equality among tribals||President Ram Nath Kovind while delivering a speech at a state-level tribal meet at Damoh in Madhya Pradesh on Sunday said that the general population has a lot to learn from tribal communities when it comes to gender equality. He said tribal communities do not discriminate on the basis of gender, and hence their male to female sex ratio is better than that of the general population."There is no discrimination between men and women, and that is why the sex ratio in these communities was better than the general population," said Kovind.Kovind said being at the meet especially reminded him of former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, who was born in Madhya Pradesh, and during whose tenure the ministry of tribal affairs was created.“Born in Madhya Pradesh, former Prime Minister, Bharat-Ratna Atal Bihari Vajpayeeji, I am particularly reminded of him today because it was during his tenure as Prime Minister that a separate 'ministry of tribal affairs' was formed in the Central Government,” said the President.Kovind heralded the tribal communities as guardians and protectors of this country’s natural resources, saying that if they hadn’t protected the wealth of the forest from being exploited by the British, with their courage and valour, exploitation would have occurred on a much larger scale.The President also talked at length about the various schemes launched by the government in the interest of tribal communities. He praised tribal communities as “storehouse of knowledge” citing the example of the Baiga community, who fall under the 'Special Backward Tribe Group' in Madhya Pradesh, for their knowledge on traditional medicines.The President was on a two-day visit to Madhya Pradesh. Sunday's 'Janjatiya Sammelan' where he delivered his speech was organised by the MP Tribal Welfare Department. He had also attended the ‘sandhya aarti’ on the Narmada coast in Jabalpur, on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sex-ratio-better-here-president-kovind-praises-gender-equality-among-tribals-101615116746640.html
07-03-2021||India||News updates from HT: Centre blames polls, crowded public transport for Maharashtra Covid spike and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Maharashtra Covid spike: Crowded public transport, polls to blame, says CentreThe recent surge of Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra is due to many reasons including crowding at public transport, recent gram panchayat elections, the Centre has said in its report probing the sudden spike in fresh infections in the state, which started from February. Read moreKya yeh shabd uchit hain?: Bihar CM Nitish Kumar responds to Giriraj Singh's 'beat up govt officials’ remarkUnion fisheries minister and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Giriraj Singh, who is known for making contentious remarks, has embroiled himself into another controversy again. While addressing a function in his constituency of Begusarai in Bihar on Saturday, Singh told people that they should beat up government officials who don’t listen to them. Read more'From a blind lane of Jorabagan to here': Mithun says 'dada has never left you'Actor Mithun Chakraborty in his first address after joining the BJP on Sunday took a journey down memory lane and said it is a dream come true moment for him, for a person whose journey began at a blind lane in Kolkata's Jorabagan area. Read moreIPL 2021 to begin from April 9, defending champions Mumbai Indians to face Royal Challengers Bangalore in season-openerThe IPL Governing Council on Sunday announced the schedule for VIVO Indian Premier League 2021 to be held in India. The 2021 season will kick off from April 9, 2021 with defending champions Mumbai Indians facing off against Royal Challengers Bangalore in the season opener. Read moreVidya Balan recalls parents' first reaction to The Dirty Picture: 'Dad clapped, mom cried'Actor Vidya Balan recalled feeling nervous to see how her family would react to her racy role in The Dirty Picture. Vidya played yesteryear adult entertainer Silk Smitha in the film, directed by Milan Luthria. Read moreInside Meghan Markle's old $1.7m marital home before she married Prince HarryFormer member of the British Royal Family and Suits star Meghan Markle was used to living in palatial mansions long before she moved in (and out) of Kensington Palace. Read moreWatch: Amit Shah’s roadshow, door-to-door campaign in Tamil Nadu ahead of pollsUnion Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday launched his party's campaign for the April 6 Lok Sabha bypoll here and exuded confidence that the party would not only win here, but the NDA in Tamil Nadu would emerge victorious in the Assembly elections also next month. Launching his "Vetri Kodi Eandhi" (Carrying the flag of victory) campaign from Suseendiram in this district, he said he was confident that a coalition government of the NDA will come to power in the state after the April 6 assembly polls. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-centre-blames-polls-crowded-public-transport-for-maharashtra-covid-spike-and-all-the-latest-news-101615113880954.html
07-03-2021||India||Kya yeh shabd uchit hain?: Bihar CM Nitish Kumar responds to Giriraj Singh's 'beat up govt officials’ remark||Union fisheries minister and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Giriraj Singh, who is known for making contentious remarks, has embroiled himself into another controversy again. While addressing a function in his constituency of Begusarai in Bihar on Saturday, Singh told people that they should beat up government officials who don’t listen to them. “If even that does not work, then Giriraj shall throw his weight behind you,” he said and which led to an overwhelming appreciation from the public.Singh’s comment led to a wave of reactions within the state’s political spectrum. Bihar chief minister and Janata Dal (United) president Nitish Kumar also weighed in.“Aap unhi se puchiye (ask him only),” Kumar said on Sunday after reporters asked what he had to say about the Union minister’s remark. Kumar further questioned whether it was justified or appropriate to use words like ‘pitai’ (beating) and then refused to speak on this matter.Apart from Kumar, opposition parties in Bihar such as the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) and the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) strongly condemned Singh’s remark. The BSP’s national spokesperson, Sudhindra Bhadoria, said on Sunday that such a statement might create a law and order problem and added that why hasn’t the Centre taken any action against the Union minister. The RJD hit out at Singh as well as CM Kumar and said that whether these two parties were running a government or a ‘Mahajungleraj’ in the state. The current government in Bihar is under the realm of the alliance between the JD(U) and the BJP.#WATCH | If someone (any government official) doesn't listen to your grievances, hit them with a bamboo stick. Neither we ask them to do any illegitimate job, nor will we tolerate illegitimate 'nanga nritya' by any official: Union Minister Giriraj Singh in Begusarai, Bihar pic.twitter.com/Wxc6TlHiYC“On one hand, @NitishKumar tells youth that they would be jailed and not be given employment if they question the government or its officials. While on the other, eccentric Giriraj Singh says that government officials should be beaten up with sticks. Is this a government or a ‘Mahajungleraj’,” the RJD’s tweet, roughly translated from Hindi, read.A BJP leader in Patna, who did not wish to be named, told news agency PTI that Singh’s statement should be taken figuratively and not in a literal sense. “Giriraj Singh is a mass leader who has to be responsive towards public anger,” the leader said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/beat-up-govt-officials-with-sticks-says-giriraj-in-bihar-cm-nitish-reacts-101615111483786.html
07-03-2021||India||Maharashtra Covid spike: Crowded public transport, polls to blame, says Centre||The recent surge of Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra is due to many reasons including crowding at public transport, recent gram panchayat elections, the Centre has said in its report probing the sudden spike in fresh infections in the state, which started from February. The rise is not specific to any region, though it started with the Vidarbha region. The Centre had sent a team to Maharashtra and in other states which are seeing the abnormal spike after the situation hit a plateau in the state.Mutation of Covid-19 was initially thought to be a reason in case a particular mutation is more contagious, but the Centre earlier said that there is no scientific link between the two as some of these mutations have been present in the country since 2020 and mutations are only natural.A team of experts comprising joint secretary of health ministry Nipun Vinayak, National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) deputy director Sanket Kulkarni and National Institute of TB and Respiratory Diseases professor Ashish Ranjan, visited the state on March 1 and 2 and have zeroed in on a few reasons.Maharashtra adds over 50k new cases in 6 days: What ministers said on lockdown"While the exact causes of the surge are not known— since laxity in Covid-19 behaviour is not specific to the state — the possible factors are Covid-inappropriate behaviour due to lack of fear of disease, pandemic fatigue; miss outs and super spreaders; and enhanced aggregations due to recent gram panchayat elections, marriage season and opening of schools, crowded public transport, etc.," according to a report shared by the government.Watch: ‘Covid vaccination done for free at govt hospitals in India’: PM ModiIn the face of a fresh threat from a second Covid-19, several districts in Maharashtra have imposed restrictions by shutting schools, bringing back night curfews and choosing brief local lockdowns. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has said he is not in favour of a lockdown in the state again.In its report, the contribution of the resumption of Mumbai local trains behind the rise has not been separately pointed out as the report pertains to the overall rise in Covid-19 cases in the state, but it mentions crowded public transport as one of the reasons. So are gram panchayat elections in the state. In January, elections were held in 12,711 gram panchayat spread across 34 districts in Maharashtra."Don't let the guard down. Stay to basics of surveillance, contact tracing and testing. Micro plan and ensure strict compliance of protocols. Strengthen teams to ensure meticulous home quarantine, do focused testing of 100 per cent population in hotspot areas repeated at five days, and isolate positives to check spread,” it said.(With PTI Inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-covid-spike-crowded-public-transport-polls-to-blame-says-centre-101615110636865.html
07-03-2021||India||Odisha cabinet resolves 16 major decisions under Naveen Patnaik's chairmanship||The State Cabinet meeting held under the chairmanship of Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik on Saturday have resolved 16 major decisions adding the approval of a proposal to create a new department called Mission Shakti in a bid to strengthen the SHG (Self Help Group) movement across the state.According to a press release, the decision was taken in the Cabinet meeting held under the chairmanship of Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik.The cabinet has resolved 16 major decisions including the decisions pertaining to the departments of Energy, Agriculture, and Farmer's Welfare, Social security, and empowerment of persons with a disability, Excise, General administration and public grievance, Panchayati Raj and drinking water, Revenue and disaster management, and Steel and mines.Also read: Union minister proposes collection drive for beautification of Jagannath TempleThe major decisions include the creation of a new department named Mission Shakti; construction of ten mega rural pipe water supply schemes in Aul, Rajkanika, Chilika, Tangi, Banpur, Khordha, Jatani, Gondia, Bhubana, Golaminda, Jajpur, and Binjharpur blocks.The constitution of the rural piped water scheme for 26 Gram Panchayats of Sambalpur district and 2 Gram Panchayats of Jharsuguda district has also been sanctioned in the cabinet.Besides, the cabinet has sanctioned the lease of 25 acres land for construction of one satellite centre of AIIMS in Remuna Tehsil of Balasore district, the release reads.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-cabinet-resolves-16-major-decisions-under-naveen-patnaik-s-chairmanship-101615082089474.html
07-03-2021||India||‘Topic of emergency should be buried once and for all’, says Shiv Sena||The Shiv Sena on Sunday said the topic of India's Emergency of 1975 is 'outdated' and must be 'buried once and for all'. Party mouthpiece Saamana has also termed the present situation in the country no different than the emergency."The present situation in the country prompts us to say 'situation during emergency was better,” Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut wrote in his weekly column RokhThok.Raut said newspapers and media houses are now being controlled, many opposition leaders are jailed, public property is up for sale, and only some people are gaining from it while those who point out this is wrong are termed 'enemies of the country'. Those who speak frankly and sometimes criticize the actions of the government, including persons from the film industry such as Anurag Kashyap and Tapsee Pannu were raided by the income tax department."How is this any different from the emergency?" the column questioned.Talking about the arrest of Disha Ravi, the 22-year old environment activist for sedition, Raut asked, "Why is the government afraid of a 22-year old? Does such an action suit the world's biggest democracy? Such incidents erode the basis of democracy."It went on to say that renaming of the Motera stadium in Ahmedabad after Prime Minister Narendra Modi, is a resounding reminder of the slogan coined during emergency, "Indira is India". Now Indira's place has been taken by Narendra Modi, it said.The column also questioned if it is necessary for Rahul Gandhi to express the view that the emergency was wrong and revisit the topic. Indira Gandhi was criticised by people for the aspects of emergency that were wrong, she was forgiven, and then re-elected.“Why revisit the same topic again and again? That topic has now become obsolete,” it said. Praising Rahul Gandhi for his frankness, it said that what he spoke simply became a talking point.It went on to say that an era has passed since Indira Gandhi declared the emergency in the country, under very specific circumstances. Now there is a generation in politics and in journalism that has nothing to do with the emergency period."Those who were never affected by the emergency now hold power in the central government and in many states. Yet BJP continues to grind axe over the emergency, this is very surprising," it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/topic-of-emergency-should-be-buried-once-and-for-all-says-shiv-sena-101615108445962.html
07-03-2021||India||Covid-19 vaccination weekly wrap: India reaches 20 million mark, 1.5 million inoculated in a single-day||The vaccination drive against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) is progressing steadily in the country and authorities are inoculating thousands of people every day. As of Saturday evening, a total of 20,662,073 vaccine doses have been administered in the country, the health ministry said in the statement.In the first phase, which started on January 16, healthcare and frontline workers - the most vulnerable group in fight against Covid-19 - were given vaccines. So far, 69,72,859 healthcare and 65,02,869 frontline workers have received a jab against the infection. Out of these, 35,22,671 healthcare and 1,97,853 frontline workers have received the second dose as well, according to health ministry.India reached the ten million-mark on February 19. It vaccinated the highest number of people on March 5 when nearly 1.5 million people were inoculated against Covid-19. Before this, the country administered about 1.4 million doses on Thursday.India is behind only the United States and the United Kingdom in terms of the total number of people receiving vaccination, data from the health ministry shows. It is also one of the fastest countries to reach the 20 million milestone.In the second phase of vaccination drive, which commenced from March 1, the government allowed people above 60 years of age to receive the jab. Those above 45 and with specified co-morbid conditions are also getting vaccinated in the second phase.The government also gave a nod to private vaccination centres where people can get the jab at a set price.Meanwhile, experts said there is a need to speed up the drive at least six to 10 times if the country plans to achieve its target of immunising 300 million people most at risk of exposure or death by August.The Centre is planning to more than double the number of vaccination centres and reach deeper into rural parts of the country, targeting a massive expansion that experts believe is possible only if policies are relaxed and India’s vast immunisation infrastructure is tapped into.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-vaccination-weekly-wrap-india-reaches-20-million-mark-1-5-million-inoculated-in-a-singleday-101615107694147.html
07-03-2021||India||Amit Shah confident of NDA victory in upcoming TN assembly polls||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday began the Bharatiya Janata Party's (BJP's) Vijay Sankalp Mahasampark Abhiyaan, a door-to-door campaign, in Tamil Nadu by visiting 11 homes in Kanyakumari on Sunday and exuded confidence that government of NDA will come to power in the state after the assembly polls."I am confident that the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK)-BJP- Paattali Makkal Katchi (PMK) government will be formed in Tamil Nadu," Shah said.Shah started the door-to-door campaign by visiting 11 homes at Suchindram town in Kanyakumari and appealed to the people to ensure the win of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) candidate Pon Radhakrishnan.Speaking to the media, Shah said, "Today, we have started our started door-to-door campaign by visiting 11 homes here. I appeal to all to ensure the win of NDA candidate Pon Radhakrishnan from Kanyakumari Lok Sabha seat in by-polls," he said.During the campaign in Suchindram, he said, "Through this campaign, we have initiated the process of taking Bharatiya Janata Party's (BJP) symbol, 'Kamal' (Lotus) to every home in the state. We have tried to convey Prime Minister Narendra Modi's message to the people."He conducted a roadshow from Hindu college to Veppamodu Kamraj statue.Shah offered prayers at Suchindram Temple, Kanyakumari, on Sunday morning and was accompanied by BJP leaders and supporters.Later in the day, he is scheduled to attend the valedictory function of BJP Kerala Vijay Yatra in Thiruvananthapuram.This is Shah's second visit to the state in a week. Last Sunday, he visited Chennai and met Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and his deputy O Panneerselvam.BJP is contesting Assembly elections in Tamil Nadu in alliance with incumbent All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK). The AIADMK late Friday night announced that it allocated 20 Assembly constituencies to the BJP for the ensuing elections along with the Kanyakumari Lok Sabha constituency.Tamil Nadu Assembly elections for 234 constituencies will be held in a single phase on April 6 and the counting of votes will be done on May 2. As many as 6,28,23,749 electors will choose candidates for the sixteenth Legislative Assembly in Tamil Nadu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-confident-of-nda-victory-in-upcoming-tn-assembly-polls-101615106767667.html
07-03-2021||India||Budget session of Parliament likely to be cut short due to assembly polls||The second half of the budget session of Parliament is all set to be shortened by almost two weeks due to the ensuing assembly elections in four states and a union territory.The remaining part of the session might also see resumption of the normal parliamentary schedule of simultaneous proceedings in both Houses from 11 am. Currently, the two Houses of Parliament sit in different shifts to maintain social distance.Parliament officials said that the government managers as well as many opposition leaders have requested Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu and Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla to cut short the session as leaders of the BJP, Congress, TMC, DMK, Left bloc, AGP, AIADMK and many regional outfits would be busy in the campaign for the polls.Elections are being held in Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Kerala, Assam and Puducherry from March 27 to April 29.The second half of the budget session was scheduled to end on April 8. The first half of the session was also cut short by two days.Top officials indicated that the second half of the session that starts on Monday, may run for a maximum of two weeks."The elections are starting from March 27. Keeping the political considerations in mind, it looks like the session is likely to run for two weeks only," said a senior official.The government's top priority would be to clear the finance bill and the ministry wise demand for grants in Parliament. The government also has about 25 bills shortlisted for passage but those can always be taken up later.Officials also said that both houses might meet at 11 am from the second week following vaccination of MPs. "Since many MPs would be busy campaigning, we are not expecting a full House in this session," said a Rajya Sabha official."Therefore, the current system of allotment of seats covering both Houses will be scrapped and MPs of one House can be accommodated in their own House. This will allow simultaneous running of both Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha," said a third official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/budget-session-of-parliament-likely-to-be-cut-short-due-to-assembly-polls-101615105725652.html
07-03-2021||India||J-K police continue verification drive of illegal Rohingyas||The verification drive of illegal Rohingyas in Jammu continued for the second day on Sunday, officials said.Long queues of Rohingyas were seen outside the stadium where 150 of them had entered by 12 noon. The venue remains out of bounds for the media.Dozens of others who gathered with their luggage outside Mecca Masjid in Jammu’s Bhatindi area in the morning said that they were heading home following the verification process initiated by Jammu and Kashmir police.By late Saturday a total of 169 illegal immigrants without valid travel documents were lodged in Hiranagar jail in Kathua, which has been turned into a holding centre.“Due process of law was followed in this exercise. These immigrants were not holding valid travel documents required in terms of section (3) of the Passports Act,” inspector general of police (Jammu zone) Mukesh Singh had said Saturday.The exercise of identifying more such immigrants is going on and the union territory administration is collecting biometric and other details of Rohingyas staying here.According to an official estimate of the then BJP-PDP alliance government, 5,700 Rohingyas had settled in and around Jammu.In April 2017, the UNHCR said there were 7,000 Rohingyas in Jammu and Kashmir. The Rohingyas are settled largely in Jammu's Bhatindi, Subhuman and Bawe areas, in Samba's Bari Brahmana, and are also scattered in Kathua and Udhampur districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jk-police-continue-verification-drive-of-illegal-rohingyas-101615104742999.html
07-03-2021||India||From farms to mills, a long wait for UP farmers just to get sugarcane weighed||As thousands of farmers lay siege to Delhi borders for over 100 days demanding the repeal of three contentious farm laws, those staying back in Western Uttar Pradesh have to endure a different kind of long wait -- at times for multiple days just to get weighed quintals of sugarcane lying in tractor-trollies on their way from farms to mills.Some pass their time chit-chatting about the ongoing protests, others while smoking bidis or cigarettes, but all of them sound worried about loads of sugarcane drying under a scorching sun, while Punjabi and Haryanvi songs continue to blare out loudly, either from their mobiles or small speakers fitted in their vehicles.Also, problems for them are much more beyond the three laws that have been in limelight due to the protests at the national capital borders.Almost a hundred tractor-trollies, each loaded with 300 quintals of sugarcane on an average, can be seen parked in a barren field near the Bhopada weighing scale in Budhana tehsil here, barely two kilometres from the Dhampur sugar mill -- the final destination of the load and their carriers after days-long 'weighing' halt.Some drivers, many of them farmers with small landholdings, even have arrangements made for sleeping on cots fitted under their 'trollas' (customised and bigger trolleys used to transport sugarcane)."It has been two days since I am waiting at this weighing scale and looks like it will take me another two days for my work to be done so that I can take my stock to the sugar mill," Rohit Balyan, who hails from Kutba village, told PTI."The exhausting long wait at weighing scales hurts farmers because the sugarcane load starts drying up under the sun and by the time one's turn comes for measurement, the weight comes down a bit," the 21-year-old Balyan said while lighting up a cigarette borrowed from a friend waiting next in the queue.A sugar mill official in Muzaffarnagar, which is widely known as the 'sugar bowl' of India and also has Asia's largest gur mandi (jaggery market), told PTI the weight loss during the waiting time is only a few kilogrammes but farmers argue this loss means a lot to them because their earnings go down by thousands of rupees.However, mill owners put the blame for the delay in weighing the crop on farmers growing sugarcane way beyond the daily intake capacity of the mills and also on lack of weighing facilities in the region. They also claim that sugar production from the region is often in surplus vis-a-vis the market demand and therefore they do not have enough incentives to further enhance their processing facilities.Farmers also claim that sugar mills are procuring sugarcane at ₹325 per quintal, lower than the government-fixed Minimum Support Price (MSP) of ₹385."We are not getting the MSP and then we have to wait here for days at the weighing scale. The sugarcane starts drying up after a couple of days and this means a reduction in weight and money for us," said Anuj Tomar, who hails from Kakda village.Tomar, 25, said he has been standing in the queue for days with sugarcane produced in his family's 27-bigha land.Among those waiting at the weighing scale are also people who do not own land but are engaged in transporting sugarcane from farms to sugar mills after getting the yield measures at weighing scales.For them also, the loss of time during a peak work season means loss of money.Harsoli village resident Mukeem, 35, said he uses his tractor-trolla for the transport work like many others in the region, who are typically paid nearly ₹12 per quintal of sugarcane from the mills."It has been three days since I am standing here. I have got more than 300 quintals of sugarcane loaded on my trolla. If we get it measured quickly, then I can do more rounds and make more money," Mukeem said.He is also upset over an order of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) that calls for phasing out old tractors in the National Capital Region (NCR). Muzaffarnagar, which thrives on sugarcane production, is among the areas affected by this order."How are we supposed to phase out our tractors just because they are 15 or 20-years old. They are working fine for us. The price of diesel has gone up sharply in the last 10 years. The rate we get for transportation is still the same but nobody is bothered about these issues,” he said.Also waiting for two days at the weighing scale are Raju Tyagi, 23, from Osika village and 23-years-old Saleem from Kethal village, both of whom strongly support protesting farmers' demand for a legal guarantee on the MSP and repeal of the three contentious agriculture laws.Transporting sugarcane is a seasonal work both Tyagi and Saleem take up and are mightily upset over the long delays at weighing scales."I hope that one day the government will consider our issues also," Saleem said.According to the Muzaffarnagar administration estimates, more than 40 per cent of the district's population is engaged in agriculture with sugarcane farming topping the chart.Sugar mill officials say much of the problem related to sugarcane farming in the region is due to the surplus yield of sugarcane and the limited production capacity of the mills."There are eight sugar mills in Muzaffarnagar alone. The one in Khatauli is the biggest in Western Uttar Pradesh and has a purchasing capacity of 1,30,000 quintals a day," a sugar mill official said requesting anonymity."Farmers in the region mostly grow sugarcane and wheat. While wheat is mostly grown for personal consumption, they sell sugarcane to mills because of the MSP on it. That leads to sugar being in surplus, which in turn results in various problems related to it," the official said.A measure to check these problems can only be policy-driven by the government, the official suggested, adding there should be an upper limit for farming of sugarcane."Farmers here are growing sugarcane on 90 per cent of their lands. If that is reduced to say, 60 per cent, and farmers are asked to grow other crops also, then a solution could be in sight," he told PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-farms-to-mills-a-long-wait-for-up-farmers-just-to-get-sugarcane-weighed-101615103087737.html
07-03-2021||India||News updates from HT: Amit Shah holds door-to-door campaign in Kanyakumari after temple visit and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Amit Shah holds door-to-door campaign in Kanyakumari after temple visitUnion home minister Amit Shah reached Kanyakumari on Sunday to campaign for Pon Radhakrishnan, who has been fielded for the April 6 bypoll. Read MoreHigh-speed train from Lhasa to Tibetan city near Arunachal to run from JuneTibet’s first high-speed train service between provincial capital Lhasa and Nyingchi near the border with the Indian state of Arunachal Pradesh will be operational by the end of June, a top official Chinese railway official said on Saturday. Read More‘He is quite a special batsman’: Ashwin surprised why people don’t recognise Sundar’s batting talentTeam India on Saturday cruised into the final of the inaugural edition of the ICC World Test Championship (WTC) following an emphatic 3-1 series win over England. Read MoreAccused of abandoning their foster kids, Mahhi Vij and Jay Bhanushali find support in Ankita LokhandeActor Ankita Lokhande has defended Mahhi Vij and her husband, Jay Bhanushali, over accusations that they abandoned their foster children - Khushi and Rajveer. Read MoreFrom minis to evening gowns: Nora Fatehi's dress collection is like no one elseLooking for a dress that will accompany you from your office desk to the dinner date after? Head over to Nora Fatehi's Instagram for inspiration. Read MoreCongress headless; make Sharad Pawar UPA chief: Sanjay Raut on The InterviewFrom probing celebrities to protecting friends in Bollywood to discussing voting rights for Muslims, Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut concedes that he is becoming important by the day. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-amit-shah-campaigns-door-to-door-in-poll-bound-kanyakumari-101615099496658.html
07-03-2021||India||Covid-19: India's weekly tally rises over 114,000, daily fatalities average 100||India recorded 114,068 new coronavirus infections and 705 deaths from March 1 to March 7 as per data from Johns Hopkins University. The country, on an average, recorded 16, 295 cases per day, and 100 deaths. The total number of discharges during the time was 80,228.The number of active cases currently stands at 1,84,523, which is 1.65% of the total number of coronavirus cases recorded. A total of 1,08,68,520 people have been cured of the virus so far and the overall death toll currently stands at 1,57,756 as per the ministry of health data.The highest number of cases in the week was recorded on Sunday, with 18,711 fresh infections. It was also the second consecutive day that the country had recorded over 18,000 cases.The country recorded 100 or more coronavirus related deaths for three consecutive days from Friday to Sunday. Sunday also saw the maximum number of people discharged with 14,392 new discharges.A total of 2,09,22,344 beneficiaries have been administered the Covid-19 vaccine as per the ministry of health. The government announced that Army veterans would get their jabs starting next week. Wednesday saw the highest number of vaccine doses administered with over 15 lakh beneficiaries receiving the jabs.Watch: 'Covid vaccination done for free at govt hospitals in India’: PM ModiAs per Johns Hopkins University, India has managed to administer 19,497,704 doses so far and have fully vaccinated 3,501,021 people, which constitutes 0.26% of the nation's population.The week saw a spike in infections in certain states,especially Maharashtra that passed 2.2 million cases on Saturday after recording over 10,000 cases for two consecutive days. The BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) announced a mandatory seven-day institutional quarantine for travellers from Brazil on Wednesday over fears of the virus variant.The national capital, New Delhi, also saw a spike in cases, recording over 300 cases daily on both Friday and Saturday.States like Punjab, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat have imposed new restrictions to limit the spread of the virus. The Centre had sent expert teams to Maharashtra and Punjab on Saturday to assist with the Covid situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-india-s-weekly-tally-rises-over-114-000-daily-fatalities-average-100-101615096444712.html
07-03-2021||India||When Mithun Chakraborty resigned from Rajya Sabha citing health reasons||Actor Mithun Chakraborty is present at the Brigade Parade ground in Kolkata to attend the mega rally of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. However, there has been no confirmation till now from the BJP side whether he will also be joining the party ahead of the crucial West Bengal Assembly election 2021.If Chakraborty joins the BJP, it will be an extension of his long tryst with politics which apparently started with his links with the Naxalite movement in West Bengal.After building a successful Bollywood career, his association with Bengal politics got renewed after Mamata Banerjee's Trinamool Congress (TMC) came to power in 2011. In 2014, the party sent him to the Rajya Sabha but the Saradha scam apparently tarnished his image as he was the brand ambassador of the group that ran a ponzi scam in Bengal. Many other TMC leaders were associated with the group.PM Modi's Brigade rally: BJP clarifies about Mithun Chakraborty, Sourav GangulyDuring the investigation into the scam, Chakraborty was interrogated and returned ₹1.19 crore to the Enforcement Directorate after tax deduction from ₹2 crore that he had got from the group for being their brand ambassador. This happened in 2015. In 2016, Chakraborty resigned from the Rajya Sabha citing health reasons. His attendance was also poor as he had attended Parliament for three days during his stint.Following this, he distanced himself from both politics and the public eye and was believed to have undergone treatment abroad for his chronic back problem.In 2019, Mithun Chakraborty was seen in filmmaker Vivek Agnihotri's The Tashkent Files. He will also be seen in the same director's upcoming movie The Kashmir Files, which was supposed to be released in 2020, but got delayed owing to the Covid-19 pandemic.His re-emergence in the political space and speculations over it began with his meeting with RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat, though the actor said it was a breakfast meeting and there was no politics in it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/when-mithun-chakraborty-resigned-from-rajya-sabha-citing-health-reasons-101615099980487.html
07-03-2021||India||Delhi among top 3 states with most contaminated sites in India||The national capital stands third on the list of states and Union territories with most contaminated sites, according to the Central Pollution Control Board data.There are 112 sites in India contaminated by toxic and hazardous substances. Besides, there are 168 sites that may be contaminated but require investigation and confirmation, as per the CPCB.Odisha tops the list with 23 contaminated sites, followed by Uttar Pradesh (21) and Delhi (11).  Bhalswa and Ghazipur landfill sites, industrial areas at Jhilmil, Wazirpur, New Friends Colony, Dilshad Garden and Lawrence Road are among the 11 contaminated sites in Delhi.Also, there are 12 “probably contaminated sites” in the national capital.According to the Union Environment Ministry, 'Contaminated Sites' are delineated areas in which the “constituents and characteristics of the toxic and hazardous substances, caused by humans, exist at levels and in conditions which pose existing or imminent threats to human health and the environment”.Contaminated sites may include production areas, landfills, dumps, waste storage and treatment sites, mine tailings sites, spill sites, chemical waste handler and storage sites located in various land uses.'Probably Contaminated Sites' are areas with alleged but not scientifically proven presence of such contaminants or substances.Remediation work has been started to clean up 14 contaminated sites in 7 states on the directions of the National Green Tribunal.These states include Gujarat, Jharkhand, Kerala, Maharashtra, Odisha, Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh. Remediation of contaminated sites involves cleaning of contaminated media -- soil, groundwater, surface water and sediments -- by adopting various in-situ or ex-situ clean-up technologies up to a predefined remediation target levels for each identified constituent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-among-top-3-states-with-most-contaminated-sites-in-india-101615099800976.html
07-03-2021||India||Priyanka Gandhi Vadra to address Kisan Mahapanchyat in Meerut today||Congress General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra will address a 'Kisan Mahapanchayat' in Western Uttar Pradesh's Meerut district today.Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee chief Ajay Kumar Lallu on Saturday said that the party will continue to protest against the farm laws and "Priyanka Gandhi will address a 'Kisan Mahapanchayat' in Meerut on Sunday and highlight the issues being faced by farmers."This will be the fifth Kisan Mahapanchayat in the region which will be addressed by Priyanka Gandhi Vadra.Priyanka Gandhi had chaired the meeting of UP Congress MLAs in Delhi and discussed the strategy to be adopted to take on the central government on farmer's issues.The Congress Party is organising Kisan Panchayats in 28 districts of Western Uttar Pradesh to raise a voice against the farm laws and to support farmers' demand to repeal them.Uttar Pradesh Congress had launched the 'Jai Jawan Jai Kisan' programme in the region on February 10 from Saharanpur through a Kisan Panchayat which was addressed by Priyanka Gandhi Vadra.According to Sources with this Kisan Mahapanchayat, the party will conclude the Program in Western UP and the Next Phase will be launched in Eastern UP.Since then, senior leaders are addressing Kisan Panchayats from district to tehsil level but Kisan Panchayats addressed by Congress General Secretary in-charge of the state Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has been planned aiming at gaining political ground.She had also addressed the Kisan panchayat in Saharanpur which was organised by Congress leader Imran Masood and attended by Pradesh Congress Committee Chief Ajay Singh Lallu and other senior leaders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/priyanka-gandhi-vadra-to-address-kisan-mahapanchyat-in-meerut-today-101615098750849.html
07-03-2021||India||Samajwadi Party to hold cycle rally in support of Azam Khan and family over cases lodged by UP police||Samajwadi Party (SP) will hold a rally in support of its leader and Lok Sabha MP Azam Khan and his family over cases registered against them by the Uttar Pradesh Police.The rally will begin from Rampur, Lok Sabha constituency of Azam Khan on March 12 and will conclude in Lucknow on March 21.Over 80 cases have been registered against Khan, many of which are about land encroachment by Mohammad Ali Jauhar University. Khan, a former Uttar Pradesh cabinet minister, is the varsity's chancellor.In January, the Supreme Court dismissed pleas of the Uttar Pradesh government challenging the bail granted to Samajwadi Party MP Azam Khan, his wife Dr Tanzeen Fathima, and son Abdullah Azam Khan in an alleged case of forging birth certificate.In October 2020, the Allahabad High Court had granted bail to MP Azam Khan, his wife and son in the case. Abdullah Azam Khan was elected as an MLA from Suar seat from Rampur, Uttar Pradesh in 2017. He was disqualified from the membership of the State Legislative Assembly for being less than 25 years of age as on the date of the election, in December 2019.He was found guilty by the Allahabad High Court for submitting a forged birth certificate to the election body to contest elections.A complaint was lodged by Akash Saxena, a member of Bharatiya Janata Party, alleging that Azam Khan and his wife have got two birth certificates issued from different places, one dated January 28, 2012, from Nagar Palika Parishad, Rampur, and the second dated April 21, 2015, from Nagar Nigam, Lucknow, for their son.The first birth certificate, which recorded his date of birth as January 1, 1993, was used for making passport, etc and was misused in foreign travel, the complainant alleged. While the second birth certificate, which recorded his date of birth as September 30, 1990, was "misused" in government documents for contesting election to Legislative Assembly of the state and in different recognitions given to Jauhar University, it claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/samajwadi-party-to-hold-cycle-rally-in-support-of-azam-khan-and-family-over-cases-lodged-by-up-police-101615098786991.html
07-03-2021||India||Bombay HC refuses pre-arrest bail to judicial magistrate booked in bribery case||The Bombay high court has refused anticipatory bail to a judicial magistrate first class (JMFC) whose associate allegedly demanded and accepted a bribe on her behalf for dismissing a criminal complaint against a milk vendor from Pune district."The applicant was occupying a very responsible position. Considering the seriousness of allegations against her, it is necessary that the investigation is carried out thoroughly," said justice Sarang Kotwal while rejecting the anticipatory bail plea of the judicial magistrate, Archana Jatkar on Thursday.Jatkar was booked in January by Dehu Road police station on the basis of a complaint lodged by Swapnil Shevkar, a milk vendor.Shevkar said on January 4, 2021 a woman came to his residence and informed his brother that a criminal complaint was filed against Shevkar and it could result in levying some serious charges against him. She gave her mobile number so that Shevkar could contact her.When Shevkar contacted and later met her, the woman, Jatkar's associate Shubhavari Gaikwad, informed him that she could settle the matter for him, if he agreed to pay Rs. 5 lakh. After negotiations, she reduced the amount to Rs. 3 lakh.Shevkar lodged a complaint with the anti-corruption bureau (ACB). On January 14, 2021, Shevkar met the woman, who sat in his car and they drove around. At one spot, she accepted the bribe amount and got down from the vehicle. ACB sleuths then arrested Gaikwad, who revealed that she had accepted the bribe amount on behalf of Jatkar, a judicial magistrate first class at Vadgaon Maval in Pune district.Jatkar had moved the sessions Court at Pune for pre-arrest bail. She approached HC, after the sessions Court rejected her plea on February 23.The JMFC contended that she was staying alone in Pune along with her 11-month-old baby, as husband is employed in Mumbai. She claimed she was looking for a babysitter for her child and that was how she came in contact with Gaikwad, and she did not know these activities of the woman.Justice Kotwal refused to accept her claim of innocence after noticing that certain conversations between Jatkar and Gaikwad referred to the case and at least prima facie indicated involvement of the JMFC in the crime.The high court noted that investigation showed that there were 147 telephonic calls exchanged between the applicant (Jatkar) and Gaikwad."These conversations are a strong indication of the applicant’s involvement in the offence," said justice Kotwal while rejecting her pre-arrest bail plea."Therefore considering the gravity of offence, order of anticipatory bail cannot be passed in her favour. Her custodial interrogation is necessary to find out the exact nature of relation between both the accused and as to whether in any other case these two have acted similarly," the judge added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bombay-hc-refuses-pre-arrest-bail-to-judicial-magistrate-booked-in-bribery-case-101615098624902.html
07-03-2021||India||Omar Abdullah's swipe at Suvendu: 'Hasn't Kashmir become paradise after 2019?'||Hitting out at West Bengal BJP leader Suvdendu Adhikari for his comment that West Bengal will turn into Kashmir if Trinamool Congress come wins the upcoming assembly polls in the state, National Conference leader Omar Abdullah asked if there is something wrong in that. Referring to the scrapping of Article 370, which had given special status to the erstwhile state, the former J&K chief minister took a swipe at BJP saying they claim it has now become paradise."But according to you BJP wallas Kashmir has become paradise after August 2019 so what’s wrong with West Bengal becoming Kashmir?" Abdullah said on Twitter.But according to you BJP wallas Kashmir has become paradise after August 2019 so what’s wrong with West Bengal becoming Kashmir? Anyway, Bengalis love Kashmir & visit us in large numbers so we forgive you your stupid, tasteless comment. https://t.co/drxRLxvIO1On Saturday, Adhikari whom the BJP has fielded from Nandigram seat against West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, address a public meeting and said India would have been an Islamic country had it not been for Shyama Prasad Mukherjee, the founder of Bharatiya Jana Sangh, which after many years and after many changes was succeeded by today's Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)."If Trinamool comes back to power, West Bengal will become Kashmir," Adhikari said.PM Modi's Brigade rally: BJP clarifies about Mithun Chakraborty, Sourav GangulyTerming the comment stupid and tasteless, Abdullah wrote in his tweet, "Anyway, Bengalis love Kashmir and visit us in large numbers so we forgive you your stupid, tasteless comment."Adhikari is emerging as a key figure in BJP's election strategy in West Bengal and the Mamata versus Suvendu Adhikari is becoming one of the main draws of the impending election."Nandigram is not a challenge for me. I am going to Nandigram to defeat her (Mamata Banerjee) and send her back to Kolkata. I thank the national party leadership for the responsibility given to me. I will work to make lotus bloom in Nandigram and across West Bengal. She (Mamata Banerjee) is going to lose this election (in Nandigram) by over 50,000 votes," Adhikari said on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hasnt-kashmir-become-paradise-after-2019-omar-abdudullah-s-swipe-at-suvendu-101615097004917.html
07-03-2021||India||People like to call it Modi ki dukan... buy affordable medicines from here: PM Modi inaugurates Jan Aushadhi Kendra||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday dedicated to the nation the 7,500th Janaushadhi Kendra at North Eastern Indira Gandhi Regional Institute of Health and Medical Sciences (NEIGRIHMS) in Shillong on Sunday via video conferencing.Addressing the event, PM Modi said that the initiative will help the poor save money by providing medicines at affordable cost from these centres."Medicines are expensive, that's why we've PM 'Jan Aushadhi ' yojana for the poor which saves their money. I urge people to buy medicines at affordable cost from 'Modi ki Dukaan' (as people like to call it)," the Prime Minister said while interacting with a beneficiary.He was interacting with the beneficiaries as part of 'Jan Aushadhi Diwas'."The PM Janaushadhi Pariyojana is being run across the country for poor and middle-income families. This yojana is a medium of seva (service) and rozgar (employment) as it also provides employment opportunities to the youth. As part of the scheme, sanitary pads for girls available at ₹2.5," said PM Modi.According to the Prime Minister's Office (PMO), in order to create more awareness about 'Jan Aushadhi', an entire week - from March 1 to March 7 - is being celebrated as 'Jan Aushadhi Week' across the nation, with the theme of 'Jan Aushadhi - Seva bhi, Rozgar bhi'.The last day of the week will be celebrated as 'Jan ushadhi Diwas'.Union minister for Chemicals and Fertilizers D V Sadananda Gowda was also present on the occasion.The Pradhan Mantri Bhartiya Jan Aushadhi scheme seeks to provide quality medicines at an affordable price and covers all districts of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/called-modi-ki-dukan-buy-medicine-from-there-pm-launches-jan-aushadhi-centre-101615093948028.html
07-03-2021||India||Amit Shah visits Kerala as Vijayan govt battles to rid gold smuggling taint||As the rift between the Left democratic front government and the Centre widened over the gold smuggling case, Union home minister Amit Shah arrived in the state late on Saturday for one-day visit to Kerala and bordering Tamil Nadu.Shah will address the concluding session of the BJP state president K Surendran’s state-wide ‘Vijay Yatra’ at Shankumugham beach in the state capital on Sunday evening. His visit assumes much significance in the backdrop of chief minister Pinarayi Viijayan’s criticism that the Centre was using its agencies to portray the state government in a bad light. Shah’s visit is expected to brighten poll fireworks in the state. “His visit will streamline our vigorous campaign in the state,” said Surendran.The Centre-state friction over the matter escalated after the customs department filed an affidavit in Kerala high court on Friday linking chief minister, three of his ministers, and assembly Speaker with the sensational smuggling scandal. It also summoned former party secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan’s wife Vinodini Balakrishnan in connection with an expensive smartphone, allegedly gifted by a builder Sanotsh Eapen, who got the contract for the controversial Life Mission project in Thrissur.The ruling party protested outside the customs office in major cities on Saturday. Attacked personally, customs and preventive commissioner Sumit Kumar later took to social media, saying “intimidation tactics” won’t pay. He said there were many attacks on him and his officers but the state police had failed to probe these cases properly.“The commissioner had submitted a statement recorded under Section 164 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) in the high court in a case in which he was not a party. The motive behind the latest move is to tarnish the image of the government,” said the CM, adding that the commissioner was carrying out the dirty job to help the BJP-Congress “alliance” in the state. He alleged both the BJP and the Congress worked as a single unit in the state to attack the Left front government.Also Read: Kerala CM slams union minister amid calls for resignation over smuggling caseEarlier, the CM had hit out at BJP's minister of state for external affairs, V Muraleedharan, alleging after his elevation, smuggling from West Asian countries increased manifold. Hailing from the state, Muraleedharan is one of the staunchest critics of the state government. He responded by saying that the government was barking at the wrong tree after its own role in the smuggling scandal unearthed.The sensational gold smuggling case is a major talking point in the state assembly polls this time. It came to light last July after customs seized 30 kg gold from a consignment that came in the name of an official of the UAE consulate in Thiruvananthapuram, camouflaged as a diplomatic consignment. Later, the case was handed over to the National Investigation Agency (NIA) and at least four other central agencies are part of the probe now. The NIA and other agencies arrested 30 persons in connection with the case including the CM’s former principal secretary, M Sivasankar, and questioned a minister and many others in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-visits-kerala-as-vijayan-govt-battles-to-rid-gold-smuggling-taint-101615094033444.html
07-03-2021||India||During PM Modi’s Kolkata rally, CM Banerjee will decry LPG price in Siliguri||In a bid to counter Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s first Kolkata rally prior to the eight-phase assembly polls that begins on March 27, Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Sunday will lead a roadshow in Siliguri, 570 km away in north Bengal, to decry the hike in price of LPG.“I will lead the protest in Siliguri. We will carry cylinders. The state government gives food to the people for free. It is unacceptable that price of the fire needed to cook it costs ₹900. How can common people survive?” Banerjee said on Saturday afternoon before leaving for north Bengal where the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) made impressive progress in 2019 and won seven of the region’s eight Lok Sabha seats.On Sunday, Banerjee set the tone for the day early with an attack on the issue on Twitter at 10.45 am."BJP is looting people by regularly hiking LPG prices. Women have been hit the hardest & I’m disgusted at Centre’s lack of intent to cut taxes & lessen their burden. In protest, today I’ll be leading an all women michil at Siliguri. REDUCE LPG PRICES NOW! #IndiaAgainstLPGLoot," she wrote.Modi’s rally, to be held at the famous Brigade Parade Grounds in Maidan area, is expected to draw a huge crowd. Mithun Chakraborty, former Bollywood star and an icon in Bengal, may appear on the dais. No BJP leader confirmed or denied it till Saturday night. Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat recently met Chakraborty at the latter’s Mumbai residence. After that meeting, the actor said he discussed only spiritual matters with the RSS chief and skipped questions on joining politics. He was a Rajya Sabha member of the TMC before resigning in 2016. He has maintained a distance from the TMC since then.TMC leaders, who did not want to be identified, said one purpose of the chief minister’s north Bengal tour is to present before voters the effect of her welfare schemes, of which free ration is a part, as well as the fallout of the Centre’s decisions.The other purpose, they said, is to address dissent among a section of north Bengal leaders following the release of the party’s candidate list for 291 of the state’s 294 assembly seats.In 2019, the TMC’s tally in the Lok Sabha came down from 34 seats to 22, while the BJP increased its seats from only two to 18. In terms of the 56 assembly segments in the eight Lok Sabha seats in north Bengal, the BJP was ahead of the TMC in 34 as per the general election figures.“The selection of candidates has triggered dissent among some TMC leaders in north Bengal. Siliguri is no exception since Om Prakash Mishra, a former Congress leader and resident of Kolkata, has been fielded from the constituency. The party hopes that the dissidents will fall in line once they see Mishra accompanying the TMC chief,” a senior TMC leader said on condition of anonymity.Banerjee has other problems to take care of as well. She has left Darjeeling, Kalimpong and Kurseong, the three assembly segments in the north Bengal hills, for the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (GJM). Though both factions of the GJM, led by Bimal Gurung and Binoy Tamang respectively, support Banerjee, the hill leaders want to contest each other instead of burying the hatchet.Also Read: ‘Mamata Banerjee will lose in Nandigram by over 50,000 votes’: Suvendu AdhikariThe Left and the Congress also held a road show in the heart of Kolkata on Saturday in protest against hike in the price of petrol, diesel and LPG. However, the leaders did not target the Centre alone. “The state government has increased its tax on petrol by ₹27 since the TMC came to power. What is the point in decreasing it by just a rupee as a token gesture?” Communist Party of India (Marxists) legislator Sujan Chakraborty asked on Saturday.To mount pressure on the BJP in Bengal, the Left parties have invited some leaders of the farmers’ stir in Punjab. They will camp in Bengal for three days and lead roadshows later this week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/during-pm-modi-s-kolkata-rally-cm-banerjee-will-decry-lpg-price-in-siliguri-101615090829978.html
07-03-2021||India||In another spike, India records 18,711 fresh Covid-19 cases in 24 hours, infection tally crosses 11.21 million||India recorded 18,711 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, according to update released by the union health ministry on Sunday. With this, the overall tally reached 11,210,799.The count of active cases went up to 4,219, reaching 1,84,523, according to the health ministry data.India also recorded 100 fresh fatalities in the said timespan which took the death toll to 1,57,756. So far, 10,868,520 patients have been discharged from hospitals.The nationwide vaccination drive, which is in its second phase, has seen more than two crore people getting vaccinated so far. On Sunday, the health ministry figures showed that 14,24,693 people were inoculated against the infection in the last 24 hours.Also Watch: Why India's vaccine drive 2.0 is unimpressive so farThe countrywide vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16 this year and vaccination of the frontline workers started on February 2, 2021.The second phase of Covid-19 vaccination, for those who are over 60 years of age and for people aged 45 and above with specified co-morbid conditions, began from March 1.The Centre said last week that six states are contributing nearly 86 per cent of the new cases of Covid-19. These are Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat and Karnataka also which are also reporting a surge in the daily new cases.Also Read: Amid surge in Covid-19 cases, these states have imposed fresh restrictionsThe Centre has, meanwhile, asked all the states to continue with the strategy of "test, track and treat" that had yielded rich dividends at the height of the pandemic and accelerate vaccination for priority population groups in districts reporting higher infections on mission mode.A crucial meeting was held on Saturday where Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan and NITI Aayog member Vinod K Paul reviewed the ongoing public health measures of surveillance, containment and management of Covid cases.The Centre has also sent teams to the states with high caseload to assist the respective health departments in coronavirus surveillance, control and containment measures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-18-711-new-cases-of-covid-19-100-deaths-101615088434382.html
07-03-2021||India||News updates from HT: Govt ready to amend farm laws, says Union minister Narendra Singh Tomar and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Govt ready to amend farm laws, says Union minister Narendra Singh TomarUnion agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar once again said on Saturday that the government is ready to amend the three farm laws, against which the farmers have been protesting for over 100 days.. Read more'All is well': BJP holds emergency meeting amid speculation of leadership change in U'khandThe ruling BJP in Uttarakhand hurriedly convened its core committee meeting in Dehradun on Saturday amid speculations that many MLAs are not happy with the CM’s style of working.. Read moreBJP names 57 candidates for first two phases of Bengal assembly elections. Check full list hereDays ahead of the first phase of the assembly elections in West Bengal, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Saturday announced its first list of candidates for the first two phases of the high-stake polls.‘Golden moment’: TMC ex-MP Trivedi joins BJPFormer Union railways minister and Trinamool Congress (TMC) MP Dinesh Trivedi, who resigned from the Rajya Sabha on the floor of the House in February, joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Saturday.. Read more'We can do big things,' Schumer says as Senate approves aidTensions were raw ahead of midnight as Republican leader Mitch McConnell rose in the Senate for the purpose of publicly ridiculing Majority Leader Chuck Schumer over the daylong delay as Democrats.. Read more‘Scores from Myanmar trying to flee to India’Scores of Myanmar nationals have gathered at the border with India waiting to join about 50 who have already crossed the frontier to flee the country’s coup turmoil, Indian officials said on Saturday.. Read morePriyanka Chopra presents new restaurant Sona in New York, says she poured her 'love for Indian food' into this effortActor Priyanka Chopra is busy with a host of films, manages to write a book too and continues to be actively involved in promotions as well. She has now helped a friend start a restaurant business in New York.. Read moreEngland made Axar look like Bedi and Underwood rolled in one: Michael VaughanAxar Patel the Test cricketer has been a revelation for India. The left-arm spinner who made his debut in the second Test in England, returned with 27 wickets – the most by an India in a debut series involving four matches.. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-govt-ready-to-amend-farm-laws-says-union-minister-narendra-singh-tomar-and-all-the-latest-news-101615085479181.html
07-03-2021||India||Chhattisgarh: 5 of family found dead in Durg; note cites financial stress||Five members of a family were found dead in a village of Durg district on Saturday and a suicide note found at the spot said they died by suicide because of acute financial issues, an official said.Police said they found bodies of Ram Brij Gaiakwad (55), his wife Janki Bai (45), son Sanju Gayaikwad (24), daughters Durga (28) and Jyoti (21) in Bhathena village."Prima facie it seems the father-son duo killed the three women, placed the bodies in a paddy husk and set it afire before killing themselves," an official said.A dog squad and a forensic team have been sent to the spot and more details would be available after the post-mortem, the official said."The case appears to be a suicide. We have also recovered a note. Further investigation is being done," agency ANI quoted Vivekanand Sinha, IG Durg Range as saying.The police were investigating the case from all possible angles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-5-of-family-found-dead-in-durg-note-cites-financial-stress-101615086175202.html
07-03-2021||India||Officials don't listen to you? Beat them up with sticks, Union minister Giriraj tells Begusarai residents||Union minister Giriraj Singh on Saturday advised the people of his Begusarai Lok Sabha constituency in Bihar to "beat up with bamboo sticks" those officials who appeared insensitive to their concerns.The firebrand BJP leader, who has a reputation of shooting from the hip, made the remark while addressing a function organised by an agriculture institute in Khodawandpur near here.The minister, who holds fisheries, animal husbandry and dairy farming portfolios, rued that he frequently receives complaints from common citizens that officials concerned often paid little heed to their complaints."I say to them, why do you come to me for such small things. MPs, MLAs, village mukhiyas, DMs, SDMs, BDOs... these are all under obligation to serve the people. If they do not listen to you, pick up a bamboo stick with both hands and give a crushing blow on their head," said Singh."If even that does not work, then Giriraj shall throw his weight behind you," he said, evoking applause from the crowds even as dignitaries sharing the dais squirmed in their seats.A BJP leader in the Bihar capital, speaking on condition of anonymity, said, "Giriaj Singh is a mass leader who has to be responsive towards public anger. We should take his statement figuratively, not literally."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/officials-don-t-listen-to-you-beat-them-up-with-sticks-giriraj-tells-residents-101615086094886.html
07-03-2021||India||Govt ready to amend farm laws, says Union minister Narendra Singh Tomar||Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar once again said on Saturday that the government is ready to amend the three farm laws, against which the farmers have been protesting for over 100 days. The protesters have been demanding the withdrawal of the three contentious laws.Addressing the fifth national convention of Agrivision, Tomar said that the Centre is ready to amend these laws "to respect the sentiments of protesting farmers". He, however, stressed that the government's proposal does not mean that there were any deficiencies in these reform laws. He made the same statement in the Rajya Sabha last month.Tomar said the three laws passed by Parliament in September last year will help farmers fetch more prices in the market. These laws will also boost investment in the farm sector, said the Union minister."No one is ready to talk on how these protests can be in the interest of farmers," said Tomar.He also attacked the opposition parties which are supporting the farmers' protest. "There is a place for disagreement in democracy and so is for opposition and difference of opinion, but should there be any opposition that can harm the nation," he said.The Supreme Court has stayed the implementation of these laws and formed a committee on the issue, the government to has said that it is ready to suspend these laws for 18 months but the farmers have been adamant with their demand that they should be withdrawn.Eleven rounds of talks have taken place between the farmers and the government but the imapsse still continues. The protesters also want legal guarantee on the minimum support price (MSP). They say that the provisions in the law will put them at the mercy of big corporate houses - a point which has been expanded by the opposition parties, especially Congress, to say that the laws will benefit only a handful of corporate houses.The government, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi, has assured that the MSP system is here to stay but the farmers have not ended their protest.The stir, launched on November 26 last year, completed 100 days on Saturday. Bharatiya Kisan union (BKU) spokesperson Rakesh Tikait, who has been leading the protest, asked the farmers to be prepared for long haul and also gave a formula to intensify the agitation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-ready-to-amend-farm-laws-says-union-minister-narendra-singh-tomar-101615084394351.html
07-03-2021||India||1 village, 1 tractor, 15 men and 10 days: Rakesh Tikait's formula for farmers' protest||Farmer leader Rakesh Tikait gave the protesters who are with him against the Centre's farm laws a formula to strengthen the movement. Tikait's mantra for farmers included 1 village, 1 tractor, 15 men and 10 days, adding another 15 are to replace the first 15 on rotational basis.The Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) spokesperson gave the formula as the ongoing farmers' protest completed 100 days on Saturday."If these farm laws are enforced then the foodgrain will be locked in godowns of the traders and big companies and the price of foodgrain will be decided on the basis of hunger," he said.Also Watch: Farmers mark 100th day of protest with road blockadeOn Thursday, Tikait asked his supporters to be prepared for a long protest "until the government agrees to talk to the committee". Several leaders of farmer unions have also said that their movement is far from over.The farmers have been sitting at various borders near national capital Delhi since November 26 last year with the demand that the three central farm laws must be repealed. They have held several rounds of talks with the government, but the impasse continues.They also want a legal guarantee on minimum support price (MSP).While a resolution was reached on two of the four demands - rollback of rise in power tariff and penalties for stubble burning - in January, a decision on repeal of the three farm laws and a legal guarantee for MSP are the two major sticking points.The government has given assurances on MSP, with Prime Minister Narendra Modi saying "MSP will always be there" but the farmers want a law on it.The Centre has called these laws historic and liberating for the small farmers. But the unions and opposition farmers have trashed these laws saying they will favour big corporate houses and put the farmers at their mercy.Several non-BJP state governments have passed resolution against these farm laws. The Punjab government passed a second resolution last week asking the Centre to withdraw of these laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rakesh-tikait-s-formula-for-farmers-protest-101615080505812.html
07-03-2021||India||Kerala CM slams union minister amid calls for resignation over smuggling case||Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Saturday hit out at Union minister V Muraleedharan over his remarks on the gold smuggling case, alleging that smuggling of gold through diplomatic baggage began after the Bharatiya Janata Party leader from the state took over as Minister of State for External Affairs.Vijayan claimed that Muraleedharan, on multiple occasions, said the baggage seized by the Customs was not a diplomatic one. “We have heard a Minister of State who is in charge of the Union Ministry of External Affairs. He is said to be in charge of the Middle East. Is there any estimate of how much gold has been smuggled since he became a minister?” “Didn’t the smuggling of gold through the diplomatic channel start after this minister took charge? Does this minister have anything to do with the person who persuaded the accused to say that the smuggling was not in diplomatic baggage?” he asked.The CPI(M) in Kerala had alleged Muraleedharan had all along been insisting that the bag in which 30 kg of gold was seized by customs officials at the international airport here on July 5 last year was not diplomatic cargo. The CM’s statement came hours after targeting rubbished as “childish” the CPI(M)’s allegation that the BJP was politically using the probe agencies.Meanwhile, the Customs department has summoned Vinodini Balakrishnan, wife of former Communist Party of India (Marxist) state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, to appear before it on March 10. The developments come a day after the Customs claimed that gold smuggling case accused Swapna Suresh has made “shocking revelations” against Vijayan on dollar ‘smuggling’ involving UAE consulate officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-cm-slams-union-minister-amid-calls-for-resignation-over-smuggling-case-101615060627050.html
07-03-2021||India||Tamil Nadu bus conductor who planted 3 lakh saplings in 30 years wins praise||A bus conductor in Tamil Nadu, who has planted over 3 lakh saplings in the last 30 years using his own money, is garnering appreciation on social media.Marimuthu Yoganathan is a bus conductor in the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation by profession.A known eco activist, Yoganathan has been awarded "Eco Warrior" award by Vice-President of India, 'Unsung Hero' award by wildlife film-maker Mike Pandey and film actor John Abraham in "Timberland" function held in Delhi.Recently, a Twitter user with the handle name of @JainMaggii shared a picture of the bus conductor holding a sapling and wrote, "Marimuthu Yoganathan, a bus conductor who has planted over 3 lakh saplings in the last 30 years using his own money. Meet the 'real environmentalist'!"Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan also replied to the tweet dated March 5, 2021 and said, "Inspiration on my birthday. Thank you for sharing."The tweet also drew the reactions of several people who praised Yoganathan for his efforts."Noble work by Shri Yoganathan....Clapping hands sign. It doesn't have any impact whether he has planted with his own money or not. He has planted 3 lakh trees. That is enough..... we are getting how much of oxygen from those....just imagine...Once again salute you, sir...," wrote a twitter user.Another Twitter user said, "Great work! Thank you for sharing! Hero, who is saving our lives and this planet! inspiration these are! Hero what made him so dedicated, please highlight his stories. Would love to know more about him.""Mind-boggling. Almost 100 trees per day without fail! #Legend," wrote another while calling Yoganathan a legend.Yoganathan visited around 3,743 universities, colleges, schools and industries and took classes to raise environmental awareness.He has been conferred with the tiltle 'Sutru Suzal Seyal Veerar' by the Tamil Nadu Government.He was also conferred the Eco Warrior Award by the Indian government."My request to have the award sent to me by post was declined. I was concerned about the train fare, the days taken for my leave, and accommodation costs in New Delhi. But, I'm glad I received the award in person from none other than the Vice President of the country," said Yoganathan on receiving the honour.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bus-conductor-who-planted-3-lakh-saplings-in-30-years-wins-praise-101615059915430.html
07-03-2021||India||Congress releases first list for Assam after ‘rumblings’ in unit||The Congress released on Saturday its first list of 40 candidates for the three-phase assembly election in Assam that starts on March 27, fielding state unit chief Ripun Bora from Gohpur constituency. The list comes a day the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party released its first list of 70 candidates.Earlier in the day, reports of increasing differences between Congress leaders over seat-sharing with allies and ticket distribution gained momentum as the Congress’s women wing chief, Sushmita Dev, walked out of a party meeting on selection of candidates in Guwahati on Saturday.The party and Dev, however, dismissed the reports. “I love the party and madam (Sonia Gandhi),” Dev said.Also read | Differences among leaders over seats delays Congress list of nominees in Assam“Congress is a big and vibrant party and there is bound to be some expectations and differences. I have talked with Dev and the reports of her resigning are false. She might be having some issues, but she is a respected leader of the party and very much with us,” said Lok Sabha MP Pradyut Bordoloi.Reacting to the developments, BJP spokesperson Rupam Goswami said: “The Congress-led alliance is an unholy one which is forced and there’s bound to be differences. It’s a party full of leaders and less cadres hence it’s no surprise they are squabbling. It is definitely going to benefit us.”Elections to the 126 assembly constituencies in Assam will be held in three phases.The first phase of polling is on March 27 for 47 seats, second on April 1 for 39 seats, and third on April 6 for 40 seats. Counting of votes is scheduled to take place on May 2.The Congress, which was in power in the state for 15 years (2001-2016) until the Bharatiya Janata Party-led alliance came to power in Assam in 2016, earlier allied with three Left parties -- Communist Party of India (Marxist), Communist Party of India and Communist Party of India (Marxist–Leninist) -- as well as the All India United Democratic Front and the Anchalik Gana Morcha, two regional parties having a political base among the Muslims and indigenous people, respectively.On February 28, the Bodoland People’s Front (BPF), which was an ally of the BJP, quit the alliance to join the Congress-led ‘Grand Alliance’.The ruling BJP and its allies — Asom Gana Parishad and United Peoples Party Liberal — released their first list of 70 candidates on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-releases-first-list-for-assam-after-rumblings-in-unit-101615059134656.html
07-03-2021||India||‘Golden moment’: TMC ex-MP Trivedi joins BJP||Former Union railways minister and Trinamool Congress (TMC) MP Dinesh Trivedi, who resigned from the Rajya Sabha on the floor of the House in February, joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Saturday ahead of the upcoming assembly elections in West Bengal.Describing his entry into the BJP as a “golden moment”, the 70-year-old took a veiled dig at his former party.“We are in the social life because country and people are above all... and from my experience, I say we have to work for the people. In the other party, they work for a family… For me, the country is above all,” Trivedi said as he joined the BJP in the presence of party president JP Nadda and Union ministers Piyush Goyal and Dharmendra Pradhan in New Delhi.Trivedi is the latest in the list of TMC leaders, including political heavyweight and minister Suvendu Adhikari and state minister Rajib Banerjee, who switched over to the BJP ahead of the eight-phase state elections, scheduled to begin on March 27.Also read | ‘He backstabbed us’: Trinamool Congress slams Dinesh Trivedi’s move to BJPWelcoming Trivedi to the BJP, Nadda said the former MP paid a price for sticking to his principles while in the TMC. “For principles, he quit the Rajya Sabha seat, he opted for idealism instead of opportunism… In the TMC, corruption, opportunism, and killing the democracy are enshrined, so he quit and joined the BJP.”On February 12, Trivedi announced his resignation from the Rajya Sabha while participating in the debate on the budget in the House, alleging that he was feeling “suffocated” and saying that he heard the call of his ‘antaratma’ (inner voice).“The way there is violence, I feel awkward what should I do by sitting here. For us, the homeland is supreme. I am in a party. Party has disciplines. But now I am feeling suffocated. If I am sitting here and can’t do anything, it is better that I resign and go back to Bengal,” he said in Parliament.Watch | Dinesh Trivedi joins BJP ahead of Bengal polls, slams TrinamoolThe former TMC general secretary remained tight-lipped over whether he would contest the state polls. “I’ll be active in the election process, irrespective of whether I contest or not,” he said.A senior BJP leader, however, said on condition of anonymity that Trivedi was unlikely to contest the upcoming elections. The leader said that before joining the BJP, Trivedi conveyed to the party brass that he would prefer to remain active at the national level.The TMC accused Trivedi of political opportunism and accused him of “betraying the people of the state”.“For last so many years, he (Trivedi) did not say anything. Now, just before the state assembly polls, he has made complaints about the party. He is ungrateful and has betrayed people of the state... At a time when he should repay the Trinamool Congress, he has backstabbed it,” TMC spokesperson Kunal Ghosh said.Congress announces 1st listThe Congress on Saturday announced its first list of 13 candidates for the West Bengal assembly elections. According to the list, senior party leader Nepal Mahato has been fielded from the Baghmundi constituency.The Congress is contesting the West Bengal polls in coalition with the Left parties and the Indian Secular Front (ISF), and is set to contest 92 seats in the 294-member Assembly.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/golden-moment-tmc-ex-mp-trivedi-joins-bjp-101615058660436.html
07-03-2021||India||20 years on, court acquits 122 people accused of SIMI links||A court in Gujarat’s Surat on Saturday acquitted 122 persons arrested under Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act for participating in a meeting organised here in December 2001 as members of the banned outfit Students’ Islamic Movement of India (SIMI).The court of chief judicial magistrate AN Dave acquitted 122 persons arrested for being members of the banned outfit SIMI, giving them the benefit of doubt.Five other accused had died during the pendency of trial.In its order, the court said that the prosecution failed to produce “cogent, reliable and satisfactory” evidence to establish that the accused persons belonged to the SIMI and had gathered to promote the activities of the banned outfit.The court said the accused persons cannot be held guilty under the UAPA.As many as 127 persons were arrested by Surat’s Athwalines police on December 28, 2001 under various sections of the UAPA for allegedly being members of the banned outfit SIMI and organising a meeting at a hall in city’s Sagrampura to promote and expand the organisation’s activities.The central government had through its notification dated September 27, 2001 banned SIMI.The accused belonged to different parts of Gujarat as well as from Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar.In their defence, they said they did not belong to the SIMI and had gathered there to participate in a seminar organised under the banner of All India Minority Education Board.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/20-years-on-court-acquits-122-people-accused-of-simi-links-101615057718022.html
07-03-2021||India||Bihar finance dept sounds alert against attempts of irregular fund withdrawal||Following the detection of a couple of instances during system audit when some individual officers opened bank accounts in their names and were trying to transfer government money in them, the Bihar government’s finance department has sounded an alert for all the departments to be watchful against such practice.The finance department has written to the top brass of various departments, offices and administration to ensure strict compliance to the finance and treasury rules for maintaining fiscal discipline. It has also directed all the departments and offices to ensure submission of bills to the treasury for this fiscal latest by March 25 to prevent the old practice of delayed submission.“It has been observed that the departments/offices withdraw funds from required head/ PL account through bills submitted to concerned treasury and later it is transferred to bank accounts opened in the name of official designations or individual officials. This is not in accordance with the laid down rules and it could lead to irregular withdrawals,” said a letter from principal secretary, finance, S Siddharth.The letter has been addressed to all the additional chief secretaries, principal secretaries, principal secretaries and secretaries, department heads, divisional commissioners, district magistrates, treasury officials and all drawing and disbursing officials.Siddhharth said that the instance of an assistant director opening a bank account in his name and the concerned department trying to divert money there had been detected during system audit. It is not allowed and rules are clearly laid down in this regard. No money can be transferred in personal account,” he addedThe finance department has categorically written that as per rules, the withdrawal from treasury has to be done only up to the extent required for direct payment to vendor/contractor/payee in their respective bank accounts and under no circumstances it the money should go the bank accounts of subordinate officials or individual.“Under no circumstances, no advance withdrawal of funds has to be done for transferring the amount in bank accounts. Even for opening bank accounts and transfer of government money, there are clear guidelines from the finance department,” says the letter, adding it was important to review all the claims for withdrawal by different departments/offices in the light of financial provisions at the level of departments/offices.The finance department has also cited rules 34, 176 and 177 of the Bihar Treasury Code, 2011 in this regard and the guidelines issued from time to time. The rule 34 states that “a drawing officer shall not, except with special permission of the finance department, deposit in a bank account money withdrawn from the government account “.Rule 176 states that “all charges incurred must be drawn and paid at once and no money should be withdrawn from the treasury unless it is required for immediate payment”, while rule 177 states that “no money shall be drawn from the treasury in anticipation of demands or to prevent lapse of budget grants”.The finance department principal secretary has also written to the departments to ensure that money spent till March 31, 2021 is under prescribed heads in accordance with the provisions of the Bihar Appropriation Act, 2021, which has been notified in the gazette following gubernatorial nod. “If any sub-head is created, it must have prior nod of the Accountant General,” he added in another letter.Siddharth said that with the online system in place, the departments no bills would be accepted after March 25 and the departments have been asked to ensure it. “There is no reason for submitting bills after March 25,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-finance-dept-sounds-alert-against-attempts-of-irregular-fund-withdrawal-101615055453698.html
07-03-2021||India||Issue of national security key as govt decides on cryptocurrency, says Thakur||The government needs to be very careful while taking any decision regarding cryptocurrencies as they are highly volatile and could have security implications, Union minister of state for finance Anurag Thakur said on Saturday, adding that the government was keen to embrace the blockchain technology of virtual currencies.“We understand there is an immense interest in these emerging virtual currencies, but we also need to look at the national security and securities of Indians and individuals,” he said at a virtual event organised by the Entrepreneurs’ Organisation (EO) Punjab.The Indian government has not accepted any cryptocurrency as a legal tender and the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has cautioned users of cryptocurrencies of the risks involved in dealing with virtual currencies. Cryptocurrency is, however, not legally banned and the government is in the process of enacting a law on this matter.Thakur said the government welcomes innovation and new technology, but with caution, so that citizens get due protection and national security is ensured. “And looking at Prime Minister Modi, he himself is a strong advocate of embracing technology in various aspects of governance,” he said. “If you look at one of these currencies... in couple of weeks time the rate is X... after couple of weeks you could see it becomes 10X. It doesn’t happen with the fiat currency. So, I think, you have to be very careful at this stage for taking any kind of step... That is why this inter-ministerial committee is helping with their report and government will look into that and if need be, we’ll come out with legislation as soon as possible.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/issue-of-national-security-key-as-govt-decides-on-101615052895250.html
