10-03-2021||India||Isaac, 4 big Kerala names not fielded||Thiruvananthapuram: The Communist Party of India (Marxist), the dominant party in the incumbent Left Democratic Front government in Karala, has denied tickets to five ministers, including finance minister Thomas Isaac citing the party’s two-term criteria. It has also dropped 33 legislators and picked new faces in a bid to reach out to the women and younger voters in the state which goes to polls on April 6. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan and seven other cabinet ministers are among the 83 candidates announced by acting party secretary A Vijayaraghavan on Wednesday. The party is contesting 85 seats in the 140-member assembly, with its allies contesting the rest. The result of the elections will be announced on May 2.“The party will declare candidates for Mancheswaram in north Kerala and Devikulam in Idukki later,” Vijayaraghavan said.While Vijayan is seeking re-election from Dharmadom in north Kerala’s Kannur district, party heavyweights Isaac, PWD minister G Sudhakaran, law minister AK Balam, education minister C Raveendranath, industry minister E P Jayarajan and speaker P Sivaramakrishnan were denied tickets. According to people familiar with the matter, Isaac is likely to be sent to the Rajya Sabha. Reacting to his name being dropped from the list, Isaac said, “It is a natural process in the party, fresh faces will have to come up. Continuation of power is certain.” He was a law-maker from Alapuzha since 2001 and under the party’s convention that legislators who have won twice in a row will not be fielded, will sit this election out. Several posters surfaced in Alappuzha over the last two days targeting the party for denying a ticket to Isaac. The finance minister represents the Alappuzha assembly constituency. Distancing himself from the posters, Isaac said those behind them are “not real party lovers or workers ”. He added that party will initiate an inquiry into the matter. While the list included party secretary Vijayaraghavan’s wife R Bindu, who will contest from Irinjalakuda in Thrissur district, law minister AK Balan’s wife PK Jameela was not selected to contest from Tarur. “She [Jameela] was not in the reckoning. Her candidature was speculation,” Balan said after the list was announced. In north Kerala’s Kutiyadi, angry party workers took out a procession on Wednesday urging the leadership to not give the seat to Kerala Congress (Mani), a new entrant in the LDF. Seeking to underplay the displeasure over the list, the party secretary said the candidates were selected keeping in mind the aim of coming back to power to “strengthen the fight for secular causes at the national level”. The party was forced to forego some of the seats to accommodate new allies, he said. “In coalition politics we have to make certain sacrifices. Last time we contested in 92 seats. Now the list is out, victory is our only aim,” Vijayaraghavan said. Ministers MM Mani and J Mercikutty Amma, were exempted from the party’s two-term criteria. This, the party secretary said, was done after weighing the winnability of the leaders. “The party is trying to give chances to new persons who are equally talented, but there is a conscious campaign from certain quarters that it (the tw-term criteria) was to exclude some persons,” Vijayaraghavan said.Noting that the party has picked qualified persons for the elections, Vijayaraghavan said 42 of them are graduates, 24, post-graduates, two, Phd holders, and that the list includes an architect and two practicing doctors. As many as 12 women and four people below the age of 30 years are among the candidates.CPI, an ally in the ruling Left Democratic Front, announced on Tuesday that it will contest 25 seats and declared candidates for 21 seats. In the 2016 polls, the LDF won 91 seats in the 140-member assembly. “The list reflects qualification of many candidates is proximity to the CM. Local leaders were given prominence and it seems to be a calculated move. Dissent reported from many areas show cadres are not happy,” said political theorist and writer J Reghu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/isaac-4-big-kerala-names-not-fielded-101615400849422.html
10-03-2021||India||‘Refused to shoot’: Myanmar constable who fled from a coup||When Tha Peng was ordered to shoot at protesters with his submachine gun to disperse them in the Myanmar town of Khampat on February 27, the police lance corporal said he refused.“The next day, an officer called to ask me if I will shoot,” he said. The 27-year-old refused again, and then resigned from the force.On March 1, he said he left his home and family behind in Khampat and travelled for three days, mostly at night to avoid detection, before crossing into India’s northeastern state Mizoram.“I had no choice,” Tha Peng told Reuters on Tuesday, speaking via a translator. He gave only part of his name to protect his identity. Reuters saw his police and national ID cards, which confirmed the name.Tha Peng said he and six colleagues all disobeyed the February 27 order from a superior officer, whom he did not name. Reuters could not independently verify the accounts.The description of events was similar to that given to police in Mizoram on March 1 by another Myanmar police lance corporal and three constables who crossed into India, according to a classified internal police document. The document was written by Mizoram police officials and gives biographical details of the four individuals and their account of why they fled.“As the Civil disobedience movement is gaining momentum and protest(s) held by anti-coup protesters at different places we are instructed to shoot at the protesters,” they said in a joint statement to Mizoram police. “In such a scenario, we don’t have the guts to shoot at our own people who are peaceful demonstrators,” they said.Myanmar’s military, which staged a coup on February 1 and deposed the country’s civilian government, did not respond to a request for comment.Around 100 people from Myanmar have crossed over a porous border into India since the protests began, according to a senior Indian official. Several have taken shelter in Mizoram’s Champhai district.Ngun Hlei, who said he was posted as a police constable in Mandalay, said he had also received orders to shoot. Ngun Hlei said he was reprimanded for disobeying orders and transferred.He sought help from activists online and found his way by road to Mizoram’s Vaphai village on March 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/refused-to-shoot-myanmar-constable-who-fled-from-a-coup-101615400579994.html
10-03-2021||India||RSS worker to CM: Tracing Tirath Singh Rawat’s political journey||Dehradun: The new chief minister of Uttarakhand, Tirath Singh Rawat, was born in Seeron village in the state’s Pauri Garhwal district in 1964, and has worked his way up after spending a lifetime in public life, starting when he was still a teenager. Rawat’s first foray into public life was with the RSS as its pracharak from 1983 to 1988. Rawat, a postgraduate in sociology from Birla Campus Srinagar and a diploma-holder in journalism, entered student politics and became the organisational secretary of ABVP Uttarakhand unit, and the national secretary of ABVP in early 1990s. He was also the president of the student union at Hemwati Nandan Bahuguna Garhwal University in 1992. He became the state vice president of Uttar Pradesh Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha in 1996. Rawat, an MP from Garhwal and former state BJP president and state education minister, was named CM in the legislature party meeting held here on Wednesday morning and took oath at 4.05 in the afternoon. Rawat participated in the Ram Janmabhoomi agitation for the construction of a Ram temple at Ayodhya -- the foundation ceremony was held last year, after a favourable court ruling in 2019 -- and spent two months in jail.By 1997, he was an up-and-coming politician and was elected a member of the Uttar Pradesh Legislative Council, but he was keen on statehood for Uttarakhand, then part of UP and actively participated in the campaign for this, BJP leaders who have known him for years said. When Uttarakhand was carved out of Uttar Pradesh in 2000, he became the state’s first education minister and remained so till 2002. In 2007, he was elected as the state general secretary of Uttarakhand BJP. In 2012, Rawat was elected as MLA from Chaubattakhal assembly seat from his native Pauri Garhwal district, and the following year (February 2013) he was appointed as the president of Uttarakhand BJP . He remained state president of the party till December 2015. In 2017, he was not given the ticket from Chaubattakhal seat, which was was given to Satpal Maharaj, who left the Congress and joined the BJP, but he was named a national secretary of the party. In May 2019, he was elected to the Lok Sabha from Pauri Lok Sabha Seat, after defeating his rival Manish Khanduri, his political guru BC Khanduri’s son, by over 3.5 lakh votes. In the same year, he was also made in-charge of the elections in Himachal Pradesh Rawat expressed his gratitude to the Central leadership including PM Narendra Modi, recalled his RSS days, and spoke of how a meeting with former PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee influenced his politics. “I will continue to work on the development programmes introduced by (outgoing CM) Trivendra Singh Rawat so as to ensure the victory in next assembly elections”, he said .The state goes to polls in a year. Rashami Rawat, wife of Tirath Singh Rawat, said that on Tuesday night, when several other names were doing the rounds as possible contenders for the top spot, she received calls asking why Rawat was not among them. “ I told them to wait. Because I knew that party would give him the responsibility. He has struggled a lot and never cared about money. Because of his work in RSS, he was sent to ABVP and later to BJP”. Rawat ‘s local roots and long years in public life should help him, analysts said. Raj Kumar, a resident of Pauri Garhwal said he has known and admired Rawat for his simplicity and maturity. “We are very happy that a leader from our district and that too such a humble one, has been given the reins of the state.” Dinesh Arya, BJP leader and Rawat’s friend in Kumaon said that between 2007 to 2010, the new CM was district in-charge of Nainital “Then I was the district president of Nainital. I saw up close how good he was at managing the cadre and organisational issues very efficiently and democratically. He is down-to-earth and listens to the party cadre. When he became the state BJP president, he used to listen to every worker .” (with inputs from Vipin Negi and Ankur Sharma)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rss-worker-to-cm-tracing-tirath-singh-rawat-s-political-journey-101615399229343.html
10-03-2021||India||US defence secretary Lloyd Austin to visit India soon, Indo-Pacific on agenda||Military-to-military cooperation, defence trade, the Indo-Pacific region and the situation in Afghanistan are expected to be on the agenda during US defence secretary Lloyd Austin’s three-day visit to India next week.This will be the first visit to India by a senior member of the Biden administration, which is looking to ramp up the relationship with India, both bilaterally and within the framework of the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue or Quad, against the backdrop of China’s assertive actions in the region.On his India visit during March 19-21, Austin will meet defence minister Rajnath Singh and other senior government officials, the defence ministry said in a statement.“Both sides are expected to discuss ways to further strengthen bilateral defence cooperation and exchange views on regional security challenges and common interests in maintaining a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific region,” the statement said.“Discussions regarding defence cooperation would also focus on how both countries could consolidate military-to-military cooperation and defence trade and industry cooperation,” the statement added.People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that the situation in Afghanistan, including the possibility of the US pulling out all its troops by May 1 and the proposal for forming a transitional government involving the Taliban, is also expected to figure in Austin’s discussions with his Indian interlocutors.According to a US proposal, India is set to be part of a meeting, along with the US, Russia, China and Iran, to discuss an unified approach towards Afghanistan. The Indian side has expressed concern about a vacuum being created by any sudden drawdown of US forces in the face of a resurgence by the Taliban.India will be the last leg of Austin’s three-nation tour that will also take him to Japan and South Korea as the US seeks to restore defence ties with key players around the world after the uncertainty of the Trump administration. Austin will begin the visit by travelling on Saturday to the US Indo-Pacific Command headquarters in Hawaii, where he will highlight his vision for the Indo-Pacific “as a priority theatre” for the defence department, a statement from the Pentagon said.“I’ll meet with my counterparts and other officials to discuss the importance of our alliances and partnerships, and together we'll reinforce the US commitment to a free and open Indo-Pacific region,” Austin tweeted.Austin will be joined in Japan by US secretary of state Antony Blinken for a 2+2 meeting of the defence and foreign ministers that will emphasise that the US-Japan alliance remains “the cornerstone of peace and security in a free and open Indo-Pacific in the face of long-term competition with China”, the Pentagon said.Blinken and Austin will also join a 2+2 meeting of defence and foreign ministers in South Korea to “reaffirm the United States’ ironclad commitment to the security of the Republic of Korea”, the Pentagon said.The Indian defence ministry said Austin’s visit to New Delhi as “part of his first overseas travel emphasises the strength of India-US strategic partnership”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-defence-secretary-lloyd-austin-to-visit-india-soon-indo-pacific-on-agenda-101615394645190.html
10-03-2021||India||Centre agrees to set up more courts to clear backlog of cheque bounce cases||To expedite trial in cheque bounce cases, the Centre has agreed “in principle” to the suggestion by the Supreme Court to set up additional courts.Solicitor General Tushar Mehta conveyed this decision to a five-judge bench hearing a suo moto petition on measures to expedite trial in cheque bounce offences under the Negotiable Instruments Act. Earlier this month, the Court had termed the pendency of cheque bounce cases at all levels in the judiciary to be “grotesque” and urged the Centre to use its power under Article 247 of the Constitution to create additional courts for better administration of the Act.Mehta informed the Court that in principle, the Centre had no difficulty in setting up additional courts for trial of cheque bounce cases. Presently, these cases constitute 30 per cent of the criminal cases in trial courts and much more in the High Courts. The law officer informed the Court that modalities in this regard were still to be worked out.The five-judge bench also considered setting up a Committee headed by retired Bombay High Court judge, Justice RC Chavan to deliberate and work out steps needed in the court processes to facilitate early disposal of cases. Justice Chavan is currently the Vice-Chairman of the e-committee of the Supreme Court.The Justice Chavan Committee would further comprise of an officer not below Additional Secretary rank drawn from the Department of Financial Services, Department of Expenditure, Department of Justice, Ministry of Home Affairs, Ministry of Corporate Affairs and a representative from the Reserve Bank of India (RBI). In addition to this, the Court proposed having a nominee of the Indian Banks Association (IBA) in the Committee. As the names of the officers to be nominated to the Committee were not readily available, the bench posted the matter for Friday.The five-judge bench comprised of Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde, Justices L Nageswara Rao, BR Gavai, AS Bopanna, and S Ravindra Bhat. To arrive at solutions to remedy the ill of grave pendency caused by the Negotiable Instruments Act, the CJI-headed bench had nominated senior advocate Sidharth Luthra and advocate K Parameshwar as amici curiae to examine the flaws existing in the system and propose remedial measures.The Committee submitted its preliminary report in October 2020 and later backed it with supplementary notes proposing a slew of measures for reforming the system. Setting up additional courts was one of the steps they had proposed. In addition, they demanded summary trial of cases, mediation and attachment of property to the extent of the cheque amount as steps to expedite trial in cheque bounce cases.The Court directed all suggestions and submissions made by the amici curiae, RBI and IBA to be forwarded to the Justice Chavan Committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-agrees-to-set-up-more-courts-to-clear-backlog-of-cheque-bounce-cases-101615393485604.html
10-03-2021||India||Shortfall in revenue recorded over past three years: Railways||There has been a shortfall in revenue for the Railways in the last three years, the ministry of railways informed Parliament on Monday attributing the reason to drop in originating passengers, less loading of freight, very low growth in other coaching revenue and the Coronavirus pandemic during the current fiscal.Responding to a query in Lok Sabha, Union railway minister PiyushGoyal said that in 2020-21, to end of January 2021, total traffic revenue declined by ₹36,918.86 crore compared to the corresponding period of last year due to the adverse impact of the Covid-19 pandemic, consequential lockdown and partial operation of passenger services.For the year 2019-20 and 2020-21, Goyal attributed the shortfall in revenue to the adverse impact of Covid 19 pandemic and consequent lockdown on railway operations.He also said that the refund adjustment of over ₹2,000 crore in sundry revenue to RLDA and the complete shutdown of operations had hit revenue.He pointed out that remittance of dividend receipts from Railway PSUs to General Revenues which hitherto used to be part of Railways’ sundry revenue and lesser mobilisation under land monetisation also contributed to the shortfall.Listing the year-wise reasons for the shortfall in revenue, he said that in 2017-18 and 2018-2019 it was the drop in originating passengers – in non-suburban segment and drop in average sub-urban lead in actuals vis-a-vis the revised estimates, less loading in actuals vis-a-vis revised estimates (RE) and very low growth in other coaching revenue which resulted in the shortfall.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shortfall-in-revenue-recorded-over-past-three-years-railways-101615388195795.html
10-03-2021||India||Covaxin may be administered without consent form, expert panel recommends||Bharat Biotech's Covaxin can now be taken off the clinical trial mode, an expert panel of India's Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation(CDSCO) recommended on Wednesday, after Bharat Biotech submitted the initial results of the phase 3 trials of Covaxin which has been found to have around 81% efficacy against Covid-19.The clinical trial mode in which Covaxin was being administered since January 16 stoked a lot of controversies as beneficiaries had to sign a consent form for taking the vaccine shot. The consent form was mandated as Covaxin got the emergency use approval based on the results of phase 2 as the results of phase 3 trial were awaited."The SEC reviewed the interim phase-three trial data of Covaxin on Wednesday after which it recommended emergency use authorisation to the vaccine while removing the condition of it being required to be administered under the clinical trial mode," PTI quoted a source as saying.The recommendations have been sent to the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) who will take the final decision. Once it is taken off the clinical trial mode, beneficiaries won't have to sign the consent form."In case of any serious adverse events, vaccine recipients will be provided medically recognized standard of care in the government designated and authorized centers/hospitals. The compensation for the serious adverse event will be paid by sponsor (BBIL) if the SAE is proven to be causally related to the vaccine. The compensation will be determined by the ICMR Central Ethics Committee, as appropriate," the consent form said.Reservations against Covaxin continued as Chhattisgarh health minister wrote to union health minister Harsh Vardhan requesting him to halt the supplies of the indigenous vaccine saying that there was no expiry date mentioned on the vial.In the first phase of vaccination which started on January 16, Covaxin doses remained unter-utilised. But as the second phase commenced with PM Modi taking the shot of Covaxin and several ministers following the suit, vaccination picked up the pace.Meanwhile, Bharat Biotech also published the preliminary results of phase 3 clinical trials. “Today is an important milestone in vaccine discovery, for science and our fight against coronavirus disease. With today’s results from our phase 3 clinical trials, we have now reported data on our Covid-19 vaccine from phase 1, 2, and 3 trials involving around 27,000 participants. Covaxin demonstrates a high clinical efficacy trend against Covid-19 but also significant immunogenicity against the rapidly emerging variants,” Krishna Ella, Bharat Biotech’s chairman and managing director, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covaxin-can-be-taken-off-clinical-trial-mode-says-expert-panel-101615392696180.html
10-03-2021||India||Chhattisgarh's Gond tribe decides to bury dead to save trees||The Gond tribe in Chhattisgarh has decided to bury their dead instead of cremating them to save trees. The decision was made in a two-day Gond Mahasammelan which was held in Kabirdham district between March 6-7.The Gond leaders also passed a proposal which banned the consumption of alcohol in social gathering and marriage ceremonies. The Mahasammelan decided that a fine will be imposed if the rules are violated.A ‘constitution’ was prepared by the Gond community that also included a ban on dowry.“The Gond tribals worship ‘Prakriti’ ( Nature) hence we always try to save nature. Trees are cut and are being used for making pyres which is unnecessary and misuse of wood. Actually, Gonds started cremating bodies in the last few years but Mitti-Sanskaar (burying) was our tradition hence the community decided to include burying in our constitution,” said BPS Netam, president of Sarv Adivasi Samaj Chhattisgarh.Netam further claimed that Gonds of Bastar are still burying the body but in plain of Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh some people, under the influence of other communities, have started cremating.As per the experts in many places of Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand and Madhya Pradesh, the Gonds bury the dead and erect a stone memorial, which describes the good deeds of the deceased.“These stones are still found in the villages of Bastar and some parts of Chhattisgarh. The decision to bury instead of cremating the deceased was taken earlier also in meetings and we are looking forward that the community will follow it,” Netam added.Hundreds of Gonds representatives from across the state and bordering Madhya Pradesh attended the Mahasammelan.According to 2011, the total tribal population in the state is 78,22,902, which is around 30.60 of the state’s population. Gonds are among the most populated tribals in Chhattisgarh in plains and Maoist-hit Bastar region.Naval Singh Mandavi, President of Gondwana Gond Mahasabha, who attended the Mahasammelan claimed that the aim is to return back to rituals.“As far dowry is concerned, in our community there is no such concept… We have to pay “Vadhu Mulya” , in which the groom’s family has to contribute for the expenses of the bride family. But some people started taking it hence Mahasabha has decided to ban the dowry,” said Mandavi.Explaining the ban on liquor consumption in marriage ceremonies and social gatherings of the Gond community, Mandavi said: “Though, ‘Mahua sharaab’ is in our tradition but the youth have started consuming excessive liquor... We have decided that only five people who will perform the rituals will consume liquor,” said Mandavi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarhs-gond-tribe-decides-to-bury-dead-to-save-trees-101615391110524.html
10-03-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 pm: Around 70,000 frontline railway staff vaccinated against Covid-19||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Nearly 70,000 frontline railway staff vaccinated, 3.2 lakh waiting for jabThe ministry of railways on Wednesday informed Parliament that the vaccination of employees of Indian Railways’ against Covid-19 is being done in a phased manner adding that it has vaccinated nearly 70,000 of its staff in the first phase. Read moreShashi Tharoor reacts to his photo with BJP's Giriraj Singh. Then a digUnion minister Giriraj Singh, mask in place, leaned over in what seemed a half hug and got close to Congress MP Shashi Tharoor to say something into his ear outside the Parliament House on Wednesday and it was at this time that the bonhomie between the two leaders from the rival parties was captured in a photograph. The minister's rudraksh clad wrist was placed over a smiling Tharoor's right shoulder. Read moreVizag Steel Plant workers to go on strike, to learn from farmers’ agitationFarmer leader Rakesh Tikait may be invited by workers of the Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Limited (RINL), also known as Visakhapatnam Steel Plant, to draw lessons from over 100-day long farm agitation as they they have decided to go on an indefinite strike in protest against the central government’s move to go in for 100 per cent disinvestment in the steel plant through privatisation. Read moreDeepika Padukone has a twerk-off with Ranveer Singh, gives Buss It challenge a fun spin. Watch videoDeepika Padukone hopped on the Buss It challenge, the new viral trend to take over social media, but gave it a fun twist. She was joined by her husband, Ranveer Singh, in a twerk-off. She posted the video on Instagram and wrote, “Werk it baby! @ranveersingh #bussitchallenge.” Read moreRishabh Pant achieves career-best Test ranking, R Ashwin No.2, Virat Kohli at lowest points tally since Nov 2017India wicket-keeper Rishabh Pant rose to his career-best seventh position in the latest ICC Test rankings for batsmen. Pant broke into the top seven on the back of his third Test hundred in the fourth and final Test against England in Ahmedabad. India off-spinner Ravichandran Ashwin rose to the second-spot in the bowlers' rankings. Read moreHouse of Gucci: First look of Lady Gaga, Adam Driver as Signor, Signora GucciLady Gaga recently took to her social media profiles and shared the first ever images of herself as Patrizia Reggiani, Maurizio Gucci’s ex-wife, in the upcoming movie House of Gucci which is about the former Gucci head's assassination. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-pm-around-70-000-frontline-railway-staff-vaccinated-against-covid-19-and-all-the-latest-news-101615387023172.html
10-03-2021||India||Election Commission seeks report on attack on Mamata Banerjee in Nandigram||The Election Commission on Wednesday sought a report from West Bengal chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay after Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said she was attacked by four or five people. The EC has also sought a report from Vivek Dubey, special police observer and Ajay Nayak, special general observer, West Bengal.On Wednesday, Mamata filed her nomination from the Nandigram seat where she will be contesting against her former confidante Suvendu Adhikari. The 'clash of the titans' has made Nandigram the most-watched seat ahead of the election, but Wednesday's incident took the political tempers of the seat a notch higher.The incident took place at around 6.15pm when Mamata was about to leave Birulia after she offered her prayers at a temple. "I was standing outside my car with the door open. I was praying from there on seeing a temple. Few people came around my car and pushed the door. The door hit my leg," she said.She said the push was deliberate and there were no policemen around. As she complained of leg pain, her Nandigram stay was curtailed and she was brought to Kolkata for treatment at SSKM Hospital. A green corridor was created between Kolkata and Purba Medinipur to facilitate the unhindered return of her convoy.Banerjee said she was deliberately pushed by a group of youth, after which she complained of chest pain. There were no policemen around, the CM claimed.After being attacked, she was carried by her security personnel to the backseat of her SUV from the front seat. A white cloth was also wrapped around her injured leg.Mamata Banerjee is protected with Z-plus security and the attack seems "unbelievable" to many BJP leaders. "I think I will refrain from commenting. All of you are intelligent and have covered (reported on) such things all your life. Our didi is perturbed. These are signs of a defeated party and a defeated candidate. She will lose from Nandigram and there will be change in Bengal," Union minister Piyush Goyal said.BJP leader Arjun Singh said it was a drama for sympathy. “Is it Taliban that her convoy was attacked? A huge police force accompanies her. Who can get near her? Four IPS officers are her security in-charge and must be suspended. Attackers don’t appear out of no where, they have to be nabbed. She did drama for sympathy,” Singh said.Nandigram will go to the elections on April 1, in the second phase of the eight-phase elections. The first phase will be held on March 27. The results for the 294 assembly seats will be announced on May 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/election-commission-seeks-report-on-attack-on-mamata-banerjee-in-nandigram-101615388926285.html
10-03-2021||India||Govt disregarding parliamentary convention by not letting Opposition raise issues: Congress||The Congress on Wednesday accused the government of disregarding parliamentary convention by not allowing the opposition to raise issues and said violation of the practice is striking at the root of democracy.It alleged that the opposition's voice was being "throttled" in Parliament and the government was not cooperating but instead throwing the constitutional rules and procedures in "tatters".Senior Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge, who is also the Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha, attacked Prime Minister Narendra Modi, accusing him of indulging in "self promotion" and said "there was a limit to getting oneself photographed"."We are told to abide by the Constitution but they are throwing the Constitution to the tatters. We are following constitutional means to seek discussions but they are not allowing us to discuss," he told a press conference.Alleging that their voice was being "throttled", he said, the Congress members tried to speak in Parliament for two days, but the government did not cooperate.His colleague and deputy leader of the Congress in Rajya Sabha, Anand Sharma, said the government has a "duty to answer and we have a right to ask questions".He said they were not allowed to raise issues concerning the public in the first half of the budget session."Parliamentary convention is being disregarded and we are not being allowed to raise even one issue of public importance," he alleged."The government is guilty of monumental mismanagement of the economy. It is not allowing normal functioning of Parliament. The Opposition is being denied the right to raise issues concerning the people of India," he further alleged.Sharma said be it Rajya Sabha or Lok Sabha, the opposition must be given space and voice."Violation of this practice is striking at the root of democracy which will be opposed by us," he said."Some days are left for the budget session. The government must change its attitude and the country must hear their elected representatives and allow opposition parties to raise issues so that people can be reassured that their issues are being raised at the right forum," he said.Attacking the prime minister, Kharge said Modi thinks what he speaks is the truth, but the fact is whatever he did has undermined the financial state of the country, whether by fuel price hikes, whether demonetisation or the lockdown."Modi ji has a style. When the LPG cylinder scheme came, photos were around everywhere. The vaccine certificate also has his photo."There is a limit to everything, where to get pictured and when. But all the time if people indulge in self promotion, will democracy stay alive in India," he asked.Congress leader Deepender Hooda said matters of urgent national importance are taken up under Rule 267."Government has not said one word of sympathy for the protesting farmers who died during the agitation. No condolence should be shown to them," he said referring to around 300 farmers who died.Hooda alleged that the government first dubbed farmers as terrorists, then no condolences were given, their demands were trashed and today even the demand for a discussion was not taken up.Kharge alleged that the prime minister has pushed the poor to further poverty, while the rich are becoming richer and corporates are happy because government policies are helping them.He said the prices of petrol and diesel are rising constantly and the centre is not making any attempts to reduce the costs, but is imposing Excise duties on them."We have never had such high costs of petrol and diesel. Even kerosene costs are sky high. Our fight in Parliament was about this. We tried our very best to use rule 267 to discuss the matter in detail but the government was not ready," he said.Accusing the government of earning ₹21 lakh crore in the last six years, he said, "We wanted to ask where this money has been used and towards which welfare ends."Sharma said Parliament runs on rules and the country on the Constitution, and discussions were sought under rules on "profiteering by government" and rising prices of petrol and diesel.He said the farmers issue is also a burning issue as hundreds of farmers have died, even as he recalled how the opposition was not allowed division of votes when the bills were passed last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-disregarding-parliamentary-convention-by-not-letting-opposition-raise-issues-congress-101615387779247.html
10-03-2021||India||SII seeks Amit Shah's help for smooth operations of non-scheduled planes in Pune||World's largest vaccine manufacturer by volume, Serum Institute of India, has sought Union Home Minister Amit Shah's intervention in bringing changes in the Air Operations Routine (AOR) issuance policy at the Pune airport for smooth operation of non-scheduled aircraft.In a recent letter to Shah, the Pune-based firm suggested amendments in the AOR policy stating, it is needed for foreigners to commute smoothly at the airport and encourage "ease of doing business in India".The Pune airport is a defence airfield that operates under the Indian Air Force (IAF). Because of this, AOR is required for the foreign passengers, pilots and crew members coming to Pune by non-scheduled flights, said Prakash Kumar Singh, Director, Government and Regulatory Affairs at Serum Institute of India (SII), in the letter."According to current policy, certain rules related to AOR issuance cause huge inconvenience to these foreign passengers, pilots and crew members coming to Pune from any nation and even from any of our country's airport," he said.Suggesting a few amendments, Singh said there is no Naval Operations Routine (NOR) requirement for operations at Goa Airport for foreign passengers/crew members which is also a defence airfield and operates under the Indian Navy."In the same way, this policy needs to be adopted for operations at Pune airport also which is a defence airfield, so that there is no requirement of AOR for foreign passengers/crew members at the airport," he said.Singh further stated that AOR issuance services should be available round-the-clock online, even on weekends and public holidays."Foreign national passengers on VT registered aircraft are already in possession of valid travel documents (Visa, OCI Card) and thus an additional check is deemed unnecessary. We propose AOR should be issued to them instantaneously and be valid for a year," the letter stated.Singh further suggested that "AOR must be issued to foreign operating crew within a specified time frame any day of the week (we propose two hours) and should be valid for a year".He said foreign operating crew on foreign-registered aircraft have valid licenses from their competent issuing authority and the verification of the same is mere paperwork."In view of these facts and genuine difficulties, as a last resort, I humbly request for your kind intervention for the above amendments in AOR Policy in line with our prime minister's vision of 'ease of doing business in India' and to further encourage his dream project 'Making in India' for which we will be highly obliged," Singh stated in the letter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sii-seeks-amit-shah-s-help-for-smooth-operations-of-non-scheduled-planes-in-pune-101615386472655.html
10-03-2021||India||Massive single-day spike of Covid: Maha records 13,659 cases, Mumbai 1,539||In a massive spike in single-day Covid-19 infections, Maharashtra on Wednesday reported 13,659 fresh infections while Mumbai daily infection rose to 1,539. Though the surge has been going on since the middle of February, Wednesday's numbers are a massive jump from the past few days. In fact, both Maharashtra and Mumbai witnessed the highest jump in the last five months on Wednesday, On March 8, Mumbai recorded 1,361 fresh cases, which was the highest after October 28 when Mumbai recorded 1,354 fresh infections. On Tuesday, the city reported 1,012 new cases, on Monday, the figure was 1,014.The last time, Maharashtra's daily tally went beyond 11,000 was on October 16 when the state recorded 11,447 fresh infections. The single-day spike comes at a time when authorities are divided over imposing restrictions in Mumbai. While several districts of Maharashtra including Pune, Thane, Amravati, have brought back lockdown and restrictions, the situation for India's finance capital is different. Imposing partial lockdown will affect the economy, but Mumbai's guardian minister Aslam Shaikh has said that district authorities have been asked to take whatever steps required to contain the spread of the Covid-19 infections. The steps can be night curfew, partial lockdown, janata curfew etc.Covid-19: Saamana editorial warns of another lockdown in MaharashtraMumbai's civic body the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation has ruled out an immediate lockdown and is focussing on surveillance instead. It is keeping a check on nightclubs, bars, wedding halls etc. But on Wednesday, the Covid-19 situation of the city took a worrying turn with more than 1,500 cases being recorded in 24 hours.Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday said that the situation will be reviewed in a few days and a decision on lockdown will be taken. "Lockdown can not be the option easily adopted," the CM said urging people to abide by Covid-19 appropriate behaviour.Till February 16, the daily infection in Mumbai remained within 600. From February 17, there was a steady surge and the trend is still continuing with the tally now crossing the 1,500-mark.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-records-massive-spike-of-1-539-fresh-covid-19-infections-in-24-hours-101615386201258.html
10-03-2021||India||Nearly 70,000 frontline railway staff vaccinated, 3.2 lakh waiting for jab||The ministry of railways on Wednesday informed Parliament that the vaccination of employees of Indian Railways’ against Covid-19 is being done in a phased manner adding that it has vaccinated nearly 70,000 of its staff in the first phase.The ministry indicated that more than 3.2 lakh frontline railway employees have been identified for vaccination in the next phase.So far in its first phase railways have begun the vaccination of railway healthcare workers and Railway Protection Force (RPF) staff.“Vaccination of Railway employees is being done in a phased manner. In the first phase Railway health care and Railway Protection Force (RPF) staff are being vaccinated. Till now, 18,964 Railway healthcare staff and 48,994 RPF staff have been vaccinated. 3,22,322 front line, Railway employees have been identified for vaccination in the next phase,” Union railway minister Piyush Goyal said in a written reply in Lok Sabha on Wednesday.Railways have been operating its freight trains and special trains since March last year when the government had announced a nationwide lockdown to curb the spread of the Coronavirus disease.The national carrier lost 592 railway employees due to Covid-19 while 32,641 railway employees in total were affected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nearly-70-000-frontline-railway-staff-vaccinated-3-2-lakh-waiting-for-jab-101615382916947.html
10-03-2021||India||Status of 7 bullet trains: What minister Piyush Goyal said in Lok Sabha||Railways minister Piyush Goyal on Wednesday informed the Lok Sabha that the work for the preparation of detailed project reports for seven new high-speed rail corridors by the National High-Speed Rail Corporation Limited.In his written reply to the lower house of Parliament, the minister added that none of these corridors is sanctioned as yet. "The decision on sanctioning any HSR project depends on the outcome of Detailed Project Report, techno-economic feasibility, availability of resources and financing options," the minister said adding that the preparation of DPRs is still in progress and the route or alignment for the corridors has not yet been finalised.The proposed corridors include Delhi-Noida-Agra-Kanpur-Lucknow-Varanasi, Delhii-Jaipur-Udaipur-Ahmedabad, Mumbai-Nasik-Nagpur, Mumbai-Pune-Hyderabad, Chennai-Bangalore-Mysore, Delhi-Chandigarh-Ludhiana-Jalandhar-Amritsar, Varanasi-Patna-Howrah.🛩 The Aerial LiDAR survey to capture data for the Mumbai-Ahmedabad high-speed rail corridor has begun.🚇 This study will help lay the ground work design for India’s first high-speed rail line. pic.twitter.com/C6WIJQhPxMAs far as the Mumbai-Ahmedabad bullet train is concerned, the Aerial LiDAR survey to capture data for the Mumbai-Ahmedabad high-speed rail corridor has begun, the minister said on Tuesday. "This study will help lay the groundwork design for India’s first high-speed rail line," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/status-of-7-bullet-trains-what-minister-piyush-goyal-said-in-lok-sabha-101615383175363.html
10-03-2021||India||Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana' targets BJP over crowded rallies in poll-bound states||The Shiv Sena on Wednesday said central government leaders were addressing crowded rallies in poll-bound states, while opening suburban trains for the general public in Mumbai was being blamed for the rise in COVID-19 cases in the metropolis.An editorial in the Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana' asked people to take care, saying otherwise a "lockdown is imminent".It said a partial lockdown has been enforced in some parts of Maharashtra, and many areas of cities like Thane and Nashik have been Covid-19 hot-spots."Has the coronavirus been crushed under the huge crowds seen during campaigning for the West Bengal elections?" the Marathi daily sought to know.It said people were not wearing face masks and not following physical distancing norms in poll rallies, but the crowd in Mumbai locals trains, where people travel to work for their livelihood, was being blamed for the spike in COVID-19 cases."The prime minister addressespublic meetings attended by thousands of people and Union home minister conducts roadshows. This freedom is not applicable to the common man. They have to protect themselves and their families," it said.It is good that the Centre is concerned about the rising COVID-19 cases in Maharashtra, but what is it doing to help the state? the Sena asked."Due to the pandemic, the state has suffered revenue loss of more than ₹one lakh crore, per capita income has reduced, there is employment crisis," the Marathi daily said.Quoting the Union health ministry, the Sena said Maharashtra accounts for 56 per cent of the rise in COVID-19 cases in the country."Maharashtra doesn't hide the COVID-19 numbers," it added.The Sena also said poll-bound Tamil Nadu and Kerala are among the states where there has been a rise in COVID-19 numbers."The Union health ministry says there is no rise in COVID-19 cases in West Bengal. May be, this has been said to ensure the rallies of prime minister and BJP leaders go on smoothly in the state," the editorial claimed.Politics is being played in such a "cruel and inhuman manner," it alleged."If the rise in cases in Mumbai is because of local trains, there is Metro in Delhi," the editorial said. PTI MR GK GK||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sena-mouthpiece-saamana-targets-bjp-over-crowded-rallies-in-poll-bound-states-101615375345244.html
10-03-2021||India||Vizag Steel Plant workers to go on strike, to learn from farmers’ agitation||Farmer leader Rakesh Tikait may be invited by workers of the Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Limited (RINL), also known as Visakhapatnam Steel Plant, to draw lessons from over 100-day long farm agitation as they have decided to go on an indefinite strike in protest against the central government’s move to go in for 100 per cent disinvestment in the steel plant through privatisation.“We are studying their model of agitation and if possible, we shall adopt their strategy to wage a long-drawn battle to prevent privatisation of the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant. We have invited the farmers’ leaders to Visakhapatnam on March 28 for a meeting with steel plant workers on how to go about with future course of action,” the trade union leader said.A decision to go on an indefinite strike effect was taken at the meeting of the Vizag Steel Plant Parirakshana Samithi, a joint action committee of the trade unions late on Tuesday night.Read more: Vizag steel privatisation plan snowballs into political issue in Andhra Pradesh“We shall serve the strike notice on the RINL management on Thursday. All the workers will go on indefinite strike on a date which will be decided later. We have also decided to constitute struggle committees with employees working in various departments of the steel plant and launch a campaign till March 19, preparing the workers for a long-drawn agitation,” J Ayodhya Ramu, president of Centre for Indian Trade Unions (CITU), the recognised trade union of the RINL, said.The meeting decided to hold a dharna in front of the steel plant on March 15. “On March 16 and 17, representatives of the trade unions will go to Delhi to represent our issue with floor leaders of all political parties and request them to take up our case in Parliament,” Ramu said.The JAC also decided to conduct a big rally in the name of “Karmika Garjana” (roar of the workers) at Trishna Grounds near the Steel City in Visakhapatnam on March 20. It would be attended by prominent national trade union leaders including G Sanjeeva Reddy of INTUC, Tapan Kumar Sen of CITU, Amarjeet Kaur of AITUC and Surendranath Pandey of BMS.The steel plant workers have intensified their agitation following a statement made by Union finance minister Nirmala Sitaraman in the Lok Sabha on Monday, asserting that the Centre would go in for 100% disinvestment of Government of India’s shares in the RINL having a production capacity of 6.3 million tonnes per annum, products of which are used in the construction sector.The RINL has over 17,000 permanent employees and another 14,000 contract employees.The main reason for the disinvestment, according to the RINL management, was that the steel plant had been consistently making losses over a period of time. In 2017-18, it suffered a loss of ₹1,369 crore. Though it could recover briefly by making a net profit of ₹97 crore in 2018-19, it plunged into huge losses to the extent of ₹3,910 crore in 2019-20.The trade unions, however, say the losses were just an excuse to hand over the project to a private company. “The losses are mainly due to operational expenses, besides general slum in the steel market. The steel plant doesn’t have captive iron ore mines and it is forced to buy the iron ore at a higher cost, compared to the private steel plants which have their own captive mines,” the CITU leader said.While the cost of iron ore for private steel plants is around ₹1,500 per tonne, the RINL is buying the ore at not less than ₹5,000 per tonne. “We need 10 million tonnes of ore every year; which means the RINL is spending ₹3,500 crore in excess only on ore, compared to the private plants,” Ramu said.He said this financial year (2020-21) ending March 31, the losses of the steel plant are going to come down to ₹1,500 crore. “The fact that the company is wiping out the losses to the tune of ₹2,400 crore shows the company is functioning efficiently. Where is the need to privatise it?” he asked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vizag-steel-plant-workers-to-go-on-strike-to-learn-from-farmers-agitation-101615382701490.html
10-03-2021||India||Cong’s 'wrong' and 'anti-poor' policies behind BJP’s rise to power: Mayawati||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) supremo Mayawati on Wednesday attributed the BJP’s rise to power to the “wrong” and “anti-people” policies of the Congress."Every party faces ups and downs. After independence, parties like Jansangh and BJP had been finished,” said Mayawati in a statement.But, she said, the BJP with its communal and anti-people polices is at its peak today."The BJP is in power because of the wrong and anti-people policies of the Congress," she said.Alleging that both the UP and central government have been ignoring the interest of the people, society and the nation, Mayawati said they are busy trampling the opposition and misusing power."This is unfortunate for the democracy and everyone is concerned about it,” she said.The BSP chief also advised her party leaders and workers to meet various government officials after fixing appointments with them to secure justice for people in cases of atrocities against them.The BSP statement said the party has completed the first round of district-level review meetings for the preparation of the panchayat elections.During this meeting, office bearers of all 75 districts and 18 divisions presented their detailed report to the party leadership, the statement added.While reviewing the preparations for the panchayat polls, Mayawati also said if they are held fairly, the BSP would win many seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congs-wrong-and-anti-poor-policies-behind-bjp-s-rise-to-power-mayawati-101615381859543.html
10-03-2021||India||Mumbai Covid-19: With 24X7 operation, BMC aims for 1 lakh vaccine shots daily||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Wednesday said vaccination at private centres under its jurisdiction will go round the clock from now as the Centre has approved the civic body's proposal in this regard. BMC has requested the Centre to make necessary changes to its vaccination registration website Co-Win to facilitate 24x7 registration. The Centre, a few days ago, allowed 24 hours vaccination across the country. With this, 1 lakh people will be vaccinated every day in the BMC area, as with the current timing of 8-12 hours, around 35,000-40,000 people are getting vaccinated.As fresh Covid-19 infections are on the rise in Mumbai, the civic body is tightening its surveillance. Around 90 per cent of the new cases of Covid-19 in Mumbai in the last two months were recorded in housing societies, it said adding that strict action will be sanctioned against the residents of such societies who violate Covid-19 norms.BMC also said that residential buildings with more than five coronavirus patients will be sealed to bar any movement and buildings with less than five patients will not be sealed entirely but the floors on which the patients reside will be sealed. As of March 9, a total of 2,762 floors have been sealed in buildings to bar movement of 4,183 coronavirus patients.Maharashtra reported 9,927 fresh cases on Tuesday, taking the tally of infected people to 2,238,398. The capital city of Mumbai reported 1,012 new cases on Tuesday, continuing its week-long trend of reporting more than 1,000 cases a day.The BMC has been trying to enforce Covid-19 preventative behaviour to curb the number of cases. In a twitter post on March 9, the civic body had jokingly threatened to “gatecrash" weddings that flout pronounced norms for the “safety of Mumbai”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-covid-19-with-24x7-operation-bmc-aims-for-1lakh-vaccine-shots-daily-101615382541829.html
10-03-2021||India||Only half of urban slum households in 6 states use LPG exclusively: CEEW||About 50 per cent of urban slum households in six Indian states - including Uttar Pradesh and Bihar - use liquefied petroleum as (LPG) exclusively, according to a survey.The other four states surveyed are Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan, CEEW's Cooking Energy Access Survey 2020 released on Wednesday said.The survey was conducted in urban slums across the six states. It covered 656 households across 83 notified and non-notified urban slums in 58 districts."Only half of the urban slum households in six Indian states use LPG exclusively. This is in spite of 86 per cent of urban slum households in these states having an LPG connection," according to the survey conducted by the Council on Energy, Environment and Water (CEEW).The six states account for nearly a quarter of India's urban slum population.Further, 16 per cent of the households are still using traditional fuels such as firewood, dung cakes, agriculture residue, charcoal, and kerosene as their primary fuel and over a third are stacking LPG with these polluting fuels. This increases exposure to indoor air pollution for such households."As part of the next phase of the Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana (PMUY), the government must target poor households without an LPG connection in urban slums. Policymakers must also nudge oil marketing companies and distributors to improve home delivery of LPG refills in slum areas to increase exclusive use of LPG."Also, as the LPG refill prices rise, the government must target vulnerable households - beyond PMUY beneficiaries - with differential subsidy support for using LPG in a sustained manner," CEEW CEO Arunabha Ghosh said.A significant share of the urban slum population is struggling to afford using LPG for all their cooking, especially due to the rising fuel prices and the economic impact of the pandemic, Shaily Jha, Research Analyst at CEEW and lead author of the study, said."Given that the number of Ujjwala beneficiaries living in urban slums is low, the majority of slum households remain ineligible for relief support in the form of free cylinders under the PM-Garib Kalyan Yojana."We suggest that the major government programmes, such as the National Urban Livelihoods Mission and social service allocations for housing, should use existing targeting approaches to include access to clean cooking energy within their ambit of services for the poor," Jha said.The study also revealed that only about 45 per cent of households use LPG as their primary fuel in winter. Further, three-fourths of households using polluting fuels cook inside the main house and two-thirds do not have a chimney for ventilation.This indicates high exposure to household air pollution, primarily for women and children. Long-term exposure to emissions from biomass burning also makes the population more vulnerable to the severe risks of Covid-19 infection, the findings said.It further highlighted that 37 per cent of LPG-using slum households do not receive doorstep delivery of cylinders.The study has recommended leveraging platforms like LPG Panchayats to increase awareness regarding the process of subsidy calculation and disbursement for households.The intra-household decision making regarding refill purchase remains dominated by male members, increased awareness about actual expense on the refills may lead to improving women's bargaining power within the household.The Council on Energy, Environment and Water is one of Asia's leading not-for-profit policy research institutions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/only-half-of-urban-slum-households-in-6-states-use-lpg-exclusively-ceew-101615369994204.html
10-03-2021||India||NSG to conduct reconnaissance at Puri temple on March 18||The elite National Security Guard (NSG) will reconnaissance the world-famous Shree Jagannath temple in Puri on March 18, official sources said Wednesday. The reconnaissance is part of NSGs security inspection at major pilgrimages and other sensitive places being done to pre-empt possible attacks. A five-member team of the NSG comprising two officers and two personnel will conduct the mock drill along with the state police officers at the 12th-century shrine. In a letter to the Odisha Chief Secretary, the NSG has urged the state police to brief it about the security measures around the temple. The team has also requested the state police to provide necessary assistance including accommodation, transportation, and messing. The state police has also been asked to give a liaison officer for better coordination with the reconnaissance commander, the letter said. Senior IPS officer Amitabh Thakur, IG (Operations) has been appointed as the nodal officer to assist and coordinate with the central security personnel. It is the first such reconnaissance planned by the NSG at Puri after demolition of structures within 775 meters radius from the temple boundary wall for heritage and security corridor projects. The NSG has also informed Shree Jagannath Temple Administration (SJTA) chief administrator Krishan Kumar and ASIs Superintendent Archaeologist Arun Kumar Mallick, about its plan for reconnaissance of the Puri temple.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nsg-to-conduct-reconnaissance-at-puri-temple-on-march-18-101615365448942.html
10-03-2021||India||'Maha Kumbh Mela' 2021: Moradabad railway division develops app for pilgrims||With the purpose to help pilgrims who are attending the 'Maha Kumbh Mela' with essential information about trains and government guidelines on Covid-19, the Moradabad railway division launched a mobile app. General manager of northern railway, Ashutosh Gangal said that the app will be useful for all the devotees who are seeking information about any government guidelines while attending the ‘Maha Kumbh Mela’."Moradabad division made an app through which, along with information about trains, passengers can get information about local temples. They can also get information related to the state government's guidelines on Covid-19 that keeps on changing," Gangal said as per news agency ANI.Gangal added that along with the app, SMS alerts are also sent to all the passengers regarding any changes in the guidelines.Read more: Haridwar Mahakumbh 2021: First holy bath on March 11 amid strict Covid-19 normsThe Uttarakhand government has taken several steps to ensure that devotees face no problems while attending the ‘Maha Kumbh Mela’. A centralised control room has been set up at Haridwar railway station and twenty-four police stations have been set up in Haridwar which will maintain policing, law and order, traffic as well as crowd management and patrolling of the Mela zone.The Uttarakhand government has also issued standard operating procedures (SOP) which make it mandatory for devotees to produce a negative report of RT-PCR test conducted not earlier than 72 hours of arrival. In case of violation of the SOPs, the government has warned of strict penal action against the violators. The SOP also makes it compulsory for devotees to bring a medical fitness certificate and an e-pass or e-permit issued to them after registering on the Kumbh Mela web portal.Wearing of masks is also mandatory for all the devotees and mask dispensing kiosks have been set up in the parking lots as well as at the entry points. Also, masks would be distributed without charging any fees and fines will be levied on devotees who do not wear masks.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maha-kumbh-mela-2021-moradabad-railway-division-develops-app-for-pilgrims-101615381119839.html
10-03-2021||India||Congress questions PM Modi on top US commander’s remarks on China||Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala on Wednesday questioned Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the alleged land grab of Indian territory by the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA), a day after a top US military commander said that China still hasn’t withdrawn from ‘several forward positions’ seized in clashes with the Indian forces along the Line of Actual Control (LAC).Also Read | China hasn’t withdrawn from several LAC positions, says top US commander“Modi Ji told the Nation-‘No one has intruded into our territory,” Surjewala tweeted, referring to comments made by PM Modi at an all-party meeting on June 19 last year, four days after 20 Indian soldiers were killed in action in clashes with the Chinese troops in eastern Ladakh’s Galwan Valley.A day after the all-party meeting, the Union government had responded to the controversy over PM Modi’s remarks, with the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) terming it as ‘mischievous.’Also Read | ‘Mischievous interpretation’: Govt on PM Modi’s remarks at all-party meet“Now our ally, US has also exposed the lies told by Modi Ji. Questions: 1. Will PM now tell the truth? 2. When will we push China back from our territory?” the Congress chief spokesperson added.Modi ji told the Nation -‘No one has intruded into our territory.’Now our ally, U.S has also exposed the lies told by Modi ji.Question-:1. Will PM now tell the truth?2. When will we push China back from our territory? pic.twitter.com/1odIeWoJPqSurjewala was referring to remarks made by Admiral Philip S. Davidson, who commands the US military’s Indo-Pacific Command, at a congressional hearing on Tuesday. “The PLA has not yet withdrawn from several forwards positions it seized following the initial clash, and the consequent escalation of tensions between the PRC (People’s Republic of China) and India has resulted in casualties on both sides,” Admiral Davidson told lawmakers at a Senate hearing on the Indo-US Pacific Command.Skirmishes between India and China began in the first week of May 2020, resulting in a prolonged military standoff between the armies of both countries. Last month, defence minister Rajnath Singh announced in Parliament that the two sides had reached an agreement to disengage from the northern and southern banks of the Pangong Tso lake, one of several friction sites in the region. Singh proclaimed that ‘India has not lost anything,’ a stand that the central government has taken since the beginning of the crisis.Watch: 'Nobody wants unsettled border': Army chief Naravane on India-China LAC rowCongress leader Rahul Gandhi has been repeatedly criticising the government for its inaction over the alleged land grab by China in Indian territory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-top-us-commander-s-comment-on-china-congress-questions-pm-modi-101615380091675.html
10-03-2021||India||Shashi Tharoor reacts to his photo with BJP's Giriraj Singh. Then a dig||Union minister Giriraj Singh, mask in place, leaned over in what seemed a half hug and got close to Congress MP Shashi Tharoor to say something into his ear outside the Parliament House on Wednesday and it was at this time that the bonhomie between the two leaders from the rival parties was captured in a photograph. The minister's rudraksh clad wrist was placed over a smiling Tharoor's right shoulder.The photograph was posted on Twitter by journalist Payal Mehta who captioned it "Photo of the day" with a series of smiling emojis.Shortly after that, the Thiruvananthapuram MP tweeted the photo explaining the sequence of events and the conversation between the two leaders.“This was when i told @girirajsinghbjp that a Department of Fisheries in a larger Ministry of Animal Husbandry is not the same as a Ministry of Fisheries, which @inCIndia & @RahulGandhi have rightly been asking for (& as i have done since 2014),” said Tharoor.This was when i told @girirajsinghbjp that a Department of Fisheries in a larger Ministry of Animal Husbandry is not the same as a Ministry of Fisheries, which @inCIndia & @RahulGandhi have rightly been asking for (& as i have done since 2014) https://t.co/NTOwVlYq4VTargeting Rahul Gandhi over his comments on creating a separate fisheries ministry, Giriraj Singh yesterday said the Congress leader should be "sent to school" so he could learn about ministries and departments that exist under the central government. Last month, Gandhi had talked about the need for a separate fisheries ministry.Prime Minister Narendra Modi, home minister Amit Shah and several Union ministers as well as BJP leaders had mocked the Congress leader over his ministries remark, saying that the ministry of fisheries, animal husbandry and dairying already existed.Clarifying his remarks, Gandhi said that he was referring to a separate ministry for fisheries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shashi-tharoor-reacts-to-his-photo-with-bjp-s-giriraj-singh-then-a-dig-101615378117307.html
10-03-2021||India||Congress' reaction to PC Chacko's exit: 'Those who have to leave will leave'||Reacting to the resignation of senior party leader PC Chacko ahead of the Kerala Assembly Election 2021, Congress leader Anand Sharma on Wednesday said those who want to leave the party can't be stopped and will eventually leave but that won't affect the party. That's what happens in all political parties, Sharma said. The resignation comes at a time when there is a demand for an overhaul in the party. Chacko too pointed at the absence of democracy in the party as the reason behind his decision."Those who have to leave will leave, it happens in political parties. But the Congress party will show how it can unitedly fight in this elections. That will be the endeavour of the Congress," Sharma said.Congress Kerala MP Hibi Eden said Chacko was given ample opportunities by the Central leadership. "He(PC Chacko) is a very senior Congress leader who has been given ample opportunities by Central leadership. He's a valuable asset for INC. I don't think it was a wise decision at this crucial juncture where Congress is going into an important election," he said.As he resigned, PC Chako said the national leadership of the party has not been active for the last two years. He also levelled serious allegations of groupism in the party — one group headed by former Kerala CM Oommen Chandy and the other by senior party leader Ramesh Chennithala.He alleged that only these two people were aware of the candidates to be fielded in the polls on April 6. The list was not even discussed with the state Congress committee."This groupism is the biggest bane of the Congress party in Kerala. Kerala is facing a very crucial election and in this election, the people want the Congress to come back. But, the stumbling block is the groups which is practiced by top leaders of the Congress party", said Chacko.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-reaction-to-pc-chacko-s-exit-those-who-have-to-leave-will-leave-101615377143688.html
10-03-2021||India||India to tax solar module imports, cut dependence on foreign supplies||India will levy a 40% customs tax on imports of solar modules from April next year to cut dependence on foreign supplies and boost domestic manufacturing of the equipment, the renewable energy ministry said.The finance ministry has approved the proposal, which also includes a 25% customs duty on imports of solar cells, the ministry said in a note published on its website. It didn’t mention for how long the taxes will apply.India first proposed taxes on solar power equipment imports in the middle of last year following virus-related supply chain disruptions and deadly border skirmishes with China, which supplies nearly 80% of India’s modules.Also read: India most favourable market for solar energy: ISA reportAs part of its strategy to transition to cleaner energy sources, India is planning to expand its renewable power capacity fivefold to 450 gigawatts by 2030. Some 280 gigawatts of that will come from solar, according to the ministry. The government sees the domestic solar manufacturing industry as vital to reaching that target, while the tax plan is also part of a broader push to help create jobs and revive an economy battered by the pandemic.India currently levies a 14.5% safeguard tax on imports of solar cells and modules from most countries, including China, which is set to expire in July. Companies bidding in project auctions should take into account the government’s new tax plans, the ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-tax-solar-module-imports-cut-dependence-on-foreign-supplies-101615367945723.html
10-03-2021||India||Raw caste data given to MoSJE for classification, categorisation: Home ministry||The Union Ministry of Home Affairs on Wednesday clarified on caste-related details received from Socio-Economic Caste Census (SECC) 2011 to the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment. In a reply, the Union Home Ministry said that raw caste data has been provided to the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment (MoSJE) for the classification and categorization of the data."Socio-Economic and Caste Census (SECC) 2011 was conducted by the Ministry of Rural Development (MoRD) and the then Ministry of Housing and Urban Poverty Alleviation (HUPA) in rural and urban areas respectively. The SECC 2011 data, excluding the caste data, have been finalized and published by MoRD and HUPA," Home Ministry said."The Office of the Registrar General, India had provided logistics and technical support in conducting the SECC-2011. The raw caste data has been provided to the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment (MoSJE) for the classification and categorization of the data. As informed by MoSJE, there is no proposal to release the caste data at this stage," the Home Ministry said.Also read: Centralised data of internet shutdown not maintained by ministry, says MHA"The intent of the Government for conducting Census 2021 has been notified in Gazette of India on March 28, 2019. The Census Schedule is designed in consultation with various stakeholders," MHA said."In Census, the castes and tribes which are specifically notified as Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes as per the Constitution (Scheduled Castes) Order 1950 and the Constitution (Scheduled Tribes) Order, 1950 (as amended from time to time) are enumerated. The Union of India after independence decided as a matter of policy not to enumerate caste wise population other than SCs and STs," the Home Ministry said in Rajya Sabha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/raw-caste-data-given-to-mosje-for-classification-categorisation-home-ministry-101615373001708.html
10-03-2021||India||'Amrit Mahotsav' will be celebrated to mark 75 yrs of Independence: PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday requested MPs and all public representatives to take part in 'Amrit Mahotsav' to mark India's 75 years of Independence, which will start from March 12 in Gujarat's Sabarmati Ashram, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi said.Addressing the BJP's parliamentary party meeting, which was held almost after a year, Modi informed that the grand festival to commemorate the 75th year of Independence will be held at 75 locations across the country for 75 weeks, he said.The prime minister also gave a clarion call to the Members of Parliament that they should reach out to people and help in carrying out the Covid-19 vaccination drive by the government, Joshi told reporters after the meeting."Prime Minister Modiji told MPs that they should act as a facilitator in the ongoing vaccination drive like by arranging vehicles for citizens to take them to the vaccination centres, helping in making arrangements at the vaccination centres and through other possible means," he said.Also read: PM Modi, Mithun Chakraborty among BJP star campaigners for Bengal polls phase 1Modi also asked all public representatives to take part in 'Amrit Mahotsav' to commemorate 75 years of Independence, Joshi said."The grand festival will be celebrated at 75 locations across the country for 75 weeks and will start from Sabramati Ashram in Ahmdedabad in Gujarat from March 12," he said.The BJP's parliamentary party also passed a resolution applauding the prime minister for his able and effective leadership during the Covid-19 pandemic.The resolution was moved by Parliamentary Affairs Minister Joshi.BJP president JP Nadda also addressed the party's parliamentary party meeting and said the party expanded its footprint and helped people during the pandemic, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amrit-mahotsav-will-be-celebrated-to-mark-75-yrs-of-independence-pm-101615358149425.html
10-03-2021||India||Pfizer wants to make Covid-19 vaccine in India if faster clearance, export freedom assured: Report||Pfizer Inc has told the Indian government it wants to produce its coronavirus vaccine locally if assured of faster regulatory clearance and freedom on pricing and exports, two sources with direct knowledge of the matter told Reuters.The US company pulled an application last month seeking emergency approval for its product in India after the drug regulator declined its request to skip a small local safety trial. That has kept its vaccine, developed with Germany's BioNTech SE, out of one of the world's biggest drug markets.Pfizer was the first company to apply for emergency use authorisation in India, proposing to import doses from its US and European facilities instead of producing locally."US companies want to produce vaccines in India under joint ventures," said one of the sources, citing Pfizer and fellow US drugmaker Moderna Inc."They want faster approvals for clinical trials and emergency authorisation use. They fear the government will introduce price control policies."Another source confirmed Pfizer was interested in manufacturing in India but Reuters could not find a second confirmation on Moderna.The companies did not immediately respond to requests for comment. India's health ministry directed Reuters to the foreign ministry, which did not immediately respond to emailed queries.While withdrawing its application in early February, Pfizer said it would again seek emergency use approval to launch its Covid-19 vaccine in India, potentially a market of 1.35 billion people, and would provide more data as it becomes available.On the government's demand to manufacture in India, the company earlier told Reuters: "Once the pandemic supply phase is over and we enter a phase of regular supplies, Pfizer will evaluate all additional opportunities available."A Indian official told Reuters in January the government had held discussions with Pfizer and Moderna - both of which have reported more than 90% efficacy for their vaccines - to make the shots in India given its large pharmaceuticals capacity.The Serum Institute of India, the world's largest vaccine maker, is already bulk-manufacturing the Oxford University/AstraZeneca product and plans to start producing the Novavax Inc shot from next month.India's government has not allowed it to sell on the higher-priced private market, however, and is also controlling exports. Pfizer and Moderna, whose shots are more expensive than the AstraZeneca one being used in India's immunisation campaign, are not comfortable with strict price and export restrictions, one of the sources said.This week, Reuters reported that leaders of the Quad alliance - Australia, Japan, India and the United States - plan to announce financing agreements to increase India's vaccine manufacturing capacity at their first meeting on Friday.The initiative will mainly involve production of the Novavax and Johnson & Johnson shots for supplying to regions including Southeast Asia, where their common rival China is making gains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pfizer-wants-to-make-vaccine-in-india-if-faster-clearance-freedom-on-exports-101615377389352.html
10-03-2021||India||Tirath Singh Rawat: From RSS pracharak to Uttarakhand chief minister||Tirath Singh Rawat was sworn-in as the new chief minister of Uttarakhand on Wednesday, a day after the resignation of Trivendra Singh Rawat. The CM will have a year’s time till the next state elections.Born in Seeron village of Uttarakhand’s Pauri Garhwal district in 1964, Tirath Singh Rawat had his first brush with public life as the RSS pracharak from 1983 to 1988.Rawat, with a master’s degree in sociology and a diploma holder in journalism, entered active student politics and became the organisational secretary of ABVP Uttarakhand unit and later national secretary of ABVP. He was also the president of the student union at Hemwati Nandan Garhwal University in 1992. Subsequently, he became the state vice president of Uttar Pradesh Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha.An MP from Pauri Garhwal and former state BJP president, Rawat was selected as party’s chief minister in the legislature party meeting held in Dehradun on Wednesday morning.Watch | Tirath Singh Rawat sworn-in as Uttarakhand CM: All you need to knowRawat participated in the Ram Janmabhoomi agitation and spent two months in jail. He also actively participated in the agitation for statehood of Uttarakhand.He was elected as a member of Uttar Pradesh Legislative Council in 1997 and remained so till 2002.After Uttarakhand was carved out of Uttar Pradesh in 2000, he became the first education minister of the newly formed state. In 2007, he was elected as the state general secretary of Uttarakhand BJP.In 2012, Rawat was elected as MLA from Chaubattakhal assembly seat from his native Pauri Garhwal district, and the following year (February 2013) he was appointed as the president of Uttarakhand BJP. He remained state president of the party till December 2015.In 2017, the party appointed him as the BJP national secretary.In May 2019, he was elected as member of parliament from the Pauri Lok Sabha seat, after defeating his rival Manish Khanduri, his political guru BC Khanduri’s son, by over 3.5 lakh votes. In the same year, he was also in-charge of the elections in Himachal Pradesh.“As names were doing the rounds in the media on Tuesday, I got many phone calls whether my husband is also being considered as there was no talk about it. I told them to wait. Because I knew that party would give him the responsibility. He has struggled a lot and never cared about money. Because of his work in RSS, he was sent to ABVP and later to BJP,” Rashami Rawat, wife of Tirath Singh Rawat, told local media on Tuesday night.“We are very happy that a leader from our district and that too such a humble one, has been given the reins of the state,” said Raj Kumar, a resident of Pauri Garhwal.Recalling the organisational abilities of Rawat, his friend Dinesh Arya said: “I saw up close how Rawat was good at managing cadre and organisational issues very efficiently and democratically. He is down-to-earth and listens to the party cadre.”"His best quality is that he is able to reach out to people, MLAs, party officials, workers and public and work in the best interests of the party. I am sure under his leadership, the state will do good, and the party base will be strengthened further, " said Ramesh Bahuguna, BJP state working committee member and former district president of Almora.Many Congress leaders also admit that Rawat is a humble and low-profile person.“Rawat is a soft-spoken, humble, low profile and down-to-earth man. This makes him popular among his party circles who see him as somebody who wouldn’t damage them politically. His godfather in politics was BC Khanduri, who promoted him a lot. But as Khanduri’s position weakened in the party, Rawat was not given a ticket in 2017, which upset him. But then he was made national secretary. Let us now see what he can do in the rest of ten months”, said a Congress leader not wishing to be named.(With inputs from Vipin Negi and Ankur Sharma)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tirath-singh-rawat-from-rss-pracharak-to-uttarakhand-chief-minister-101615377274271.html
10-03-2021||India||No-confidence motion against Haryana government defeated in Assembly||The Congress' no-confidence motion against the Bharatiya Janata Party-Jannayak Janata Party (BJP-JJP) government in Haryana was defeated on Wednesday. As many as 55 MLAs voted against the motion while 32 MLAs voted in favour of it."No-Confidence is Congress' culture. When the party loses polls, there is no-confidence on EVMs, for surgical strikes, it asked for evidence. Discussion for the sake of discussion should not take place. If Congress is in power, all is well, but if it's BJP, then not," Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar said in the assembly.Speaking on the motion, Khattar said he was grateful to the Congress for giving him an opportunity to tell everyone about his government.Assembly speaker Gian Chand Gupta, who had accepted the motion by the Opposition Congress on March 5, had fixed March 10 for discussions on the motion.In place of secret voting, the members were asked to stand— first those in favour of the motion and later those who were against the motion.The 55 members who opposed the motion included 39 from the BJP, 10 from ally Jannayak Janta Party, five Independents and one from Haryana Lokhit Party.BJP has 40 members in the Assembly including the Speaker.30 members of Congress and two Independents, who had earlier withdrawn support, backed the motion.Haryana Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda had moved a no-confidence motion in the state Assembly against chief minister Manohar Lal Khatter-led government.In the assembly, Hooda commented on the ongoing farmers' protests and said, "More than 250 farmers died on the border."Responding to Hooda, deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala said, "The leader of the opposition, BS Hooda agreed that they introduced contract farming in 2014 which exhibits their double standards and we will respond to that in the Assembly."Hooda had said that his party "also plans to bring many adjournment and calling attention motions to draw the attention of the government to the multitude of problems faced by the people of the state.""The Congress is going to bring no-confidence motion, Minimum Support Price (MSP) guarantee bill, many adjournments and calling attention motion against the government. We will seek answers on issues such as farmers' neglect, rising unemployment, changes in domicile regulations, rising crime, paper leaks, liquor and registry scams," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-confidence-motion-against-haryana-government-defeated-in-assembly-101615376453463.html
10-03-2021||India||INS Karanj, third indigenous submarine, commissioned into Indian navy||A third Scorpene class submarine INS Karanj of Project-75 was on Wednesday commissioned into the Indian navy, after two years of rigorous sea trials.The submarine was launched in January 2018 for sea trials and will increase the strength and capability of the Indian navy, said chief of naval staff (CNS) admiral Karambir Singh.Singh and retired admiral VS Shekhawat were present during the occasion. Shekhawat, who was part of the commissioning crew of the old Karanj and was also its commanding officer during the 1971 India-Pakistan war, was the chief guest.Shekhawat, the 14th CNS who served as navy chief from September 30, 1993 to September 30, 1996, said, “We live in India and launch numerous satellites, building nuclear submarines, manufacturing vaccines for the world. The new Karanj is another example of Make in India”. Also Read | SC notice to Centre, NDA on denying women entry into defence, naval academiesHe said between the first world war and second world war submarines were hardly evolved, but after the second world war when electronic revolution began, development and engineering took place and the nature of the submarine substantially changed. “There is huge difference between the old Karanj and the new one, but one thing will never change, that is the sea and the danger from the sea,” he added.Shekhawat quoted a British navy officer who insisted that “the hazard of the sea must always be given priority over the violence of the enemy, the enemy you might have to get away from, but from sea you can never escape if there is a dangerous situation.”“This Project-75 submarine is motivation to indigenisation, and Aatmanirbhar Bharat is a fundamental tenet of Indian navy’s growth story and future operational capabilities,” Singh said while speaking at the occasion.The trials of the Air Independent Propulsion (AIP) system, recently developed by Defence Research and Development Organisation, have been just completed. “The system will be ready in 2023 and after that when the first submarine will go for refit, the AIP will be installed in her. AIP plug will increase the capability of submarines to remain underwater for longer,” added Singh.INS Karanj, India’s third of six Scorpene class submarines, has superior stealth and several major combat capabilities. It is a diesel-electric attack submarine built under the Project-75 programme at Mazagon Docks Limited in Mumbai in collaboration with Naval Group (formerly DCNS), the French submarine builder. India’s first indigenous submarine INS Kalvari was launched in October 2015 and was commissioned in December 2017, five years behind schedule. The second one, INS Khanderi was launched in January 2017 for sea trials and commissioned in September 2019. INS Karanj is the third. The fourth submarine INS Vela was launched in May, 2019 and is undergoing sea trials, and the fifth submarine INS Vagir was launched in November 2020 and is also undergoing sea trials. The sixth submarine INS Vagsheer is in various stages of outfitting.Scorpene submarines can undertake multifarious types of missions; they are designed to operate in all theatres, with means to ensure interoperability with other components of a Naval Task Force. It is a strong platform, marking a generational shift in submarine operations.The state-of-the-art technology utilised for construction of the Scorpene class submarines has ensured superior stealth features such as advanced acoustic silencing techniques, low radiated noise levels, hydrodynamically optimised shape and the ability to attack the enemy using precision guided weapons. The attack can be launched with both torpedoes and tube launched anti-ship missiles, at the same time as underwater or on surface. The stealth of this strong platform is enhanced by the special attention given to various signatures. These stealth features make them invulnerable, unmatched by most submarines. The old INS Karanj was commissioned on September 4, 1969 at Riga in the erstwhile USSR, (United States of Soviet Russian) also took active part in the conflict under the Command of then commander VS Shekhawat and was decommissioned in 2003.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ins-karanj-third-indigenous-submarine-commissioned-into-indian-navy-101615376908866.html
10-03-2021||India||ED not to insist on Mehbooba Mufti’s personal appearance on March 15||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Wednesday informed the Delhi high court that it would not insist on the appearance of former CM of Jammu and Kashmir Mehbooba Mufti before March 19. Mufti had moved court seeking to quash summons issued to her by the agency in a money laundering case, asking her to appear before it on March 15.Advocate Amit Mahajan, central government standing counsel, appearing for the ED, sought time from the bench of justices Siddharth Mridul and Anup J Bhambhani, which posted the matter for March 19.The Peoples Democratic Party leader, through her counsel Prasanna S, has also challenged the validity of Section 50 of Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) under which she was summoned. Section 50 of PMLA gives powers to the authorities to summon any person whose attendance they consider necessary whether to give evidence or to produce any records during the course of any investigation under the Act.Also Read | PDP elects Mehbooba Mufti as party chief for another termMufti has sought an interim stay on the summons until the question of law in relation to constitutionality of Section 50 of the Act is decided. Her plea said that the summons was issued under the PMLA but the case under which she was asked to appear was missing from the notice. In her petition before the high court, she said she had not been informed if she is being summoned as an accused or as a witness.“She has not been informed if she is being summoned as an accused or as a witness. She has also not been informed of what she is being summoned in connection with and the scheduled offence under the PMLA which gave rise to the proceedings in respect of which impugned summons has been issued to her. The petitioner is not the subject of investigation, nor is she an accused, in any of the scheduled offences to the best of her knowledge,” the plea said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ednot-to-insist-on-mufti-s-personal-appearance-on-march-15-101615376368675.html
10-03-2021||India||Sticky bombs recovered in Jammu; security forces on alert in Valley||The Jammu & Kashmir police on Wednesday said they have recovered around two dozen sticky bombs in Jammu that have been introduced to add a new dimension to the insurgency in the region and prompted security agencies to amended procedures to deal with the new threat. “We have information that sticky bombs have also come into the Kashmir Valley and despite rigorous searches, we could not recover any,” said Vijay Kumar, the inspector general (Kashmir range).The sticky bombs are improvised explosive devices (IEDs) with magnetic properties that have been used in places like Afghanistan.Kumar said there have been changes in modus operandi from suicide attacks to IED blasts. “After Fidayeen [suicide] attacks stopped, there were attacks on checkpoints in 2019-20. This year, two incidents of IEDs [blasts] have happened and we have also busted two IED modules. This shows that their target would be to conduct small IED blasts. It is a concern for us and with that has emerged a new dimension of sticky bombs…,”Kumar said he went to the Srinagar airport to show photographs of sticky bombs to Central Industrial Security Force guarding it. “...[I] told them what kind of bombs these are and what adverse effects they can have. We have alerted all,” said Kumar. “We are all alert and also appeal the people to inform police if you find any such thing.”Kumar said they have arrested seven people for their alleged involvement in two IED-making modules before a vehicle-based attack could have been carried out. He added they had motivated a college student through telegram and other apps. “He was tasked to arrange a second-hand car and the explosive was to come from north Kashmir. He was tracked and arrested.” Kumar added his three associates were also arrested and the car has been recovered.Also Read | Al-Badr commander Abdul Gani Khawaja’s killing a big success, says J&K PoliceHe said they have arrested three more people for allegedly planning an attack on a building at Pampore and recovered a 25 kg container with explosive ammonium powder sourced from north Kashmir. “Both the modules were motivated online through apps.”Kumar said 39 people involved in stone-throwing in Srinagar on Friday last have been arrested and 12 of them have been booked under the Public Safety Act, which allows detention without trial for up to two years. “...we are not going to tolerate stone pelting.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sticky-bombs-recovered-in-jammu-security-forces-on-alert-in-valley-101615375648882.html
10-03-2021||India||News updates from HT: Delhi CM Kejriwal announces free Ayodhya pilgrimage for senior citizens and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Kejriwal announces free Ayodhya pilgrimage for senior citizensSpeaking in the assembly, Kejriwal invoked Lord Hanuman, Lord Ram, and the idea of Ram Rajya to present 10 principles for governance in Delhi including those related to access to food, quality education, shelter, water, electricity, and employment. Read more'Dabbawalas are at frontline too': Bombay HC pulls up 'selfish' PIL for vaccineThe Bombay high court on Wednesday termed public interest litigation seeking priority vaccination for lawyers and judges 'selfish' and said some decisions must be left to the "executive's wisdom". The PIL was filed by a group of Mumbai-based lawyers who appealed that members of the judiciary, including staff, should be vaccinated first. Read moreTirath Singh Rawat’s choice as new Uttarakhand CM surprised many party leadersThe BJP leadership on Wednesday morning named Pauri Garhwal MP Tirath Singh Rawat as the new chief minister of Uttarakhand, ending the buzz around the likes of cabinet minister Dhan Singh Rawat, former CM and Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank and Rajya Sabha member Anil Baluni. Read moreAs assembly elections approach, a freeze on oil prices in IndiaState-controlled fuel retailers have frozen petrol and diesel rates — often aligned with daily movement of global oil prices — for more than a week, even as international crude oil prices surged by 12% during this period. Read moreInd vs Eng T20Is: Fight of equals as both teams look to continue winning runThe five-match T20I series to be played in Ahmedabad between England and India is expected to be a keenly contested tie, as both teams have a lot at stake. While England are the top team in the format in ICC rankings, India are not far away at number 2 in the recently updated rankings. Read moreBMW launches Made in India M340i xDrive at ₹62.90 lakhIn news that would sound sweeter than the roar of the engine inside the BMW M340i xDrive, the German car maker on Wednesday officially launched its first locally-assembled performance car at ₹62.90 lakh* (ex showroom). Read moreMadhuri Dixit makes our hearts go Dhak Dhak in black saree worth ₹1.2 lakhThe original IT girl of Bollywood made our hearts go Dhak Dhak recently as she donned a black saree. Madhuri Dixit is one of the most stunning actors in Bollywood and her impeccable ethnic style works as a cherry on top. For a recent shoot, the mother-of-two wore a beautiful saree and gave it a royal touch. We are taking notes. Read moreSaved my life: Demi Lovato on why she abused drugs during mental health struggleDemi Lovato has always been very open about her struggle with drugs and her mental health, but in a recent interaction on an upcoming episode of Diane Guerrero's podcast Yeah No, I'm Not Okay, she clarified about several topics that people may have misconceptions about. Read moreRajkummar Rao on being thrown out of films because a star wanted to do it: ‘You just move on’Three years after the release of the very successful Stree, Rajkummar Rao is returning to the horror-comedy space with Roohi, and he has high expectations from it. However, he maintained that apart from the genre, there are no similarities between the two films. Read moreMuseum’s post on rare meteorite older than Earth astonishes peopleA post shared on the official Instagram account of Natural History Museum about an astonishingly rare meteorite which formed “four billion years ago when the Sun was still yet new,” has now wowed people. Recovered in the UK, scientists believe this little piece of black rock, which is older than the Earth itself, can help them figure out “not only where most water came from, but also the building blocks of life itself.” Read moreWatch: Ranveer Singh drives Lamborghini Urus; stops to greet an elderly fan||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-delhi-cm-kejriwal-announces-free-ayodhya-pilgrimage-for-senior-citizens-and-all-the-latest-news-101615372721191.html
10-03-2021||India||U'khand will continue to scale new heights under Tirath Singh's leadership: PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday congratulated Tirath Singh Rawat for taking oath as the chief minister of Uttarakhand and said under his leadership, the state will continue to scale new heights of progress."Congratulations to Shri @TIRATHSRAWAT on taking oath as the Chief Minister of Uttarakhand. He brings with him vast administrative and organisational experience. I am confident under his leadership the state will continue to scale new heights of progress" PM Modi tweeted.Rawat, Bharatiya Janata Party's (BJP) Lok Sabha MP from Garhwal took oath as the new chief minister of Uttarakhand. He replaces Trivendra Singh Rawat who had stepped down from the post on Tuesday.Earlier in the day, Tirath Singh had met Governor Baby Rani Maurya to stake a claim to form the government in the state.The 56-year-old was elected as leader of the BJP legislature, party paving way for him to take over as the state chief minister.In the early days of his political career, he was part of the Uttar Pradesh Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha, the BJP's youth wing, where he served as the state vice-president for some time before being elected to the Uttar Pradesh Legislative Council in 1997.He was the first education minister of Uttarakhand in 2000. He was elected first as BJP's Uttarakhand general secretary in 2007 and later as the party's state unit chief in 2013.He was the BJP chief in Uttarakhand from 2013 to 2015. In 2019, Tirath Singh became an MP from the Garhwal Lok Sabha seat.The BJP had swept the elections in 2017, winning 57 seats in the 70-member Uttarakhand Assembly. Congress, on the other hand, were able to win just 11 seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ukhand-will-continue-to-scale-new-heights-under-tirath-singh-s-leadership-pm-101615374016586.html
10-03-2021||India||UP khap panchayat bans jeans for women, shorts for men||Muzaffarnagar, Mar 10 (PTI) A khap panchayat in Uttar Pradesh's Muzaffarnagar district has barred women from wearing jeans and men from wearing shorts, saying they are part of western culture and that people should wear traditional Indian clothes.The Rajput community panchayat also warned that those found violating the diktat will be punished and face boycott.The panchayat was convened on March 2 in Pipalshah village under Charthawal police station.Announcing the panchayat's decision, community leader and Kisan Sangh chief Thakur Puran Singh said it was decided to bar women from wearing jeans and men from wearing shorts.He said these clothes are part of the western culture. "We should wear our traditional clothes such as sarees, 'ghagra' and 'salwar-kameez'," he said.Those found violating the order will be punished and boycotted from the community, Singh said.The khap panchayat also protested the Uttar Pradesh government's decision to grant reservation to Scheduled Castes (SC) and backward classes in the upcoming panchayat polls.Singh said the panchayat expressed concern over the decision and condemned it.The state government issued its reservation policy for panchayat polls last month. According to the policy, seats will be reserved for SCs, backward classes and women in the elections. PTI CORR DIV DIV||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-khap-panchayat-bans-jeans-for-women-shorts-for-men-101615372968267.html
10-03-2021||India||Niti Aayog’s SDG index launch postponed due to Model Code of Conduct: Officials||The launch of government think tank Niti Aayog’s third edition of India’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) index, scheduled for Wednesday, has been postponed due to Election Commission (EC)’s model code of conduct that came into effect after it announced the schedule for state assembly elections on February 26, officials familiar with the development said. Niti Aayog, on Wednesday morning, announced that the launch of the SDG index has been postponed due to “unavoidable circumstances”. “The launch of the SDG index and dashboard, including the press conference, which was earlier scheduled on March 10, 2021, has now been postponed to a later date. We will share the new date with you soon,” Niti Aayog said.Also Read | Indian economy on ‘upswing,’ says ex-NITI Aayog vice chairman Arvind PanagariyaEC had announced the poll schedule for West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Assam and Puducherry on February 26, following which the Model Code of Conduct (MCC) kicked in. As per the schedule, voting for the assembly elections to these four states and one Union Territory will be held between March 27 and April 29. As per India’s second SDG index released in 2019, Kerala, Himachal Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, and Telangana were top performers in the race to achieve the SDGs including the eradication of poverty and inequality. Bihar, Jharkhand, Arunachal Pradesh, and Meghalaya ranked last.“The report launch had to be postponed due to the Code of Conduct,” a senior Niti Ayog official said, requesting anonymity. According to another official aware of the development, NITI Aayog sent a request to the Commission for permission to release the report on Wednesday morning. “The Commission is yet to take a call on the matter,” the second official said. HT reached out to Niti Aayog, Prime Minister’s Office and the Election Commission, but there has been no official response on the reasons for the change of the launch date. Niti Aayog on Monday had announced vice-chairman Rajiv Kumar would launch the SDG India Index & Dashboard, 2020-21 in the presence of senior government and United Nations officials. The index measures the progress at the national and sub-national level in the country’s journey towards meeting its “global goals” and targets and serves as an advocacy tool to propagate the messages of sustainability, resilience, and partnerships, as well, the think-tank noted. First launched in December 2018, the index has become the primary tool for monitoring progress of the SDGs in the country and has simultaneously fostered competition among the states and Union Territories. HT on January 12, 2020 had reported that India will for the first time include marginalised groups as key focus areas in assessing the impact of Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), according to officials aware of the matter. This was done ahead of the presentation of the country’s second Voluntary National Review (VNR) on the implementation of the SDGs before the United Nations (UN). VNR serves as a basis for an international review of the SDGs progress. The VNR report was sent to the UN in July 2020. India is a signatory to the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and participates in the international review. The VNRs are presented at the UN’s High-Level Political Forums (HLPF), which have met annually since 2016. India submitted its first VNR in 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/niti-aayog-s-sdg-index-launch-postponed-due-to-model-code-of-conduct-officials-101615374456897.html
10-03-2021||India||'Dabbawalas are at frontline too': Bombay HC pulls up 'selfish' PIL for vaccine||The Bombay high court on Wednesday termed public interest litigation seeking priority vaccination for lawyers and judges 'selfish' and said some decisions must be left to the "executive's wisdom". The PIL was filed by a group of Mumbai-based lawyers who appealed that members of the judiciary, including staff, should be vaccinated first.A bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G S Kulkarni heard the plea and said that many others like sanitation workers and staff of private organisations also continued to work amid the pandemic."Why not file a PIL for the staff of private organisations, dabbawalas? That way everyone is a frontline worker," the bench said."Something should be left for the executive's wisdom. Tell us what is wrong with the policy? A policy decision cannot be interfered with by the court unless there is arbitrariness," it said.SC seeks Centre’s response over priority Covid vaccination for judges, lawyers"Have you seen the movie 'Titanic'? Do you recollect captain of ship? He has to wait till others are evacuated. First, everyone gets it and then the judiciary. I am the captain here," Chief Justice Datta said.The vaccination drive in India began on January 16 first priorities given to healthcare workers and other frontline workers, including municipal workers, police, defence personnel etc. In the second phase, which began from March 1, senior citizens and people between the age group of 45 and 59 with comorbidities are given priority. Supreme Court judges, as all of them except one are aged above 60, are being considered in the second phase.A PIL has also been filed in the Delhi high court demanding to declare all people associated with the Judiciary as frontline workers. Replying to a notice in connection with that PIL, the Centre on Wednesday told the Delhi high court that the decision on who will get vaccines on priority was taken not based on profession, but on their vulnerability to the disease.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dabbawalas-are-at-frontline-too-bombay-hc-slams-selfish-pil-for-vaccine-101615372255334.html
10-03-2021||India||Woman thwarted from attempting self-immolation outside UP assembly complex||A woman claiming to be a rape survivor was thwarted by police from attempting self-immolation in front of the Uttar Pradesh Assembly complex after she poured kerosene on herself on Wednesday.The woman, who said that she had filed a rape case in Sultanpur recently that the police there was not acting on, reached Gate No. 5 of the Assembly complex and tried to set herself on fire but was stopped by the police personnel at the spot, officials said."The woman, a resident of Sultanpur, reached Gate No. 5 in the afternoon and poured kerosene on herself on the other side of the road near a temple. She was stopped before she could set herself on fire," Commissioner of Police D K Thakur said.The woman, according to Thakur, said the police in Sultanpur was not taking action even after registering an FIR, which led her to the act in the state capital.He added that the woman has been detained and the Sultanpur police have been informed. A probe is on in the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-thwarted-from-attempting-self-immolation-outside-up-assembly-complex-101615371972534.html
10-03-2021||India||Tirath Singh Rawat sworn-in as Uttarakhand CM, to be in office for nearly a year||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP Tirath Singh Rawat was sworn-in as the chief minister of Uttarakhand on Wednesday, a day after his predecessor, Trivendra Singh Rawat, tendered his resignation from the post. Tirath Singh Rawat, Lok Sabha MP from Garhwal and a former state BJP chief, was administered oath of office by Governor Baby Rani Maurya at the Raj Bhavan.Also Read | Who is Tirath Singh Rawat? A political profile of Uttarakhand's CM-designateOn Wednesday morning, Rawat was ‘unanimously’ chosen as the CM of Uttarakhand following a BJP legislature party meet. He was picked for the hill state’s top job even as names of fellow MPs Ajay Bhatt and Anil Baluni, as well as state education minister Dhan Singh Rawat did the rounds. Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank, a Lok Sabha MP himself, is also a former chief minister of the northern state.Expressing his gratitude towards the BJP leadership, Tirath Singh Rawat said that in his tenure of nearly a year, he would focus on health, education and tourism. “I will continue to work on development programmes introduced by Trivendra Singh Rawat so as to ensure the party’s victory in the next assembly elections,” said Rawat.Also Read | ‘Focus on tourism, health, education to win 2022 polls: Tirath Singh RawatAssembly elections are likely to take place in Uttarakhand early next year. In the 2017 polls, the BJP won 57 out of the state’s 69 seats, increasing its tally by 26. The Congress, meanwhile, slumped from 32 to 11.Earlier, Trivendra Singh Rawat resigned after several Uttarakhand BJP MLAs questioned his ‘style of governance.’ The now former CM stepped down from office on Tuesday evening after meeting top party leadership in Delhi on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tirath-singh-rawat-sworn-in-as-uttarakhand-cm-to-be-in-office-for-nearly-a-year-101615371890870.html
10-03-2021||India||Trivendra Singh Rawat’s exit from Uttarakhand a throwback to 2012||Tirath Singh Rawat’s replacement of Trivendra Singh Rawat as the Uttarakhand chief minister is a throwback to 2012 when the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chose BC Khanduri to replace Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank for the state’s top post six months before the assembly elections. Khanduri lost the election as the BJP got a seat less than the Congress, which formed the government in the state with the help of the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and Independent lawmakers.The BJP hopes Tirath Singh Rawat, a Parliament member from Garhwal, will be able to recover the lost political ground before elections are due in Uttarakhand (a year from now). Khanduri had just about six months, which experts say was not enough to undo the damage.Gangotri Dham priests celebrated Trivendra Singh Rawat’s exit by bursting crackers and terming it as “Vijay Diwas [victory day]”, signalling the mood on the ground that prompted the BJP to replace him. Priests have been unhappy with him for bringing prominent religious places under government-run Uttarkhand Char Dham Devasthanam Management Board. This was among the outgoing chief minister’s decisions that angered Hindu priests, who are considered the BJP’s core vote bank. His decision to cut short the Mahakhumb from three months to one was also opposed.Also Read | Focus on tourism, health, education to win 2022 polls: Tirath Singh RawatPolitical experts say if the new chief minister does well in the next few months on the governance front and keeps the party cadre and lawmakers happy, he could help the BJP regain the lost ground, or else it could be a cakewalk for the Congress.MM Semwal, a Garhwal university professor, said the leadership change has increased the political instability and equations between the state’s two regions—Kumaon and Garhwal—and Thakur and Brahmin communities that would have to be reset. “This change shows that all was not well within the party [BJP]. Congress and the AAP [Aam Aadmi Party] will use this to further attack the government on issues such as unemployment, corruption... the shortening of Mahakumbh... simmering anger among Char Dham priests who have been opposing the takeover of the temples by the state government.”Semwal said there is a strong possibility that Harish Rawat will try to emerge as the main Congress leader and push himself as the chief ministerial face. He added if Harish Rawat emerges as the Congress candidate for the top post, the BJP can lessen the damage by highlighting the alleged irregularities and corruption issues during his tenure as the chief minister.A Congress leader said Harish Rawat could be relieved of his responsibility as Punjab in-charge of the party and be given the full-time responsibility of ensuring victory in Uttarakhand. There is, however, resistance to his projection as the chief ministerial face.“He may be popular, but people still remember him for wrongs during his three-year tenure as chief minister. He faced allegations of promoting the mafia and corruption. If he is the party’s face, Congress will lose the advantage of Trivendra Singh Rawat’s removal,” said a second Congress leader, requesting anonymity.Legislators loyal to Harish Rawat have called upon Congress leadership to declare him the party’s face. “That is unlikely to happen,” said the second leader.Congress leader Indira Hridayesh said the BJP’s leadership change has made Congress’s job easier. “They wasted four years and betrayed people. People are not foolish. They know why this change happened. ...even MLAs [members of legislative assembly] were not happy... what can they [people] hope and expect? This change is symbolic that soon this BJP government will go, and Congress will come to power.”BJP leaders are optimistic that Tirath Singh Rawat would ensure the party’s victory. “The Congress has no mass leader [with]...appeal like that of Prime Minister Narendra Modi,” said BJP leader Dushyant Gautam.Assembly elections are due in the state in March-April next year. The BJP has 56 members in the 70-member House, while the Congress has 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trivendra-singh-rawat-s-exit-from-uttarakhand-a-throwback-to-2012-101615371928693.html
10-03-2021||India||Kejriwal says inspired by Ram Rajya to serve people in Delhi. Lists 10 principles||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday said the concept of "Ram Rajya" has inspired his government to serve the people in Delhi in the matters of education, healthcare, food availability among several others. "I am a devotee of Lord Ram and Hanuman. We have been following 10 principles, inspired by the concept of 'Ram Rajya', to serve people in Delhi," the chief minister said. Kejriwal waas participating in a discussion on the Motion of Thanks to the LG's address during the Budget Session in Delhi Assembly.The Delhi CM has also stated his government's initiative to send the elderly for 'darshan' to Ram temple in Ayodha once the construction is completed. The move will be covered under Delhi government's Mukhyamantri Teerth Yatra yojna.Stating the principles, Kejriwal said, "No one should sleep on an empty stomach in Delhi. Every child, irrespective of the social status, should get quality education""Everyone, be it rich or poor, should get the best possible medical treatment," Kejriwal said.Here are the 10 principles listed by Delhi CM Kejriwal:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kejriwal-says-inspired-by-ram-rajya-to-serve-people-in-delhi-lists-10-principles-101615369651746.html
10-03-2021||India||Kalaburagi comes to terms with Covid-19 a year after first death in country||It's been more than a fortnight since no Covid-19 related fatality has been reported in Kalaburagi in north Karnataka bordering with Maharashtra and Telangana, but a year ago this district headquarters town had hit the headlines with the first death due to the coronavirus.A 76-year-old man became the first victim of coronavirus in India, which he had contracted in Saudi Arabia during his pilgrimage to Makkah, on this day last year. The death due to the virus was confirmed two days later on March 12, creating shock and panic. The town was the first to adjust to the new normal in the face of Covid-19 outbreak and embrace measures such as hand hygiene, physical distancing, hand sanitisers, facemasks, and containment zones.As on Tuesday, the district has witnessed a total of 22,208 cases, 21,665 discharges, 213 active cases and 330 deaths. "We can say coronavirus in Kalaburagi is under control though there is some rise in cases. A fortnight ago one death had taken place where an old man had died but since then there is no Covid-related fatality here," District health officer Dr Rajashekhar Mali told PTI.The DHO said this increase could be linked to Maharashtra where the Covid-19 cases are on rise. "However, we don't have any containment zones because the situation is well under control," Dr Mali added.According to him, people don't take Covid-19 as a stigma anymore as the deaths are almost nil barring the one a fortnight ago and infected people are recovering fast. "Our recovery rate is also very good and the number of active cases are quite less," the DHO added. He added that there was a good response to the vaccination drive though there was a need to spread more awareness and encourage elderly people to come forward to receive the shot.Meanwhile, the 76-year-old man's son reportedly claimed that his family has not yet received his father's Covid-19 positive report despite running from pillar to post in the last one year.A year after the first death, the coronavirus is well under check all over Karnataka with many districts reporting zero fatality for the past several weeks. However, Bengaluru Urban district has hardly witnessed zero deaths or infections below hundred on a daily basis since the time the infections touched the peak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kalaburagi-comes-to-terms-with-covid-19-a-year-after-first-death-in-country-101615369597842.html
10-03-2021||India||‘Focus on tourism, health, education to win 2022 polls: Tirath Singh Rawat||Uttarakhand’s newly named chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat said on Wednesday that his main focus will be on the tourism sector, while also improving health and education in the state during his tenure of about a year.A resident of Pauri Garhwal district and an MP from the same constituency, 56-year-old Rawat was named the new CM by outgoing CM Trivendra Singh Rawat, following the BJP legislature party meeting to decide the new CM in presence of party’s central observers, including former Chhattisgarh CM Raman Singh, party state unit in-charge Dushyant Kumar Gautam and party state co-in-charge Rekha Verma in party headquarters on Wednesday morning.Expressing his gratitude to the Central leadership including PM Narendra Modi, home minister Amit Shah and party national president, Rawat said, "I am grateful to the organisation that they gave me this opportunity to serve the state which I never thought I would get.""During my tenure of about a year, before the next assembly elections in 2022, I would focus on health, education, and especially on tourism, which is a major sector in our state. Will continue to work on the development programmes introduced by Trivendra Singh Rawat so as to ensure the party’s victory in next assembly elections," he said.Rawat, who started his public life with Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) during his student life and worked as Kshetriya Pracharak for several years before joining the BJP said, "Earlier, I didn't know what BJP was.""When I used to work as the RSS member, I got the opportunity to meet late former PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee in 1985 in Srinagar town of Pauri Garhwal. Seeing his down-to-earth attitude, I was later inspired to come into the BJP to serve the people. And now, when I have been given this opportunity, I am extremely thankful to the party organisation," said Rawat.Earlier during the event, party central observer Raman Singh said, "Rawat's name was approved by the party central leadership.""We had apprised the central leadership of the happenings last night and today morning also. When his name was floated, all the party members agreed on it unanimously, which made me immensely happy to see the level of coordination and unity in the organisation," said Singh.Also Read: Who is Tirath Singh Rawat? A political profile of Uttarakhand's CM-designateCiting the works done by outgoing CM Trivendra Singh Rawat, he said, "Trivendra in his last four years of tenure through various development works had made a robust basis on which Tirath would now make a strong building to continue the development."Rawat will take the oath as the new CM of the state at the Governor House on Wednesday 4 pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/focus-on-tourism-health-education-to-win-2022-polls-tirath-singh-rawat-101615369149423.html
10-03-2021||India||Centralised data of internet shutdown not maintained by ministry, says MHA||The Ministry of home ffairs (MHA) on Wednesday replied in Rajya Sabha about the methodology of the Centre to control fake news and misinformation during tensions and riots and internet shutdowns are a prescribed method.According to the reply, Union Home Ministry has said they don't maintain centralised data of internet ban. "Challenges of the cyber space are many, which flow from its vastness and borderless characters. Information in cyber-space flows fast and has potential of misuse. During tensions and riots, suspension of telecom services/internet shutdown is done by the appropriate authorities in the States / UTs concerned in the interest of maintaining public safety and averting public emergency, as per procedures defined in the 'Temporary Suspension of Telecom Services (Amendment) Rules, 2020'," the MHA said."Centralised data of internet shutdown is not maintained by the Ministry of Home affairs. Orders issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) are available at MHA website," MHA replied to a question asked by a Member of Parliament.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centralised-data-of-internet-shutdown-not-maintained-by-ministry-says-mha-101615368144880.html
10-03-2021||India||Tourism ministry forms committee to promote tourism in northeast||The Ministry of Tourism has formed a committee of stakeholders for "aggressively" promoting tourism in the northeast region of the country, a senior official of the ministry said on Wednesday.The Ministry of Tourism under its different schemes such as Swadesh Darshan and PRASHAD provides financial assistance to northeastern states including those for development of tourist infrastructure, promotion of fairs/ festivals, tourism-related events in the region and publicity campaigns."The Ministry of Tourism has launched campaigns to promote tourism in the North Eastern Region on various platforms in digital, print and social media. For promoting the region more aggressively, the ministry has formed a Committee of stakeholders active in NER with focus on promotion of the northeast, identifying new destinations, developing itineraries around them, identifying the places where events can be organised to create awareness, organise workshops/ seminars for the local stakeholders in terms of providing them necessary skills," an official said.The ministry has held 8 editions of International Tourism Mart (ITM) in various states of the northeastern region since 2013 with the objective of highlighting the tourism potential of the region in the domestic and global market.Since April 2020, under the "Dekho Apna Desh" campaign, the Ministry of Tourism is conducting webinars on various tourism products including NER and some of the webinars were dedicated to the North East Region.The upcoming webinar on March 13, 2021 would be on the topic 'cuisines of North East Region'.Indiatourism, Guwahati (field office of Ministry of Tourism) is organising an event "1,000 Bar Dekho- North East Dekho" (Visit NER 1,000 times) inspired by the tagline of "Dekho apna Desh" and "FIT INDIA" from 7th -17th March. As part of this activity, Sanjay Bahadur, a solo cyclist, will cover 1,000 km by cycling all across Assam, according to a ministry statement.He will start the journey from Bir Lachit Ghat on Brahmaputra River Bank, Guwahati on March 7 and will finish it at Khanapara on March 17. During the event, the ministry will be organising cultural events and 'Instalive' shows to promote the lesser known destinations of all 7 states of the northeastern region and Sikkim, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tourism-ministry-forms-committee-to-promote-tourism-in-northeast-101615359452732.html
10-03-2021||India||Madhya Pradesh CM Shivraj Chouhan's twist to 'pawri ho rahi hai' trend||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan is the latest to join the "Pawri ho rahi hai" trend kicked off by a Pakistani influencer. The CM used the viral trend to spotlight how those involved in the illegal land activities are "running away" from his state."This is me, this is my government, this is my administrative team, and you see land mafias are running away," said Chouhan speaking at an event in Indore on Tuesday.The CM tweeted a video of him delivering the lines of the viral trend with the hashtag #MafiaMuktMP.Watch: Shivraj Chouhan recreates ‘Pawri ho rahi hai’, warns land mafia in MPIn a warning to the ‘land mafia’ operating in the state in December last, CM Chouhan had asked them to leave the state or they would be “buried 10-feet in the ground".Last month, the Mamata Banerjee-led TMC used the meme to hit back at rival BJP. "Yeh @BJP4Bengal hai. Yeh unki jansabha hai. Aur yahaan inki pawri ho rahi hai! (This is Bengal BJP. This is their public meeting. And they have a party going on)," the party tweeted, adding a photo from a BJP public meeting showing empty chairs.The "Pawri ho rahi hai" went viral last month after Pakistani influencer and content creator Dananeer Mobeen posted a 15-second video on Instagram following which thousands of people on the internet started making memes and videos of their own over it.Since then, politicians, celebrities, people have taken to the monologue and given it their own twist to it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madhya-pradesh-cm-shivraj-chouhan-s-twist-to-pawri-ho-rahi-hai-meme-101615366459941.html
10-03-2021||India||PIL seeks Delhi HC direction to include severe mental illness as co-morbidities for Covid-19 vaccination||A Public Interest Litigation (PIL) has been moved in Delhi High Court seeking direction to include severe mental illness in the list of specified comorbidities for Covid-19 vaccination.The petition filed by Gaurav Kumar Bansal, advocate and mental health activist, demands the inclusion of mental illness in the list of specific comorbidities so that the persons with mental illness can also get the vaccine on priority."By way of the exclusion of the mental illness from the list of specified comorbidities, the Health Ministry has not only prohibited the patients from availing the benefits of the vaccine but has also created barriers in getting it. It is also important to keep in mind that homeless persons with severe mental illness have a higher risk of contracting Covid-19 infection due to their disability," the plea stated.It also sought a direction to remove the condition of submitting disability certificates by beneficiaries for getting the dose of vaccine.The petition was listed before the division bench of Justice DN Patel and Justice Jasmeet Singh. The matter was adjourned and now has been listed for March 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pil-seeks-delhi-hc-direction-to-include-severe-mental-illness-as-co-morbidities-for-covid-19-vaccination-101615365193090.html
10-03-2021||India||Over 2.4 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses administered so far across India||More than 2.43 crore (2,43,67,906) Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered through 3,39,145 sessions across the States and Union Territories so far, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHWF) informed on Wednesday."More than 2.43 cr (2,43,67,906) vaccine doses have been administered through 3,39,145 sessions across the States and UTs, as per the provisional report till 7 am today. These include 71,30,098 HCWs (first dose), 38,90,257HCWs (second dose), 69,36,480 FLWs (first dose) and 4,73,422 FLWs (second dose), 8,33,526 beneficiaries aged more than 45 years with specific co-morbidities (first dose) and 51,04,123 beneficiaries aged more than 60 years (first dose)," the health ministry said.As per health ministry data, more than 13.5 lakh vaccine doses were given in the last 24 hours, out of which 10,60,944 beneficiaries were vaccinated across 52,351 sessions for the first dose (HCWs and FLWs) and 2,98,229 HCWs and FLWs received a second dose of vaccine.Meanwhile, 83.76 per cent of the new cases are from Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Karnataka, Gujarat and Tamil Nadu.As many as 17,921 new daily cases reported in the last 24 hours. Maharashtra reported the highest daily new cases at 9,927. Kerala follows with 2,316 while Punjab reported 1,027 new cases.Eight states are displaying an upward trajectory in daily new cases, the ministry said.India's total active caseload stands at 1.84 lakh (1,84,598) and the daily positivity rate currently stands at 2.43 per cent.The total COVID-19 tests conducted in India have crossed 22 crores (22,34,79,877).133 deaths were reported in the last 24 hours.Five states account for 77.44 per cent of the new deaths whereas Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties (56) followed by Punjab with 20 daily deaths and Kerala has reported 16 deaths.Rajasthan, Andhra Pradesh, Chandigarh, Odisha, Uttarakhand, Jharkhand, Bihar, Puducherry, Lakshadweep, Sikkim, Ladakh (UT), Manipur, Meghalaya, Nagaland, Daman and Diu, Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Tripura, Mizoram, Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Arunachal Pradesh have not reported any COVID19 deaths in the last 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-2-4-crore-covid-19-vaccine-doses-administered-so-far-across-india-101615365532269.html
10-03-2021||India||Mamata Banerjee files nomination from Nandigram after roadshow||West Bengal chief minister and Trinamool Congress chief Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday filed her nomination from Nandigram for the upcoming Assembly elections in the state.Accompanied by party general secretary Subrata Bakshi, Banerjee filed her papers at the Haldia sub-divisional office after taking part in a two-km roadshow.The TMC on March 5 released its list of candidates with Banerjee announcing that she will contest from Nandigram.The TMC chief had been contesting polls from Bhawanipore constituency so far.In a fierce competition, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has pitted the chief minister's protege and former TMC leader Suvendhu Adhikari from the Nandigram seat, declaring a high-pitched battle between the candidates and the parties. The announcement was made on March 6 after BJP general secretary Arun Singh released the first list of party candidates for the assembly polls.Adhikari, a former minister in the Trinamool Congress government, joined the BJP in December last year.He had earlier said that BJP will defeat TMC by over 50,000 votes from Nandigram.West Bengal will witness eight-phased Assembly polls beginning March 27. The tenure of the 16th Legislative Assembly of West Bengal will end on May 30 this year. A total of 7,34,07,832 voters will choose their representative for the 17th Legislative Assembly of West Bengal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/west-bengal-chief-minister-mamata-banerjee-files-her-nomination-as-tmc-candidate-from-nandigram-101615365406141.html
10-03-2021||India||Internet shutdown in force during tension and riots for maintaining peace: Govt||The government on Wednesday said authorities shut down the internet during tension and riots in the interest of maintaining law and order and in an emergency situation.In a written reply to a question in the Rajya Sabha, Union Minister of State for Home G Kishan Reddy said the challenges posed by cyberspace are many, which flow from its vastness and borderless character and that information in cyberspace flows fast and has the potential of being misused."During tensions and riots, suspension of telecom services and internet shutdown is done by the appropriate authorities in the states and UTs concerned in the interest of maintaining public safety and averting public emergency, as per procedures defined in the Temporary Suspension of Telecom Services (Amendment) Rules, 2020," he said.The minister added that the centralised data of internet shutdown is not maintained by the Ministry of Home Affairs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/internet-shutdown-in-force-during-tension-and-riots-for-maintaining-peace-govt-101615364712442.html
10-03-2021||India||SC notice to Centre, NDA on denying women entry into defence, naval academies||The Supreme Court has sought response from the Centre and the National Defence Academy (NDA) on a public interest litigation challenging the exclusion of women candidates from applying or entering the prestigious National Defence Academy and Naval Academy. A three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde issued a notice to the Ministry of Defence, NDA and Department of Defence on a petition filed by advocate Kush Kalra. The petition questioned the categorical exclusion of eligible female candidates from entering the NDA and Naval Academy via the examination conducted by the Union Public Service Commission.The court allowed a woman aspirant Anita (known by her first name only) to join the proceedings as she told the court that her dream to serve as an officer in the Army was cut short due to the discriminatory rule that does not allow eligible women who have completed Class 12 or a similar qualifying exam to apply for admission at the prestigious NDA. Also Read | Pune police arrest another major-rank official in army recruitment paper leak caseKalra, in his petition, said that the cause for filing was the February 2020 decision by Supreme Court allowing women commissioned for short service in the Army to be eligible for permanent commission.Such exclusion based on sex at the entry-level violates fundamental rights of women as equal citizens and leaves them with no option to enter the armed forces except through the short service commission, the petition said.The petition added, “The categorical exclusion of women to train at the NDA and get commissioned into the armed forces of the country as permanent commissioned officers solely on the basis of their sex is a denial of fundamental rights to practice any profession and it is not justifiable within the contours of the Indian Constitution.”The petition was argued by advocate Chinmoy Pradip Sharma and the application by a woman aspirant was filed by advocate Mohit Paul.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-questions-centre-nda-on-denying-women-entry-into-armed-forces-101615365148365.html
10-03-2021||India||Doctors, restaurateurs urge Centre to remove smoking zones from public places||A group of doctors, cancer victims and restaurateurs has expressed concerns about passive smoking and urged the Centre to remove smoking zones from various public places.According to the Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products (Prohibition of Advertisement and Regulation of Trade and Commerce Production, Supply and Distribution) Act COTPA 2003, smoking is banned in all public places, but allowed in designated zones at restaurants, hotels, and airports, among others.The appeal comes on the occasion of 'No Smoking Day' with the idea to make the country 100 per cent smoke-free and to check the spread of Covid-19 infection.There is a growing evidence that smoking is a risk for Covid-19 infection, Pankaj Chaturvedi, Head Neck Cancer Surgeon, Tata Memorial Hospital, said, adding that smoking worsens lung function and reduces immunity.He also said that smokers who test positive for coronavirus have more complications and greater risk of fatality."Smoking areas in hotels and restaurants and even airports should be abolished...most of these zones are rarely compliant as per the COTPA requirements and are actually putting the public at great health risk," Chaturvedi said.Exposure to passive-smoking, according to him, risks the lives of thousands of non-smokers.Nalini Satyanarayan, a passive smoking victim and health activist, agreed.According to Binoy Mathew from Voluntary Health Association of India, designated smoking areas facilitate the spread of Covid-19 infection as non-smokers cannot socially distance or wear masks and are trapped in close proximity in a smoke-filled environment."Families prefer to stay in hotels which do not allow smoking. We are happy that the government is strengthening the COTPA provisions to make hospitality sector completely smoke free," said Mohammad Imran from Hotel Awadh International.In 2020, the government started the COTPA Amendment process by introducing a bill. India has the second largest number of tobacco users (268 million or 28.6 per cent of all adults in the country) in the world.Nearly 27 per cent of all cancers in India are due to tobacco usage. The total direct and indirect cost of diseases attributable to tobacco use was a staggering ₹182,000 crore, which is nearly 1.8 per cent of India's Gross Domestic Product (GDP), he said.Tobacco use in all forms, whether smoking or chewing, is associated with severe Covid-19 casualties as per advisories issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/doctors-restaurateurs-urge-centre-to-remove-smoking-zones-from-public-places-101615363806127.html
10-03-2021||India||Kerala assembly polls: CPI (M) denies tickets to 5 ministers, 33 sitting MLAs||The ruling Communist Party of India (Marxist) in Kerala, on Wednesday, released the list of candidates for April 6 assembly elections, dropping five senior ministers including finance minister Thomas Isaac and 33 sitting legislators.Many youngsters and 12 women also figure in the list released by the party’s acting secretary, A Vijayaraghavan in the state capital. The party, aiming to return to power, has fielded many fresh faces to beat the incumbency factor, said a party leader.Out of the 85 seats the party is contesting, 83 candidates were declared, while candidates for the two seats in Mancheswaram in north Kerala and Devikulam in Idukki will be announced later, he said. The list includes Vijayaraghavan’s wife Prof R Bindu, who is seeking election from Irinjalakuda in Thrissur district. But law minister A K Balan’s wife, P K Jameela, failed to find a place after stiff resistance from Tharoor, a seat vacated by him.Vijayaraghavan also underplayed continuing protests over candidates’ selection in some parts of the state. He said minor heartburn is natural and it will die on its own since the final list is out. He said the party has zeroed in on these candidates after weighing many factors and it was forced to forego some of the seats to accommodate new allies. “In coalition politics, we have to make certain sacrifices,” he said.Also Read: CM Pinarayi Vijayan: The man at the centre of Kerala’s political battleThough two-term norm (no seat for legislators who won two terms consecutively) was strictly followed, some ministers were given exemptions like M M Mani and J Mercikutty Amma. When asked about this, the secretary said exemptions were given weighing winnability and other factors. PWD minister G Sudhakaran, law minister A K Balan, education minister C Raveendranath, industry minister E P Jayarajan and finance minister Thomas Isaac have been denied tickets this time. Among the announced candidates, at least five are below 30 years of age and nine are party-backed independents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-assembly-polls-cpi-m-denies-tickets-to-5-ministers-33-sitting-mlas-101615363155790.html
10-03-2021||India||CAG Girish Murmu appointed Chairman of UN Panel of External Auditors again||Comptroller and Auditor General of India (CAG) Girish Chandra Murmu has been re-appointed as the Chairman of the Panel of External Auditors of the United Nations for the year 2021.The CAG of India was initially elected as Chairman of the Panel for 2020.Presently, the panel consists of 13 countries -- India, Germany, Chile, China, United Kingdom, France, Philippines, Switzerland, Italy, Ghana, Indonesia, Canada and Russia.As the Chairman, the CAG of India plays a key role in achieving the Panel's objective of greater degree of collaboration and coordination, and exchange of information on audit methods and findings, among the Panel members, said an official statement."CAG leads the Panel as a distinctive forum to support the delivery of high quality, standards-based assurance, to ensure that reported financial information provides a transparent and accurate basis for the financial decisions made by the United Nations and its Specialized Agencies," the statement said.The UN General Assembly had in 1959 established the Panel of External Auditors, comprising the individual external auditors of the United Nations system, who are also heads of supreme audit institutions-- Comptroller and Auditors General of their respective countries.The CAG of India has been the external auditor of various international organizations, said the statement.Murmu has also been on the UN Board of Auditors from 1993 to 1999 and from 2014 to 2020.Presently, he is the external auditor of the World Health Organization, Geneva (2020 - 2023) and Food & Agriculture Organization, Rome (2020 - 2025) and Inter Parliamentary Union (2020-2022) among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cag-girish-murmu-appointed-chairman-of-un-panel-of-external-auditors-again-101615362321934.html
10-03-2021||India||Tirath Singh Rawat profile: From BJP youth leader to Uttarakhand CM||Tirath Singh Rawat was sworn-in as the new chief minister of Uttarakhand on Wednesday, replacing Trivendra Singh Rawat.Tirath Singh, Lok Sabha MP from Garhwal, was elected as leader of the Uttarakhand Bharatiya Janata Party's (BJP) legislature party, paving the way for him to become the new chief minister of the state.This comes a day after outgoing chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat stepped down.The oath of office was administered on Rawat by Uttarakhand Governor Baby Rani Maurya at a simple ceremony held at the Raj Bhawan here in the presence of a host of dignitaries. Rawat alone was sworn-in on Wednesday, which means the members of his Cabinet will be sworn-in later.In the early days of his political career, Rawat was part of the Uttar Pradesh Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha, the BJP's youth wing, where he served as the state vice-president for some time before being elected to the Uttar Pradesh Legislative Council in 1997.When the state of Uttarakhand was formed in 2000, Tirath Singh Rawat became its first education minister.The following part of Rawat's political career saw him working extensively for the BJP, first as its Uttarakhand general secretary in 2007 and later as the party’s state unit chief in 2013.He was elected in 2012 as an MLA from the Chaubatakhal assembly constituency in his birthplace of Pauri Garhwal. He continued to serve as the Chaubatakhal MLA till 2017.In 2019, Tirath Singh Rawat became an MP by defeating his rival Manish Khanduri by over 3.50 lakh votes from the Garhwal Lok Sabha seat.The mild-mannered, 56-year-old politician is now the ninth chief minister of Uttarakhand. His predecessor to the post, Trivendra Singh Rawat's resignation came after BJP general secretary in-charge of Uttarakhand Dushyant Kumar Gautam and former Chhattisgarh chief minister Dr Raman Singh, submitted a report to the BJP's central leadership detailing the rebellion in the state unit of the party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/who-is-tirath-singh-rawat-a-political-profile-of-uttarakhand-s-cmdesignate-101615358616150.html
10-03-2021||India||SGPC giving religious colour to farmers' protest: BJP's Harjit Singh Grewal||Senior BJP leader Harjit Singh Grewal on Wednesday condemned the role being played by the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC), an apex religious body of the Sikhs, in the ongoing farmers' agitation.In a letter shot off to SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur, the copy of which was released to media as well, Grewal took a strong note of her recent statements, wherein she had announced that for the convenience of farmers protesting at the Delhi borders, the SGPC has decided to set up temporary tin sheds and provide fans.Reacting sharply to her statement, Grewal said, "The prime role of the SGPC is to manage the affairs of the gurdwaras. Being a purely religious body, by getting involved into the farmers' agitation, which comprises farmers from all religions and castes, the SGPC is going completely against the mandate given to it under 'The Sikh Gurdwaras Act, 1925' and 'Punjab Act 8 of 1925'. Not only the SGPC is going beyond its brief by doing all this but is also giving the farmers agitation a religious colour, which is extremely unfortunate and uncalled for."Pointing out that Punjab has always been a volatile state, Grewal said, "From a responsible person like you, who is holding an important chair of SGPC president, any such highly controversial statement can have serious repercussions, which could be extremely detrimental for the peace of Punjab.""History will not forgive you for giving a religious colour to this agitation", said Grewal, a former national secretary of the BJP, as he appealed to Kaur that SGPC should strictly desist from any such activity that brings disgrace to a religious institution and should completely stay away from the farmers' agitation.On March 4, Kaur had also stated that the ongoing langar and moveable toilet facilities will continue to operate besides announcing that each family of the deceased farmers would be given ₹1 lakh each as a mark of tribute towards their contribution in the struggle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sgpc-giving-religious-colour-to-farmers-protest-bjp-s-harjit-singh-grewal-101615360965784.html
10-03-2021||India||News updates from HT: Covaxin's phase 3 interim results submitted to drugs regulator and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Covaxin: Bharat Biotech submits interim phase 3 results to drugs regulatorVaccine major Bharat Biotech submitted the initial results of the phase 3 trials of Covaxin, its anti-Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine that has shown nearly 81% efficacy against the viral disease. Read MorePolice officer at the centre of a political slugfest in Mumbai transferredSachin Vaze, the police officer who is under scanner in the Mansukh Hiran case, will be transferred out of the Crime Branch of the Mumbai police. Read MorePauri Garhwal MP Tirath Singh Rawat to be new Uttarakhand CM, announces BJPThe Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Wednesday announced Tirath Singh Rawat as the new chief minister of Uttarakhand. Read More‘Don’t miss Parliament at all’: PM Modi tells leaders at BJP parliamentary meetPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday told BJP leaders to not skip the budget session of Parliament at all. Read More'That weakens the Test side': Nasser Hussain says England players should have played in one IPL in 2020 & 2021Former England captain Nasser Hussain believes England cricketers should have played only one of the seasons of the Indian Premier League in 2020 and 2021 so that they can focus on Test cricket. Read MoreAmitabh Bachchan to receive award from Christopher Nolan, Martin Scorsese: 'Could not have chosen anyone more deserving'Actor Amitabh Bachchan will be recognised for all that he has done in the arena of film preservation. Read MoreSoha Ali Khan does Yoga with daughter Inaaya in heart melting post, seen yet?Actor Soha Ali Khan's Instagram account is full of adorable portraits of her family. Read MoreFormer royal butler asks people to eat rice with knife and fork, irks tweepleWhen it is about eating rice, most people in the South Asian countries, including India, prefer to use their hands. Read More‘I follow Elon Musk’: Ranjim, Covid-19 survivor who topped JEE (Main)Ranjim Das, a covid-19 survivor, topped JEE (Main) this year. Das revealed he follows 'innovative people like Elon Musk'. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-covaxin-s-phase-3-interim-results-submitted-to-drugs-regulator-and-all-the-latest-news-101615359086075.html
10-03-2021||India||Society can’t become a jungle: SC rejects appeal by man guilty of minor’s rape||Society cannot be allowed to become a jungle, said the Supreme Court as it dismissed an appeal by a man sentenced to life for rape and murder of a girl in 2009. A bench of justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and R Subhash Reddy refused to show any leniency to the man even as his lawyer said the convict was only 20 when the crime was committed.“What about the victim? You should be thankful that you have been spared the noose and were not given the death penalty. You must bear the consequences of your act,” the bench told the lawyer, Minakshi Vij, on Tuesday.Vij, who appeared as a legal aid counsel for Naresh Shah, pointed out that the convict had been in prison for over a decade and that some order could be passed to enable him to come out by reducing the quantum of punishment.“Remember, this society cannot be turned into some kind of a jungle. We cannot allow that. A court does not have to necessarily find a way to either lessen the punishment. There is also a victim on the other side and a court does remember that too. When there is discretion, it has to be exercised in the facts of every case,” the court said. It rejected Vij’s plea to let Shah come out on parole.Shah was sentenced to life imprisonment by a trial court in Ambala which held him guilty of rape and murder of a six-year-old girl in Harayan’s Naraingarh. The state government filed an appeal in the Punjab and Haryana high court in 2009, seeking the death penalty for Shah. The high court declined to enhance the punishment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/society-can-t-become-a-jungle-sc-rejects-appeal-by-man-guilty-of-minor-s-rape-101615360828246.html
10-03-2021||India||With Kharge’s appointment, Rahul’s control over Cong’s parliamentary wings is complete||Former Union minister Mallikarjun Kharge’s appointment as the Leader of the Opposition in Rajya Sabha will deepen Rahul Gandhi’s influence over his party’s parliamentary wings, Congress leaders said.Kharge is known to enjoy Gandhi’s trust. Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, the Congress Lok Sabha floor leader, is considered as one of Gandhi’s “trusted lieutenants” in the party’s inner circle.A proposal to appoint former Union minister Manish Tewari as the Congress floor leader in the lower House received a lukewarm response from the top leadership and instead Chowdhury was appointed as the leader in 2019. “Rahul Gandhi’s equation with Manish Tewari had soured in the last few years after the latter did not fight the Lok Sabha polls in 2014,” said a Congress leader considered close to Gandhi, requesting anonymity.Also Read | Help raise voice of the weak: Rahul to cadresPersonal equations have played a role, but Kharge and Chowdhury are also seen to be more aggressive, party leaders said.Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha proceedings have been disrupted this week over spiralling fuel prices. On Wednesday, the Rajya Sabha failed to transact business due to Congress-led protests in the Upper House over fuel prices and farm laws.Congress leaders said protests and disruptions will be more frequent as Kharge-led party in the House was unlikely to take a softer line and take the BJP head-on in sync with Gandhi’s approach.The Congress has rejected the presiding officer’s suggestion to discuss the oil price issue during the debates on demand for grants and finance bill.In the first part of the ongoing budget session, when Ghulam Nabi Azad led the Congress in Rajya Sabha, the party agreed to join the discussions after a few days of protests even as its Lok Sabha wing continued its protests over the farm laws.Gandhi is believed to have been miffed with the party’s approach in Rajya Sabha and praised the Lok Sabha unit for its continued protests.Prime Minister Narendra Modi highlighted this division to attack the party and said, in his reply to the President’s debate, that a “confused and divided” Congress cannot be any good to the nation. Later, in an interview with HT, Azad rejected Modi comments. “It was a decision by all Opposition parties to stop protests and join the discussions,” Azad said.A Congress strategist said with Kharge in charge and deputy leader Anand Sharma almost sidelined in the party’s strategy making, such division for the Congress is unlikely to happen anymore. “Kharge and Chowdhury—both Gandhi loyalists—in charge of the party will adopt a more coordinated approach in sync with Congress high command’s directions,” the strategist said on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-kharge-rahul-s-control-over-cong-s-parliamentary-wings-is-complete-101615360468383.html
10-03-2021||India||Tripura BJP to contest district council polls with ally IPFT||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will contest the Tripura Tribal Areas Autonomous District Council (TTAADC) polls along with their alliance partner, Indigenous People's Front of Tripura (IPFT), according to Tripura BJP president Dr Manik Saha.The polls for 30-seats in TTAADC will be conducted on April 4. Of the total 30 seats, 28 are elected while two are nominated.According to seat sharing plan, the BJP alone would contest on 11 seats while the IPFT would field 16 candidates. On the remaining seats, both the parties have agreed for a ‘friendly’ contest."We are going to contest the Autonomous District Council polls with our ally IPFT. We will field our candidates in total 14 seats of which there will be a friendly fight in three seats," said Saha at Agartala Press Club on Tuesday late evening.IPFT president and Revenue Minister NC Debbarma said, "We will contest on 16 seats. There will be a friendly contest in the remaining three seats."Earlier on February 19, the IPFT formed an alliance with royal scion Pradyot Kishore Manikya Debbarma's apolitical organization, The Indigenous People's Regional Alliance (TIPRA), through signing of a memorandum of understanding (MoU). The party even declared their candidates on 18 seats last Sunday. With this announcement, the TIPRA discontinued their alliance with IPFT."Our first list of candidates was cancelled as we have announced our fresh list of candidates in alliance with the BJP, "said Debbarma.A total of 865,041 people including 436,548 males and 428,490 females will exercise their franchise in the TTAADC polls.Also Watch: ‘Maitri Setu a testimony of Dhaka’s commitment to support India’: Sheikh HasinaThe final date for filing nominations is March 12, while scrutiny of the nomination papers will be done by March 15.The final date for withdrawal of the nominations has been fixed for March 17. Votes will be counted on April 8.The IPFT along with the BJP formed government in 2018 for the first time with 44 seats after ousting more than two decades old Marxist government. Out of 44 seats, the IPFT won eight seats.Both the parties contested the Lok Sabha polls independently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-bjp-to-contest-district-council-polls-with-ally-ipft-101615359064713.html
10-03-2021||India||Rajya Sabha adjourned till 2pm as opposition demands discussion on farmers' stir||The Rajya Sabha or Upper House of Parliament was adjourned twice on Wednesday after the opposition created a ruckus over farmers' agitation. Minutes after the house began its proceedings, the opposition moved a motion to suspend business and demanded a discussion on farmers' agitation and three farm laws.During the heavy uproar, opposition leaders raised slogans against the government. Some members also came to the well of the house and raised slogans. The first adjournment was from 11 am to 12 noon. The house reconvened, but the sloganeering continued, prompting the deputy chairman to adjourn the house for two hours. The proceedings will resume at 2 pm now.Rajya Sabha Chairman Venkaiah Naidu disallowed the request of the oppposition and said there was a discussion on farmers in the first part of the budget session. By creating disruption, "you are not doing the farmers justice," he said while appealing the members to maintain peace in the House.On March 8, the second half of the budget session resumed. However, over the two days, it has failed to function efficiently as the house faced multiple adjournments due to the uproar by opposition.On March 9, Rajya Sabha was adjourned twice before the pre-lunch period as opposition leaders raised slogans over the rising fuel prices. After reconvening at 1pm, Rajya Sabha was finally adjourned for the day.Meanwhile, Lok Sabha was also adjourned till 12:30pm as opposition pushed for discussion on rising fuel price. Tens of thousands of farmers are protesting against the Centre's three farm laws at various Delhi borders. The protests continuing for more than 100 days now, has been supported by the opposition parties including Congress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajya-sabha-adjourned-till-2pm-as-opposition-demands-discussion-on-farmers-stir-101615357530599.html
10-03-2021||India||Madurai to impose ₹200 fine on those not wearing masks||The Madurai district administration on Tuesday has ordered the imposition of a fine of ₹200 on those not wearing masks in public places.A press release issued by the Madurai district collector reminded the people that the curfew has been extended till March 31 in Tamil Nadu."As the second wave of Covid-19 is likely to form in Madurai, The Madurai district administration has ordered to impose a fine of 200 rupees on those who do not wear masks in public places," read the press release."Various preventive measures are being taken in the interest of the public to prevent the spread of Covid-19 in the Madurai district. The curfew has been extended till March 31 with various relaxations to curb the spread of corona infection," further read the press release.The official statement informed that corona infections are most prevalent in states like Maharashtra and Kerala due to which the state government has again implemented the e-pass procedure for persons coming to Tamil Nadu from these states."Medical experts say that corona infection is likely to cause a second wave. The public is therefore urged to understand the honest intentions of the state and to wear a face mask, wash their hands often and follow social distancing. It is also strictly forbidden to go to crowded places and to avoid going to crowded places. The general public needs to follow the above steps carefully and strictly," said the release.The district administration also said that the health, police, local, corporation, municipal and revenue officials have been advised to detect non-compliance with the social distancing norms in public places and impose fines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madurai-to-impose-rs-200-fine-on-those-not-wearing-masks-101615357751754.html
10-03-2021||India||Covaxin: Bharat Biotech submits interim phase 3 results to drugs regulator||Vaccine major Bharat Biotech submitted the initial results of the phase 3 trials of Covaxin, its anti-Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine that has shown nearly 81% efficacy against the viral disease, to the national drugs regulator.The company reportedly has asked for a review of the clinical trial mode condition that was put in place by the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) VG Somani before he granted the vaccine emergency-use authorisation. “The company submitted the interim phase 3 trials report three-four days ago, and in the next subject expert committee meeting, the matter will be heard,” confirmed a senior official in the central drugs standard control organisation (CDSCO), requesting not to be named.The subject expert committee of CDSCO is likely to meet on Thursday.Also Read | 17,921 new cases of Covid-19 take India’s tally to above 11.26 million; 133 deaths recorded in 24 hoursThe company was granted restricted emergency-use approval on January 3 under clinical trial mode for want of phase 3 efficacy data. Under clinical trial mode, the company has to follow all measures that are usually followed when an individual is given a vaccine shot during a clinical trial such as taking informed consent, close active follow-up of the recipient for a stipulated time etc. Covaxin is a two-dose vaccine administered to an individual 28 days apart.The company announced its interim phase 3 results on March 3.Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin is one of the two vaccines approved for restricted use in India currently. The other one is Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine that is being locally manufactured by Serum Institue of India as Covishield.Meanwhile, The Lancet Infectious Diseases on Tuesday published the interim phase 2 trial results of Covaxin that show a two-fold increase in antibody titres than phase 1. Also, side effects were observed only in 10-12% participants, which, according to the company, is six times less than other Covid-19 vaccines in use under emergency-use authorisation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covaxin-bharat-biotech-submits-interim-phase-3-results-to-drugs-regulator-101615358069191.html
10-03-2021||India||Modi, Shah, Yogi and Irani on BJP's list of star campaigners for Assam polls||The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Wednesday released its list of star campaigners for the upcoming Assam Assembly polls, which includes Prime Minister Narendra Modi, BJP chief JP Nadda, Union home minister Amit Shah, and other central ministers such as Nitin Gadkari, NS Tomar and Smriti Irani.Other party leaders and state heads like Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and Manipur chief minister N Biren Singh have also been named star campaigners by the party.The two key contenders - BJP and the opposition Congress - have rolled out promises to woo this significant slice of the electorate with the former highlighting the steps taken by the state government for the welfare and empowerment of women in various sectors like agriculture, animal husbandry, dairy, handloom, education and maternal health.The Congress, which is seeking to oust the BJP from power, launched a five-guarantee campaign promising fifty per cent reservation for women in government jobs, ₹2,000 monthly income support to homemakers and raising the daily wage of tea garden workers, comprising mostly women.The elections to the 126-member Assam assembly will be held in three phases - on March 27, April 1 and April 6.More than 173 candidates have filed their nominations for 47 Assam assembly seats going to polls in the first phase on March 27, the state's chief electoral officer said on Tuesday.The last date of submission of nominations for the first phase was Tuesday.Among prominent candidates who filed nominations on the last day were chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal from Majuli, sitting BJP MLAs Angoorlata Deka from Batadroba, Ashok Singhal from Dhekiajuli, Mrinal Saikia from Khumtai, and Padma Hazarika from Sootea, sitting Congress MLA Rupjyoti Kurmi from Mariani and former Congress minister Bismita Gogoi from Khumtai.Assam Jatiya Parishad (AJP) president Lurinjyoti Gogoi filed his nominations from both Duliajan and Naharkatiya constituencies.Jailed Raijor Dal leader Akhil Gogoi will also contest in the first phase from Mariani and Sibsagar seats as an Independent candidate, as the party is yet to be recognised by the Election Commission.(With inputs from Agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-shah-yogi-and-irani-on-bjp-s-list-of-star-campaigners-for-assam-polls-101615353856562.html
10-03-2021||India||Garhwal MP Tirath Singh Rawat to be new Uttarakhand CM, announces BJP a day after Trivendra Singh Rawat's exit||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Wednesday chose Tirath Singh Rawat as the leader of Uttarakhand BJP legislature party, paving the way for him to become the new chief minister of the hill state. He will replace Trivendra Singh Rawat who resigned on Tuesday.His name was announced by Trivendra Singh Rawat after the legislature party meeting, which lasted around 30 minutes."I thank PM, home minister and party chief who trusted me, a mere party worker who comes from a small village. I'd never imagined that I'd reach here. Will make all efforts to meet people's expectations and take forward work done in last four years," Rawat said after his name was announced. He will take oath at 4 pm today.Also Read: What led to Trivendra Rawat's resignationOver 50 BJP MLAs reached the party state headquarters in Dehradun on Wednesday along with parliamentarians including Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank, Ajay Bhatt, Mala Rajya Lakshmi and Naresh Bansal.Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank' also participated in the meeting.Also Watch: Trivendra Rawat resigns as Uttarakhand CMTirath Singh Rawat, the MP from Garhwal, served as the chief of Uttarakhand unit of the BJP from 2013 to 2015.Trivendra Singh Rawat tendered his resignation after meeting governor Baby Rani Maurya on Tuesday, a year before Uttarkhand is scheduled to go to the polls.Soon after submitting his resignation, Rawat addressed a press conference at his official residence, telling the media that the party has "collectively decided" that someone else should lead the state now.No chief minister, except the late ND Tiwari of the Congress, has completed his or her five-year term as the CM of the young hill state which was carved out of Uttar Pradesh in November 2000.The BJP swept the elections in 2017, winning 57 seats in the 70-member Uttarakhand Assembly. Congress, on the other hand, won just 11 seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pauri-garhwal-mp-teerath-singh-rawat-to-be-new-uttarakhand-cm-announces-bjp-a-day-after-trivendra-singh-rawat-s-resignation-101615355251170.html
10-03-2021||India||The history and significance of CISF Raising Day||The Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) is observing its 52nd Raising Day on Wednesday. It is the day when the CISF, one of six paramilitary forces in India, was set up under the Union ministry of home affairs in 1969. Earlier in the day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi extended his greetings on the day as he tweeted, "Their role in furthering national safety and progress is deeply valued."On their Raising Day, greetings to the courageous CISF personnel and their families."Currently, the CISF has an active strength of more than 148,000 personnel. It has 12 reserve battalions and eight training institutes. It was formed to protect industrial undertakings of both government and private.HistoryOne of the central police forces in India, the CISF was set up in 1969 and is tasked with the security of vital government and industrial buildings. In 1983 is was brought under the armed forces with another Act. With an earlier strength of 3,129, the CISF was established under CISF Act.In 2017, the government raised its sanctioned strength from 145,000 to 180,000 personnel.SignificanceThe day is observed to mark the significance of security in the critical industrial undertakings in both government and private sectors. CISF guards strategic establishments, including the department of space, the department of atomic energy, airports, seaports, the Delhi Metro and historical monuments. It also provides security to some private sector units and important government buildings in Delhi.CISF also has a Special Security Group (SSG) wing which provides security to many "protectees" classified under Z Plus, Z, X, Y categories. It also has a fire wing for fire accidents.Besides guarding the sensitive government buildings, CISF also provides consultancy services on security and fire protection to government organisations as well as private industries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-history-and-significance-of-cisf-raising-day-101615353505466.html
10-03-2021||India||18 more Rohingyas detained; count at Kathua holding centre reaches 197||Even as verification of illegal Rohingya immigrants in Jammu remained halted for the third consecutive day, 18 more immigrants were shifted overnight to the Hiranagar sub jail — a temporary holding centre in Kathua district — taking the total number of inmates to 197 on Tuesday.“The number of inmates at the holding centre is now 197. The figure had gone up to 199, but a couple was let off,” said an official, who didn’t wish to be quoted. The detentions have been made under section 3(2) e of the Foreigners Act since the immigrants were not found with valid travel documents required in terms of section (3) of the Passports Act, said a police official.The detained Rohingyas include 100 women and 97 men, all above the age of 18 years. There is no child in the holding centre, the official said, adding that food is being given to them as per the jail manual.“Now, they are being allowed to make phone calls to their family members living within the UT. Police have been asked to bring their clothes from their families in various clusters,” they added.Also Read: Al-Badr commander Abdul Gani Khawaja’s killing a big success, says J&K PoliceDirector general of prisons VK Singh also visited the sub-jail on Tuesday and interacted with the detained Rohingyas. He also reviewed the arrangements made for them. The Hiranagar sub-jail can house 325 inmates.A Rohingya in Kiryani Talab camp said they were not asked to appear for the verification process at MA Stadium on Tuesday. “It appears that the process has been put on hold or has been slowed down. However, three to four policemen came to the camp and asked us to hand over clothes of some detainees,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/18-more-rohingyas-detained-count-at-kathua-holding-centre-reaches-197-101615352360909.html
10-03-2021||India||EC removes Bengal DGP: A look at recent instances of poll body’s intervention||The Election Commission (EC) on Tuesday ordered West Bengal police chief Virendra’s transfer to ensure he is not “directly or indirectly” involved in the conduct of elections being held in the state in eight phases from March 27. The move came after the Model Code of Conduct, which empowers the EC to order or halt administrative decisions to ensure a level playing field, came into force. Here are other transfers the EC has recently ordered:In Tamil Nadu, which is also going to the polls next month, the EC has ordered income tax official KG Arunraj’s transfer out of Tamil Nadu to the Central Board of Direct Taxes headquarters.In poll-bound Assam, the Commission last month kept in abeyance the transfer of 18 police officers ordered by the state government. The EC ordered the transfer and postings of the officials involved in the elections should not be carried out until further orders.Also Read | Sexual harassment case: EC directs suspension of Tamil Nadu SPIn 2019, the poll watchdog removed additional director general of West Bengal Rajeev Kumar from his post ahead of the Lok Sabha elections and attached him to the Union home ministry. The transfer prompted the state’s ruling Trinamool Congress to accuse the EC of acting at the Bharatiya Janata Party’s behest.The Commission had also ordered that the principal secretary, home and hill affairs, in West Bengal be removed from his state for “interfering in the process of conducting the election”.The EC in 2019 also ordered the transfer of Andhra Pradesh’s state intelligence chief AB Venkateswara Rao. The then Chandrababu Naidu-led Andhra Pradesh complied with the order only to reverse it the next day saying Rao was not involved in any election-related activities. Naidu questioned EC’s conduct and said the move was aimed at benefitting his political rivals under the Centre’s influence. The decision was challenged in the high court, which ruled in favour of the commission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ec-removes-bengal-dgp-a-look-at-recent-instances-of-poll-body-s-intervention-101615352427963.html
10-03-2021||India||'Happened on Women's Day': Khattar slams Congress protest where women MLAs pulled tractor with Hooda in driver's seat||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar became emotional on Tuesday while recalling scenes of Congress women MLAs pulling a tractor during the Congress protest march over fuel price hike. Khattar said he was deeply anguished at the disrespect shown by Congress leaders towards women."Former CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda and Raghuvir Singh Kadian were proudly sitting on the tractor being pulled by women MLAs. And this happened on International Women’s Day. Hooda, a CM-level leader would have earned goodwill had he pulled the tractor with women MLAs sitting on the tractor," Khattar said.During the protest, Hooda sat in the driver's seat while Congress legislators pulled the tractor with ropes on the way to the state assembly.“This treatment to women MLAs was worse than bonded labour,” he said in the state Assembly referring to a Congress protest against the rising fuel prices on Monday. Khattar said he could not sleep all night after the visuals he saw on TV.The chief minister was speaking during the discussion on the motion of thanks to the Governor’s address.Reacting to this statement, Hooda said that women MLAs were pulling the tractor to mark their protests against the sufferings of people due to fuel price hike.“The government has turned a blind eye to the pain of women who are sitting with farmers protesting on borders against farm laws. Power connections were cut at the protest site, you cannot see their pain,” said Hooda.To this, Khattar said, "If you had to protest, you should have pulled the tractor."During his address, Khattar also talked about the several welfare schemes for women brought by his government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/khattar-slams-congress-protest-where-women-mlas-pulled-tractor-with-hooda-in-driver-s-seat-101615350437347.html
10-03-2021||India||PM Modi wishes CISF personnel on Raising Day, lauds their role in India's safety||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday wished the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) on its 52nd Raising Day and lauded the role its personnel play in furthering India's safety."On their Raising Day, greetings to the courageous CISF personnel and their families. Their role in furthering national safety and progress is deeply valued. In 2019, I had attended the Raising Day celebrations of CISF. Here is what I had spoken then," PM Modi said in a tweet.On their Raising Day, greetings to the courageous @CISFHQrs personnel and their families. Their role in furthering national safety and progress is deeply valued. In 2019, I had attended the Raising Day celebrations of CISF. Here is what I had spoken then. https://t.co/655hqumYN1The Prime Minister also shared his speech from the 50th Raising Day ceremony of CISF at Ghaziabad, on March 10, 2019.Union home minister Amit Shah also wished the force and said CISF plays a key role in the country's growth from shielding India's vital establishments to serving the nation during disasters."Raising day greetings to our brave CISF personnel and their families. From shielding India's vital establishments to serving the nation during disasters, CISF plays a key role in the country's growth. Nation salutes the devotion and sacrifice of our courageous force," Shah tweeted.CISF was set up under the act of the Parliament of India on March 10, 1969. Since then CISF Raising Day is being celebrated on March 10 each year.One of the central armed police forces in India, the CISF is tasked with the security of vital government and industrial buildings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-wishes-cisf-personnel-on-raising-day-lauds-their-role-in-india-s-safety-101615349356684.html
10-03-2021||India||After Trivendra Singh Rawat's resignation, Uttarakhand political developments in 10 points||Trivendra Singh Rawat’s resignation as the Uttarakhand chief minister on Tuesday has brought to light the possible inner-party angst and rebellion against him in the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Rawat, who became the CM after the BJP swept the assembly elections in early 2017, tendered his resignation after meeting governor Baby Rani Maurya. The party’s move comes a year ahead of assembly elections in the state.There’s also buzz about the likely contenders for the new CM face in Uttarakhand. While the state’s education minister and close aide of Rawat, Dhan Singh Rawat is said to be leading the race, the two other possible names for the post include Rajya Sabha member Anil Baluni and Lok Sabha member from Nainital-US Nagar, Ajay Bhatt.Here are the key developments about the situation in Uttarakhand||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-trivendra-singh-rawat-s-resignation-uttarakhand-political-developments-in-10-points-101615349601744.html
10-03-2021||India||Quad leaders to hold first summit on March 12: All you need to know||Leaders of the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue are set to hold their first summit on March 12. Here is all you need to know about the dialogue:• The first virtual summit of the leaders of India, Australia, Japan, and the US was announced by the external affairs ministry late on Tuesday night. • It will be held about a year-and-half after the Quad was upgraded to the level of foreign ministers in September 2019 and reflects the desire of the group to present a united front to key challenges, including China’s belligerence across the region.Also Read | In message to China, Joe Biden to meet Australia, India, Japan PMs• Prime Minister Narendra Modi will participate with Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison, Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga. and US President Joe Biden in the “first Leaders’ Summit of the Quadrilateral Framework, being held virtually”, the ministry said in a statement.• The leaders will “exchange views on practical areas of cooperation towards maintaining a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific”.• The Quad Summit will be an opportunity to exchange views on “contemporary challenges such as resilient supply chains, emerging and critical technologies, maritime security, and climate change”, the statement added.• The leaders will also review efforts to combat the Covid-19 pandemic and “explore opportunities for collaboration in ensuring safe, equitable and affordable vaccines in the Indo-Pacific region”, the statement said without giving details.• Reports have suggested that the other members of Quad could invest in India’s vaccine production capabilities to expand the delivery of doses across the region, especially to counter China’s vaccine diplomacy. • India is the world’s largest producer of vaccines and has supplied almost 58 million doses to 65 countries, including 7.7 million doses provided as grants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/quad-leaders-to-hold-first-summit-on-march-12-all-you-need-to-know-101615349307740.html
10-03-2021||India||17,921 new cases of Covid-19 take India's tally to above 11.26 million; 133 deaths recorded in 24 hours||India on Wednesday recorded 17,921 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, according to Union health ministry's update on Wednesday morning. With this, the countrywide tally reached 11,262,707.The active cases, which are on a downward trajectory since yesterday, fell by another 2,864 to reach 1,84,598.The health ministry data also showed that 133 people lost their lives due to the infection, which took the death toll to 1,58,063.On Tuesday, India recorded 15,388 cases of Covid-19.Also Watch: Pakistan may get 45 mn Indian vaccines; ‘janta curfew’ in JalgaonThe recent surge in the number of cases has been triggered by six states, including the worst-affected Maharashtra. On Tuesday, the state reported 9,927 new Covid-19 cases and 56 deaths. The cumulative count of the cases in Maharashtra stands at 22,38,398.Meanwhile, India achieved a major milestone on Tuesday when vaccine doses administered in the country crossed 2.40 crore mark. According to health ministry, 10,28,911 people were given jabs till Tuesday evening.During the day, 7,98,354 beneficiaries took their first dose and 2,30,557 healthcare workers and frontline workers received their second dose of the vaccine as per the provisional report, the ministry said.More than two million Covid-19 vaccine doses were administered on March 8, the highest in a day so far.The countrywide vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16 with healthcare workers getting inoculated and the vaccination of the frontline workers started from February 2.The next phase of Covid-19 vaccination has commenced from March 1 for those who are over 60 years of age and for people aged 45 and above with specified co-morbid conditions.The Centre on Tuesday advised all states and union territories to register and activate all private facilities and provide sufficient stock of Covid-19 vaccines to them for 15-28 days so that they can offer online open slots to citizens for vaccination.The direction was issued at a high-level review meeting chaired by P K Misra, the Principal Secretary to the Prime Minister, according to a health ministry statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/17921-new-cases-of-covid-19-take-india-s-tally-to-above-11-26-million-133-deaths-recorded-in-24-hours-101615347545509.html
10-03-2021||India||News updates from HT: Mamata Banerjee likely to file nomination from Nandigram today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.West Bengal election 2021: Mamata Banerjee likely to file nomination from Nandigram todayWest Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee is likely to file her nomination from Nanadigram for the Assembly election on Wednesday. She is taking on Suvendu Adhikari from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) setting the stage for a high-profile contest.. Read moreEye on China, India’s plan for 6 nuclear-powered attack submarines back on trackMonday’s significant test should be seen as part of the navy’s overall capability-building plans, ranging from the ongoing plan to build six nuclear-powered attack submarines or SSNs to the commissioning of its second aircraft carrier, INS Vikrant, later this year.. Read moreUttarakhand upheaval: What went wrong with Trivendra Singh Rawat?The Bhartiya Janata Party's decision to remove Trivendra Singh Rawat as Uttarakhand's chief minister a year before the assembly polls appears to be a move to quell inner-party angst and rebellion against him.. Read moreChina hasn’t withdrawn from several LAC positions, says top US commanderChina still hasn’t withdrawn from “several forward positions” it seized during clashes with Indian forces along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), a top US military commander told lawmakers at a congressional hearing on Tuesday.. Read moreQueen Elizabeth responds to Harry and Meghan's racism accusationsBritain's Queen Elizabeth II on Tuesday responded to explosive racism claims from her grandson Prince Harry and his wife Meghan, voicing deep concern and sympathising with their troubles with royal life.. Read moreMonica Dogra on working in women-led show The Married Woman: 'I have always been in rooms full of boys'Actor Monica Dogra, who is best known for her work in films such as Farhan Akhtar's Rock On and Aamir Khan's Dhobi Ghat, insists that discussions around female-fronted projects need to keep going on.. Read moreAunty savagely roasts people playing Bajre Da Sitta in every second video. WatchAre you used to scrolling through Instagram Reels? If you are, you’ve probably heard the song Bajre Da Sitta playing in several of the videos. The new rendition of the folk song has really won over people and can be heard in several videos on Instagram.. Read more'What Rishabh Pant has done for India in last 2-3 months, no one would ever do in a lifetime': India coach Ravi ShastriIndian cricket fans have found their new hero in dynamic wicketkeeper-batsman Rishabh Pant. The left-handed batsman was pegged to be MS Dhoni's replacement early on in his career.. Read moreAlso watch: WB CM Mamata Banerjee recites chandi path in Nandigram | Watch full video||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-mamata-banerjee-likely-to-file-nomination-from-nandigram-today-and-all-the-latest-news-101615344938086.html
10-03-2021||India||What led to Uttarakhand CM Trivendra Rawat’s resignation: Key points||Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat resigned on Tuesday nine days before the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government completes four years in power. Here is all you need to know what prompted the move:• The resignation followed a rebellion in the ranks against Rawat’s decision to announce Gairsain as a new administrative division, party leaders said.• BJP leaders aware of the matter said the political upheaval in the state started on Friday when Rawat announced Gairsain as the third administrative division in the state without consulting even his cabinet colleagues.• A minister called it a unilateral announcement which had huge political ramifications as people in Kumaon were against such a move.Also Read | Uttarakhand jinx: Except ND Tiwari, no other CM could complete 5-year term• Rawat’s failure to connect with the party cadre is also believed to have gone against him.• Some other leaders said that resentment within the party has been building over Rawat’s style of functioning.• As many as 13 lawmakers in the past few days wrote to the party’s central leadership against Rawat’s work style, accusing him of not listening to them.• “Bureaucrats are running the government and we are not being heard,” former Uttarakhand BJP chief Bishan Singh Chuphal wrote in a letter to Nadda in December last year.• On Saturday, Rawat was called to Dehradun from Gairsain to attend an emergency core committee meeting, in which 45 of the party’s 56 MLAs participated.• “He was clearly told that he would be replaced and there was growing resentment against him,” said a party leader.• According to a central BJP leader, Rawat was replaced as an internal party survey showed the BJP was losing ground due to him even though Prime Minister Narendra Modi was still very popular in the state.• Uttarakhand’s BJP in-charge Dushyant Gautam said Rawat would be accommodated in the national BJP and would have important responsibilities.• Governor Baby Rani Maurya accepted his resignation and directed him to hold the post till the new chief minister takes charge.• Rawat was the 10th chief minister of the state since its creation in 2000, with the Congress’s ND Tiwari being the only to have completed a full five-year term so far.• The new team will have less than a year before the March-April 2022 assembly polls to recover the lost ground.• The BJP will decide on his replacement on Wednesday morning.• State minister Dhan Singh Rawat, Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank, Rajya Sabha member Anil Baluni, and Lok Sabha member Ajay Bhatt are said to be the front runners for the post.• A meeting of party legislators has been called in Dehradun on Wednesday to elect a new leader of the legislative party, who will then be administered the oath of office as the new chief minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-led-to-uttarakhand-cm-rawat-s-resignation-key-points-101615347267902.html
10-03-2021||India||No confidence motion against Khattar govt in Haryana Assembly today||The opposition in Haryana will move a no-confidence motion against the Manohar Lal Khattar government on Wednesday. Former chief minister and Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda said that his party also plans to bring many "Adjournment" and "Calling Attention" motions."The Congress is going to bring no-confidence motion, Minimum Support Price (MSP) guarantee bill, many adjournments and calling attention motion against the government. We will seek answers on issues such as farmers' neglect, rising unemployment, changes in domicile regulations, rising crime, paper leaks, liquor and registry scams," the Congress leader said.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Dushyant Chautala’s Jananayak Janta Party (JJP) lead the government in Haryana. Both the parties have issued whips asking their respective legislators to be present in the House on Wednesday. The JJP chief whip chief whip Amarjeet Dhanda also asked MPs to be ‘present positively in the House throughout the day’ and support the government.Assembly speaker Gian Chand Gupta fixed the date for the no-confidence motion last Friday. The no-confidence motion will be brought before the assembly during the ongoing budget session.Bharat Bhushan Batra, chief whip of the Congress Legislature Party (CLP), also issued a whip to party MLAs on Tuesday asking them to be present in the House on Wednesday to support no-confidence motion against the Khattar government. Members are advised not to leave the House without the prior permission of CLP Leader, the note from Batra said.Last week, Hooda said that the no-confidence motion will clearly show which MLAs support the farmers. “The coalition government has emerged as the biggest anti-farmer government in the country due to the dictatorial attitude towards the farmers' movement,” Hooda had told news agency PTI.In the 2019 state election, the BJP secured 40 seats in the 90-member assembly, down from 47 in 2014. The Congress came in second with 31 seats, up from the 15 seats it held in the previous assembly. Dushyant Chautala’s JJP got 10 assembly seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-confidence-motion-against-khattar-govt-in-haryana-assembly-today-101615345365430.html
10-03-2021||India||Activist or Maoist? Conflicting claims over a woman’s arrest in Chhattisgarh||Arrest of a suspected Maoist, Madkam Hidme, in Chhattisgarh’s Dantewada has led to a conflict, with some locals claiming she was an activist, who was booked in some old cases and arrested without any warrant. The police have refuted the allegations and said Hidme was involved in serious cases of Maoist violence in the recent past.The activists in the Bastar region claimed that Hidme was president of 'Jail Bandi Rihai' (freedom from jail) committee and was framed by the police. They further allege that she was arrested on Tuesday during a protest seeking justice for surrendered woman Maoist, Pande Kawasi, who was found hanging in the last week of February.A statement issued by tribal leader Soni Sori stated that Hidme was a respected activist in the region, and her arrest on Women's Day was a matter of shame.“I demand her immediate release because she is not a Maoist and police have framed her,” said Sori in a press release.The Chhattisgarh unit of People's Union for Civil Liberties (PUCL) and Chhattisgarh Mahila Adhikar Manch, in a joint statement, condemned the arrest and demanded Hidme's release.However, Dantewada superintendent of police, Abhishek Pallava said Hidme had five offences pending against her under serious sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), the Arms act, Explosives Act and the UAPA.Also Read: Two Chhattisgarh ministers test positive for Covid-19“She has a reward of ₹1 lakh declared against her post (Range Jantana Sarkar Adhyaksh- a position in the Maoist organisation) by the government and ₹10,000 by the SP. She was instrumental in the killing of three villagers on pretext of them being police informers. Her name has been put in banners and posters pasted in PS Aranpur. Village Sarpanch was also counselled to get her to surrender,” said the SP.He further said that necessary legal action was taken after her positive identification by the spotters. “Crimes (against her name) have been registered in as early as 2016, so she was active at least for past six years” the SP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/activist-or-maoist-conflicting-claims-over-a-woman-s-arrest-in-chhattisgarh-101615343392922.html
10-03-2021||India||Covid-19 survivor Ranjim Prabal Das who topped JEE-Mains says 'I follow Elon Musk'||Despite being infected with the novel coronavirus in 2020, Ranjim Prabal Das from Assam, was determined to crack the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) Main 2021, which he did with flying colours.Das, who now lives in Delhi was one of the six candidates who scored a full 100 marks in the JEE-Mains exam, the results of which were announced by the National Testing Agency (NTA) on March 8.A huge fan of Tesla and SpaceX CEO Elon Musk, Das, plans to go to IIT Delhi for his higher studies."I follow Elon Musk and I plan to go to IIT Delhi for higher studies. Otherwise, I will go to the Indian Institute of Science (IISc), Bengaluru for science graduation," Das told ANI."When I tested COVID-19 positive, I focused on healing. Once the fever was down I got back to studies," he added.Das says he used to study for eight hours to prepare for JEE Mains. "I usually studied for eight hours a day, on average. I focussed more on the target-based study," he said.Six students secured a 100 percentile score in the JEE Main Exams February session.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-survivor-ranjim-prabal-das-who-topped-jee-mains-says-i-follow-elon-musk-101615341423365.html
10-03-2021||India||Al-Badr commander Abdul Gani Khawaja’s killing a big success, says J&K Police||Jammu and Kashmir police have identified the militant killed in the Sopore encounter on Tuesday night as Abdul Gani Khawaja, chief commander of Al-Badr, and termed his killing as a big success. Operation was launched at Tujjer Sharief on Tuesday night after receiving a specific input, leading to the elimination of Albadr chief, said police."During the search operation, as the presence of a terrorist was ascertained, he was given an opportunity to surrender, however, he fired indiscriminately upon the joint search party, which was retaliated, leading to an encounter," the police spokesman said, and added that one terrorist was killed in the encounter and his body was retrieved from the site."The killed terrorist has been identified as Abdul Gani Khawaja alias Skinder, resident of Khawaja Mohalla Kralgund, chief of proscribed terrorist outfit Al- Badr."Police said Khawja was involved in several terror cases including attacks on security forces and civilians, besides being the main recruiter."Dozens of cases have been registered against him in north Kashmir, which include grenade blast at the bus stand in Sopore, in which 19 civilians sustained injuries on 28-10-2019; rifle-grenade attack at police post Warpora, in which two police personnel got injured on 21-03-2019; attack upon joint naka party of police/ CRPF at Bismillah Colony, Model Town Sopore, in which four CRPF personnel got seriously injured and one among them, while being evacuated to hospital, succumbed to injuries. In the incident, one civilian identified as Bashir Ahmad Khan got also killed by the bullets fired by terrorists on 01-07-2020; attack on CRPF Naka Party at Ahad-Baba Crossing, Noorbagh, Sopore, in which 3 CRPF personnel were killed at 2 got seriously injured on 18-04-2020; killing of one civilian namely Danish Manzoor Najar @ Ishfaq S/O Manzoor Ahmad Najar, R/O Edipora Bomai, Sopore on 06-06-2020 and an attack on police party from Police post Warpora at Warpora Chowk, in which one SPO and one civilian were killed and one SPO got injured on 04-03-2020."Police spokesman said that he was also involved in providing arms and ammunition to over ground workers of the terrorist organisation for carrying out subversive activities in the area."He was operating in the areas of North Kashmir including Langate, Upper/Lower Qaziabad, Handwara, Sopore, Zainageer, Tujjar, Barahampora etc," he said.Also Read: Jammu and Kashmir: 2 deaths, 77 fresh covid cases registeredHe added that incriminating materials, including arms and ammunition were recovered from the site of encounter. "All the recovered materials have been taken into case records for further investigation and to probe his complicity in other terror crimes."IGP Kashmir, Vijay Kumar termed the killing of Al-Badr chief a big success and said it was achieved without any collateral damage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/albadr-commander-abdul-gani-khawaja-s-killing-a-big-success-says-j-k-police-101615341052384.html
10-03-2021||India||Hope trade relations with India reach new heights, says Bangladesh minister ahead of PM Modi's visit||Ahead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's visit to Bangladesh, the country's Commerce Minister Tipu Munshi has expressed optimism that the trade relations between the two countries would reach new heights in the 50th year of Bangladesh's independence."We want to take the Bangladesh-India trade relations to such a position in our 50th year of independence which would remain memorable among the people of both countries. We're hopeful of resolving our existing problems. There is also strong resolve from the two countries to further expand investment and trade relations," The Independent (Bangladesh) quoted Munshi as saying.Munshi met Indian Commerce and Trade Secretary Anup Wadhawan on Sunday at his secretariat office.India's High Commissioner in Dhaka Vikram Doraiswami was also present.Bangladesh commerce ministry Additional Secretary (FTA) M Mohidul Islam, WTO cell Director General Hafizur Rahman were also present, The Independent (Bangladesh) reported.Munshi said at a press briefing that "a new door" of commercial relations between the two countries would be unveiled.He said that the issue concerning anti-dumping duty that India has imposed on jute and other Bangladeshi products would be resolved through discussions.The Commerce Minister informed that efforts are on to sign the Comprehensive Economic Partnership Agreement (CEPA) with India to further enhance the scope for trade.He said that the Indian commerce secretary has requested Bangladesh to modernize Bangladesh customs management and Benapole Land Port and added that the government is also working to this end.Noting that the existing border huts have created much more interest among the people of the bordering areas, Munshi said the initiative has been taken to set up a border hut along with Mizoram and increasing the number of border huts, The Independent (Bangladesh) reported.The Commerce Minister said that India has expressed its interest to increase investment in Bangladesh as the Indian entrepreneurs want to invest in Bangladesh's food processing and automobile industries.Replying to a question, he said the government would sign the Preferential Trade Agreement (PTA) and Free Trade Agreement (FTA) with various countries to successfully face the "challenges derived from the country's graduation from the LDC status"."Newer trade opportunities will be created through signing of various PTAs and FTAs and that's why we hope that we'll not fall into any problem in international trade following LDC graduation," he added.He said that initiatives have been taken to stockpile essential items ahead of the month of Ramadan. "We hope there will be no shortage of essential items while the price will also not go up." he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hope-trade-relations-with-india-reach-new-heights-says-bangladesh-minister-ahead-of-pm-modi-s-visit-101615338240779.html
10-03-2021||India||Sexual harassment case: EC directs suspension of Tamil Nadu SP||The Election Commission of India on Tuesday directed that the Chengalpet superintendent of police in Tamil Nadu be ‘suspended immediately’ and ‘disciplinary proceedings initiated against him’ as he is one of the two accused in a sexual harassment case registered by CB-CID based on a complaint by a lady IPS officer.This comes a day after the SP was transferred to a non-election post after receiving the approval of the ECI as the model code of conduct is in place in Tamil Nadu, which faces assembly elections on April 6.“Considering the gravity of the case and report from the Home department of Tamil Nadu, the commission has directed that he be placed under suspension immediately and disciplinary proceedings initiated against him,” read a statement from the ECI signed by secretary Malay Mallick.The ECI has also sought a report on its order to be sent by March 10 by 11am.The CB-CID has registered an FIR against the accused under sections 354-A(2) (sexual harassment) and 341, 506(1) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 4 of the Tamil Nadu prohibition of harassment of women Act 1998 against the SP and the first accused — the special DGP law and order, who is sent on leave.According to a Madras high court order, media is not allowed to publish the names of the accused and the victim.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sexual-harassment-case-ec-directs-suspension-of-tamil-nadu-sp-101615330994483.html
10-03-2021||India||Nikita, Shantanu, get protection from arrest till March 15||The Delhi police on Tuesday said in a city court that Pune-based engineer Shantanu Muluk could not substantiate the nature of work and activities for which he was receiving 600 pounds every month from a United Kingdom-based company for working as a consultant.Muluk, environment activist Disha Ravi and Mumbai-based lawyer Nikita Jacob were booked by the Delhi Police in the alleged conspiracy behind the violence during the tractors rally taken out by farmers protesting against the three Central farm laws on January 26. The three were booked for sedition, promoting hatred among groups and criminal conspiracy under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) after the Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg tweeted a ‘toolkit’.Delhi Police’s special cell, while opposing Muluk’s anticipatory bail plea, alleged before Additonal Sessions Judge Dharmender Rana that he participated in a conspiracy that “stretched across continents and covered people of multiple nationalities”.The judge said no coercive action will be taken till March 15 against Muluk and co-accused Mumbai lawyer Nikita Jacob, whose pre-arrest bail plea, was also heard simultaneously.In a reply filed in the court on Tuesday, the police have claimed that Muluk is receiving routine foreign remittances from a person named Christopher Mills, a resident of UK, while working as a volunteer for a company named Climate 2025, of which very limited information is available on the internet.The police said Muluk has “failed to satisfactorily explain the actions and activities that he undertook in lieu of the funds received on a monthly basis”.Muluk’s lawyer Sarim Naved refused to comment on the allegations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nikita-shantanu-get-protection-from-arrest-till-march-15-101615321057677.html
10-03-2021||India||Opposition keeps up heat in Houses on fuel prices||Both the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha were adjourned for the second consecutive day on Tuesday, as opposition parties continued protests against rising fuel prices. Parliament resumed its usual schedule starting from 11am on Tuesday, after nearly a year of staggered timings and segregated seating necessitated by the Covid pandemic.In both the Houses, while the government and the Chair suggested that the issues related to fuel prices could be addressed during the debate on demand for grants and the finance bill, opposition parties pressed for an immediate and exclusive discussion on the matter. Also Read: Rising fuel prices rock ParliamentIn the Lok Sabha, several Congress members were in the Well, demanding a rollback of the fuel price hikes. Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam members were seen standing at their seats as other opposition leaders joined the protest.Earlier in the day, Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury raised the issue of what he called the “digital divide” between members of the House, at which Speaker Om Birla asked whether he wanted to show chaos to the country. “(But) there is digital discrimination. Whatever the government says and does comes on television. Whatever the opposition says does not ... The blackout should stop...” Chowdhury said. To this, Birla said, “Does the honourable leader of the Congress in the House want to show chaos to the country?”Meanwhile, in the Rajya Sabha, leader of the opposition Mallikarjun Kharge demanded a debate on the fuel price issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opposition-keeps-up-heat-in-houses-on-fuel-prices-101615320530692.html
10-03-2021||India||Uttarakhand upheaval: What went wrong with Trivendra Singh Rawat?||The Bhartiya Janata Party's decision to remove Trivendra Singh Rawat as Uttarakhand's chief minister a year before the assembly polls appears to be a move to quell inner-party angst and rebellion against him.According to several persons that the Hindustan Times spoke to at various levels of the party, a considerable number of members of the legislative assembly (MLAs) were upset that the Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh (RSS) pracharak-turned-CM kept many of his cabinet member colleagues out of the decision-making process. While unhappiness had been brewing since 2018, a year after he took over, things gathered momentum last month.The immediate trigger is said to be a meeting between a group of Uttarakhand legislators and Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshiyari. While Koshiyari tweeted a picture with the CM, it was his meeting with some BJP MLAs that started the process of his eventual exit just a year before the Uttarakhand polls.Also read: Replacing Rawat - 3 frontrunners, parliamentarians in race for U'khand's top postAccording to a person aware of the details, the BJP MLAs took the opportunity to pour their heart out to Koshiyari who was the chief minister of Uttarkhand from 2001-2002, and had incidentally, also been placed as the CM by the party bosses just a year before the 2002 elections.The MLAs told the Governor how Rawat didn't meet his cabinet colleagues, or party MLAs or even the state's MPs,'' said the person. That message and its severity, coming so close to state elections, was conveyed immediately to the party bosses in Delhi. The Governor's office confirmed that he was in Dehradun last month but said that they didn't have any information about this meeting."It's absolutely untrue to think that the party removed the chief minister for any such reason,'' said MLA and party spokesperson Munna Chauhan."Even the opposition will not accuse him of corruption. I think the party wants to use his expertise at a larger, national level and so they have moved him,'' he added. That's the view the central BJP is also putting on record. "We felt that he should be moved to the national level,'' said Dushyant Kumar Gautam who is in charge of the state and was sent to sort out the rebellion.However, off the record, BJP leaders tell a different story. The story of how the 60-year-old was seen as honest but also headstrong, refusing to listen to his party men and favouring the bureaucrats over the politicians. "He would not allow any political interference in transfers,'' said a top state official, asking not to be named. "If any minister or MLA recommended someone for a post, he would never listen to them. He was very strict,'' he added.While the hard task-master was a good role model, political workers of the state point out that Rawat refused to share power and kept all the important portfolios for himself. The government website shows that he had 60 odd portfolios assigned to the Chief Minister's Office and the cabinet expansion that was expected never took place."What's most important is that while he sided with the bureaucrats, his team of bureaucrats didn't create the right kind of impression for the government,'' said the official quoted above."The biggest problem was that he never consulted anyone about the decisions he took,'' said a party worker. "For instance, he announced Gairsain as a new region other than Kumaon and Garhwal in the budget a few days ago without speaking to anyone or informing anyone. This is a politically sensitive decision and so everyone got very upset,'' he added. When the local MLAs confronted him, the CM is reported to have dismissed their concerns."We had a decisive majority in 2017 but despite that, the party felt that many of those put in charge were those that had run the Congress system,'' said the BJP worker.Uttarakhand was formed in the year 2000 and has never had a full-term chief minister other than Congress' ND Tiwari who was in power from 2002-2007. The BJP had high hopes from the low profile Rawat but they're hoping to cut their losses with a new face this week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-upheaval-what-went-wrong-with-trivendra-singh-rawat-101615318763096.html
10-03-2021||India||ED probes Punjab MLA, son-in-law for alleged links to international drugs racket||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Tuesday carried out raids at the residence of Punjab lawmaker, Sukhpal Singh Khaira, and his son-in-law Inderveer Singh Johal among seven others for allegedly being part of an international drugs smuggling syndicate having links in Pakistan and the United Kingdom as well as a human trafficking racket, popularly called ‘kabootarbaazi’ in Punjab, people familiar with the development said.The central agency has registered two cases a few weeks back to investigate money laundering - first based on a trans-border drugs smuggling network unearthed in Fazilka, Punjab in 2015, in which 1,800 grams of heroin, 24 gold biscuits, two weapons, 26 live cartridges and two Pakistani SIM cards were seized by Jalalabad police (Punjab).The second case pertains to a fake passport racket being run in Delhi.Nine smugglers were sentenced in the Fazilka drugs smuggling case in October 2017, including Gurdev Singh, Manjit Singh, Harbans Singh and Subhash Chander who were raided by the ED on Tuesday morning.In fact, Khaira’s name had cropped up in the case in 2017. Although not named in the Punjab police charge sheet, a Fazilka court had issued summons to Khaira on November 30, 2017. He was Punjab’s Leader of Opposition and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA at that time. However, the Supreme Court granted him relief by quashing proceedings against him.Khaira, an MLA from Bhulath in Kapurthala district, was elected to the state assembly in 2017 on an AAP ticket. Two years ago, he quit the party and formed Punjab Ekta Party (PEP).An ED official, requesting anonymity, said on Tuesday, “Sukhpal Singh Khaira was actively aiding and supporting the gang of international smugglers and enjoying the proceeds of crime”.Khaira, the officer added, was particularly very close to Gurdev Singh, the leader of Fazilka drugs smuggling racket and used to shelter him often. “We suspect Khaira was involved with the drug syndicate for the past several years. We have information that he enjoyed financial benefits for helping the smugglers,” the officer added.The lawmaker is likely to be called for questioning very soon at the agency’s Delhi office. The ED didn’t find any record of Khaira’s questioning by the Punjab Police ever.In all, the ED raided 12 places on Tuesday, including Khaira’s residence in Punjab and eight others, two premises in Delhi and one location in Chandigarh.Apart from Khaira, his son-in-law and four drugs convicts, three others were raided on Tuesday. They include Harminder Kaur, Rajwinder Kaur, and Bikker Singh who had been caught in the human trafficking (kabootarbaazi) case. The fake passport racket is called Kabootarbaazi among cops in Delhi and Punjab. Uneducated persons are illegally sent abroad by travel agents in this racket.All seven who were raided by the ED on Tuesday are currently out on parole, said a second official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-probes-punjab-mla-son-in-law-for-alleged-links-to-international-drugs-racket-101615318235709.html
10-03-2021||India||India most favourable market for solar energy: ISA report||A new report by the International Solar Alliance has said India is among four achiever countries among 80 ISA member countries with most favourable technical and commercial conditions to facilitate solar energy projects and perceived as the most attractive for investments in solar energy.The assessment has considered various parameters including policy support for investment in solar, technological feasibility, market maturity, financing etc. The three other achiever countries include Brazil, Saudi Arabia and United Arab Emirates.The Asia & Pacific region has three achiever countries and several ‘progressive’ and ‘potential’ countries which can become achievers in future according to the Ease of Doing Solar 2020 report discussed in a webinar by ISA on Tuesday. Along with high levels of solar irradiation, enabling macroeconomic and financing aspects are driving the growth of solar adoption in the Asia Pacific region.India has set an ambitious target of 450 GW of renewable energy by 2030 with 175 GW deployment by 2022. This is the world’s largest expansion policy according to the report. The National Tariff Policy was amended in 2011 to prescribe solar specific Renewable Purchase Obligations. These obligations have increased from 0.25% in 2012 to 3% in 2022.RPO is the obligation mandated by the state governments to purchase a minimum level of renewable energy out of the total consumption. Up to 100% FDI is allowed for renewable energy generation and distribution projects. Apart from these supporting policies, India has nearly 372.69 GW of installed capacity of which 47% is owned by the private sector; there are 42 solar parks with aggregate capacity of 23,499 MW up to March 2019; around 60 solar cities have been approved with USD 1.3 billion for setting up 50 solar parks of 40 GW by 2020. There has been growing lender interest in renewable energy, 60 RE projects grew in financing of over 2.5 billion dollars in 2017, nearly 60% of which came from non-banking financial institutions.In Brazil, owing to relatively high levels of average solar irradiation (GHI) of 5.28 kWh/m2/day and specific yield of 4.27 kWh/kWp/day, strong technical feasibility is envisaged for solar projects. In Saudi Arabia, owing to average of 8.9 hr/day of sunshine, high average solar irradiation levels of 6.21 kWh/m2/day and specific yield of 5.17 kWh/kWp. In comparison, India’s solar irradiation is 5.098 kwh/m2/day and has a yield of 4.322 kwh.ISA Director General Upendra Tripathy said, “Solar power is the cheapest in India with the tariff going as low as ₹1.30 per kwh for solar rooftop in the past.” He added that cost of solar power is falling in most other parts of the world.BloombergNEF Head of Solar Analysis Jenny Chase said “Member countries need to provide a stable framework to solar investors. Governments should avoid renegotiating bids and ensure effective grid operation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-most-favourable-market-for-solar-energy-isa-report-101615314392302.html
10-03-2021||India||The significance of Trichy for the DMK in TN polls||Chennai The road to Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK)’s mega party conference along the Trichy highway on Sunday was dotted with party flags and larger-than-life cut-outs of Dravidian movement leaders E V Ramasamy, popularly known as Periyar, C N Annadurai, M Karunanidhi and current party chief M K Stalin. Besides them was a cut-out of youth wing secretary Udhayanidhi Stalin, the son of M K Stalin, a reflection of the rise of the party’s third generation, particularly in Trichy -- interesting, because, in some ways, this is the first state election the party is fighting under Stalin’s leadership. Elections in Tamil Nadu will happen in one phase across all 234 constituencies on April 6. This district holds a nostalgic value for the DMK . Sunday’s meeting was the first presided by Stalin since his father Karunanidhi’s demise in August 2018. At the conference, the DMK chief recalled that the party held its first meeting in Trichy in 1956 under Annadurai, and decided to take the plunge into electoral politics. The party formed the government in 1967, winning 179 of the 230 seats on offer then. The state was called Madras, and one of the first moves of the new legislature was to pass a law changing it to Tamil Nadu. Annadurai died in 1969 and Karunanidhi succeeded him as chief minister. “Trichy showed us the way,” Stalin said at the grand venue set up across 35 acres. The DMK has been known to save important announcements for this venue, one of its favourites. Stalin chose the district to unveil his 10-year-old vision for Tamil Nadu. He promised that if elected, his government would give ₹1,000 to women heads of each household every month, provide a million jobs a year, and boost broadband connectivity across villages.A DMK leader present at the venue who asked not to be named said Trichy serves as a bridge between north and south Tamil Nadu, and therefore, all major announcements are made here to mobilize cadre and send the party’s message across the state. On Sunday, Stalin made party workers take a vow that the DMK would run a corruption-free government for all. “Nobody can defeat the DMK if this reaches the people. Take my vision to the millions of people of Tamil Nadu before April 6 (polling date in the state),” he said.Trichy is a study in contrasts -- a business hub with several small industries running along the Cauvery delta where farming is a primary occupation, and is home to several premier educational institutions. For the March 7 conference, Stalin was accommodated in a guest house by Dhanalakshmi College on the Trichy highway.In the 1960s, many from the Congress switched over to the DMK which had started gaining strength and popularity in the state. “DMK has good support in the district in the upcoming elections, but the challenge is how Stalin will manage the friction within his party leaders,” Ramu Manivannan, head of political science department in the University of Madras, said.The party’s principal secretary and Tiruchirappalli West constituency MLA K N Nehru organized the mega conference, along with district secretaries. Poll strategist Prashant Kishor’s Indian Political Action Committee (I-Pac) was tasked with roping in vendors and micromanaging the event. As principal secretary, Nehru is number four in the pecking order in the DMK’s organization but his status as party strongman, arising from his position as Tiruchirappalli district secretary, a post he has held for three decades, is now being challenged within his party by younger leaders such as Udhayanidhi Stalin and his close aide Thiruverumbur MLA Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi.Mahesh’s grandfather Anbil Dharmalingam played an important role in the party’s growth in Trichy and was a close associate of Karunanidhi. Following Nehru’s elevation to the party headquarters in Chennai in 2018, the party trifurcated Trichy and Mahesh was appointed one of the three district secretaries. Both Nehru and Mahesh received high praise from Stalin at the event, a move to ensure both the old guard and the new generation remain motivated.The DMK chief claimed that Sunday’s meeting, which attracted an audience five times larger than the party’s previous conferences. The venue was set up like a concert with three stages and surrounded by 500-feet long LED screens. There were fireworks and a DJ blaring the party’s campaign song. Stalin waved at the crowd as he walked down a kilometre-long ramp designed like the party’s rising son symbol. He was followed by Nehru. The loudest cheer from the cadre, however, was reserved for Udhayanidhi. The speakers at the conference were constantly interrupted by the noise from his supporters, forcing the managers of the event to urge Udhayanidhi to control them.A few supporters from the youth wing also tried to climb the stage where Udhayanidhi was seated along with MP Kanimozhi and other legislators. “Udhayanidhi and Mahesh are very close and the young people consider them as ‘mass’,” a DMK worker from Trichy G Arumugam said. In the local lingo, “mass” is a status attributed to actors and politicians who have a huge fan following. Udhayanidhi entered Tamil cinema as a producer and distributor for Red Giant Movies and played the lead role in several films before joining politics. He is one of the star campaigners of the DMK camp.Trichy has nine assembly constituencies – Tiruchirappalli East, Tiruchirappalli West, Thiruverumbur and Srirangam, Manapparai, Lalgudi, Manachanallur, Musiri and Thuraiyur (reserved) – of which the DMK has four sitting MLAs (the AIADMK won five in 2016). Late AIADMK chief minister J Jayalalithaa was elected from Srirangam constituency in 2011 and claimed her ancestors used to live there. According to local DMK workers, the party does well in the region usually, although they point out that in 2011, when some DMK leaders were involved in the 2G spectrum case, the AIADMK did very well. Nehru, who was also the former transport minister and elected from Lalgudi in 1989, lost Trichy West in 2011 to the AIADMK’s Mariam Pitchai.The AIADMK won the assembly elections in both 2011 and 2016. In 2016, Nehru regained the seat. In the 2019 Lok Sabha election, senior leader S Thirunavukuarasar won the Tiruchirappalli parliamentary seat for the Congress.“After 10 years, it will be good to have a change of leadership in the state. Maybe they (DMK) will support us in our angst against rising prices of fuel and vegetables,” S Selvakumar, who works as a waiter in the Trichy tollgate area, said.Last month, Nehru, Mahesh and other local leaders spearheaded a protest against the fuel price hike and alleged that the AIADMK’s education- and farm-loan waivers were inspired by the DMK.It’s industries make Trichy attractive to migrants. Several young people from other districts have moved to Trichy for better job opportunities. “I belong to Tirunelveli where my family traditionally votes for the AIADMK and I’ll do the same,” K Harish, who helps his brother run a small artifacts shop, said.Supporters of Nehru’s son, Arun Nehru, have filed an application for him to contest from Lalgudi constituency. Meanwhile Udhayanidhi is seeking to make his political debut from Chennai’s Chepauk , his late grandfather Karunanidhi’s borough.On Saturday, he was interviewed by a panel that included his father and other senior leaders on his candidature. According to party insiders, Stalin will take a final call as several other leaders’ sons are also looking to contest the polls amid allegations by the rival AIADMK-BJP combine that the DMK-Congress are indulging in dynastic politics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-significance-of-trichy-for-the-dmk-in-tn-polls-101615315704232.html
10-03-2021||India||'Satisfaction in giving nod': Justice Chandrachud on permanent commission||It is “tremendously satisfying” to be a judge when you can deliver a judgment making women equal contributors to growth and safety of the nation, said Supreme Court judge Dhananjay Y Chandrachud on Tuesday, citing his February 2020 verdict that gave permanent commission to women in the armed forces.“I can very well remember authoring this judgment and delivering it just before the lockdown. When I can see 365 women officers granted permanent commission and there are more officers who are going to get it exactly after a year of this judgment, there is a great sense of satisfaction for a judge,” said justice Chandrachud.Constituting the bench along with justice MR Shah, justice Chandrachud added: “There is tremendous amount of satisfaction of being a judge. With the assistance and the vision of lawyers, we could deliver a judgment which led to opening up of more public spaces for women, making them equal contributors to growth and safety of the nation.”The judge further said: “Yes, you do a lot of routine work every day; you do exactly the same kind of work almost every day; your routine from morning to evening is almost the same, but I have no second thought about why I chose to be a judge. I guess judgeship is something that grows on you”.Justice Shah agreed: “I also have great satisfaction that you have done something for the society as a judge. As a lawyer, you have to mostly worry about the interest of your clients. I can remember when an order of mine in the Gujarat high court helped 23,500 retired primary teachers get the benefit of revised pension. Days later, I got a letter addressed to me from a remote village with only one sentence written: Justice is still alive.”The justice Chandrachud-led bench was hearing a clutch of petitions by around 60 women army officers who have complained against fixing of allegedly arbitrary criteria to deny them permanent commission when the judges and the lawyers had a brief exchange about “role reversal”.Following arguments spanning three hours, additional solicitor general Sanjay Jain and senior counsel R Balasubramaniam, who represented the ministry of defence (MoD) in the matter, took a brief break from the submission and asked the judges if they missed being lawyers.Justice Chandrachud replied saying although lawyers had greater freedom than judges did, he would not have second thoughts about being a judge.With senior advocate Huzefa Ahmadi appearing for one of the women officers, the judge also recalled an episode from 1997 when he went to meet Huzefa’s father, former Chief Justice of India AM Ahmadi at his hotel room in Mumbai after an arbitration case.“I was around 38 then. I went to see justice Ahmadi in his suite and asked him what his thoughts were about judgeship since he was a judge since 1964. I asked him if he thought judgeship was worth it. And justice Ahmadi said: ‘Absolutely! Every minute of it!’ I was appointed judge around two and half years later when I was 40. And now, I feel the same way,” said justice Chandrachud.He shared another incident when he went to meet another retired Supreme Court judge with a colleague, SA Bobde – the present CJI. Both justice Chandrachud and justice Bobde practised as lawyers in the Bombay high court in 1997. They were both designated as senior advocates in 1998 and were also elevated as judges in the Bombay high court at the same time in 2000.“I and justice Bobde had gone to meet justice AP Sen when he was in Nagpur. He also told us it is a matter of immense satisfaction being a judge and that lawyers help a judge leave his footprints on the sands of time,” said justice Chandrachud.Referring to his conversations with some young lawyers, justice Chandrachud said that a lot of young counsel were worried about the constant grind of being a judge. “They say we cannot do this day in and day out. I believe it is a matter of temperament after all.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tremendous-satisfaction-in-giving-nod-justice-chandrachud-on-permanent-commission-for-women-officers-101615314263416.html
10-03-2021||India||Maharashtra guv’s meeting may have led to Trivendra Rawat’s exit in Uttarakhand||The Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP’s) decision to remove Trivendra Singh Rawat a year before the polls appears to be a move to quell intraparty resentment against the chief minister, people aware of the developments said on Tuesday.A considerable number of MLAs were upset that the Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh (RSS) pracharak-turned-CM kept many of his Cabinet colleagues out of the decision-making process, according to several people Hindustan Times spoke to at various levels of the party. While unhappiness had been brewing since 2018 — a year after Rawat took over — things gathered momentum last month.The immediate trigger is said to be a meeting between a group of Uttarakhand legislators and Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari. While Koshyari tweeted a picture with the CM, it was his meeting with some BJP MLAs that started the process of his eventual exit just a year before Uttarakhand polls, party insiders said.According to a person aware of the details, the BJP MLAs took the opportunity to pour their heart out to Koshyari who was chief minister of Uttarakhand from 2001-2002 and had, incidentally, also been replaced by the party brass just before the 2002 elections.“The MLAs told the governor how Rawat didn’t meet his Cabinet colleagues, or party MLAs or even the state’s MPs,’’ said the person cited above. That message and its severity, coming so close to the state elections, was conveyed immediately to the party bosses in Delhi. The governor’s office confirmed that he was in Dehradun last month but said that it didn’t have any information about this meeting.“It’s absolutely untrue to think that the party removed the chief minister for any such reason,’’ said MLA and party spokesperson Munna Chauhan.“Even the Opposition will not accuse him of corruption. I think the party wants to use his expertise at a larger, national level and so they have moved him.’’That’s the view the central BJP is also putting out on the record. “We felt that he should be moved to the national level,’’ said Dushyant Kumar Gautam, the state in-charge who was sent to address the rebellion.However, off the record, BJP leaders tell a different story. The story of how the 60-year-old was seen as honest but also headstrong, refusing to listen to his party men and favouring bureaucrats over the politicians.“He would not allow any political interference in transfers,’’ said a top official of the state, asking not to be named. “If any minister or MLA recommended someone for a post, he would never listen to them. He was very strict.’’While the hard taskmaster was a good role model, political workers of the state point out that he refused to share power and kept all the important portfolios for himself. The government website shows that he had 60-odd portfolios assigned to the chief minister’s office and the Cabinet expansion that was expected never took place.“What’s most important is that while he sided with the bureaucrats, his team of bureaucrats didn’t create the right kind of impression for the government,’’ said the official quoted above.“The biggest problem was that he never consulted anyone about the decisions he took,’’ said a party worker. “For instance, he announced Gairsain as a new administrative division, other than Kumaon and Garhwal, in the budget a few days ago without speaking to anyone or informing anyone. This is a politically sensitive decision and so everyone got very upset.’’ When the local MLAs confronted him, the chief minister is said to have dismissed their concerns.Former CM and central observer Raman Singh acknowledged there were several factors behind Rawat’s removal. “It’s a decision that was taken after consultations at various levels of the party,’’ he said. Singh will oversee an MLAs’ meeting on Wednesday after which a new CM will emerge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/discontent-among-mlas-may-have-triggered-rawat-s-ouster-101615313963481.html
10-03-2021||India||Govt considers privatisation of 90 railway stations, mulls airport-like security infra||The Indian Railways is considering having private companies operate 90 train stations and is exploring several options – including looking at the arrangements at India’s privately run airports – to determine how best to set up the security infrastructure at these.Railways, which runs the fourth-largest such network in the world, set the ball rolling in 2019 on letting private companies run and operate certain stations in a public-private partnership (PPP) model. The move, steered by the Indian Railway Stations Development Corporation (IRSDC) is expected to help significantly modernise parts of a decades-old system.The Railway Board, in a letter reviewed by HT, sought the opinion from all principal chief security commissioners of the Railway Protection Force (RPF) and all zonal railways on how the security infrastructure for the 90 stations should be set up.One of the options, it noted in the letter, would be to replicate the airports’ model where the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) – a government paramilitary unit – is contracted by the operator, which pays their salaries.“The airport operators not only provide and maintain the security infrastructure and equipment at the airports, but also pay for the salary and wages of the CISF personnel deployed there. Therefore, the complete cost of providing security at the airport is borne by the airport operators Therefore, Security Directorate has to take a view on how the security infrastructure, equipment, etc will be provided and maintained at a station under SFM. We may also examine if the airport model may be replicated or otherwise,” it added.According to the letter, a committee examining these details has suggested that security and access control services (barring maintenance of assets that enable them), should be kept out of the agreement with the private companies. SFM refers to the Station Facility Management that will come up following the agreement.The letter enumerated two more options that may be considered by the Security Directorate: In one of them, the SFM bears “the responsibility of provision and maintenance of security infrastructure and equipment along with the cost of manpower including (RPF 50% Government Railway Police)”.In the other option, it noted that this responsibility may be borne by the Railways instead.The railway board has sought these inputs by March 15.In October 2019, the government decided to set up a committee to draft a blueprint for transferring the operations of 150 trains and 50 railway stations to private firms. Niti Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant in a letter to then railway board chairman VK Yadav stated that an empowered group be formed to “drive the process” in a time-bound manner.“Approaches to provision of security services in infrastructure has always been a contentious issue. Initially under the airport model (Delhi and Mumbai Operation, Management and Development Agreements) the provision of security services was retained with the state, however later models provide for security infrastructure to be maintained by private parties as well,” said Deepto Roy, partner, Shardul Amarchand Mangaldas & Co.“The key principle of PPP is that the party most suited to take a risk and perform an activity should be entrusted the responsibility for that activity - this is in line with the Kelkar committee recommendations as well... given the complexities of railway security, the responsibility should be retained ideally by the government — with costs met from the revenue share. If this is not possible - significant oversight of SFM security services should be put in place,” he added.In September, the ministry said it opened the Request for Qualification process of the bidding for eight railway stations: Nagpur, Gwalior, Amritsar, Sabarmati, Nellore, Puducherry, Dehradun and Tirupati. “Private developers have shown interest and accordingly, RFQ applications for all 8 stations have been received,” the ministry said at the time.Work has also begun on the redevelopment at Gandhinagar and Habibganj and awarded contracts for redevelopment of Anand Vihar (Northern Railway), Bijwasan (Northern Railway) and Chandigarh (Northern Railway) railway stations.Railways also decided to start levying an additional fee on train fares across its redeveloped stations. The user development fee is similar to what airports charge and will be used by the national transporter for the first time.Indian Railways also plans to introduce private trains on its network in phases, with the first dozen due to start running in the 2023-24 financial year and all 151 by 2027.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-explores-privatisation-of-90-rly-stations-101615313903438.html
10-03-2021||India||Lancet publishes phase 2 trial data in boost for Covaxin’s safety credentials||Covaxin, the coronavirus vaccine made by Bharat Biotech, works better when given four weeks apart instead of two and a higher dosing – which was eventually selected for phase 3 trials and the concurrent roll-out – elicits a better immune memory, according to interim phase 2 clinical trial data published in the medical journal Lancet Infectious Diseases on Tuesday.The results were previously announced on December 23, but have now been peer-reviewed and published. Phase 2 data doesn’t help determine efficacy although it is used to confirm that the vaccine is safe and that it produces an immune reaction.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe results draw a comparison between phase 1 and phase 2 clinical trials – volunteers were given doses at two weeks in the first phase, but the interval was widened in the later phase. The study also reported findings from a long-term follow-up of phase 1 participants, which showed antibodies to persist for at least three months.“After either dose, the combined incidence of local and systemic adverse events in this study is lower than that of other Sars-CoV-2 vaccine platform candidates, and similar to that of other inactivated Sars-CoV-2 vaccine candidates,” the study says, while cautioning that a like-for-like comparison may be difficult since “other vaccine studies have enrolled different populations and have employed varying approaches to measure adverse events”.The vaccine, also known by its codename BBV152, uses an inactivated coronavirus and includes an adjuvant to train the immune system into recognising the Sars-Cov-2. On March 3, Bharat Biotech said interim phase 3 data showed the vaccine was 81% effective in preventing symptomatic Covid-19. The data is yet to be released.The latest study suggests Covaxin shows a similar safety and immunogenicity profile as other inactivated virus vaccines. “BBV152 induced antibody binding (to spike glycoprotein and nucleocapsid protein epitopes) and neutralising antibody responses that were similar to those induced by other Sars-CoV-2 inactivated vaccine candidates,” the report said.Also Read | Covid shock: Tax revenue estimate slashed by 33.5%On side effects, the report added: “The most common adverse event in the phase 2 trial was pain at the injection site, followed by headache, fatigue, and fever. No severe or life-threatening (ie, grade 4 and 5) solicited adverse events were reported”.For phase 2 clinical trials, two intramuscular doses were administered four-weeks apart in a total of 380 participants across nine hospitals in nine states in a double-blind, randomised, multicentre, to evaluate the immunogenicity and safety of Covaxin.“In the phase 2 trial, BBV152 showed better reactogenicity and safety outcomes, and enhanced humoral and cell-mediated immune responses compared with the phase 1 trial. The 6 μg with Algel-IMDG formulation has been selected for the phase 3 efficacy trial,” the paper said.Bharat Biotech has developed the whole-virion inactivated SARS-CoV-2 vaccine candidate (BBV152) in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). It is the first indigenously developed Covid-19 vaccine.The virus strain (NIV-2020-770) containing the Asp614Gly mutation, isolated from a COVID-19 patient who came in from Wuhan (China), and sequenced at ICMR-National Institute of Virology in Pune, was provided to Bharat Biotech in May last year.“The phase 3 interim results showing efficacy of almost 81% will help build confidence in the vaccine. It is natural to see the amount of interest in taking the shot that is being currently seen, especially in upper and middle class,” said Dr K Srinath Reddy, senior public health expert, and founder, Public Health Foundation of India.The Covaxin was approved for use in India by the national drugs regulator on January 3 based on its safety and immunogenicity results, and also efficacy it showed in animal studies.For the ongoing phase 3 clinical trials, the company recruited 25,800 Indian participants from across the country.Apart from Covaxin, Oxford-AstraZeneca’s Covid vaccine locally manufactured by Serum Institute of India as Covishield is currently approved for use in India.At least 23 million doses have been administered of the two vaccines during the national immunisation drive that started on January 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lancet-publishes-phase-2-trial-data-in-boost-for-covaxin-s-safety-and-efficacy-credentials-101615313904005.html
10-03-2021||India||2 million Covid-19 vaccine doses delivered in a day for the first time: Govt||India delivered more than 2 million coronavirus vaccine doses in a single day for the first time, the government said in a statement citing a briefing by the health secretary to top officials, amid efforts to further accelerate the campaign by federal as well as state officials.The Prime Minister’s principal secretary PK Misra chaired a review meeting with the chief secretaries of all states and union territories as well as top officials from ministries and departments of health, pharmaceutical, biotechnology and Niti Aayog.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe high-level meeting reviewed several aspects of the vaccination drive and states were asked to prepare a detailed roadmap for the next three months in order to maximise the coverage.“Health secretary apprised the meeting on India achieving the landmark of administering more than 20lakh doses in a single day. The country is approaching 2.5 crore total vaccination coverage, powered by the fastest recent growth in vaccination globally,” the government said in a statement.“States were asked to prepare a detailed roadmap for the next three months for achieving the same,” the statement issued by the press and information bureau added. The focus, particularly, should be on involving private sector in a big way, the states were advised.“… leverage the private sector to the maximum to enhance coverage, taking advantage of the liberal enabling guidelines issued by the Centre; registering and activating as many private facilities as possible; providing sufficient stock of vaccines necessary for these centres to work at their optimum and providing any other facilitation required,” the states were told.India aims to deliver 300 million doses to the most at-risk due to their jobs or health factors.During the meeting, held over a video conference, a variety of topics were discussed, including how states can expand capacity; on-board and operationalise as many health facilities as possible as vaccination centres, widen access across states, districts, towns and villages, and especially identify existing geographical dark-zones through geo-spatial analysis.States should also and maximise efficiency by keeping as many vaccination centres operational daily as possible, it was suggested.Also Read: Lancet publishes phase 2 trial data in boost for Covaxin’s safety and efficacy credentialsAnother important advice was to enable smooth and safe service delivery by ensuring convenient registration for citizens, maximising available slots on Co-WIN with all vaccination centres publishing sessions for up to 4 weeks in advance.States are being asked to encourage registration and prior appointments instead of walk-ins to avoid crowding at centres. This will help make it more convenient for citizen as well as giving authorities a forward view of expected demand to plan accordingly.The overall progress must be reviewed on a real-time, disaggregated basis down to the district and block level, leveraging the end-to-end data integration of the Co-WIN platform, for continuous and customized management.The stakeholders, who attended the meeting, included state chief secretaries, officers, secretaries of pharmaceuticals, biotechnology, health research, member (health), Niti Aayog and chief executive officer of the National Health Authority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-million-vaccine-doses-delivered-in-a-day-govt-101615313783412.html
10-03-2021||India||Ambani security threat: Political slugfest over death of car owner||Mumbai Maharashtra leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis on Tuesday demanded the arrest of a senior police officer in connection with the death of auto parts dealer Mansukh Hiran, linked to the vehicle found parked outside billionaire Mukesh Ambani’s residence last month with 20 sticks of gelatin and a threatening letter.Fadnavis accused the Shiv Sena-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government of shielding assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze and called for his arrest under section 201 of Indian Penal Code, which pertains to causing disappearance of evidence of offence, or giving false information. He referred to a statement by Hiran’s wife, Vimla, 43, to the Maharashtra Anti Terrorism Squad (ATS) on March 7.Also Read: NIA to probe recovery of explosive-laden vehicle outside Ambani residence“In her statement, Mansukh Hiran’s wife has said that the car found outside Antilia, industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s South Mumbai residence, was in possession of Sachin Vaze from November 20 last year. The car was given to him for use as Hiren knew Vaze who was the former’s customer. The vehicle was with Vaze before it was returned to Hiren after four months,” Fadnavis said on Tuesday.Vaze, who heads the crime intelligence unit (CIU) of the Mumbai police crime branch, did not respond to several calls and messages.An SUV with explosives was found near Ambani’s house on February 25. Hiran, a 48-year-old Thane resident, claimed it was stolen from his possession a week earlier.He was found dead in creek in Thane on March 5 and police found handkerchiefs stuffed in his mouth. Vimla said her husband was a good swimmer and could not have died by drowning. “Taking into consideration all the above circumstances, I am sure that my husband was murdered…I suspect Sachin Vaze could have committed the said murder,” read her statement.Fadnavis’s comments in the assembly caused an uproar among legislators, who traded accusations and brought up other unrelated cases, including the death by suicide of Dadra Nagar Haveli parliamentarian Mohan Delkar in Mumbai last month. Later, state home minister Anil Deshmukh announced a special investigation team (SIT) will be formed to probe Delkar’s death by suicide. In his note, Delkar had mentioned an administrator of the Union Territory who was a previous minister in Gujarat.Vimla’s statement, reviewed by HT, said the SUV belonged to a certain Peter Newton who was known to Hiran. Hiran, who knew Vaze well, lent him the Scorpio in November 2020. Vaze’s driver dropped off the car at Hiran’s shop on February 5.On February 17, the statement said Hiran took the vehicle towards south Mumbai but poor steering prompted Hiran to park the car on the side of the road. He came back next day with a mechanic but found the car stolen and lodged a police complaint.On February 25, he identified the SUV as the same one found outside the Ambani residence. For the next three days, he was questioned and told his wife that Vaze was with him, said her statement. On March 2, Hiran wrote a letter to various authorities complaining of harassment by police and media. Vimla said she asked him if he was tortured, which Hiran denied.The following day, Hiran told her that Vaze had advised him to get arrested and he would be out on bail within a few days, according to Vimla’s statement. On March 4, Vimala said her husband returned from his shop at 8.30pm and told her that he was going to meet a police officer.Vimla told police that when she tried calling her husband at 11pm, his mobile phone was switched off. The next day, Hiran’s body was found.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ambani-security-threat-political-slugfest-over-death-of-car-owner-101615313663373.html
