11-03-2021||India||Try 16+ as adults in POCSO cases: Panel||The Union government should reduce the age for trying people as adults under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act from 18 to 16 to check increasing crimes against children, a top panel has recommended, according to people familiar with the matter.The committee noted that cases registered under POCSO rose from 32,608 in 2017 to 47,325 in 2019 – an increase of nearly 45% in two years — and made important recommendations to check cyber crime, improve the condition of sex workers and increase police accountability in cases of crimes against women. It also noted that the stringent law was often misused to criminalise consensual relationships, the people quoted above added.Currently, someone between 16 and 18 can be tried as an adult, under POCSO or the Indian Penal Code, only if they are charged with heinous crimes such as murder or rape. The decision usually lies with a juvenile justice board. If tried as juveniles, they are sent to a reform home, not a jail, and a process of rehabilitation is also drawn up.The people quoted above said the members of the parliamentary panel on home affairs felt that juveniles convicted of minor sexual offences may grow up to commit more heinous crimes if left unchecked. Therefore, it asked the Union home ministry and women and child development ministry to see if the age limit could be reduced to 16.The recommendations come at a time when there has been an alarming rise in cases of teenage boys raping or assaulting very young girls, some aged 3 or 4. Several experts say this trend necessitates the move to reduce the threshold for trying suspects as adults. However, some other experts argue the reducing the age would be contrary to the jurisprudence of juvenile justice.The panel’s recommendations will now be tabled in Parliament as early as next week.The panel also noted that there was potential of misuse of the law, citing information from states about cases where an 18-year-old boy has been arrested under POCSO for marrying a juvenile girl with her consent. The panel also commended Uttar Pradesh for its good conviction rate under the law.POCSO, enacted in 2012, was brought in to check mounting crimes against children and lists the maximum punishment as life imprisonment and death. It defines a child as anyone under 18. The Juvenile Justice Act, 2000 – which governs proceedings against minors in India – was amended in 2015 to try some juveniles between 16 and 18 as adults if they were accused of heinous crimes that attracted a minimum punishment of seven years. The change came in the backdrop of the 2012 Delhi gang rape case, where one of the accused was 17 and tried as a minor.“For heinous offence, children over 16 can be tried as adult, the provision already exists….This recommendation does not take into account numerous studies and the Tamil Nadu government’s submission that Pocso is being utilised to criminalise adolescents in consensual relationships,” said child rights expert Swagata Raha.Enakshi Ganguly, co-founder of HAQ Centre for Child Rights, warned of the possibility of criminalising consensual sex. “We are seeing a spurt in such incidents across the government. Are we going to institutionalise this now? We need to be in a preventive mode, not a penal one.”The people quoted above said the panel noted that cybercrime against women and children rose from 4,330 in 2017 to 8,684 in 2019 and transcended geographical boundaries. Therefore the panel recommended that law enforcement agencies across the country coordinate to check such crimes, the people added, on condition of anonymity.The panel’s discussion also focused on criminals using Virtual Private Network (VPN) – which allow a user to mask their location – to access the dark web, bypass cybersecurity walls and remain anonymous. It recommended that the Union government permanently identify and block such VPNs.The committee received several submissions about women complainants finding it difficult to lodge police complaints and suggested strict action against police officers and law enforcement personnel who refused to file such cases, or registered false cases. The panel recognised that the government did not support the sanctity of sex work but highlighted the need to safeguard them from violence, protect their rights and provide them legal aid.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/try-16-as-adults-in-pocso-cases-panel-101615487100445.html
11-03-2021||India||Unions issue ‘indefinite strike’ notice to Vizag steel plant||Hyderabad: Worker unions of the Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Limited (RINL), also known as Visakhapatnam Steel Plant, on Thursday issued a notice to the company’s management, stating they would go on an indefinite strike after March 25, in protest against the Centre’s decision to privatise the steel plant. The unions also demanded repeal of the approval accorded on January 27 by the Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA) for 100 per cent strategic sale of the RINL and scrapping of the inter-ministerial group constituted to study the strategic sale. Visakha Ukku Parirakshana Porata Samithi (struggle committee to protect the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant), a joint action committee of all trade unions, served the notice to chairman and managing director of RINL P K Rath, in accordance with the provisions contained in Sub-section (1) of Section 22 of the Industrial Dispute Act, 1947. The JAC said as per the rules, they were giving a notice of 14 days to resolve their issues. “We propose to call a strike on or after March 25, 2021 for the reasons mentioned in the notice,” the JAC said. The trade unions also demanded scrapping of the memorandum of understanding (MoU) signed with South Korean steel major POSCO on October 23, 2019, for floating a joint venture for the construction of an integrated steel plant on RINL lands. They asked the RINL management to suspend the recently concluded memorandum of understanding with National Buildings Construction Corporation (NBCC) India Ltd for redevelopment and monetisation of land parcels of the steel plant located at Maddilapalem in Visakhapatnam. When contacted, RINL official spokesperson R P Sharma said the management has just received the notice adding that it would try to convince the employees to withdraw their strike call. “The management will call the trade union leaders for talks shortly for negotiations. After all, operation of the steel plant is a question of bread and butter for the employees. They cannot stall the production,” Sharma said.They also demanded that all the left-out R-Card (rehabilitation card) holders (those who had given away their lands in 1980s in lieu of the promised jobs in the steel plant) be given permanent employment. The JAC of trade unions, who stepped up their agitation against Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s categorical announcement in the Lok Sabha on Monday that the Centre would go ahead with 100 per cent disinvestment in the RINL, are planning to follow the strategy of farmers protesting on Delhi borders, demanding repeal of controversial farm legislations. They are planning to invite farmers’ leader Rakesh Tikait and others to a rally in Visakhapatnam on March 28 to address the steel plant workers. “We are studying their model of agitation and if possible, we shall adopt their strategy to wage a long-drawn battle to prevent privatisation of the steel plant,” trade union leader J Ayodhya Ramu said. The main reason for the disinvestment, according to the RINL management, was that the steel plant had been consistently making losses over a period of time. In 2017-18, it suffered a loss of ₹1,369 crore. Though it could recover briefly by making a net profit of ₹97 crore in 2018-19, it plunged into huge losses to the extent of ₹3,910 crore in 2019-20. Meanwhile, support has been pouring in from various quarters to the agitating workers of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant. Popular Telugu film star and former Union minister Chiranjeevi expressed his solidarity with the steel plant workers. “Visakha steel plant is a symbol of numerous sacrifices. It is the right of the Andhra people and their self-respect. Let’s rise above parties and regions. With a steely resolve, let’s save Visakha steel plant,” Chiranjeevi tweeted late on Tuesday, adding that it was intolerable to declare that the plant was being privatised because it was in losses while all these years it had been deprived of captive mines. Telangana Rashtra Samithi working president K T Rama Rao, too, announced that he would stand by the people of Visakhapatnam in their fight against privatisation of the VSP. “If necessary, with permission of chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, we will visit Visakhapatnam to extend our support,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unions-issue-indefinite-strike-notice-to-vizag-steel-plant-101615487074296.html
11-03-2021||India||Woman injured herself: Zomato delivery person on assault case||Bengaluru: A Zomato delivery person who was booked for allegedly punching a woman, on Thursday claimed that she injured herself after accidentally hitting her face with her ring. Talking to Hindustan Times from Electronic police station in Bengaluru, the accused, identified as Kamaraj, said, “As soon I reached her home, I told her that I was stuck in traffic as I had to deliver another order. I apologised for the delay. She was very rude... She said she didn’t want to hear any excuses and that I didn’t deliver food within time. She then took the food from me and refused to pay, saying it should have come within the time mentioned.” He said fearing he would have to pay ₹198 for the food, he asked her for money. “I told her I am not her slave and that she should behave with respect. She started shouting at me saying ‘what will you do?” Kamaraj told HT. On Wednesday, Bengaluru-based content creator Hitesha Chandranee had posted a video on social media in which she alleged that the Zomato delivery person assaulted her following an argument over a delay in delivery. She also claimed that Kamaraj barged into her house, verbally abused her and punched her in her face. “He started screaming at me, saying ‘Am I a slave or what? You are asking me to wait here.’ It was really threatening for me. I tried to shut my door, but he pushed the door, took my order from the table by entering my home, punched me in my face and ran away,” she said on Wednesday. Kamaraj claimed that while he went to deliver the food, the woman was on call with Zomato customer care and she cancelled the order. “Since the order was cancelled, I was asked to pick up the food to return. When I was asked for the parcel back, she refused. As I insisted and took the food back, she began cursing in foul language and threw her sandals at me,” he alleged. He added that unlike the woman’s claim, it was she who began physically assaulting him. “As she was hitting me, I tried to block using my hands. When she tried to push my hand away, a ring on her finger hit her nose,” he said. “I told the police that if you look at the cut, you can see that it was not caused by a punch, but something sharp. If you look at the video, you can see the ring on her finger,” Kamaraj said, adding, “Yes, there is a mistake from my end, that I was late. But what did I do to get hit by sandals or get dragged to a police station?” Responding to Kamaraj’s claims, Chandranee said she did not demand any refund from him. She added that she did not “return the parcel to the delivery executive, even though the order was cancelled, because he had pushed the door”. “I held onto the packet so that I can make him stay back while I called for help, since he had pushed the door. About his claim that I attacked him first, why didn’t he seek help from others in the building, why did he run away?” she asked.She added that the ring on her hand, which has a stone on it, didn’t cause the injury. “It is impossible for the ring on my finger to hit my nose in such an awkward angle. It was he who attacked me first,” she said.Meanwhile, Electronic City Police have registered a case under Indian Penal Code sections 325 (Punishment for voluntarily causing grievous hurt) and 504 (Intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) against Kamaraj. He was arrested on Wednesday and let off on station bail the same day. Talking about the investigation, officials said that statements from both parties are being collected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-injured-herself-zomato-delivery-person-on-assault-case-101615486954914.html
11-03-2021||India||B’luru among top 10 cities with maximum active Covid-19 cases||Bengaluru With 5,825 active Covid-19 cases, Bengaluru is among the top 10 worst affected districts in the country, according to the Union health ministry. Bengaluru accounts for most of the 7,831 active cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Karnataka and 12,381 deaths (until 5 pm on Thursday). “In the last 24 hours in neighboring Maharashtra, more than 13,000 cases of coronavirus have been discovered, which bothers me. Consider this a cautious bell. No matter if it is a festival, or any event, wear a mask and maintain physical distance. Stay away from crowds,” K. Sudhakar, Karnataka’s health, family welfare and medical education minister said in a Twitter post on Thursday. Bengaluru reported 492 new cases on Wednesday. The state reports the total number of cases in 24 hours. There are a total of 189,226 active cases in the country while 158,189 people have succumbed to the infection so far, the Union health ministry said. Karnataka, which was one of the first states to impose the lockdown last year, was also among the first to relax restrictions to allow economic activities to resume in the cash-starved state. Bengaluru, with a population of over 10 million, has let its guard down in the past few months despite the threat of the novel coronavirus disease being just as potent as last year. Stating that some private schools in the state have restarted physical classes without government’s approval, Sudhakar warned them of strict action. Among those who violate Covid-19 regulations include the political class in Karnataka with leaders across parties holding meetings, public gatherings and other events in the last few months. Besides, the budget session of the Karnataka legislature is currently underway. Meanwhile, the state has also confirmed 29 people infected with the UK strain of virus and one with the South African strain. Bengaluru, which has seen a steady rise in cases, has recorded a total of 409,655 Covid-19 cases since March 8 last year, when the first case in the state was reported in the city. It has accounted for 4,514 out of the total 12,381 deaths due to the infection in the state, according to the health department data. Other districts in the state with high active cases include Belagavi with 97 cases, Dakshina Kannada 213, Kalaburagi 242, Tumakuru 198, Mysuru 178 and Udupi with 124 cases. Marshals of the BBMP (Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike, the city’s civic body) on Thursday visited several temples to ensure people adhered to the Covid-19 guidelines on the occasion of Mahashivratri. Lack of proper safety precautions, parties and other public events have given rise to clusters in the city, according to officials and elected representatives. Bengaluru has, so far, conducted tests on nearly eight million people, including 35,790 on Wednesday. According to BBMP data, the city has an active rate of 1.35% with 0.87% fatality rate. The Karnataka government has banned all late-night parties in the wake of surge in Covid-19 cases. So far, Karnataka has conducted 34,359 vaccination drives, in which 1,174,247 people have been vaccinated, according to government data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bluru-among-top-10-cities-with-maximum-active-covid-19-cases-101615486954355.html
11-03-2021||India||5 years on, Geeta may be reunited with family||BhopalHearing and speech impaired Geeta, who was repatriated from Pakistan in 2015, might soon be reunited with her family in Maharashtra, an official in Madhya Pradesh’s social justice department said on Wednesday. A DNA test to ascertain the parentage is yet to be done, Suchita Tirkey, joint director of MP’s social justice department. Geeta was found on the Samjhauta Express in Lahore in 2000. Since then, she was living at the Karachi centre of Edhi Welfare Trust, from where she was repatriated to India with the help of late former foreign affairs minister Sushma Swaraj.Since her return to India, more than 24 couples claimed Geeta was their daughter. However, DNA tests of none of them matched with her. Gyanendra Purohit, convenor of the Indore centre of Anand Foundation said that 71-year-old Meena Dinkar Pandhare, a resident of Maharashtra’s Naigaon, has claimed Geeta is her daughter from her first marriage. “Everything which Geeta shared about her childhood memories -- sugarcane fields, maternity home in front of a railway station, diesel engine and food habits -- matched with that of Pandhare’s village,” Purohit said. We believed Meena’s claim when she said that Geeta must have a burnt mark on her stomach, Purohit said. “Geeta was not keen to confirm the birthmark but when a woman police constable checked, she found the exact mark on her stomach,” he said. Meena lived in Jintur in Parbhani district when her daughter, Radha, went missing. In July last year, officials at the Anand Foundation began a fresh search for Geeta’s parents with the help of her facial features, food habits and childhood memories. In October 2020, when they rescued another girl from MP’s Dewas district, the officials realized that Geeta may be from Maharashtra. “The girl also had a right nose piercing like Geeta. We asked her whereabouts and the girl informed that she belonged to Marathawada. We got in touch with Pahal Foundation of Parbhani in Marathawada, which also works for speech and hearing-impaired people, and sought their help to find Geeta’s parents,” said Purohit.“In December, Meena, who is illiterate and knows only Marathi, contacted us that her daughter went missing in 1999-2000. Geeta also confirmed everything Meena said but when she came to know about her economic condition, she was reluctant to move in with her mother. However, the mother visits the shelter frequently with food,” he said. Pahal foundation convener Aniket Salgaoncar said, “We are happy that Geeta found her mother. But she doesn’t want to move with her mother, and it is obvious because she met her mother after 20 years. She wanted to do a job so we are providing skill training to her.” Bilquees Edhi of the Edhi Welfare Trust said she has been in touch with Geeta, media reports said. “She has been in touch with me and this weekend she finally told me the good news about meeting her real mother,” Bilquees said.“Her real name is Radha Waghmare and she found her mother in Naigaon village in the state of Maharashtra,” news agency PTI quoted her as saying.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-years-on-geeta-may-be-reunited-with-family-101615486654401.html
11-03-2021||India||Second Rafale squadron to be raised in Hasimara in April: Officials||NEW DELHI: The Indian Air Force is ready to raise its second Rafale squadron at Hasimara in West Bengal next month in line with its original induction plan for the French-origin fighters, people familiar with the developments said on Thursday. The second squadron will be raised in mid-April after the first one has been fully raised in Ambala, said one of the officials cited above.India ordered 36 warplanes from France (equivalent of two squadrons) in September 2016 for ₹59,000 crore under a government-to-government deal. IAF’s Ambala-based Golden Arrows Squadron has already inducted 11 Rafale jets so far. Both Rafale squadrons will have 18 jets each.“Ten more jets are expected to arrive in India from France by April-end. With this, the first squadron will be fully formed and the raising of the second squadron will begin,” said a second official.All the 36 planes are likely to join the IAF’s fighter fleet by the year-end. The 11 Rafales inducted so far arrived in three batches from France between July 2020 and January 2021.“Located in the crucial Siliguri corridor, the Hasimara airbase will cover both central and eastern Tibet. The Rafale will augment and add a bigger punch along with the IAF’s Su-30 MKIs which are already based in the Brahmaputra valley,” said Air Marshal Anil Chopra (retd), director general, Centre for Air Power Studies.The IAF has operated the fighter jets in the Ladakh theatre where the military is on high alert amid a border standoff with China since early May 2020 and where both sides are negotiating disengagement of troops at friction points along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC).India’s Rafale jets are equipped with modern weapons such as the Meteor beyond visual range air-to-air missiles, Mica multi-mission air-to-air missiles, Scalp deep-strike cruise missiles and the Hammer smart weapon.Meanwhile, the commanding officer of the Rafale squadron at Ambala, Group Captain Harkirat Singh, is being posted to the eastern sector to oversee the raising and operationalisation of the second squadron, people familiar with development said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/second-rafale-squadron-to-be-raised-in-hasimara-in-april-officials-101615486534404.html
11-03-2021||India||Eco-tourism projects: Experts flag concern over easing of guidelines||NEW DELHI The environment ministry’s forest advisory committee last month eased norms for ecotourism projects by allowing them to build “non-permanent” structures in protected areas without permission from the central government -- a move that experts fear could cause developers of such projects to construct a rash of the same in the absence of a definition for “non-permanent”, something the committee is yet to decide on. The decision that only construction of permanent structures will be considered to be “non-forestry” activity and require prior approval of the central government, and that no central government approval is required for other eco-tourism activities involving non-permanent constructions was taken in a meeting of the forest advisory committee on February 17, according to the minutes of the meeting uploaded on the Parivesh website on Thursday. According to the minutes, the issue was first considered by FAC in its meeting held on April 23, 2019 and again on January 23, 2020. FAC in its meeting held on April 23, 2020 recommended that only construction of permanent structures for the purpose of ecotourism on forest land be considered as non-forestry activity, requiring prior approval of the central government. But the minutes added that two other clauses were still causing ambiguity. On February 17, FAC decided to delete two clauses: 12.13 and 1.18 in guidelines on forest conservation published in ministry’s Handbook on Forest (Conservation) Act 1980 and Forest (Conservation) Rules 2003. Section 12.13 of the handbook states that “ecotourism is a non-forestry activity and will be allowed in Protected Areas if the said activities are part of the management plan/ tiger conservation plan and are duly approved by the Central Government,” and Section 1.18 states that “ecotourism is a non-forestry activity requiring prior approval under FC Act.” Independent experts said this could mean building of temporary structures and trails in eco-sensitive zones which will impact both wildlife and rights of forest dwellers.“It has been decided to consider eco-tourism to be a forestry activity. It will be considered a non-forestry activity only when it involves construction of permanent structures. We are yet to conclude what exactly is a permanent structure. It’s a subjective matter. For example, if local materials are used or bamboo structures are created those are also eco-friendly in nature,” said a senior official from the forest conservation division of the environment ministry.“With a view to remove ambiguity and to bring in more clarity about nature of structures to be considered permanent for the purpose of ecotourism in forest areas, the matter was deliberated at various levels in the ministry. Based on the consultation with concerned divisions and officers of the environment ministry, attempt was made to define the permanent structure, but appropriate definition has not been finalized. Further it is observed that the ministry is in the process of formulating ecotourism guidelines to regulate ecotourism activities in the forest area,” the minutes state.“This clarification from FAC is significant. Ecotourism activities can include creation of temporary or permanent infrastructure which can cause fragmentation of forest areas as well as can disturb both livelihood use and areas important for wildlife. Such infrastructure can include internal roads, camping areas, forest trails and other support facilities including that related sanitation or recreation. Therefore, a precautionary approach that draws from wildlife, forest conservation and forest rights related legislations will be important to inform such an interpretation,” said Kanchi Kohli, legal researcher, Centre for Policy Research responding to the minutes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ecotourism-projects-experts-flag-concern-over-easing-of-guidelines-101615486294969.html
11-03-2021||India||Cong releases list of 25 constituencies for TN, to face BJP in 5 seats||ChennaiThe Congress on Thursday announced the 25 constituencies it will contest in the April 6 Tamil Nadu elections. “We have received whatever we desired,” Tamil Nadu Congress Committee chief KS Alagiri told reporters outside the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam headquarters in Chennai after finalizing the constituencies. The DMK and the Congress are contesting the upcoming polls in alliance. “DMK and Congress have 108 sitting MLAs together and while we have retained most of incumbent constituencies, the rest has been shared with our allies,” a DMK leader part of the seven-member seat sharing committee said on condition of anonymity. “We are left to confirm constituencies only with CPI (M).” The DMK was also scheduled to release its election manifesto on Thursday, but it has been delayed.“We are likely to release the constituencies and candidates list Friday,” a senior DMK leader said on condition of anonymity. On if the DMK would have an advantage in releasing its candidates list after the AIADMK, the leader said, “Their list is irrelevant to us. We have our own way and formula of fielding candidates.” The Congress list shows that the party will be in direct contest with the Bharatiya Janata Party in five seats-- Coimbatore South, Karaikudi, Ooty, Vilavancode, Colachel. The two parties will also face off in the bypoll to the Kanyakumari Lok Sabha seat, which fell vacant after Congress MP H Vasanthakumar died due to Covid-19 complications last year.The BJP is contesting the upcoming elections in alliance with the ruling All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam and has so far only identified the 20 constituencies it will contest on. The AIADMK, meanwhile, has already released its list of 178 candidates for the polls. The party on Thursday signed an agreement of six seats with GK Vasan’s Tamil Maanila Congress. It also allotted seven seats to smaller parties. In a related development, AIADMK’s Sattur MLA MSR Rajavarman quit the party on Thursday in protest against the denial of a ticket and joined the AMMK. The AMMK is now fielding Rajavarman from the constituency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-releases-list-of-25-constituencies-for-tn-to-face-bjp-in-5-seats-101615486294376.html
11-03-2021||India||Injury to Mamata latest flashpoint between TMC, BJP||Kolkata: The Trinamool Congress (TMC) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) were locked in a political tussle on Thursday over injuries sustained by chief minister Mamata Banerjee and the incident dominated popular discussions in the state roughly three weeks before the high-stakes assembly polls. The TMC said it will make the “deliberate attack” on Banerjee a poll issue and organise silent protests across the state from Friday.“We are going to organise silent rallies in every block and wards across the state on Friday between 3 pm and 5 pm. People carrying black flags, wearing black badges and covering their mouth with black cloth would participate in the rally,” said Partha Chatterjee, state minister. Since Wednesday night, TMC workers staged protests, blocked roads and burnt tyres in every district. Clashes were also reported between TMC and BJP workers in some places though no one was seriously injured, police said.TMC workers also performed pujas at various temples and offered prayers at mosques seeking her speedy recovery. Many other leaders referred to previous attacks on Banerjee and said it will be a major issue in the polls.“The only woman chief minister in the country was injured and attacked. The Prime Minister and the Union home minister however didn’t show the courtesy to call up. We condemn this,” said Saugata Roy, TMC parliamentarian. From her hospital bed, Banerjee said she would hit the campaign trail again in two or three days and start attending party meetings, on a wheelchair if needed. The TMC also appealed to party workers to maintain peace.“We appeal to all our workers to not let their emotions overflow. We understand your concerns and we’ll keep updating about Hon’ble @MamataOfficial’s health. We request to maintain peace and not resort to means, which Didi would not approve of. Let us all pray for her speedy recovery,” the party tweeted.During the day, the BJP mounted its attack on Banerjee. It demanded that pictures of the incident be made public and sought a Central Bureau of Investigation probe into the incident. “Even our workers had sustained injuries. They underwent treatment and then returned to give a befitting a reply. They didn’t stage any drama. But she doesn’t have the strength to give a befitting reply anymore and hence only staging a drama. She has done PhD in drama,” Dilip Ghosh, state BJP president, told reporters.Later in the day, BJP leaders said they would not indulge in any politics over her injuries. “We will not do any kind of politics over the chief minister’s injuries. We pray for her early recovery and return to the political stage,” said BJP spokesman Samik Bhattacharya.Biswanath Chakraborty, professor of political science at Rabindra Bharati University, said all will depend on whether there is a strong anti-incumbency against Banerjee. “If the anti-incumbency factor is strong against Mamata and people have decided that BJP can be an alternative force, then it won’t matter whether she fights the election on a wheel chair. But if Mamata is still acceptable and people still wants her as the chief minister then the TMC could encash from this,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/injury-to-mamata-latest-flashpoint-between-tmc-bjp-101615486174294.html
11-03-2021||India||Left minister ‘regrets’ Sabarimala incidents||Thiruvananthapuram Kerala temple affairs minister Kadakampally Surendran on Thursday said “incidents” at the Sabarimala shrine in 2018 over the entry of women devotees pained him and shouldn’t have happened, prompting opposition parties to blame him and the ruling Left government for the violence and protests that lashed the temple three years ago. Addressing mediapersons, Surendran said the final verdict of the Supreme Court on the issue would be implemented only after consultations with believers, political parties and the general public.“The incidents that took place in Sabarimala in 2018 was something which had pained all of us. It should never have happened. It has pained everyone...it has pained me also,” Surendran said. In 2018, the apex court overturned decades-old customs to allow women of menstruating age to enter the hill shrine, triggering massive protests and five shutdowns during the three-month long annual pilgrimage season in 2018 after the state government tried to enforce the verdict. Nearly a dozen women between 10 and 50 were stopped from entering the temple.In 2019, the top court referred the review petitions to a larger bench, which is yet to begin hearings.“The case is before a larger bench of the Supreme Ccourt and once the final verdict comes the government will consult all,” said the minister, who is seeking re-election from Kazhakoottam constituency in the April 6 polls.He also pointed out that the Pinarayi Vijayan-led Left Democratic Front (LDF) government recently withdrew all cases that were not of a serious criminal nature in connection with the Sabarimala agitation.The issue has been raked up by the opposition Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) ahead of the state elections. The Congress has said it will bring in a law to negate the SC order, and the BJP has promised to remove government control from all shrines in Kerala.The BJP accused Surendran of presiding over the attacks on innocent devotees, saying “he won’t be forgiven even if takes thousand dips in river Ganga”.“Let him first withdraw the affidavit filed in the Supreme Court that vitiated the whole issue. He was the temple affairs minister when innocent devotees were attacked for chanting hymns. It is nothing but cheap stunt for votes,” said BJP state president K Surendran. The BJP leader was jailed for over a month during the agitation. Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala sought an apology from Vijayan. Vijayan had said the government had not erred even after the ruling CPI(M) admitted that lapses had occurred in the handling of the Sabarimala issue, he said.“So, the chief minister himself should publicly admit his mistake and apologise to the people,” the Congress leader said. “Can the CM assure that no woman would be allowed to enter the hill shrine violating the customs, in future?” the leader of opposition.The ruling LDF received flak from various sections after the violent protests and suffered a drubbing in 2019 Lok Sabha elections, winning just one of the 20 seats in the state.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/left-minister-regrets-sabarimala-incidents-101615486115776.html
11-03-2021||India||Karnataka cops may soon get access to facial tech||An inconspicuous allocation of ₹699 crore in Karnataka’s latest budget to install 7,500 surveillance cameras in Bengaluru is likely to enable the state capital’s police to introduce facial recognition technology and machine-learning based video monitoring, officials said, even as experts flagged privacy concerns stemming from the possible plan.While the project has been in the pipeline for three years, Bengaluru Police officials said the latest funding announcement by the state government was a crucial development.A senior police officer said on condition of anonymity that the 7,500 cameras will include fixed day-and-night surveillance cameras, body-worn cameras and drones equipped with high-resolution image capturing devices. The police will also procure facial recognition cameras and registration plate recognition devices. All cameras will be connected to a 40-seat Command and Control Centre, with two centres that will be mobile.The 7,500 cameras are only the front-end of the entire project. According to another senior officer, close to 30% of the funds will be used to create a back end . The officer said that to optimise the CCTV network, the police will introduce technologies such as facial recognition.“We want to have surveillance capability where a vehicle spotted at one traffic signal can be identified and tagged so that other cameras can trace the vehicle and predict its possible path. Similarly, we want to be able to track persons who are of interest using the technology,” the second officer added, asking not to be named.He said that the proposed network will create the capability to go through recorded footage and identify patterns. “The technology will help us go through hours of footage and find patterns such as cars with a certain colour or all the buses that passed through one area.”The officer explained that the system would depend on the footage collected from the CCTV cameras installed across the city.“Apart from the CCTV cameras operated by the police, the Karnataka Public Safety Act gives us access to CCTVs of any establishment, which gets at least 100 visitors a day.In the case of a situation where CCTV footage needs to be analysed in real-time or in retrospect, it will be done at the command centre. The same footage or analysis can be sent to respective police stations as well... using an internal network,” he said.Vidushi Marda, a lawyer who works on emerging technologies, said that facial recognition and other similarly placed biometric applications are increasingly becoming popular with law enforcement agencies.“As these systems contemplate collecting, analysing sensitive personal data, and basing consequential decisions on these inferences, keep in mind that these technologies are not silver bullets but rather fallible and often clunky in how they operate on the ground, lending a whole new layer of concerns in accuracy. In the absence of a data protection framework, this is a worrying prospect.”“The assumption of the legality of these systems needs to be meaningfully scrutinised as well; in my reading, there is currently no legal framework from which these systems draw their legitimacy,” she said.“Most recently, the Lucknow Police also announced plans to use emotion recognition technologies to identify ‘distressed’ women on the streets.”A senior Bengaluru Police officer, however, said that the technology will be used only for detection and surveillance related to a crime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-cops-may-soon-get-access-to-facial-tech-101615485768033.html
11-03-2021||India||Afghan foreign minister Haneef Atmar to visit India on March 22||Afghan foreign minister Mohammad Haneef Atmar is set to visit India on March 22 against the backdrop of a fresh US initiative to find a political settlement in war-torn Afghanistan, people familiar with developments said on Thursday.Atmar will travel to Delhi after a meeting of the “extended troika” on Afghanistan convened by Russia on March 18, and the visit will provide him an opportunity to exchange notes on recent developments related to the troubled peace process with his Indian counterpart S Jaishankar, the people said on condition of anonymity.There has been a flurry of developments related to Afghanistan over the past few days after US secretary of state Antony Blinken’s letter to President Ashraf Ghani outlining the next steps in the peace process and a draft “peace agreement” were accessed by Afghanistan’s Tolo News channel.The US special representative for Afghanistan reconciliation, Zalmay Khalilzad, spoke to Jaishankar on phone on March 7 and visited Islamabad the following day. Khalilzad met Pakistan Army chief Gen Qamar Bajwa and stressed the need to “accelerate progress towards a just and durable peace in Afghanistan”, an official US statement said.Blinken’s letter, which hasn’t been denied by the US or Afghanistan, outlined four elements as part of a high-level diplomatic effort to move toward a political settlement and a permanent ceasefire. These elements include asking the UN to convene a meeting of Russia, China, Pakistan, Iran, India and the US to discuss a unified approach on Afghanistan, and the Turkish government hosting a meeting of the Afghan government and the Taliban to finalise a peace agreement.The US has also prepared a 90-day proposal for reduction in violence, while the draft peace agreement talks of the formation of a transitional government involving the Taliban.India has been kept out of the March 18 meeting of the “extended troika” called by Russia. The original members of the troika – Russia, the US and China – will be joined by representatives of Pakistan, the Afghan government and the Taliban. People familiar with developments said India had been kept in the loop about Russia’s plans to convene this meeting.The people said the Russian side expects to include India in troika consultations at a later stage as part of the ongoing efforts to forge regional consensus on the Afghan peace process.India, which is yet to open a channel with the Taliban, has persistently called for an Afghan-led, Afghan-owned and Afghan-controlled peace process which leads to a settlement that preserves the gains and democratic processes established over the past two decades. India has key stakes in peace and stability in Afghanistan, having pledged $3 billion for the reconstruction and development of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/afghan-foreign-minister-haneef-atmar-to-visit-india-on-march-22-101615483362687.html
11-03-2021||India||China parliament nod to dam near Arunachal||Beijing: China on Thursday gave the go-ahead to the construction of a dam and hydropower plant on the lower reaches of the Yarlung Zangbo river in Tibet, close to the border with Arunachal Pradesh, labelling it as a key project.Rising in the Tibet Autonomous Region (TAR), the Yarlung Zangbo flows into Arunachal Pradesh as Siang, and then as Brahmaputra in Assam before flowing into Bangladesh.India has expressed concerns over four planned dams on the upper and middle reaches. However, some officials say that constructions may not impact the quantity of the Brahmaputra’s flows to a large extent.The project was approved by China’s rubber-stamp parliament, the National People’s Congress (NPC), at its closing session on Thursday as part of the country’s 14th Five-Year Plan (FYP) (2021-25) for National Economical and Social Development and the Long-Range Objectives Through the Year 2035.The project was first announced in November last year.At the time, China said it was within its legitimate rights to build a dam on the lower reaches of the river, also called Yarlung Tsangpo, close to the India border but gave the assurance that the hydropower project will take into account the interests of downstream countries such as India and Bangladesh.This week, at least two top Chinese officials spoke about the importance of the project during the just-concluded annual session of China’s NPC.He Lifeng, the director of China’s top planning body, the National Development and Reform Commission (NDRC), said “the development of hydropower on the lower reaches of the Yarlung Zangbo river” is a world-class landmark project alongside the Sichuan-Tibet railway and the coastal railway project along the Yangtze river.Last Saturday, Che Dalha, deputy Communist Party chief of TAR had said authorities should “strive to begin construction this year”.“Comprehensive planning and environmental impact assessments for the project should be approved as soon as possible,” he said on Saturday, according to a press release quoted by Reuters and published Monday on an official regional government website.A TAR government report published in January mentioned hydropower development in the lower reaches of the Yarlung Zangbo River several times.The new dam’s ability to generate hydropower could be three times that of central China’s Three Gorges Dam, which has the largest installed hydropower capacity in the world.“China will build a hydropower project on the Yarlung Zangbo River, one of the major waters in Asia that also passes through India and Bangladesh…,” the state-run tabloid Global Times said in a report on the project in November last year.“There is no parallel in history (of the project… it will be a historic opportunity for the Chinese hydropower industry,” Yan Zhiyong, chairman of the Power Construction Corp of China, or POWERCHINA, said then.The paperwork on the dam began with POWERCHINA on October 16 signing a strategic cooperation agreement covering the 14th Five-Year Plan with the TAR government.When asked in December about the project and its impact on lower riparian countries, Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Hua Chunying brushed aside apprehensions.“Hydropower development in the lower reaches of Yarlung Zangbo river is China’s legitimate right. When it comes to use and development of cross-border rivers, China always acts responsibly. We have a policy featuring development and conservation, and all projects will go through science-based planning and assessment with due consideration for its impact downstream and taking into account interests of upstream and downstream regions,” she said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-parliament-nod-to-dam-near-arunachal-101615485394249.html
11-03-2021||India||75 years of freedom: Kejriwal to inaugurate 75 weeks of celebrations tomorrow||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal will address the ‘Freedom@75’ programme of the Delhi government on Friday as part of commemorating the 75 years of independence of the country through 75 weeks of celebrations. The programme will take place at Central Park in Connaught Place on March 12 at 6pm, the chief minister informed on Thursday.“Hon'ble Chief Minister Shri @ArvindKejriwal will address 'Freedom@75' program of the Delhi govt. The program will be held at Central Park, Connaught Place on Friday, March 12 at 6 PM, and will commence 75 weeks of celebrations to mark India's 75th year of independence,” the chief minister’s office tweeted.Hon'ble Chief Minister Shri @ArvindKejriwal will address 'Freedom@75' program of the Delhi govt. The program will be held at Central Park, Connaught Place on Friday, March 12 at 6 PM, and will commence 75 weeks of celebrations to mark India's 75th year of independence.The 75 weeks of celebrations of 75 years of Independence begins from March 12 as it marks the day of the beginning of Dandi March by Mahatma Gandhi in 1930.The government of India will also be inaugurating curtain-raiser activities of ‘Azadi ka Amrut Mahotsav’ or India@75 on Friday, 75 weeks prior to August 15, 2022. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will flag off the ‘Padyatra’ or Freedom March from Sabarmati Ashram, Ahmedabad, the place from where Mahatma Gandhi began the salt march to protest against the salt tax imposed by the Britishers.Last week, the Delhi government had announced special initiatives during its budget presentation to mark the 75 years of independence of the country. The ₹69,000-crore budget of the national Capital has earmarked ₹10 crore each for the programmes and events on the life of freedom fighter Bhagat Singh and the architect of the Constitution, BR Ambedkar.The budget that is based on the theme of patriotism plans to have cultural events that will showcase the history of Delhi and the role of the city in the freedom movement.Also Read | Vaccine Initiative, cooperation on key supply chains on 1st Quad Summit agendaDeputy chief minister Manish Sisodia while presenting the budget also said that the government plans to install 500 tricolours all over the city.August 15 of next year will mark 75 years of freedom of India from the British Raj and, to celebrate the milestone, the Centre as well as state governments have proposed several events and programmes.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday also took to Twitter to announce the commencement of Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav from Friday.“12th March is a special day in India’s glorious history. On that day in 1930, the iconic Dandi March led by Mahatma Gandhi began. Tomorrow, from Sabarmati Ashram we will commence Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav, to mark 75 years since Independence,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/75-years-of-freedom-kejriwal-to-inaugurate-75-weeks-of-celebrations-tomorrow-101615481882689.html
11-03-2021||India||Maharashtra lockdown: These districts have announced fresh curbs amid Covid-19 spike||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday reiterated that he is not in favour of imposing a statewide lockdown, but he has not ruled out the imposition of restrictions in some places if the situation does not improve soon. The chief minister has already asked the district administrations to take local steps to curb the Covid-19 spread, which is being seen as the second wave of Covid-19 in the state.Several districts have already shut educational institutes, imposed night curfew. Yavatmal, Amravati, Akola observed lockdowns in February itself. In March, however, the surge has taken a worrying turn.Here are the list of districts which are/will be under lockdown in MarchNagpurFrom March 15, Nagpur will go under a struct lockdown for a week till March 21. Apart from emergency services, government offices have been allowed to function at 25 per cent capacity. Everything else will remain closed.ThaneA lockdown was announced at 16 hotspots under Thane Municipal corporation from March 9 to March 31. The areas under this order included Witwa, Ainagar, Suryanagar, Kharegaon area, while Chendni Koliwara, Wagle and Srinagar. Under Circle two, the hotspots are Lodha Amara, Hiranandani Estate, Hiranandani Meadows Housing Complex and Lokmanya. Savarkarnagar Ward Committee Area hotspots are at Dostanagar, Shivai Nagar, Chorus Tower, Kolabad and Rustomji Vrindavan.But later, the civic body backtracked from strict lockdown and said there will be a few curbs at these places.NashikNashik has imposed a few restrictions as cases are soaring in the district. But the authorities have maintained that this is not a lockdown.> Shops and establishments, apart from those engaged in essential services, will be closed from 7pm to 7am.Pune, Nagpur, Thane, Mumbai: List of districts with highest active Covid cases> Places of worship will remain open from 7am to 7pm and remain closed during weekends> Schools, colleges and coaching classes in Nashik, Malegaon, Niphad and Nandgaon will remain closed from March 10 till further orders, PTI reported.> No new marriage functions will get permit. Those which have already been permitted can take place till March 15.AurangabadThe district is under partial lockdown from March 11 to April 4.On Thursday, the administration announced that monuments and heritage sites like Ajanta and Ellora Caves, Bibi Ka Maqbara and Daultabad Fort will remain closed till April 4.Markets will remain closed on weekends, but essential services are allowed.No marriage ceremonies will be held in this time period.Malls and cinema halls will remain shut on weekends.JalgaonJalgaon is observing Janata Curfew from March 11, which will continue till March 15. Emergency services are exempt from Janata curfew.The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation has tightened surveillance. Night clubs, sea beaches, the gateway of India in Mumbai might be closed down, Mumbai guardian minister Aslam Shaikh said earlier. In all over Maharashtra, 24X7 vaccination has been allowed. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-lockdown-these-districts-have-announced-curbs-amid-covid-19-spike-101615481186022.html
11-03-2021||India||Centre says collaboration with private hospitals helped in acceleration of Covid-19 vaccination drive||The Centre on Thursday said the acceleration in delivering Covid-19 vaccine shots has been achieved in collaboration with the private sector which administered more than 23 per cent of the doses.Addressing a press conference, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said 71.23 per cent of coronavirus vaccine doses have been administered in government hospitals, while 28.77 per cent of these doses have been contributed by private facilities."The acceleration has been achieved with active collaboration with private sector facilities," he said.Bhushan also gave data of the states/UTs where the vaccinations in private facilities are below the national average. He also gave the data of percentage of private facilities in these areas.These states/UTs include Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Lakshadweep, Arunachal Pradesh, Sikkim, Tripura, Himachal Pradesh, Ladakh, West Bengal, Bihar, Jharkhand, Assam, Gujarat, Andhra Pradesh, Rajasthan, Meghalaya, Chhattisgarh and Odisha."These are the states/UTs where we requested that private hospitals need to scale up," he said.The senior official said vaccine doses are being administered in private hospitals empanelled under the Ayushman Bharat Yojna, Central Government Health Scheme (CGHS) and state government health schemes."In places like Odisha, Maharashtra, Delhi and Telangana, these also include such private facilities which are not covered under the above three categories. These have been permitted because they have adequate number of space, cold chain, vaccinators and arrangements to address adverse event following immunisation," he added.Talking about accelerating deliverance of vaccine doses, Bhushan said on March 4, 10 lakh vaccines were administered in 24 hours, while on March 8, 20 lakh vaccines were given in 24 hours.Asked if the pace of vaccination has dropped, the health secretary noted, "What we are looking at is a steady increase. We are not trying to win a race. He said the government has made its system flexible so that those private facilities that have the capacity can do Covid-19 vaccination 24 hours seven days a week."While for state government hospitals, the advice is they should do it for minimum four days a week because they have other work also which is non-Covid essential facilities. The states have been given discretion, we do not want to adversely impact the non-Covid essential health services which are delivered by the same hospitals," he said.Bhushan added that till 1 pm on Thursday, 2,56,90,545 Covid-19 vaccine doses were administered, out of which, 67,86,086 doses were given to those above 60 years and people aged 45-60 years with comorbidities.As many as 71,97,541 healthcare workers have been given the first dose, while 40,13,890 have been given the second dose. As many as 70,55,074 frontline workers have been given the first dose, while 6,37,954 have been given the second dose, the official said."Till yesterday (Wednesday), we completed 53 days of vaccination administration in India. According to Our World in Data, in the first 53 days, US vaccinated 3.68 crore doses which started its vaccination in December last year. India which started its vaccination programme on January 16 has given 2.56 crore vaccine doses, Brazil which started its vaccination process a day after India has administered 1.13 crore doses, while the UK which started the same on December 8 last even before the US has administered 94 lakh doses," he said."Just 0.020 per cent adverse event post immunisation has been reported with 0.00025 per cent resulting in hospitalisation in India," Bhushan added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-says-collaboration-with-private-hospitals-helped-in-acceleration-of-covid-19-vaccination-drive-101615478947346.html
11-03-2021||India||Govt approves 33 applications with over ₹5,000 crore investment under PLI scheme||The government has approved a total of 33 applications with a committed investment of ₹5,082.65 crore under the production linked incentive scheme for active pharmaceutical ingredients, an official release said on Thursday.Setting up of these plants will make the country self-reliant to a large extent in respect of these bulk drugs, it noted.The Department of Pharmaceuticals has launched a PLI scheme for the promotion of domestic manufacturing by setting up greenfield plants in four different target segments with a total outlay of ₹6,940 crore for the period 2020-21 to 2029-30.In total, 215 applications have been received for the 36 products spread across the 4 target segments, the Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilizers said in the release.Nineteen applications with a committed investment of ₹4,623.01 crore have already been approved under Target Segment I, II and III, it added.Besides, 174 applications were received for 23 eligible products under Target Segment IV.Out of 174 applications, 79 applications received for 11 eligible products were considered as per the decided evaluation and selection criteria by the Empowered Committee in its meeting held on February 27, 2021, the release said.The applications of 14 companies that have committed minimum/more than the minimum proposed annual production capacities and fulfil the prescribed criteria have been approved, it added.The setting up of these plants will lead to a total committed investment of ₹459.47 crore and employment generation of about 3,715 by the companies, the release noted.The commercial production of these plants is projected to commence from April 1, 2023, onward.It has been further decided to take up the remaining 95 applications under the Target Segment-IV till March 31, 2021, for scrutiny and approval, as per the release.The government on February 25 also approved a production-linked incentive (PLI) scheme for the pharmaceutical sector, entailing an outlay of ₹15,000 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-approves-33-applications-with-over-rs-5-000-crore-investment-under-pli-scheme-101615479212082.html
11-03-2021||India||PM Modi condoles death of Brahma Kumaris' chief admin Dadi Hriday Mohini||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday condoled the death of Brahma Kumaris' chief administrator Dadi Hriday Mohini, and said she will be remembered for her numerous efforts to alleviate human suffering and further societal empowerment.Mohini died at a private hospital in Mumbai on Thursday. She was 93.She was undergoing treatment at Saifee Hospital in Mumbai for the last 15 days, according to a spokesperson of the spiritual organisation."Rajyogini Dadi Hriday Mohini Ji will be remembered for her numerous efforts to alleviate human suffering and further societal empowerment. She played a pivotal role in spreading the positive message of the Brahma Kumaris family globally. Anguished by her passing away. Om Shanti,” Modi said on Twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-condoles-death-of-brahma-kumaris-chief-admin-dadi-hriday-mohini-101615479084033.html
11-03-2021||India||Safe houses be made available in Punjab, Haryana for couples marrying against family, suggests HC||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has suggested that safe houses should be made available in the two states as well as in Chandigarh, their common capital, to protect life and liberty of couples who married against the wishes of their families."Number of such petitions are being filed by the couples who performed marriage against the wishes of their parents and relatives. This court is also being approached by the couples stating to be in a live-in relationship," Justice Avneesh Jhingan pointed out in an interim order on Wednesday.The court was hearing a writ petition that had sought issuance of directions to the Punjab government to protect life and liberty of the petitioners, who married on March 4 against the wishes of their parents.Non-acceptability of inter-caste marriage is a social problem which needs to be dealt at multifarious levels, the judge said, adding that inter-caste is not the only reason for non-acceptability of marriage, there are numerous other socio-economic reasons acting as hurdles for the young couples for selecting life partner of their choice."Over the period it is experienced that number of such petitions are filed as a matter of routine. It is evident from most of these petitions that the day the marriage is performed, a representation is made and in some cases even the writ petition is drafted/filed on the same very day. In most of the cases, there is even no proof of submission of the representation," he said."The petitions of such nature are either disposed of, without commenting on the validity of the marriage and directing the official respondents to consider the representation or notice of motion is issued to the official respondents. In latter case by the next date, the police officials record the statements of the petitioners. By and large, the statement is that there is no threat perception existing," Jhingan said.The judge said the net result is that the petitions involving serious and eminent threat get mixed up in number of petitions filed in routine and another aspect of the matter is, the couples who are apprehending threat perception have to travel all the way to this court for completing the formalities for filing the writ petition and this further exposes them to threat.Taking into consideration the fact that in these cases time is the essence, the court said one of the way to tackle the problem is that safe houses should be made available in each district of both the states, as well as in Chandigarh.A website or an on-line module should be provided for such couples to raise their grievances without being physically present, it said, adding that providing a 24x7 help desk at tehsil level for filing of such representations by aggrieved persons or through someone can be of great help."An existing cell in the Police department can be deputed or a new cell can be created which can deal with the representation in a time-bound manner, in any case not beyond 48 hours. It can also be ensured by authorities that in case a request is made by the couples during the period of consideration of the representation, they be provided shelter in safe house," the high court said.It also said that Legal Services Authorities with the passage of time have been able to reach at the grassroots level and they can set up a 24x7 help desk for such couples with telephone service and internet connectivity at the local level."The entire endeavour of the exercise is that some sort of workable mechanism is put in motion to ensure the protection of life and personal liberty as guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution of India. Further that only in exceptional cases, the couples have to take trouble to approach this Court alleging infringement of the rights," the court said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/safe-houses-be-made-available-in-punjab-haryana-for-couples-marrying-against-family-suggests-hc-101615478405360.html
11-03-2021||India||One nation, one ration card system: List of 17 states which have completed implementation||The ministry of finance on Thursday announced that 17 states have successfully implemented ‘one nation, one ration card system’ after Uttarakhand became the latest state to complete the operationalization of reforms.The scheme was launched on a pilot basis in four states in 2019 by Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan. The system aims to provide ration and food security to migrant workers and their families under the National Food Security Act (NFSA) and other schemes.Also Read | Pune, Nagpur, Thane, Mumbai: List of districts with highest active Covid cases'One nation, one ration card' system is one of the four citizen-centric reforms identified by the Department of Expenditure. The department has also allowed additional borrowing of 0.25 percent of Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) to states completing the implementation of the system, which translates to additional borrowing permission of ₹37,600 crore.Here is the list of states that have implemented the scheme with the additional borrowing (in crores) permitted to them:Andhra Pradesh- ₹2,525Goa - ₹223Gujarat- ₹4,352Haryana - ₹2,146Himachal Pradesh- ₹438Karnataka- ₹4,509Kerala- ₹2,261Madhya Pradesh- ₹2,373Manipur- ₹75Odisha- ₹1,429Punjab- ₹1,516Rajasthan- ₹2,731Tamil Nadu- ₹4,813Telangana- ₹2,508Tripura- ₹148Uttarakhand - ₹702Uttar Pradesh- ₹4,851The 'one nation, one ration card' is a tech-driven system that allows labourers, daily wagers, urban poor like rag pickers, street dwellers, temporary workers in organised and unorganised sectors, domestic workers etc to get their daily quota of food grains from any electronic point of sale (e-PoS)-enabled Fair Price Shops(FPS) of their choice anywhere in the country.The additional borrowing limit of 0.25 per cent is only allowed to states after completion of both the actions — Aadhaar seeding of all the ration cards and beneficiaries in the state and automation of all the FPSs in the state. The automation and Aadhaar seeding is to ensure seamless inter-state portability of the card and also helps eliminate bogus or ineligible cardholders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/one-nation-one-ration-card-system-list-of-17-states-which-have-completed-implementation-101615477779670.html
11-03-2021||India||Elgar Parishad case: Court defers order on Stan Swamy's bail plea||A special court here on Thursday deferred till March 15 its order on the bail plea of tribal rights activist Stan Swamy, arrested in the Elgar Parishad- Maoist links case.The court was likely to pass the order on Thursday, but deferred it as the National Investigation Agency (NIA) filed some additional documents and Swamy's lawyer soughttime to respond.Swamy, currently lodged in Taloja jail in Navi Mumbai, was arrested on October 8 last year by the NIA.In his bail plea, Swamy had said that he was being targeted by the central agency due to the nature of his writings and work about caste and land struggles of the people of India, and violation of democratic rights of the marginalised citizens of the country.The bail plea had also said that Swamy was not connected in any way to the organisation of Elgar Parishad event in Pune on December 31, 2017.However, the NIA has claimed that it has sufficient evidence to prima facie prove that the accused was involved in the deep-rooted conspiracy and was directly involved in the Naxalite movement.In a related development, the court allowed the exemption plea of activist Varavara Rao, who has been granted interim bail for six months on medical grounds by the Bombay High Court.Rao had filed an application for exemption from personal appearance as permitted in the high court order granting him temporary bail.Rao, Swamy and several other activists have been arrested in Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case.Violence erupted in the vicinity of a war memorial in Koregaon Bhima, on the outskirts of Pune city, on January 1, 2018, allegedly after provocative speeches made at the Elgar Parishad conclave.The Pune police, which initially probed the case, claimed that the conclave was backed by outlawed Maoist groups.The NIA later took over the probe in the case in which a number of Left-wing activists and academicians were named as accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/elgar-parishad-case-court-defers-order-on-stan-swamy-s-bail-plea-101615477447912.html
11-03-2021||India||Rampur administration allows Samajwadi Party MP Azam Khan to sell his double barrel gun||Rampur district administration on Thursday granted permission to Rampur Member of Parliament (MP) Azam Khan, who is currently lodged in Sitapur jail, to sell his double-barrel gun.He had sent his application to the district magistrate through the jail superintendent and sought permission for the same."Azam Khan had sought permission to sell a licensed gun by post. The administration gave permission to him by post to sell his gun. Now, he can sell it," said Rampur City Magistrate, Ramji Mishra.Khan has been lodged in Sitapur jail in more than a hundred cases for more than a year. His son Abdullah Azam Khan has also been lodged in Sitapur jail. Azam Khan had 3 arms licences. The government has now capped the number of arms a person can have to only two. After this, licence holders are selling their additional weapons. Khan had also sought permission from the jail.Tanjim Fathima, Azam Khan's wife, told ANI that his family does have arms, but they were deposited since the time of election and were not withdrawn thereafter. Apart from Azam Khan, Tanjim Fatima also has a licence for two and his son Umar Abdullah has one arms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rampur-administration-allows-samajwadi-party-mp-azam-khan-to-sell-his-double-barrel-gun-101615476559736.html
11-03-2021||India||News updates from HT: Covishield to cost less than ₹200 per dose, says government and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Covishield procurement price renegotiated, much lower than ₹200 per doseUnion health secretary Rajesh Bhushan on Thursday said the price of Covishield, the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine manufactured by Serum Institute of India, has been renegotiated. Read moreCherry movie review: The Russo Brothers' Avengers follow-up with Tom Holland is a cheerless (but challenging) slogAfter making four movies in a franchise that has been fielding criticism of getting increasingly monotonous, the Russo Brothers have made a film that defies labels in the most rebellious manner possible. Read moreGoogle Pay will let users delete transaction dataGoogle today released a major update on its payments platforms, Google Pay. The company today announced that it will soon roll out a new feature called “Personalisation within Google Pay'' in its payments platform. Read moreShocking video shows set crashing on panelist during live showA horrifying incident showing a set crashing on a panelist during a live telecast has made its way onto Twitter and gone viral. The scary moment, caught on camera, has left netizens shocked. Read moreMamata Banerjee Vs Suvendu Adhikari: Who is in pole position in Nandigram?Nandigram is all set to witness the mother of all battles with Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee pitted against her former aide and now BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-covishield-to-cost-less-than-rs-200-per-dose-after-price-renegotiation-says-government-and-all-the-latest-news-101615474861160.html
11-03-2021||India||Covaxin out of clinical trial mode, granted restricted emergency use||The Centre on Thursday said Bharat Biotech's indigenously developed Covaxin is out of the "clinical trial mode" and that it has now been granted the regular restricted emergency use authorisation just like Covishield manufactured by Serum Institute.Addressing a weekly press conference, NITI Aayog member (Health) Dr V K Paul said Covaxin and Covishield have the same licensure status now."The condition of it (Covaxin) being required to be administered under clinical trial mode is no more there," Paul said."Both the Covid-19 vaccines Covaxin and Covishield have the same licensure status. It has already being given to around 19 lakh people. Covaxin has stood the test of time in terms of great safety. Only 311 individuals had minimal side effects. It is the triumph for India's research and development enterprise and science and technology enterprise," he said.India's drug regulator on January 3 had granted permission for the restricted use of Covaxin in emergency situations in the public interest as an abundant precaution, in clinical trial mode, especially in case of infection by mutant strains.The Subject Expert Panel on Covid-19 of the CDSCO had recommended granting emergency use authorisation to Bharat Biotech's indigenously developed Covaxin while removing the condition for the vaccine to be administered in "clinical trial mode".The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) in a communique to Bharat Biotech said, "Accordingly, based on the recommendations of the SEC, the condition, 'this permission is for restricted use in emergency situation in public interest as an abundant precaution in clinical trial mode' in the permission is amended to read as this permission is for restricted use in emergency situation in public interest.""However, you are required to continue ongoing phase-3 clinical trial as per approved clinical trial protocol and submit revised summary of product characteristics, prescribing information and fact sheet," it said.Replying to a question whether the government has a timeline in mind for phase 3 vaccination drive and who gets included in that, Paul said, "We are now focused on the relatively large group of individuals above the age of 60 as well as those aged 45- 60 with comorbidities. We are building a momentum to cover this significantly large group.""We will see progress and moving forward, yes, further increase in the circle of those who are eligible will be considered," Paul said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covaxin-out-of-clinical-trial-mode-granted-restricted-emergency-use-101615475781310.html
11-03-2021||India||Maharashtra records 14,317 new Covid-19 infections, highest in 2021||Continuing the upward surge of single-day Covid-19 infections, Maharashtra on Thursday reported 14,317 new Covid-19 cases, the highest in 2021 so far. Mumbai on the other hand witnessed a dip from yesterday's figure (1,539) and recorded 1,508 cases in the last 24 hours. The Centre on Thursday expressed concerns over the Covid-19 situation of Maharashtra as eight districts of the state have the highest number of active Covid-19 cases in the country. The districts include Pune (18,474), followed by Nagpur (12,724), Thane (10.460), Mumbai (9,973), Bengaluru Urban (5,526), Ernakulam (5,430), Amravati (5,259), Jalgaon (5,029), Nashik (4.525) and Aurangabad (4,354)."We are very worried about Maharashtra — across several districts. We have seen their names. As we came here, we came to know that very strict lockdown is being imposed in Nagpur in particularly. So we are reaching a situation where those approaches are being brought back. This is a very serious issue for us," Niti Aayog member (health) VK Paul said.Earlier in the day, the Nagpur administration announced a strict lockdown from March 15 to March 21 to combat the spread of the infection. Apart from essential services, everything else, including private offices, will remain closed.Before Nagpur, several other districts like Amravati, Nashik, Yavatmal, Amravati imposed restrictions triggering speculations about whether the entire state will be again placed under lockdown. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray earlier expressed reservations against lockdown, but on Thursday he said that strict measures may be taken at some places but as a last resort. As he addressed the state in the evening, he reiterated that he is not in favour of lockdown.Since the middle of February, Maharashtra started seeing a sudden rise in the number of Covid-19 cases, which has so far been attributed to laxity in testing, tracking. The Centre had sent a team to the state to probe into the reasons behind the spike. In its report, the expert team dismissed any link between the mutant strain of Covid-19 with the spike and mentioned that general carelessness, absence of fear, pandemic fatigue, crowded public transport, elections as the reasons for the surge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-records-14-317-new-infections-highest-in-2021-101615474369371.html
11-03-2021||India||44 students test positive for Covid-19 at a hostel in Maharashtra's Latur||A total of 44 students residing in a hostel in MIDC area near Maharashtra's Latur city tested Covid-19 positive on Thursday, a health department official said.Last month, 47 other students from the same hostel were found infected, he said.The hostel is located near an English-medium school on the outskirts of the city. This hostel provides accommodation to students between Class 8 and 10, the official said."After testing positive, these students were moved to a local quarantine centre, where they are being treated," he said.Meanwhile, a total of 146 people tested coronavirus positive in Latur district during the day, officials said.Of these, 91 are residents of areas located within the the Latur Municipal Corporation limits.Forty-one patients recovered from the infection and one patient died due to it on Thursday.So far, 715 patients have died due the virus in the district, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/44-students-test-positive-for-covid-19-at-hostel-in-maharashtra-s-latur-101615474930218.html
11-03-2021||India||Second Rafale squadron to be raised in Bengal’s Hasimara in April||The Indian Air Force is ready to raise its second Rafale squadron at Hasimara in West Bengal next month in line with its original induction plan for the French-origin fighters, people familiar with the developments said on Thursday. The second squadron will be raised in mid-April after the first one has been fully raised in Ambala, said one of the officials cited above.India ordered 36 warplanes from France (equivalent of two squadrons) in September 2016 for ₹59,000 crore under a government-to-government deal. IAF’s Ambala-based Golden Arrows Squadron has already inducted 11 Rafale jets so far. Both Rafale squadrons will have 18 jets each.“Ten more jets are expected to arrive in India from France by April-end. With this, the first squadron will be fully formed and the raising of the second squadron will begin,” said a second official.All the 36 planes are likely to join the IAF’s fighter fleet by the year-end. The 11 Rafales inducted so far have arrived in three batches from France.“Located in the crucial Siliguri corridor, the Hasimara airbase will cover both central and eastern Tibet. The Rafale will augment and add a bigger punch along with the IAF’s Su-30 MKIs which are already based in the Brahmaputra valley,” said Air Marshal Anil Chopra (retd), director general, Centre for Air Power Studies.The IAF has operated the fighter jets in the Ladakh theatre where the military is on high alert amid a border standoff with China and where both sides are negotiating disengagement of troops at friction points along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC).India’s Rafale jets are equipped with modern weapons such as the Meteor beyond visual range air-to-air missiles, Mica multi-mission air-to-air missiles, Scalp deep-strike cruise missiles and the Hammer smart weapon.India-specific enhancements on the jets include cold engine start capability to operate from high-altitude bases such as Leh, radar warning receivers, flight data recorders with storage for 10 hours of data, infrared search and track systems, jammers and towed decoys to ward off incoming missiles.The twin-engine jet is capable of carrying out a variety of missions - ground and sea attack, air defence and air superiority, reconnaissance and nuclear strike deterrence. It can carry more than nine tonnes of weapons on as many as 14 hard points.Meanwhile, the commanding officer of the Rafale squadron at Ambala, Group Captain Harkirat Singh, is being posted to the eastern sector to oversee the raising and operationalisation of the second squadron, people familiar with development said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/second-rafale-squadron-to-be-raised-in-bengal-s-hasimara-in-april-101615473901498.html
11-03-2021||India||Pune, Nagpur, Thane, Mumbai: List of districts with highest active Covid cases||The Union health minister on Thursday released a list of 10 districts that have the highest number of active Covid-19 cases at present. Out of these 10 districts, only two are outside Maharashtra. Active cases refer to the number of patients who are infected with Covid-19 at present. This number is significant as even if an area reports a high number of infections daily if the recovery rate is high, the number of active case will remain low.According to ministry data, Pune has 18,474 active cases, which is the highest. It is followed by Nagpur (12,724), Thane (10.460), Mumbai (9,973), Bengaluru Urban (5,526), Ernakulam (5,430), Amravati (5,259), Jalgaon (5,029), Nashik (4.525) and Aurangabad (4,354).Watch: Covaxin regular emergency use; Maharashtra’s ‘worrisome’ situationOn Thursday, Maharashtra recorded the highest single-day spike with over 14,000 new infections in the last 24 hours. According to district-wise report, Nagpur city recorded the highest 1,701 new cases, followed by 1,514 cases in Pune and 1,509 in Mumbai city.The Pune division under which the civic bodies of Pune, Pimpri Chinchwad as well as districts of Pune, Solapur and Satara fall reported 3,088 new cases. Explaining why the active case graph matters, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said that though Kerala is reporting a significant number of daily infections, its active caseload is actually coming down. But Maharashtra, Punjab are the two states where the number of active cases has shot up astronomically. The health secretary also mentioned Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Haryana as being at the "tipping point".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pune-nagpur-thane-mumbai-centre-releases-list-of-10-districts-with-highest-active-covid-cases-101615473776258.html
11-03-2021||India||'Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav': PM to flag off padyatra from Sabarmati Ashram||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday will inaugurate the curtain-raiser activities of 'Azadi ka Amrut Mahotsav' planned to commemorate 75 years of India's independence. He will also flag off the freedom march or 'padyatra' from Sabarmati Ashram.According to a statement issued by the Prime Minister's Office on Thursday, the Prime Minister will also launch various other cultural and digital initiatives for the India@75 celebrations and will also address the gathering at Sabarmati Ashram."The curtain raiser activities are beginning from March 21, 75 weeks prior to August 15, 2022," the PMO statement said."The event will witness the inauguration of the curtain-raiser activities planned under the theme India@75 like a film, website, song, Aatmanirbhar Charkha and Aatmanirbhar Incubator," the statement added.The padyatra to be flagged off by the Prime Minister will be undertaken by 81 marchers from Sabarmati Ashram in Ahmedabad to Dandi in Navsari, a journey of 241 miles that will end on April 5, lasting for 25 days.The padyatra will be joined by different groups of people on the way to Dandi. Union Minister Prahalad Singh Patel will lead the first lap of 75 kilometers of the padyatra.State and UT governments are also organising programs all over the country on Friday. In addition to these programs, the Archaeological Survey of India and Zonal Cultural Centres under the Ministry of Culture, Ministry of Youth Affairs and TRIFED have planned various activities to mark the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/azadi-ka-amrut-mahotsav-pm-to-flag-off-padyatra-from-sabarmati-ashram-101615473223037.html
11-03-2021||India||Active Covid-19 cases surged most in Maharashtra, declined most in Kerala in past one month||Maharashtra topped the list of states where the active Covid-19 caseload witnessed an increase in the one-month period since February 11, data from the Union health ministry showed on Thursday. The ministry also noted that the active caseload declined the most in Kerala within the same time period.Maharashtra, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat and Haryana were the top states which witnessed an increase in the active caseload while Kerala, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal witnessed a decline between February 11 and March 11, data shared by Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan during a media briefing on Thursday showed.Also read | Maharashtra Covid-19 situation very worrying, says Centre as lockdowns returnActive cases stood at 36,917 in Maharashtra on February 11 while the count rose to 100,240 cases on Thursday. The state reported a fresh spike of 13,659 new cases on Wednesday and the total tally reached over 2.2 million cases. Also, a fresh lockdown in Nagpur city beginning from March 15 till March 21 had been implemented by the administration as chief minister Uddhav Thackeray mulls new lockdown in parts of the states.Following Maharashtra, Punjab too had shown a significant increase in the number of active cases with 2,112 cases on February 11 and 9,402 cases on March 11, the data showed.Watch | Covaxin regular emergency use; Maharashtra’s ‘worrisome’ situationMeanwhile, Kerala reported the maximum decline in the active caseload among the states. The state had 64,607 active cases on February 11 which fell to 35,715 cases on March 11, the ministry noted. The state had reported 2,133 new cases and 13 fatalities on Thursday, as the tally climbed to 1,086,012 cases so far.Uttar Pradesh which reported 3,256 active cases on February 11 had reported 1,689 on Thursday while West Bengal, which had 4,387 active cases on February 11, reported 3,127 cases on Thursday, the latest data showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/active-covid-19-cases-surged-most-in-maharashtra-declined-most-in-kerala-in-past-one-month-101615471499178.html
11-03-2021||India||BSNL may turn profitable from 2023-24, says parliamentary panel in report||Loss-making state-owned telecom firm BSNL expects to turn profitable from the financial year 2023-24 subject to roll-out of plans and strategies envisaged under the revival package, according to a parliamentary panel report.The public sector unit, however, is now operationally profitable, the report said."BSNL has stated that it expects to be profitable from 2023-24 onwards, subject to full realisation of the revenue and cash flow from services as well as monetisation of land assets as envisaged at the stage of processing of the revival package."However, BSNL has become Ebitda-positive," the Standing Committee on Information Technology said in its report on Wednesday.Ebitda stands for earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation.In October 2019, the government had approved the revival package for BSNL and MTNL, which included voluntary retirement scheme (VRS), support for 4G spectrum, monetisation of core and non-core assets, sovereign guarantee for bonds to be raised by the public sector undertakings (PSUs), and merger of MTNL and BSNL in the short run.According to the report, the expenditure of BSNL has reduced from ₹34,400 crore per annum to ₹24,687 crore per annum, annualised value of nine months figures, mainly due to savings in employee benefits expenses due to VRS as part of revival package.However, the revenue has not grown mainly due to non-commencement of 4G services.Overall, 92,956 employees of BSNL and MTNL for VRS have retired on January 31, 2020.As a step towards merger of BSNL and MTNL and to enable BSNL to have a pan-India footprint of services, the group of ministers (GoM) in the meeting on December 21, 2020, approved the proposal for the allocation of spectrum for 4G services to BSNL in Delhi and Mumbai.It is expected that with the commencement of 4G services, the revenue of BSNL in the wireless segment will increase, the report said.BSNL had floated a 4G tender worth ₹9,300 crore for procurement of telecom equipment in March but was cancelled later due to multiple reasons. The reasons include allegation from Indian companies that the state-run firm's project does not comply with preferential market access norms and is inclined towards foreign companies.The company has called for proof of concept from India vendors for participation in the proposed 4G tender.Leading companies like TCS, Tech Mahindra, Sterlite and L&T have purchased documents for the proof of concept.BSNL has nearly 1,600 queries after the pre-bid meeting, which will be answered shortly, the report said."It is unfortunate to note that 4G service is yet to commence by BSNL when other TSPs (telecom service providers) are preparing to roll out 5G services in the country."The committee desires that there should not be any further delay in allocation of 4G spectrum to BSNL and they should be allowed to roll-out 4G service at the earliest," the panel said.The government has identified that physical assets worth ₹67,837 crore of BSNL and ₹17,985 crore of MTNL can be monetised.The Department of Telecommunications (DoT) has informed the committee that in the past one year, monetisation was a problem as land and rent prices have fallen. The year 2021-22 is going to be critical because the DoT hopes to monetise more properties."Expected revenue from monetisation of land/building assets of BSNL and MTNL during 2021-22 is ₹1,200 crore and ₹300 crore, respectively," the report said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bsnl-may-turn-profitable-from-2023-24-shows-parliamentary-panel-report-101615470931250.html
11-03-2021||India||2 killed, 4 injured in boiler blast at factory in Andhra Pradesh||Two workers were killed and four others sustained severe injuries when two boilers exploded in a chemical factory in Andhra Pradesh’s East Godavari district on Thursday afternoon, the police said.The incident happened at around 3 pm in Tyche Chemical Industries located in Auto Nagar area of Sarpavaram on the suburbs of Kakinada, the district headquarters.“While two of the workers died on the spot, four others sustained burn injuries and they were immediately shifted to the hospitals. The condition of one of the injured is critical and he might lose both his eyes,” said District superintendent of police Adnan Nayeem Asmi.The deceased were identified as Kakarla Subrahmanyam (31) of Patavala village of Tallarevu block and Thotakura Venkata Ramana (37) of Gollaprolu village.The police officer said preliminary enquiries from the factory management revealed that the accident happened as the workers were tightening the valve of the pipeline carrying nitric acid from the boilers. The pressure, he added, shot up resulting in the explosion and eruption of fire in the factory.The explosion was so intense the roof of the first floor where the boilers were located was blown off. Around 100 workers were at work when the accident took place.Fire tenders were rushed to the spot.The SP, along with district collector D Muralidhara Reddy, rushed to the spot and supervised the rescue operations. Inspector of factories Suresh and district medical and health officer Gowrishwar also went to the accident spot and helped the police in shifting the injured to the hospital.State minister for agriculture K Kanna Babu, who represents Kakinada (rural) constituency, also reached the place and held discussions with the factory management and the workers.Kanna Babu said an enquiry will be ordered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-killed-4-injured-in-boiler-blast-at-factory-in-andhra-pradesh-101615470746427.html
11-03-2021||India||From Borivali to Chembur: List of Covid-19 hotspots in Mumbai||Maharashtra on Thursday was again the top contributor to the coronavirus case tally of the country as it reported 13,659 new cases in the last 24 hours. India on March 11 reported 22,854 new coronavirus cases, 60 per cent of them came from Maharashtra, as per the Union health ministry data.Mumbai is the fourth district in the state with the most number of coronavirus cases. On Wednesday, Mumbai had reported 1,539 new Covid-19 cases and five deaths.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19There are a total of 27 active containment zones (slums and chawls) in Mumbai with 228 active sealed buildings, as of March 10, as per the data released by the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation.Here is the list of Covid-19 hotspots in the metropolitan capital, as of March 10:Borivali is a major hotspot with the highest number of active coronavirus cases (816) and the highest number of fatalities due to the virus — 651.KW ward, consisting of Andheri West, Jogeshwari West, and Vile Parle West, has the maximum number of sealed buildings -38. The ward has the second-highest number of active Covid-19 cases — 783. The growth rate of the virus in the ward is also the second-highest at 0.47 per cent.Next is Kandivali and Charkop in the RS ward with 700 active coronavirus cases and 560 deaths till date. It also has the second highest number of sealed buildings — 31.P/North ward with Malad, Manori, Marve, Aksa, and Madh has 688 active coronavirus cases and has recorded 658 deaths so far.K/East ward with Andheri East, Jogeshwari East, and Vile Parle East is the next in ranking. The ward has 687 active cases and the second-highest number of containment zones — 5 — in Mumbai.Mulund, as of Wednesday, had 611 active coronavirus cases. The number of cases in the ward is less than that of Borivali but the growth rate of the virus is the highest here. The average growth rate for the last seven days till March in Mumbai is 0.34 per cent. However, the growth rate in Mulund at 0.51 per cent is higher than that.N ward with Ghatkopar, Vidyavihar and Pant Nagar has reported 575 active coronavirus cases.Also Read | 'Be watchful': Centre's word of caution for Delhi-NCR as Covid-19 cases riseBhandup, Powai, Kanjurmarh, Vikhroli and Nahur under S ward has 571 active coronavirus cases and most number of containment zones —10. The ward also has the third-highest number of sealed buildings in all of Mumbai — 27.Following the S ward, M/West with Chembur, Sindhi Society, Chheda Nagar and Tilak Nagar have the most number of sealed buildings. The ward has the fourth most number of sealed buildings in Mumbai-26. The number of active cases in the ward is, however, 362.Earlier in the day, the Centre had expressed concerns regarding the Covid-19 situation in Maharashtra as Nagpur went under lockdown again due to the surge in the number of cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-borivali-to-chembur-list-of-covid-19-hotspots-in-mumbai-101615469204302.html
11-03-2021||India||Railway portal to regulate minimum wage for contract workers helped disburse over ₹3,459 crore in 2 years||A portal developed to guarantee minimum wages for contractual workers of the Indian Railways has ensured the disbursal of more than ₹3,459 crore as salaries over the last two years, the ministry said in a statement on Thursday.The Shramik Kalyan e-application was developed and launched on October 1, 2018 to ensure that contractors comply with the provisions of the Minimum Wages Act and that contractual workers working on daily wage basis in the Indian Railways get their rightful due by enforcing the contractors to regularly upload wage payment data."This helps Railways as principal employer to keep vigil over wages disbursed by contractors to contract workers. As on March 9, 2021, a total 15,812 contractors and total 3,81,831 contract workers are registered on this portal," the statement said, adding that ₹3,49,590 lakh (more than ₹3,495 crore) wage amount and about six crore man-days are also registered on this portal across Indian Railways.All PSUs working under the Ministry of Railways are also using this e-application.The portal enables contractors of different units of the Railways to register themselves on the e-application and subsequently add work orders issued by different Railway units to them. The contractors have to create a profile of each contract worker engaged by him for the work and update the wages provided to him on a regular basis. There are checks in the portal to ensure that wages paid by the contractors conform to minimum wages fixed by the government, the ministry said.Before clearing the contractors' bills, it is ensured that wage data of the contract workers have been uploaded on the e-application. For ensuring compliance of the same, necessary changes have also been made in the contract conditions, it added.Provisions are available in the e-application to generate IDs for contract workers and also to send SMSs time to time about wages paid to them, contribution made to EPF and ESIC, the statement said.For transparency, a summary of details like the number of active work orders, workers engaged and gross wages paid to them till date across various Railway units is also put up on the portal, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railway-portal-to-regulate-minimum-wage-for-contract-workers-helped-disburse-over-rs-3-459-crore-in-2-years-101615469321405.html
11-03-2021||India||3.23 lakh new electricity consumers in Meghalaya in last 3 years: Minister||Meghalaya Power Minister James PK Sangma on Thursday said 3.23 lakh new consumers have got electricity connection under the Meghalaya Democratic Alliance government's rule in the last three years.The minister replying to a short duration discussion in the Assembly on the prevailing power crisis in the state said Meghalaya Electricity Corporation Ltd (MeECL) is facing issues passed by successive governments in the past."The MeECL is facing issues passed on from successive governments in the past. We are trying our best and the results are showing. We now have added 3.23 lakh new households as new consumers," the power minister said."As compared to the period between 2010 and 2018 (under the Congress government), only 1.07 lakh consumers were added," he said.The MeECL which was facing a financial crisis and facing frequent power regulation from power generating and distribution companies had availed a ₹1,345 crore #Atmanirbhar loan earlier this year to pay the dues of the power companies.According to the minister, the billing distribution efficiency has improved from 62 per cent last year to 73 per cent at the moment under the new CMD.He also said that bill collection efficiency is 97 per cent and that the government is trying to rectify all the issues by bringing in interventions.The Power minister also informed the House that the government has proposed to bring in interventions to prevent illegal hooking (of power) besides mooting options of leasing out maintenance to private players to improve operational maintenance.He said the MeECL is also contemplating monetising the huge area of land under the corporation in the state."MeECL has huge land banks. Many areas are encroached. Board is looking to monetise these assets and create revenue to help infuse liquidity, he said.On the installation of smart meters, the power minister said the corporation has mooted to install these meters in rural areas where reports of power losses are maximum.He said the state government availed the Asian Development Bank loan to instal smart meters. Eighty per cent of the amount is grant and the state government has to pay 9.5 per cent interest on only 20 per cent of the amount.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/323-lakh-new-electricity-consumers-in-meghalaya-in-last-3-years-minister-101615469288286.html
11-03-2021||India||IAF to raise second squadron of Rafale jets in April, Bengal to host aircraft||The Indian Air Force (IAF) will induct its second squadron of the Rafale fighter jets in mid-April in West Bengal, people familiar with the Rafale induction said on Thursday. The fighter jets, they said, would be inducted at the Hasimara Air Force Station in Alipurduar district of the eastern state.India's first Rafale squadron, comprising five jets, was inducted into the IAF on September 10 last year after being flown to the country from France in July. The fighters are a part of the 'Golden Arrows' squadron and based at the Ambala Air Force station.On January 26 this year, one Rafale jet of the IAF was a part of the flypast at the Republic Day celebrations, flying in a 'Vertical Charlie' formation, and, in the process, making its R-Day debut.In September 2016, India and France came to an agreement over purchase of 36 Rafale aircraft, built and designed by the European nation's Dassault Aviation. Over the next few years, there was a major controversy over the cost of the aircraft; however, the Supreme Court, in November 2018, cleared the deal, stating that no irregularities or corruption was found. In November 2019, it dismissed all review petitions challenging its judgement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iaf-to-induct-second-squadron-of-rafale-fighter-jets-in-april-in-west-bengal-101615468661409.html
11-03-2021||India||New Uttarakhand CM Tirath Rawat calls on his ‘political guru’ on day 1||Tirath Singh Rawat, a day after taking over as Uttarakhand chief minister, paid a visit to his political guru and former CM of the state BC Khanduri at his residence in Dehradun on Thursday.Accompanied by his wife, CM Rawat sought Khanduri’s blessings for "serving the people in best possible way". The new CM has tenure of almost a year before the state goes to polls next year. His predecessor Trivendra Singh Rawat resigned on Tuesday.Calling Khanduri his “political guru”, Rawat said, "He is like a father figure to me from whom I have learnt a lot. It is all because of his teachings that I am today the CM of the state.""He is my ideal and will try to implement his teachings while serving the people of the state as CM in my tenure," the CM added.The senior politician was all praise for his protege."He is a very dedicated member of the organisation after joining it in the early days of his student life. When I entered politics after my stint in the army, he helped me a lot in understanding different things in politics."He has a very clean and non-controversial background which reflects in his character. The people of Uttarakhand would be able to see it in his governance and stand behind him in the next elections to support the party," said Khanduri.Khanduri after being the CM twice between 2007-2009 and 2011-2012, became MP of Pauri Garhwal district in the 2014 general elections.He, however, did not contest the 2019 elections due to ill health after which Rawat was given the ticket on the same seat by the party which he won by defeating Khanduri's son Manish Khanduri, who fought on a Congress ticket, by over three lakh votes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-uttarakhand-cm-tirath-rawat-calls-on-his-political-guru-on-day-1-101615468045137.html
11-03-2021||India||Covishield procurement price renegotiated, much lower than ₹200 per dose||Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan on Thursday said the price of Covishield, the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine manufactured by Serum Institute of India, has been renegotiated. "We have renegotiated the price which is significantly lower than ₹200 per dose," the secretary said, without disclosing the new price. This is, however, the rate at which the government is procuring the vaccines. The new price is around ₹157.50, reports said.However, it is not clear whether this will impact the amount that people are paying to get vaccinated at private hospitals. In the second phase of pan-India vaccination where senior citizens and people with co-morbidities between the age group of 45 and 59 are getting inoculated, private hospitals have been allowed to charge around ₹250 which includes ₹100 for the administration of the dose, thereby reducing the price of the vaccine dose to ₹150.2 million Covid-19 vaccine doses delivered in a day for the first time: GovtBefore the first phase of the vaccination began on January 16, India procured 110 lakh doses of Covishield at the cost of ₹200 per dose, excluding ₹10 extra. From Bharat Biotech, the Centre had procured 38.5 lakh dosed at a rate of ₹295 per dose. But as Bharat Biotech provided 16.5 lakh doses free of cost, the price was around ₹206. In later phases, the Centre procured several crores of doses at the previous rate only.As vaccination has been thrown open to the public belonging to priority groups, both Covaxin and Covishield are being equally charged at ₹250. State governments are not having to bear any cost for vaccination as the Centre is procuring and supplying the doses.The ministry, however, did not mention whether a similar price negotiation is going on with Bharat Biotech.More than 2.56 crore doses of Covi-19 vaccines have been administered till Thursday. This includes more than 67 lakh people above 60 years and people aged 45-60 years with comorbidities, apart from 71 lakh first doses and 40 lakh second doses have been given to healthcare workers and 70 lakh first doses and 6 lakh second doses have been given to frontline workers till date, the health ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covishield-procurement-price-renegotiated-much-lower-than-rs-200-per-dose-101615467906866.html
11-03-2021||India||Kerala temple affairs minister regrets Sabarimala stand in poll season||As the assembly elections draw closer, Kerala Devaswom (temple affairs) minister Kadakampally Surendran on Thursday expressed regrets over Sabarimala hill temple entry row, triggered three years ago and said it should not have happened at the Lord Ayyappa shrine.He also said the left front government will implement the verdict of the Supreme Court only after consulting with believers, political parties and all stakeholders.“The incident that took place at the temple pained all of us. It should not have happened. It hurts believers, it has pained me also,” he said. The minister’s regret follows criticism on the issue by the Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party in the run up to the polls.The minister is seeking re-election from Kazhakoottam assembly constituency (on the outskirts of state capital) in April 6 elections. “The case is before a larger bench of the Supreme Court and once the final verdict comes, the government will consult all,” he said. However, the BJP said he presided over the attack on innocent devotees and “won’t be forgiven even if (he) takes thousand dips in river Ganga '', and that he was now shedding crocodile tears eying votes.“Let him first withdraw the affidavit filed in the Supreme Court that vitiated the whole issue. He was the temple affairs minister when innocent devotees were attacked for chanting hymns. It is nothing but a cheap stunt for votes,” said BJP state president K Sunedran, who was jailed for more than a month during the agitation. Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala asked chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan to tender an apology first.Also Read: Faction feud delays Congress’s candidate list in KeralaThe flip-flop on the temple issue is seen as one of the reasons for the drubbing of the ruling Left Democratic Front (LDF) in the last general election in which it lost all but one of the 20 Lok Sabha seats. When the opposition raked the emotional issue again, the government withdrew many cases registered during the stir last month.The temple and surrounding areas witnessed violence in 2018 when the state government tried to enforce the Supreme Court verdict that allowed women of all ages to worship at the temple, ignoring the age-old tradition that barred women of child-bearing age due to the peculiar nature of the presiding deity. The apex court held that the practice was against gender justice. The state witnessed five shutdowns in 2018 over the issue. After widespread violence, revision petitions were referred to a nine-member bench by the apex court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-temple-affairs-minister-regrets-sabarimala-stand-in-poll-season-101615467702058.html
11-03-2021||India||Former JD(S) MLA Madhu Bangarappa to join Congress||Former JD(S) MLA Madhu Bangarappa on Thursday announced joining the Congress, saying there is scope for him to work and express his sentiments in his new party.Putting all speculation to rest, Madhu on Thursday called on former chief minister Siddaramaiah and said he was joining the Congress."All our supporters had taken the decision. Hence, I am joining Congress today," Madhu, son of former chief minister, the late S Bangarappa, told reporters.For the past one year, his switching over the party was in the offing which finally happened today.After meeting Siddaramaiah, Madhu said in the present context, the country and state needs the Congress party.Stating that he can do more good work in Congress, he said his father became the state chief minister while in Congress.Madhu said he decided to join the Congress as the leaders in the party had been calling him."I have more scope to work here and express my feelings," the leader said.Regarding the JD(S), he said he had explained his woes to veteran JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy on many occasions.However, that was not the reason for him to leave the party.Reacting to Madhu Bangarappa's exit, Kumaraswamy said he was not surprised as it was on the cards for about a year.Also read: Congress' reaction to PC Chacko's exit: 'Those who have to leave will leave'He, however, underlined that people have the habit of backstabbing the party supremo and former prime minister H D Deve Gowda."Since the inception of JD(S) it had been the practice that whoever Deve Gowda had trusted, slew him," Kumaraswamy said.He added that the JD(S) has the capacity to help ordinary workers rise in the organisation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-jd-s-mla-madhu-bangarappa-to-join-congress-101615464281303.html
11-03-2021||India||17 states bring into force 'One Nation-One Ration Card' system||Seventeen states have operationalised 'One Nation-One Ration Card' system with Uttarakhand being the latest to complete the reform, the finance ministry said on Thursday.States completing the One Nation-One Ration Card system reform are eligible for additional borrowing of 0.25 percent of gross state domestic product (GSDP).Accordingly, these states have been granted additional borrowing permission of ₹37,600 crore by the Department of Expenditure, the ministry said in a statement.Implementation of the One Nation-One Ration Card system ensures availability of ration to beneficiaries under the National Food Security Act (NFSA) and other welfare schemes, especially the migrant workers and their families, at any fair price shop (FPS) across the country.The reform especially empowers the migratory population mostly labourers, daily wagers, urban poor like rag pickers, street dwellers, temporary workers in organised and unorganised sectors, domestic workers etc, who frequently change their place of dwelling to be self reliant in food security.Also read: Delhi govt notifies rules for doorstep ration deliveryThis technology-driven reform enables the migrant beneficiaries to get their entitled quota of food grains from any electronic point of sale (e-PoS) enabled fair price shops of their choice anywhere in the country.In view of the resource requirement to meet multiple challenges posed by the Covid-19 pandemic, the Government of India had on May 17, 2020, enhanced the borrowing limit of the states by 2 per cent of their GSDP.Half of this special dispensation (1 per cent of GSDP) was linked to undertaking citizen centric reforms by the states. The four citizen-centric areas for reforms identified by the Department of Expenditure were — implementation of One Nation-One Ration Card system; ease of doing business reform; urban local body and utility reforms; and power sector reforms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/17-states-bring-into-force-one-nation-one-ration-card-system-101615464260749.html
11-03-2021||India||India likely to block China's Huawei over security fears: Officials||India is likely to block its mobile carriers from using telecom equipment made by China's Huawei, two government officials said, under procurement rules due to come into force in June.New Delhi is wary about awarding new technology business to Chinese firms both because of security fears and a desire to get Indian manufacturers to produce more telecoms equipment.A US campaign to curb Huawei has triggered bans or limits on the use of its equipment around the world but the situation in India has been amplified by strained relations between New Delhi and Beijing over their shared border.India's telecoms department said on Wednesday that after June 15 carriers can only buy certain types of equipment from government-approved "trusted sources" and said New Delhi could also create a "no procurement" blacklist. Huawei is likely to feature on this embargoed list, the two officials, who declined to be named, told Reuters."We cannot prioritise economic gains if an investment poses national security risk," one of the officials said.The telecoms department, which did not comment on Thursday about Huawei, is yet to provide further details on the plans for trusted sources or a procurement blacklist.However, a third official, who also declined to be named, told Reuters that ZTE Corp, another Chinese firm which has a smaller presence in India, could also be excluded.Huawei and ZTE are under scrutiny for allegedly installing "backdoor" vulnerabilities to spy for the Chinese government.Both have denied the allegations and Huawei has previously told Reuters it is ready to enter into a "no backdoor" deal with India to allay security concerns.Huawei and ZTE did not immediately respond to requests for comment.Two of India's three big telecoms carriers, Bharti Airtel and Vodafone Idea, use Huawei gear. Any restriction on Huawei gear is likely to push up costs, industry analysts say.The Chinese firm's equipment and network maintenance contracts are typically cheaper than European competitors such as Ericsson and Nokia and there is limited availability of such gear in India.India has begun to fast-track approvals of some of the more than 150 Chinese investment proposals worth over $2 billion it had put on hold after a June standoff between the two neighbours on the disputed Himalayan border."We have started giving some approvals to investment proposals even from China, but we will not give any approvals in sectors like telecom infrastructure and financials," a senior government official told Reuters.The officials also said that India is unlikely to overturn last year's ban on more than 100 Chinese mobile apps or allow Chinese companies to bid for stakes in state-run firms such as Air India and refiner Bharat Petroleum Corp Ltd.India plans to raise $23.57 billion in the 12 months from April 1 by selling state-run companies.India's finance ministry did not respond to a request for comment.The India-China border clash, the worst in nearly four decades, had soured already fragile relations and "regaining trust would be a long road from here", one of the sources said.India's technology ministry did not respond to a request for comment on app bans.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-likely-to-block-china-s-huawei-over-security-fears-officials-101615466768102.html
11-03-2021||India||'Be watchful': Centre's word of caution for Delhi-NCR as Covid-19 cases rise||As the number of Covid-19 cases is rising across the country, the Centre sounded a word of caution for states which are not yet seeing a surge but are at the threshold. Niti Aayog (health) member VK Paul on Thursday said the situation of Maharashtra is worrying as part of the state is going back to strict lockdown. But Maharashtra is not the single reason for concern. "Would like to caution Delhi-NCR, Gurugram, part of Gautam Budh Nagar and Ghaziabad too some extend. These areas are seeing a slight rise in the number of cases," Paul said adding that the pandemic is not over yet.Maharashtra Covid-19 situation very worrying, says Centre as lockdowns return"The pandemic is not over until it's over. We are in a position to give a strong fight against the virus as we have vaccines now. Nobody should take the virus for granted. Nobody should lower their guard," Paul said.Delhi on Thursday reported 409 new infections, which is the highest in more than two months. On January 3, the Capital recorded 424 daily cases.For the past few days, Delhi has witnessed an uptick in the number of daily Covid-19 infections as the number stayed above 300. Noida is reporting an average of 10 to 15 new infections per day and the number of daily infections in Gurugram is between 60 to 80.Delhi health minister Satyender Jain has recently dismissed the rise as worrying as he said Delhi has entered the endemic stage where a disease, in this case Coronavirus, becomes prevalent among the population, but the intensity recedes. However, the Centre has been constantly pointing out that Delhi is one of the states that is showing an upward trajectory in the number of daily cases, though it is not among the top six contributing states.India on Thursday recorded 22,854 new Covid-19 cases which has been the highest in many months. Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Karnataka, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu reported 86 per cent of new cases. Delhi, Gujarat, Karnataka, Haryana are the states in focus as their daily increase is also significant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/be-watchful-centre-s-word-of-caution-for-delhi-ncr-as-covid-19-cases-rise-101615465746778.html
11-03-2021||India||Rajasthan’s coach project not viable, scrapped: Govt in LS||The Mainline Electric Multiple Unit (MEMU) rail coach factory project in Rajasthan’s Bhilwara, proposed by then United Progressive Alliance government, has been scrapped,Parliament was informed on Wednesday.In a written reply in Lok Sabha, the Centre also said that it considered the Jaisalmer-Barmer to Kandla port rail project financially inviable. The foundation of the MEMU coach project was laid by then UPA chairperson Sonia Gandhi in September 2013, months before NDA formed its government at the Centre. The project was sanctioned during the second tenure of Ashok Gehlot as Rajasthan chief minister who has, time and again, reiterated the resumption of stalled projects of the state, such as, the MEMU coach factory; and the Banswara-Dungarpur-Ratlam rail project. Speaking at the virtual inauguration of the Western Dedicated Freight Corridor in January, Gehlot urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to restart the sanctioned and stalled railway projects on priority. “MEMU coach factory in Bhilwara was sanctioned, and inaugurated but stopped. Oil and gas are there in Jaisalmer and Barmer – country’s 20% oil is supplied from Barmer. Now the refinery work has also started. The demand for rail line to connect Mundra-Kandla port with Jaisalmer-Barmer has been there for the past 40 years,” he stated. Also Read | Rajasthan CM: 1st dose of vaccination stopped at health centres due to shortageHowever, the ministry of railways informed the Lok Sabha on Wednesday, “Coach factories are set up keeping in view the overall requirement of Railways. With the increase in productivity of the existing coach factories over the past few years, there is no requirement to set up additional coach production unit at Bhilwara at present.” Railway minister Piyush Goyal gave a written reply to MPs Arjun Lal Meena and PP Choudhary’s questions as to by when the Bhilwara MEMU rail coach factory and Jaisalmer-Barmer to Kandla port rail project would be ready. “Jaisalmer and Barmer are already connected by Broad Gauge line to Kandla Port. However, for direct connectivity, surveys for Jaisalmer to Barmer and Barmer to Bhabhar were completed in 2012-13. As these projects were not viable financially and since adequate connectivity already exists, the projects have not been taken up,” the minister said. Commenting on the development, state transport minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas said Rajasthan has given 25 MPs who should raise the issue. “The government of India is being biased towards a Congress-ruled state,” he alleged. However, BJP spokesperson and MLA Ramlal Sharma said only those projects can be taken up which are feasible.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthans-coach-project-not-viable-scrapped-govt-in-ls-101615464094216.html
11-03-2021||India||J&K official arrested for forging date of birth||The Jammu & Kashmir police on Thursday said they have arrested Ghulam Mohi-ud-Din Ganai, who rose to become special secretary (legal) of the home department following out of turn promotions after joining the government upon passing his Class 10 exam in the 1980s, for allegedly forging his date of birth. In a statement, the police’s crime branch said Ganai has been retrospectively retired from the service with effect from March 31, 2019.“With access to corridors of power, the accused rose from a daily wager in the office of executive engineer, electric division, Budgam, to special secretary (legal) to the government of Jammu & Kashmir by managing out of turn promotions which prima facie appear to be in violation of rules and regulations and would be probed,” the statement said.It added Ganai, who was until March 5 the special secretary and should have retired two years back as per his real date of birth, also unsuccessfully sought induction into the Kashmir Administrative Service in technical quota. “The accused passed the equivalent of matriculation examination in 1980 as a private candidate and joined as a daily wager in the office of executive engineer electric division Budgam.”The statement said Ganai was regularised in 1985 as a field executive. “In 1989, the accused was appointed as [a] public law officer in the same office and climbing the ladder reached to the rank of special secretary (legal)... the officer got all education equivalent of higher secondary and graduation (college) without attending any regular schools and colleges.”The statement cited an inquiry and added allegations of forgery and misuse of official position has been found to be prima-facie true against Ganai and a criminal case has been registered against him. It added after Ganai’s arrest, unverified complaints have started pouring regarding more such cases of violation of rules. The statement said they too will be probed.“It has prima facie been established that Ghulam Mohi-Ud-Din Ganai forged and manipulated his own date of birth in his service records in connivance with others in order to take illegal monetary gains for himself and enjoy powers as senior legal officer of the Union Territory,” the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jkofficial-arrested-for-forging-date-of-birth-101615463013898.html
11-03-2021||India||'Lowers dignity of women': NCW chief on women legislators pulling BS Hooda's tractor||The chief of the National Commission for Women (NCW) on Thursday criticised Bhupinder Singh Hooda days after women legislators of the Congress pulled a tractor being driven by the Congress leader during a protest on rising prices of fuel. Rekha Sharma said that the incident lowers the dignity of women and the person sitting on the tractor. "If women toil for livelihood, I have no problem. But if a man, a political leader, is sitting on a tractor and a woman is pulling it, it lowers the dignity of women and person on the tractor," Sharma told ANI."Mr Hooda should've thought," she said. "If the women think they were made to do this forcibly, they can come to us but even if they're doing it willingly, the one on the tractor should think that this shouldn't be done," Sharma told ANI.Sharma said that if the commission receives a complaint, it will take action. "Even if we don't get a complaint, it's condemnable," the NCW chief said.Hooda, a former chief minister of the state, sat in the driver's seat of the tractor as Congress legislators pulled it with ropes on the way to the state assembly on Monday. The Congress leaders were protesting the rise in fuel prices across the country. Hooda alleged that the lopsided policies of the government have resulted in all-round inflation.A day later, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar said it pained him when he saw Hooda riding a tractor being pulled by women legislators. While referring to the Congress’ protest against rising fuel prices in the state assembly, Khattar said he could not sleep at all. “This treatment to women MLAs was worse than bonded labour,” he said while winding up the discussion on the motion of thanks to the governor’s address.However, Hooda countered the chief minister’s remark over the party’s protest and said that it was women who were feeling the pinch of rising prices of cooking gas and other essentials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lowers-dignity-of-women-ncw-chief-on-women-legislators-pulling-bs-hooda-s-tractor-101615456029699.html
11-03-2021||India||Maharashtra Covid-19 situation very worrying, says Centre as lockdowns return||The Union health ministry on Thursday expressed concern over the steady rise in the number of daily Covid-19 infections in Maharashtra as well as the rest of the country. "We are very worried about Maharashtra — across several districts. We have seen their names. As we came here, we came to know that very strict lockdown is being imposed in Nagpur in particularly. So we are reaching a situation where those approaches are being brought back. This is a very serious issue for us," Niti Aayog member (health) VK Paul said.Paul said that two lessons can be learnt from the sudden rise. "One, don't take the virus for granted. It can come up unexpectedly. We still don't know part of its dynamics. It also tells us that if we want to remain free from this virus, we need to adhere to all Covid-19 appropriate guidelines. This also includes vaccination," Paul said suggesting that vaccination in areas that are emerging as hotspots should be intensified or prioritised.Covid cases soar in Maharashtra, CM Uddhav Thackeray mulls lockdown in some placesPune, Nagpur, Thane, Mumbai, Amravati, Jalgaon, Nashik, Aurangabad, Bengaluru Urban, Ernakulam are the 10 districts with the highest number of active Covid-19 cases, the ministry said. "Out of these 10 districts, eight are in Maharashtra. There is a rise in active cases, which had declined as low as 1.35 lakh on February 12," health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said.Watch: Uddhav Thackeray takes vaccine dose; strict lockdown likely in some places"On September 18, 2020, the country had more than 10 lakh active cases. From 10 lakh we came down in January and further in February and now the graph is rising again," Bhushan said.Maharashtra, Punjab are the states where active cases have gone up astronomically, the health secretary said excluding Kerala, West Bengal from the bracket as the number of active cases dipped in these states in the past few days. Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat and Haryana are at the tipping point. They are yet to "decline to a surge", the secretary said.Maharashtra has been witnessing a sharp spike in the number of fresh Covid-19 cases since mid-February. Districts like Amravati, Pune, Jalgaon imposed local restrictions to contain the spread of the infection. On Thursday, the Nagpur administration announced a strict lockdown from March 15 to 21, during which only essential services will be allowed. All private offices will remain closed and government offices will work at 25 per cent capacity.Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has not been in favour of lockdown so far but the CM on Thursday said strict lockdown measures will be enforced in some parts of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-covid-19-situation-very-worrying-says-centre-as-lockdowns-return-101615461814093.html
11-03-2021||India||Kedarnath shrine opens on May 17, no restrictions on number of pilgrims||The sacred portals of the Himalyan shrine of Kedarnath will be opened on May 17 at 5 in the morning and there are no restrictions on the number of visitors, said Ravinath Raman, the chief executive officer (CEO) Chardham Devasthanam Management Board.The decision to open the portals was taken on the occasion of Shivratri in line with the auspicious time from an astrological point of view at Omkareshwar temple at Ukhimath.“We are expecting a good pilgrim rush this year. We are not putting any restrictions on the number of pilgrims who can come to Char Dham shrines as we did last year due to Covid-19. The general precautions for checking the spread of Covid-19 will have to be taken by all,” said CEO Raman.Last year the portals of Kedarnath shrine were opened on April 29 and the first prayers were offered on behalf of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to help the country fight against the coronavirus pandemic. This year, the officials and the priests are expecting a good rush on the first day of the shrine reopening.In February, the date for opening the portals of Badrinath shrine - May 18 - was declared on the occasion of Basant Panchami.According to Char Dham Devasthanam Management Board officials, last year overall some 3.1 lakh pilgrims came for Char Dham Yatra, including 1.3 lakh pilgrims for Kedarnath.The Char Dham shrines were opened for pilgrims on July 1 last year by the state government.Kedarnath, Badrinath, Yamunotri and Gangotri are collectively called the Char Dham and attract lakhs of pilgrims each year. Traditionally, Char Dham pilgrimage begins from the west from Yamunotri, then moves to Gangotri and finally to Kedarnath and Badrinath in the east.Located at a height of nearly 3,500 meters above the sea level, Kedarnath temple is near Mandakini river in Rudraprayag district. According to tradition, the shrine was built by Pandavas and revived by Adi Shankaracharya. The shrine was the worst affected area during the 2013 flash floods, with Kedarnath town suffering extensive damage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kedarnath-shrine-opens-on-may-17-no-restrictions-on-number-of-pilgrims-101615461989039.html
11-03-2021||India||Staff of Vizag Steel prep to intensify stir, may go on indefinite strike soon||Workers of the Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Limited (RINL), also known as the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant, on Thursday served a notice to the management of the company stating that they would go on an indefinite strike from any day after March 25, in protest against the Centre’s decision to privatise the steel plant.The notice was served to the chairman and managing director of RINL, P K Rath, by Visakha Ukku Parirakshana Porata Samithi (Struggle committee to protect the Vizag Steel Plant), a joint action committee of all trade unions, in accordance with the provisions contained in Sub-section (1) of Section 22 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947.The JAC said as per the rules, they were giving notice of 14 days to resolve the issues raised by them. “We propose to call a strike on or after March 25, 2021 for the reasons mentioned in the notice,” the JAC said.The committee demanded the withdrawal of the approval accorded on January 27, 2021 by the Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA) for 100 per cent strategic sale of the RINL and scrapping of the inter-ministerial group constituted to study the strategic sale.The trade unions also demanded scrapping of the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) signed with South Korean steel major POSCO on October 23, 2019, for floating a joint venture company for construction of an integrated steel plant on the land of RINLThey asked the RINL management to suspend the recently concluded Memorandum of Understanding with National Buildings Construction Corporation (NBCC) India Ltd for redevelopment and monetisation of land parcels of the steel plant located at Maddilapalem in Visakhapatnam city.They also demanded that all the left-out R-Card (rehabilitation card) holders (those who had given away their land to the steel plant in ‘80s on the promise that they would be given jobs in the steel plant) be given permanent employment.The trade unions, which stepped up their agitation after Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s categorical announcement in Lok Sabha on Monday that the Centre would go ahead with 100 per cent disinvestment in the RINL, are planning to follow the strategy of the farmers who have been agitating on the Delhi borders demanding repeal of controversial farm legislations.They are planning to invite Rakesh Tikait and others to a rally to be held in Visakhapatnam on March 28 to address the steel plant workers. “We are studying their model of agitation and if possible, we shall adopt their strategy to wage a long-drawn battle to prevent privatisation of the steel plant,” trade union leader J Ayodhya Ramu said.The main reason for the disinvestment, according to the RINL management, was that the steel plant had been consistently making losses over a period of time. In 2017-18, it suffered a loss of ₹1,369 crore. Though it could recover briefly by making a net profit of ₹97 crore in 2018-19, it plunged into huge losses to the extent of ₹3,910 crore in 2019-20.Support for the agitating workers of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant has been pouring in from various quarters. Popular Telugu film star and former Union minister K Chiranjeevi expressed his solidarity with the steel plant workers.“Visakhapatnam Steel Plant is a symbol of numerous sacrifices. It is the right of the Andhra people and their self-respect. Let’s rise above parties and regions. With a steely resolve, let’s save Visakha Steel Plant,” Chiranjeevi tweeted late on Tuesday.He said it was not justified to say that the VSP is being privatised because it is incurring losses since all these years it has been deprived of captive mines.Telangana Rashtra Samithi working president K T Rama Rao, too, announced that he would stand by the people of Visakhapatnam in their fight against privatization of the VSP. “If necessary, with permission of chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, we will visit Visakhapatnam to extend our support,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/staff-of-vizag-steel-prep-to-intensify-stir-may-go-on-indefinite-strike-soon-101615461458412.html
11-03-2021||India||Plea filed in SC seeks release of Rohingyas detained in Jammu jail||An application has been moved in the Supreme Court to seek the release of over 150 Rohingya refugees detained in a Jammu sub-jail and stall their deportation by the Centre.The application was filed by two Rohingya Muslim refugees, Mohammad Salimullah and Mohammad Shaqir as part of a petition that has been pending the consideration of the top court since 2017.According to the application, nearly 150 to 170 Rohingya refugees in Jammu were detained in a sub-jail on or around March 7 after verification by their embassy, and face the threat of being deported.“Disturbing reports from the Rohingya families have come in that subsequent to a biometric verification of Rohingya refugees undertaken by the Jammu and Kashmir administration, some people never returned to the camps from the verification but were detained and jailed by the police,” stated the application filed on behalf of the two men by advocate Prashant Bhushan.Also Read | 18 more Rohingyas detained; count at Kathua holding centre reaches 197The jail where they have been detained has been converted into a holding centre and the Inspector General of Police (Jammu) has indicated that the detained refugees could be deported back to Myanmar, the application said.On March 7 (Saturday), HT had reported that at least 155 illegal Rohingya immigrants who escaped persecution in Myanmar and were living in Jammu and Kashmir were on Saturday sent to a “holding centre”, under Section 3(2)e of the Foreigners Act. The immigrants were not holding valid travel documents required under Section (3) of the Passports Act, said officials. Inspector general of police (Jammu zone) Mukesh Singh had said on Saturday , “155 illegal immigrant Rohingyas staying in J&K were today sent to the holding centre established vide home department notification dated March 5, 2021,” adding, “This was done under section 3(2)e of the Foreigners Act. Due process of law was followed in this exercise. These immigrants were not holding valid travel documents required in terms of section (3) of the Passports Act.”Bhushan asked the court to consider issuing directions to immediately release the refugees detained illegally and direct the government to grant them refugee identification cards through the Foreigners Regional Registration Office (FRRO). The application also included a request that the government not proceed with the deportation of the detained refugees, and instead, allow United National High Commission for Refugees (UNHCR) to intervene and determine the protection needs of the Rohingya refugees not just in Jammu but in camps across the country.According to information provided in the application, there are close to 6,523 Rohingyas in Jammu who have escaped from Myanmar fearing persecution. Some of them have cards issued by UNHCR acknowledging their status as refugees. India does not have any legislation recognising refugees, but the country adheres to the principle of non-refoulement (not sending refugees to a place where they face danger) as part of the customary international law.On March 10, HT had reported that the verification of illegal Rohingya immigrants in Jammu had halted for the third consecutive day, but 18 more immigrants were shifted overnight to the Hiranagar sub jail — a temporary holding centre in Kathua district — taking the total number of inmates to 197 on Tuesday. “The number of inmates at the holding centre is now 197. The figure had gone up to 199, but a couple was let off,” said an official, who didn’t wish to be quoted. The detentions have been made under Section 3(2) e of the Foreigners Act since the immigrants were not found with valid travel documents required in terms of Section (3) of the Passports Act, said a police official.The original petition was filed by Mohammad Salimullah and Mohammad Shaqir in the Supreme Court, and the matter was last taken up in 2017. During those proceedings, the Centre had filed a scathing affidavit, accusing Rohingya Muslims in India of having links with Pakistan’s Inter-Services Intelligence and terror organisation Islamic State and thus posing a serious threat to national security.But the petitioners, who represented the large population of Rohingya Muslims spread across India, told the court that military operations against Rohingyas led to a lot of bloodshed and violence, forcing a lot of them to seek safe haven in India. They opposed the government’s response and claimed it was wrong to label all Rohingya refugees as having links with terror outfits without any criminal case being lodged against them in this regard.By an order dated October 13, 2017, the Supreme Court had allowed the two petitioners to move the court in case of any contingency. The present application was filed in light of this permission granted by the court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/plea-filed-in-sc-seeks-release-of-rohingyas-detained-in-jammu-jail-101615461934016.html
11-03-2021||India||Chhattisgarh: Fast track court sentences fake doctor 40 yrs in jail for rape||A fast-track court here has sentenced a fake doctor to two jail terms of 20 years each for raping two sisters on the pretext of treating them in 2017.The court, in its order on Wednesday, said the two sentences will run consecutively, which amounts to a 40-year jail term, Special Public Prosecutor Tarachand Kosale said.Additional Sessions Judge Pooja Jaiswal convicted Samay Lal Dewangan (48), a resident of Gandhi Nagar here, under section 376(2)(n) (committing rape repeatedly on the same woman) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and sentenced him to two jail terms of 20 years each for raping the two women, he said.The court also imposed a fine of ₹10,000 on the convict, Kosale added.In December 2016, the family members of the victims, then aged 21 and 19, took them to the accused for the treatment of their abdominal and waist pain.The accused started raping the siblings since early 2017 on the pretext of curing them through "black magic" and threatened them with dire consequences if they informed about it to anyone, the prosecutor said.The crime came to light in September 2017 when the victims narrated their ordeal to their parents, following which a complaint was lodged at the Gudhiyari police station, he said.The accused was subsequently arrested and a case was registered against him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-fast-track-court-sentences-fake-doctor-40-yrs-in-jail-for-rape-101615454090976.html
11-03-2021||India||Restricting women's entry to Sabarimala should not have happened: Kadakampally||In poll-bound Kerala, senior CPI(M) leader and Devaswom minister Kadakampally Surendran on Thursday virtually expressed regret over the incidents that took place in Sabarimala over the women entry issue and described it as something which "should never have happened" at the Lord Ayyappa Temple.He also vowed that the Left government would implement the final verdict of the Supreme Court only after consulting with believers, political parties and general public."The incident that took place in Sabarimala in 2018 was something which had pained all of us. It should never have happened. It has pained everyone...it has pained me also," Surendran told television channels.The minister, who is contesting the April 6 Assembly election, has come out with the statement at a time when the opposition Congress and BJP are raking up the Sabarimala issue against the Marxist government in the poll-bound state.Also read: Kerala to drop anti-CAA, Sabarimala stir cases ahead of assembly pollsKerala had witnessed high drama during the nearly three-month long annual pilgrimage season in 2018 with around a dozen women in the 10-50 age group being prevented from entering the Sabarimala temple by protesting devotees after the doors were opened for women following the apex court verdict, permitting women of all age groups into the shrine.The LDF, particularly the CPI(M), had drawn flak from several quarters over the women's entry issue for its alleged hastiness in implementing the Supreme Court order.In the Lok Sabha polls in 2019, post-Sabarimala agitation, the LDF had suffered a massive drubbing, losing 19 out of the total of 20 seats.The CPI(M), however, regained lost ground by winning the recent civic body polls.The party, which conducted a door-to-door campaign post the LS polls, had admitted that a section of believers had misunderstood the Left on the Sabarimala issue.Surendran, however, expressed hope that people were no more worried about those incidents now."The case is currently before the larger bench of the Supreme Court and whatever be the verdict, the government will implement it only after discussing it with everyone including believers, political parties and general public," the minister said.He also pointed out that the Pinarayi Vijayan-led LDF government recently had withdrawn all cases that were not of serious criminal nature in connection with the Sabarimala agitation and that was a message.However, the BJP on Thursday rejected the minister's statement and demanded an apology from him for whatever he had done at the Lord Ayyappa temple.Party's state president K Surendran said the minister would not be forgiven for the cruelty and injustice shown to Sabarimala, even if he takes a dip in the Ganga a thousand times.He also said Kadakampally Surendran was now crying out of fear of losing the coming polls and the people of the state would not believe him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/restricting-women-s-entry-to-sabarimala-should-not-have-happened-kadakampally-101615454059225.html
11-03-2021||India||Covid-19 vaccine: Ministry excludes PM photo from certificate after EC nudge||Days after the Election Commission of India asked the Union health ministry to remove Prime Minister Narendra Modi's photo from the Covid-19 vaccination certificates in Assam, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Kerala — the four poll-bound states and Union Territory Puducherry, the ministry decided to apply filters to exclude the photo from the certificates, news agency PTI reported quoting sources.“Thereafter, necessary filters in Co-WIN have been applied for the vaccination centres situated in the four states of Assam, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, and Union Territory of Puducherry, as suggested by the Commission,” the ministry wrote in its letter to the poll body.Trinamool Congress raised the complaint with the Election Commission that PM Modi's photo in the vaccine certificate is violating the model code of conduct which kicked in as soon as the election dates in these four states and a union territory were announced on February 26.In its directive to the ministry, the EC did not refer to the Prime Minister's name but only asked to follow the provisions of the model code of conduct. Replying to that, the health ministry clarified that the system was developed before the dates were announced.“The ministry explained that the certificates were being issued as per the ongoing scheme. The model code of conduct kicked into force later. And the certificate is system generated,” the ministry said.The vaccines being administered now comprises two doses — to be taken in a gap of 28 days. After the first dose, a provisional certificate is issued to the beneficiaries and the final certificate is issued after 28 days.The provisional certificate contains the details of the beneficiary including the name, age, gender, ID verified, location etc., apart from vaccination details, including vaccine name, date of dose, the name of the vaccinator and the place of vaccination. Below these details, a photo of PM Modi has been used with his quotes, 'dawai bhi kadai bhi', written in Hindi and 'Together, India will defeat Covid-19', written in English.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-vaccine-ministry-excludes-pm-photo-from-certificate-after-ec-nud-101615459304791.html
11-03-2021||India||Internet and Mobile Association urges govt to regulate, not ban cryptocurrency||Industry body IAMAI (Internet & Mobile Association of India) on Wednesday appealed to the Indian government to not impose a blanket ban on cryptocurrency and said that the aim should instead be to develop a robust mechanism to regulate the related ecosystem in the country.Cryptocurrencies are digital or virtual currencies in which encryption techniques are used to regulate the generation of their units and verify the transfer of funds, operating independently of a central bank.As per IAMAI, the crypto community consists of over 10 million crypto holders having over USD 1 billion worth of crypto assets, over 300 startups generating tens of thousands of jobs and hundreds of millions of dollars in revenue and taxes.The jobs are being generated across a variety of functions - legal, compliance, tech, marketing, business development, finance, etc - in India and abroad, IAMAI noted."Given the scale and diversity, the good governance and regulation of the cryptocurrency ecosystem in India is critical and will give impetus to the Government of India's Digital India vision," it said, adding, "There's a daily trading volume of USD 350 million - USD 500 million.""Hence, we are urging the government to define the cryptocurrency regulation framework after due consultation with IAMAI and stakeholders such as India crypto-asset user groups and the exchanges that facilitate buying and selling," IAMAI said.Banning cryptocurrency will have an "adverse" impact and will lead to a loss in investments and hit 10 million Indian crypto customers, IAMAI noted.The cryptocurrency community in India had expressed its apprehension when the central government was in talks of introducing a bill in the Parliament to ban all cryptocurrencies. Several quarters had also expected India to launch its own digital version of the rupee in its stead.Reserve Bank of India Governor Shaktikanta Das had also said that the apex bank has certain "major concerns" over the impact that cryptocurrencies may have on the financial stability in the economy and has conveyed the same to the government.The RBI had virtually banned cryptocurrency trading in 2018 and had directed all entities regulated by the central bank to cease dealing in virtual currencies.The Supreme Court had also asked the Centre in 2019 to frame policies for crypto, and in 2020, struck down the curbs imposed by the RBI.However, earlier this month, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had said that the government is still formulating its opinion on cryptocurrencies and will take a "calibrated" position.The Reserve Bank had through various public notices on December 24, 2013, February 1, 2017, and December 5, 2017, cautioned users, holders and traders of virtual currencies, including bitcoins, regarding various risks associated in dealing with such virtual currencies.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/internet-and-mobile-association-urges-govt-to-regulate-not-ban-cryptocurrency-101615457160624.html
11-03-2021||India||86% of India's new Covid-19 cases from 6 states, says health ministry||Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Karnataka, Gujarat and Tamil Nadu together account for 85.91% of the new cases of the coronavirus disease reported in the last 24 hours in India, according to the data released by the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Thursday as the country logged 22,854 fresh infections.Maharashtra, which accounts for almost 60 per cent of the Covid-19 cases reported in the country, saw the highest number of infections at 13,659, followed by Kerala at 2,475 and Punjab with 1,393, the health ministry said. The ministry also said Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Delhi, Gujarat, Karnataka and Haryana continue to report an uptick in the number of fresh cases.Also read | 13K new cases, 99K active cases in Maharashtra, India's most affected state: 10 pointsMaharashtra, India’s worst-hit state, also saw the maximum casualties at 54, followed by Punjab with 17 and Kerala with 14 in the last 24 hours, the ministry’s data showed. Six Indian states account for 82.54% of the new deaths in the country, it further said. There were 126 deaths reported in the country in the 24-hour period.At least 19 states and Union territories have not reported any deaths due to the viral disease. These regions include Gujarat, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Assam, Odisha, Goa, Jharkhand, Puducherry, Lakshadweep, Sikkim, Ladakh, Manipur, Daman and Diu and Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Tripura, the Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Arunachal Pradesh.Showing the change in the number of active cases for the states in the 24-hour period, the health ministry said Kerala reported the maximum decline in the figure while Maharashtra the maximum increase. India has 189,226 active Covid-19 cases, accounting for 1.68% of its total caseload, according to the health ministry.Also read: India's daily Covid-19 cases cross 20,000 mark for third time this year, active cases up by 4,628More than 25.6 million vaccine doses have so far been administered in the country through 478,168 sessions, according to a provisional report compiled at Thursday 7am, the ministry said. Data also shows that 13,17,357 vaccine doses were administered with 10,30,243 people given the first dose and 287,114 healthcare and frontline workers were given the second dose on Wednesday, the 54th day of the government’s ongoing vaccination drive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/86-of-india-s-new-covid-19-cases-coming-from-six-states-says-health-ministry-101615448134143.html
11-03-2021||India||No rise in militancy, number of anti-terrorist operations rising: J-K police||Assuring that there is no rise in militancy, Kashmir Inspector General of Police Vijay Kumar on Thursday said that the security forces have increased the number of anti-terrorist operations."Two terrorists were killed in an encounter in Kadipura village in Anantnag. They looked like local terrorists. Militancy isn't rising, the number of anti-terrorist operations is rising," said IGP Kashmir.He further said that information was received yesterday afternoon that Jaish-e-Mohammed terrorists were hiding in the Kadipura village."Police, Indian Army and CRPF jointly started the initial firing yesterday and the operation was halted in the night. We again resumed the firing today in the early morning in which two terrorists were eliminated," he added.On Tuesday, Al-Badr chief Ganie Khwaja was neutralised while two terrorists managed to escape during an encounter in Sopore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-rise-in-militancy-number-of-anti-terrorist-operations-rising-j-k-police-101615457805779.html
11-03-2021||India||Woman’s charred body found in roadside bushes in UP's Fatehpur: Police||A charred body of an unidentified woman was found Thursday in roadside bushes in the Kalyanpur area of the Fatehpur district, police said. The body of the woman, aged about 25 years, was spotted in bushes by the Muradipur-Bindki road by villagers who informed the police and the body was sent for postmortem, said Kalyanpur SHO Keshav Verma. It appears the woman was killed somewhere else and her body dumped here and set afire, the SGHOP added. In a bid to identify the victim, the police have sought the list of missing persons from nearby police stations, said Verma, adding the police are probing the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/womans-charred-body-found-in-roadside-bushes-in-up-s-fatehpur-police-101615457526914.html
11-03-2021||India||More than 21,000 killed in road accidents in Gujarat in last 3 years||Gandhinagar, Mar 11 (PTI) Over 21,000 people were killed, while more than 46,000 were injured in road accidents in Gujarat in the last three years, till September 2020, the Legislative Assembly was informed.According to data shared by the state Home Department in the assembly on Wednesday, as many as 21,529 people died and 46,146 sustained injuries in road accidents in the last three years as on September 2020.With 1,257 fatalities, the jurisdiction of Surat rural police recorded maximum number of deaths, followed by Ahmedabad city with 1,075 fatalities, Valsad 998, Banaskantha 971, Vadodara-rural 947, Ahmedabad-rural 923, Bharuch district 917 and Surat city 808.At least 2,349 people were injured in accidents in Kheda district, followed by 2,175 in Surat city, 1,801 in Bharuch, 1,794 in Gandhinagar, 1,726 in Godhra and 1,722 in Vadodara Rural, the data revealed.Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani, who also handles the Home portfolio, said his department has taken various steps to bring down accidents.Some of the measures include clearing road encroachments, conducting training and awareness programmes, issuing notifications regarding speed limits and regular checking drives for school vans in cities, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-than-21-000-killed-in-road-accidents-in-gujarat-in-last-3-years-101615456003320.html
11-03-2021||India||Man, 50, objects to taking pictures of girls at wedding, stabbed to death||A 50-year-old man was dragged from the ‘mandap’ and stabbed to death after he tried to stop four men from taking pictures of girls who were dancing at his niece’s wedding late on Wednesday night in Gariyaband district, said police. All four accused have been arrested.The incident took place in Jadapadar village under Mainpur police station area. Uddal Singh Rathore was immediately rushed to a local hospital where the doctors declared him brought dead.“The girls were dancing near the ‘mandap’ during the marriage ceremony. Four men came and started taking pictures and videos of the girls. Uddal raised his objections over the act. The men then took him out and stabbed him to death,” said Bhupendra Singh Rajput, a family member of the deceased.The deceased’s daughter was also going to be married on Friday, said a family member.The accused were identified as Mikshit Sinha (19), Suraj Sinha (18), Chunesh Kumar Sinha (19) and Tokeshwar alias Chhotu Nagesh (18) - all residents of the nearby Jidar village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-50-objects-to-taking-pictures-of-girls-at-wedding-stabbed-to-death-101615455511436.html
11-03-2021||India||SpiceHealth starts RT-PCR test for ₹500 in Mumbai, Delhi||SpiceJet on Thursday launched the country’s cheapest testing facility for general public at ₹499 through its healthcare company, SpiceHealth. It will also offer a special price of ₹299, which is one-third of the prevailing market rate, to its passengers who wish to get the Covid-19 test done.Till now, SpiceHealth has worked with various state governments and government medical bodies to facilitate Covid-19 testing and its mobile labs are accredited by the National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories and Indian Council of Medical Research.In the first phase, SpiceHealth will make its testing facility available for the general public in Mumbai and Delhi. It will collect swabs from people’s home at a nominal charge and customers will also have the option to book appointments on www.spicehealth.com and get themselves tested at the nearest SpiceHealth mobile lab . Similarly, SpiceJet passengers will be able book for an RT-PCR test on the website by mentioning their PNR number.Also Read | After IndiGo, SpiceJet opts for electric taxiing to save fuel“The PNR can be used once by a passenger to avail the special discounted price either prior to travel or up to 30 days after travel,” the airline spokesperson said.SpiceHealth CEO Avani Singh said, “After testing over a million people in Delhi, Maharashtra, Haryana and Haridwar and working closely with the respective local governments, SpiceHealth is offering the cheapest and fastest RT-PCR testing directly to the people.”Recently, SpiceHealth set-up mobile laboratories and testing facilities across Haridwar and at five locations along the border of Uttarakhand for RT-PCR and Rapid Antigen tests of pilgrims visiting the Kumbh Mela. In January, it launched a genome sequencing laboratory at Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International airport to help in identifying the new mutant variants of Covid-19 virus carried by passengers travelling from other countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/spicejet-starts-rs-499-rt-pcr-test-another-rs-200-discount-for-its-passengers-101615454613654.html
11-03-2021||India||PM Modi says creating wealth, values for humanity at core of 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat'||Asserting that a self-reliant India is good for the world, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Thursday that creating wealth and value "not only for ourselves but for the larger humanity" is at the core of 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat'.Speaking at the launch of the Kindle version of Swami Chidbhavananda's 'Bhagavad Gita' via video conferencing, the prime minister said the epic's core message to people is to perform action and asserted that 1.3 billion people of India have decided their course of action which is to make India 'Aatmanirbhar' or self-reliant.In the long term, a self-reliant India is in everyone's interest, he said."At the core of Atmanirbhar Bharat is to create wealth and values not only for ourselves but for the larger humanity. We believe that an Atmanirbhar Bharat is good for the world," he added.In the recent past, when the world needed medicines, India did whatever it could to provide them, the prime minister said, referring to India providing medicines and now vaccines during the Covid-19 pandemic. "Our scientists worked in a quick time to come out with vaccines. Now, India is humbled that vaccines made in India are going around the world. We want to heal as well as help humanity. This is exactly what the Bhagavad Gita teaches us," Modi stressed.He said the Bhagavad Gita was born during conflict, a reference to Mahabharat, and many feel that humanity is passing through similar conflict and challenges now, Modi said."The world is fighting a tough battle against a once-in-a-lifetime global pandemic. The economic and social impacts are also far reaching. In such a time, the path shown in Bhagavad Gita becomes ever relevant," he asserted.It could provide strength and direction to once again emerge victorious from the challenges humanity faces, he said"In India, we saw many instances of this. Our people-powered fight against Covid-19, the outstanding spirit of the people, the courage of citizens, one can say that behind this is a glimpse of what the Gita highlights," he said.Noting that E-books are becoming very popular specially among the youth, Modi said, therefore, this effort will connect more youngsters with the noble thoughts of the Gita.The beauty of the Gita is in its depth, diversity and flexibility, he said. He quoted a peer reviewed journal of cardiology published by the University of Oxford which talks at length about the relevance of Gita during the time of the Covid-19 pandemic.Modi said this e-book will also deepen the connect between the eternal Gita and the glorious Tamil culture and enable the Tamil diaspora spread across the world to read it easily.He praised the Tamil diaspora for scaling new heights in many sectors and yet carrying the greatness of its culture wherever they went.Paying homage to Swami Chidbhavananda, the prime minister said the mind, body, heart and soul of the Swami was devoted to India's regeneration. He said the beauty of the Gita is in its depth, diversity and flexibility. Modi asked youngsters to read Gita, saying its teachings are extremely practical and relatable. In the middle of their fast-paced lives, Gita will provide an oasis of clam and peace, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-says-creating-wealth-values-for-humanity-at-core-of-aatmanirbhar-bharat-101615452369060.html
11-03-2021||India||960 cartons of liquor seized in UP's Ballia ahead of panchayat polls||Liquor worth around ₹40 lakh allegedly meant to be distributed ahead of the panchayat polls in Uttar Pradesh and for smuggling into neighbouring Bihar has been seized from the city, police said on Thursday."During a drive to check the illegal sale of alcohol, 960 cartons of liquor worth over ₹40 lakh were recovered from separate areas on Wednesday," Superintendent of Police Vipin Tada said.The liquor was brought for distribution in the panchyat polls and was also to be smuggled into Bihar, where its sale is prohibited, the SP said.He said police are running a special drive in which a ₹1,000-reward is given to a person if over 100 cartons of liquor are recovered on the basis of his/her tip-off.Last month, police had recovered 1,900 cartons of liquor worth over ₹1 crore, the SP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/960-cartons-of-liquor-seized-in-up-s-ballia-ahead-of-panchayat-polls-101615448127560.html
11-03-2021||India||TN assembly polls: 187 candidates to use DMK's rising sun symbol for winnability||As many as 187 candidates will contest using the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam’s (DMK) rising sun symbol in the assembly elections on April 6, which will be one of the highest in the party’s recent history despite the party’s 12 allies in these polls. “This is the highest since 1989 when 202 candidates contested under our rising sun symbol. In the past, even more candidates-- 203 in 1971 and 230 in 1977 contested using our party symbol but then our allies were very few,” said a senior DMK leader, who is part of the seven-member seat sharing committee. “We were able to persuade our allies to contest under our symbol,” he added.The DMK completed its seat sharing agreements for the assembly polls on Wednesday by signing a one-seat agreement with the All India Forward Bloc. While the DMK will contest on 173 seats, it has persuaded at least six of its 12 allies to field 14 candidates under its symbol.The DMK’s rising sun and the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam’s (AIADMK) two leaves symbols have more recall value among the electorate, especially those in the rural pockets and older generation voters. The voting pattern from previous elections, particularly in rural areas has shown that voters traditionally choose one of the two symbols notwithstanding the candidate or their alliance.The parties who will contest under the DMK symbol include Vaiko’s Marumalarchi Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (MDMK) in six constituencies and Kongunadu Makkal Desiya Katchi (KMDK) in three; besides other smaller parties. “Winning possibilities are more if we contest under the DMK’s symbol and it will reach more people,” said KMDK’s general secretary E R Easwaran.The move will provide DMK support in the western belt, a stronghold of the AIADMK. KMDK contested in six constituencies in the 2011 assembly elections with the DMK using a hat symbol, but didn’t win. In 2016, they went on their own, contesting in 72 seats using a gas cylinder symbol and yet had no luck. In 2014, they aligned with the BJP and came back to the DMK’s fold 2019 for parliamentary election and contested using the DMK’s rising sun symbol and got their first electoral win in Namakkal Lok Sabha seat.Vaiko, who quit the DMK in 1994 and launched MDMK said after signing the deal that it was practical to contest using the DMK symbol to avoid complications and also since the party has not been able to establish its own common symbol.Also Read: In 2nd list, AIADMK banks on incumbentsThe DMK is likely to release its first list of candidates Thursday even as AIADMK has released two lists totalling 177 candidates and named constituencies given to PMK (23) and BJP (20) on Wednesday.In the previous assembly elections in 2016, the AIADMK came to power after winning 135 seats it contested out of 234. DMK contested in 180 and won 88 while its ally Congress contested in 41 and won 8. BJP contested with minor parties on 188 seats but didn’t win anyone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tn-assembly-polls-187-candidates-to-use-dmk-s-rising-sun-symbol-for-winnability-101615450025783.html
11-03-2021||India||Covid cases soar in Maharashtra, CM Uddhav Thackeray mulls lockdown in some places||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday said that lockdown will be put in some places to tackle the rise in Covid-19 cases in the state. He, however, said that situation has not gone out of control yet."In a few days, we may have to lockdown some places. We may have to start from scratch but still the situation has not gone out of control. At some places, stringent lockdown will be imposed, decision soon," he said after getting his first vaccine shot at JJ Hospital in Mumbai.Also Watch: Maharashtra CM on lockdown decision"There is no need to have any fear or apprehension about the vaccines. I appeal to whoever is eligible to get vaccinated. We are speeding up vaccination," Thackeray added.He was given Covaxin, the Covid-19 vaccine made by Bharat Biotech. His wife Rashmi and her mother too got the first dose of the vaccine.Senior doctors were present when the chief minister was administered the vaccine.The remarks come a day after Maharashtra, the worst-affected state, recorded 13,659 Covid-19 cases, its first one-day spike in excess of 13,000 in 2021 and highest in 154 days. Before this, the state recorded 14,578 cases on October 8, 2020.Maharashtra has till date recorded 2,252,057 infections. The state also recorded 54 deaths on Wednesday, taking the toll to 52,619. Mumbai, which has been recording over 1,000 cases for a week now, also recorded 1,539 cases and five deaths, taking the tally to 337,124 and toll to 11,515 deaths.The district magistrates in few places, which are recording a spike in daily cases, have imposed curbs to check the spread of the infection. On Thursday, complete lockdown was announced in Nagpur from March 15 to March 21. The district administration said that essential services won't be impacted by the order.The Jalgaon district will witness night curfew from Thursday till Monday (March 15) due to the spike in number of cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-chief-minister-uddhav-thackeray-says-lockdown-to-be-imposed-in-some-places-101615449962520.html
11-03-2021||India||Lockdown in Maharashtra’s Nagpur from March 15-21 as Covid-19 cases surge||Authorities in Maharashtra’s Nagpur city on Thursday imposed a lockdown from March 15 to March 21 and said only essential services will be allowed to function during the week. “A complete lockdown to remain imposed in Nagpur City Police Commissionerate area from March 15 to March 21. Essential services will continue,” Raut told news agency ANI.This decision comes after a recent surge in the cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the area. Nagpur is one of the worst-hit regions in Maharashtra along with Mumbai, Pune and Nashik and is currently contributing the most number of cases towards the state’s daily. Nagpur registered 1,513 new cases on Wednesday which pushed the caseload to 243,726 of which 4,877 people have lost their lives so far. The daily cases in Nagpur, which have been on the uptick since mid-February, had crossed the 1,000-mark on February 24.Also Read| Covid cases soar in Maharashtra, CM Uddhav Thackeray mulls lockdown in some placesThe Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) had on March 5 extended the restrictions imposed on several activities till March 14. Under these restrictions, which came in place on February 22, schools, colleges, swimming pools and weekly markets were ordered to be closed, according to an official order accessed by news agency PTI. The order also stated that no social, cultural and political events will be allowed and marriage halls will remain non-operational.Apart from Nagpur, the lockdown has already been imposed in districts such as Jalgaon, Amravati among many others to curb the spread of the infection.Meanwhile, Maharashtra’s Covid-19 caseload has climbed over 2.25 million and the death toll stands at 52,610. On Wednesday, 13,659 cases of the coronavirus disease and 54 related deaths were added to the state's tally. Wednesday’s tally has been the highest since in more than five months —13,395 were seen on October 8, 2020. More than 9,900 patients were discharged on Wednesday which pushed the total recoveries to nearly 2.1 million while the active cases are at 99,008.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtras-nagpur-to-be-under-lockdown-from-march-15-21-due-to-surge-in-cases-101615448650834.html
11-03-2021||India||News updates from HT: Rahul Gandhi says govt failed to implement Manual Scavenging Act and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Govt failed to implement Manual Scavenging Act 'badly': Rahul GandhiCongress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday blamed the Centre for badly implementing the Manual Scavenging Act of 2013. Read More‘Just like we discuss Palestine’: Tharoor on farm stir debate in UK parliamentDays after a row over a debate on the protest by Indian farmers in the UK parliament. Read MoreNHRC recommends alert system to trace missing children in IndiaAn early warning system should be developed in India on the lines of America’s Missing: Broadcast Emergency Response (AMBER) Alert to trace the missing, runaway, trafficked, and abducted children, the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has recommended. Read MoreRoohi movie review: Rajkummar Rao-Varun Sharma's equation stands out in convoluted film, Janhvi Kapoor is averageAfter Amar Kaushik's 2018 film Stree emerged winner at the box office, and set new benchmark for horror comedies in Bollywood. Read MoreDeepika Padukone twins with Ranveer in tracksuit and bucket cap worth Rs.15kKnown for her impeccable acting skills, sartorial sense and her awe-generating dance moves, Deepika Padukone, recently made headlines. Read MoreCitroen is testing entry-level SUV for India, may rival Brezza, Venue and SonetFrench auto major Citroen has entered the Indian market with its flagship C5 Aircross SUV. Read MoreWatch: Ranveer Singh’s surprise cameo in Deepika Padukone's Buss It challengeDeepika Padukone took on the Buss It challenge, a new trend viral on socal media. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-rahul-says-govt-failed-to-implement-manual-scavenging-act-and-all-the-latest-news-101615445272749.html
11-03-2021||India||Farm stir: Activist Shubham Kar Chaudhari seeks bail in 'Toolkit' case||Shubham Kar Chaudhari, a 'climate activist', approached a Delhi Court on Thursday seeking anticipatory bail in the 'Toolkit' document case related to farmers' protest.The Goa Bench of Bombay High Court had earlier granted him protection from arrest until March 12, so that he can approach the court in Delhi, where an FIR had been registered under IPC Sections 124A (sedition), 153A (promoting enmity) and 120B (criminal conspiracy).Additional Session Judge Dharmender Rana of Patiala House Court is scheduled to hear the bail on March 12.The same court has already extended interim protection from arrest to Shantanu Muluk and Nikita Jacob till March 15 in the same FIR.Additional Session Judge Dharmender Rana had earlier granted regular bail to climate activist Disha Ravi in the case. The 21-year-old activist was arrested from Bengaluru in connection with the formulation and dissemination of the 'toolkit' document, in the ongoing farmers' protest. She was one of the editors of the 'toolkit' document.On February 3, Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg had shared this 'toolkit' in a tweet, which she later deleted. Greta had also extended support to the protest by farmer unions on the borders of Delhi against the new farm laws.As per Delhi Police, the 'toolkit' shared by the Swedish climate activist played a major role in turning the '26 January 2021 tractor parade' violent, leaving a few hundred police personnel injured.Police said that the toolkit was not created just by a handful of activists in India but in collaboration with pro-Khalistani organisations.The Special Cell of Delhi Police lodged an FIR against creating and spreading the toolkit and said that a probe is on to unravel an 'international conspiracy' to defame India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-stir-activist-shubham-kar-chaudhari-seeks-bail-in-toolkit-case-101615447242856.html
11-03-2021||India||CRPF jawan shoots himself dead in Jammu and Kashmir||A CRPF jawan, who had returned to duty after a leave, died by suicide in Jammu and Kashmir's Budgam on Thursday morning.According to the CRPF, the jawan, Amar Jyoti R K of 79 Battalion was 'mentally disturbed' died by shooting himself in the head with his colleague's service rifle."The jawan was mentally disturbed and was not assigned any weapon. Today while others were busy, he took another jawan's weapon and shot himself. The rifle belonged to a constable named Arvind Kumar of 54 Battalion co-located at Bukhari House with 79 Battalion. Jyoti had reported back from 27 days leave on March 1," CRPF said.The CRPF official said the jawan was performing the duties of mess constable and had been categorised as SHAPE 3 owing to psychiatric problems.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/crpf-jawan-shoots-himself-dead-in-jammu-and-kashmir-101615446144768.html
11-03-2021||India||Unnao: Where feudalism, crime and a compromised state machinery meet||Kaushal Singh, a resident of Hasangunj hamlet in central Uttar Pradesh’s Unnao district, was four when his father was murdered. His father was walking down the main avenue, or Bada Chauraha, in Unnao to meet his lawyer near the district court when he was shot twice in the head. His killer, whom police later said was a henchman acting on behalf of a local don, put his revolver back and walked away – no one in the crowded street attempted to stop him. It was 1981. Singh grew up hearing up stories about his father from his mother, who longed for revenge. She told him that his father was hindering the rise of an upper-caste don who held sway over local politics and therefore was gunned down. The shooter was caught a few months later and sentenced to life in jail. In 2003, the shooter was released from jail on parole. Days later, while standing outside the Unnao district court, he was killed by two gunshots. The shooter was Kaushal Singh. Also Read | 21-year-old man, teen aid held for poisoning Dalit girls in Unnao“Kaushal killed him at the very spot his father was killed, at the same time. After shooting him twice in the head, Kaushal shouted ‘mera badla pura hua’ (I have taken my revenge), boarded a tempo and left,” said Asad Maqbool, a sub inspector at Unnao police station who arrested Singh later. Kaushal was sentenced to jail but expressed no regret. “I spoke to him after his arrest, his life mission was to kill that man to get his family to reclaim the position it deserved, “ Maqbool said. Such stories of revenge, feudalism, crime and enmity abound in the cramped bylanes, chowks and crossroads of Unnao. Sandwiched between Lucknow and Kanpur and on the banks of the Ganga, Unnao traces its history back almost 900 years, through the reigns of the Mughals to the 1857 Sepoy Mutiny, when the modern administrative district was laid out. Today, it lies at the heart of what is called the badlands of Uttar Pradesh, where local strongmen have fiefdoms shaped by caste and crime and the heft of a political leader is measured by the length of his cavalcade, his crime record, and his ability to bend the law. As a result, political influence, law enforcement and feudal power often have blurred boundaries, resulting in uneven policing, rampant crime against women and caste-based persecution. The region grabbed national headlines in 2017 after former Bharatiya Janata Party legislator Kuldeep Singh Sengar raped a minor girl and then dodged the law for months, banking on his caste and feudal networks. In 2018, a minor Dalit girl said she was gang-raped by men who also videographed the crime and another Dalit girl was burnt alive. In 2019, a 23-year-old woman was set on fire while on her way to court to testify in her assault case. In 2020, a group of five men gang-raped a young woman on the pretext of helping her in a previous gang rape case. And just last month, a 21-year-old man poisoned three minor girls because one of them rejected his advances. To be sure, such gruesome crimes are not specific to the political party in power and are also reported from other districts — such as Hathras in western UP where a Dalit woman was gang-raped and killed in October. But experts and activists say the socio-political fabric in Unnao ensconce key conditions that let crime fester and make law enforcement tough. “The remnants of the feudal system reign large in Unnao. Mixed with caste hierarchies, it helps the powerful, with large tracts of land, exert influence on the administration, police and politicians. As a result, the weaker sections and victims have no redressal system,” said Poonam Kaushik, a woman’s right activist. 2 Unnao has a decades-old relationship with organised crime due to its proximity to major economic centres and borders with five districts. Stories of notorious rivalries between top dons, many of whom were upper-caste landowners, abound in the dusty district headquarters and the countryside. Take the enmity between Nepal Singh and Baggad Singh in the late 70s, which claimed 80 lives. Or the terror-filled reigns of Munshi Mahipal, Ganga Pille or Lalai Singh that spawned urban legends. “It was said that Lalai Singh cannibalises his victims after murdering them,” said veteran local journalist Shailendra Tiwari. The most famous of these tales involved two seniors. In the early 1980s, don Kishan Maharaj at 70 murdered rival crime boss Babu Tiwari, 80, in Achalgunj in full public view. The murder — in which Maharaj first overpowered Tiwari and then called on bystanders to watch him kill his rival — sparked a blood feud that lasted three generations and cost at least 60 lives on both sides, said local police. “There was a time in the 1970s and 80s when killing a man on kutcheri (court) premises or the bus adda (terminal) or bada chauraha (main junction) was the fashion…people elicited pride in doing this and calling it a masculine thing,” said SN Bajpai, a political analyst. The state government doesn’t publicly release district-wise crime figures but a senior police official said the district saw two cases of crime against women every day in 2020 – a year when restrictions on movement and fear of the coronavirus meant that people rarely stepped out of their houses. A woman was molested every two days, and abducted every 1.5 days.Experts and local activists cite three main reasons for the region’s blood-soaked history. One, feudal attitudes abound in a region with large landowning families, many of whom hail from upper-caste communities. This became more pronounced in the 1980s and 90s as other states raced past UP, which despite its industrial past and substantial factories, struggled to adapt to the new economy. But the state’s political heft was still outsized in national politics, which meant the influence of local strongmen, who commanded fierce caste and clan-based loyalties, soared. This meant that the political establishment had less incentive in reining in local centres of power and establish an uniform rule of law. “The history of Unnao is bound with feudalism,” said Mohammad Arif, a local observer. “The ruling class use people to settle their scores and it sets off a cycle.” In many cases, the local don had ties to large tracts of land, the local dominant caste group and the political administration. In the absence of large-scale economic development, the don wielded disproportionate economic and social power, and therefore the ability to sway elections. His power was also exemplified in exaggerated shows of masculinity that hindered, among other things, women’s independence. Two, ties between land, influence and honour remain strong. This is important in a state where possession of land is not only a marker of economic mobility but also social might. “Access to land not only guarantees commodity production, food security and better living standards but also provides them better social status and condition. The very nature of control of land is related to land right, which in a nutshell refers to land title in terms of ownership and possession, which cement economic prosperity and social status,” argued a 2019 paper by scholar Bibhuti Bhushan Malik. The mismatch in land holdings between dominant and weaker communities creates a skewed power dynamic in favour of upper-caste communities. For Dalits and other marginalised castes, therefore, the only way to dignity is through land. With women shut out of the land inheritance process, power and impunity gets concentrated in the hands of men. “In the absence of land reforms, power gets concentrated in the hands of strongmen. In many cases, institutions meant to enforce law and order become biased towards local power centres. As a result, those with no land or dependents like women have no control over administration,” said Kaushik. Three, the air of invincibility shrouding local strongmen. Due to caste and other ties, the strongmen have people of the same caste or community controlling other powerful administrative unit such as the police station, politician or media. Moreover, because of their aura and hold over the electorate, the strongmen are influential players in politics, which further colours the administrative response. “In many cases, police have refused to act on strongmen from dominant communities because of caste or clan ties. This kind of impunity is often created by land owning and political influence that is gained through a life of crime,” said Ajay Kumar from the Indian Institute of Advanced Studies. In the absence of constant and stringent policing, men from dominant communities develop an aura of invincibility and aren’t afraid of law enforcement. In many cases, such impunity lasts for generations as dominant families build on their political power with each passing generation. “Unnao is a place where power talks,” said Anand Mohan Jaiswal, who headed several police stations in the district. 3 In many ways, the 2017 rape of a minor girl by Sengar, and the case that followed, encapsulated how strongmen function in Unnao. A four-time MLA, Sengar raped the young woman, his neighbour, in June, 2017. The case found prominence in April 2018 when the survivor tried to immolate herself in front of the chief minister’s residence and her father died in jail. Sengar was born in a powerful Thakur clan that had a stranglehold on the region due to their holdings in land, sand mining and brick kilns. His grandfather, Babu Singh, was the village chief and passed the mantle on to Sengar. Also Read | CBI indicts 3 IPS, IAS officers for not acting on Unnao rape survivor’s complaints against MLAAfter the position was reserved for women, Sengar’s mother Chunni Devi took over. His wife Sangeeta is the sitting Zila Parishad chief while his brother’s wife is the current village head. Sengar was in almost every major party and won from three separate constituencies in the district. He built his reputation as the strongman and held a big Sunday meeting where people from far-flung villages in the district came to resolve disputes, or beg for jobs. In contrast, the survivor’s father and uncle used to work for the MLA and otherwise eked out an income from a small plot of farmland. Sengar’s community connections and political heft helped him hatch a “criminal conspiracy” with police officers to “falsely implicate” the survivor’s father, according to a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) charge sheet. With the help of his connections, Sengar was able to rally his supporters to beat up and intimidate the father, even call up senior police officers. He even kept tabs on the father’s police interrogation by calling the police officers present 10 times – out of a total of 36 calls placed by either associates of Sengar, the MLA, or police officers in a two-hour period. The former MLA also called up the government medical officer and forced him to keep the father in jail. He died five days later. The extent of the impunity was underlined by the fact that three of Sengar’s men gang-raped the girl a week after the original crime in an alleged bid to keep her quiet about the MLA. Sengar’s dismissal from the party and his conviction in 2019 did little to dent his popularity in the region. In his home village, residents still flaunt their association with the MLA and say his influence is unmatched. “He’ll win again if he stands here,” said a local villager on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unnao-where-feudalism-crime-and-a-compromised-state-machinery-meet-101615445793622.html
11-03-2021||India||Gunfight in J&K’s Anantnag district leaves 2 unidentified militants dead||Two unidentified militants were killed in a gunfight in South Kashmir’s Anantnag district, police said on Thursday. Following a tip-off, police and army on Wednesday night launched a cordon and search operation in Kadipora village in Anantnag which turned in a gunfight which was underway at the time of filing of this report. The army said that Wednesday evening’s operation had to be suspended as it grew dark. However, all roads leading to the site were sealed and the operation resumed early on Thursday morning.Also Read | Al-Badr chief’s killing a big success, says J&K PoliceOn Tuesday, Albadr chief Abdul Gani Khawja was killed by the forces while two others managed to escape in Tujar village in Sopore. News agency ANI quoted Kashmir inspector general of police Vijay Kumar as saying, “Sopore Police got the information that Ganie Khwaja and two of his assistants are hiding in Sopore. A cordon was laid. The Army and CRPF then joined the operation and Ganie Khwaja was killed. We have received information that two terrorists managed to escape while cordon was being laid.”The police also said that Ganie Khwaja used to receive new terrorist groups from Pakistan and relocate them to north and south Kashmir. As per the police, incriminating materials, including arms and ammunition, were recovered in the search after the gunfight. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gunfight-in-j-k-s-anantnag-district-leaves-unidentified-militant-dead-101615445312467.html
11-03-2021||India||Bengaluru has public-spiritedness: Nandan Nilekani on HT Dialogues||Infosys co-founder Nandan Nilekani said on Thursday people in Bengaluru have a streak of philanthropy and have given back to society as they did well for themselves after India’s economy was liberalised and the city saw a boom. Nilekani, while speaking to Hindustan Times’ editor-in-chief Sukumar Ranganathan on HT Dialogues, said there are a considerable number of people who want to contribute further. “A lot of public-spiritedness and volunteerism… all these people are saying we have done well for ourselves and how can we give back,” he said.Also read | 'Work from home here to stay' , says Nandan Nilekani on HT DialoguesNilekani pointed out that there are four signatories from the city contributing to Bill and Melinda Gates’ and Warren Buffet’s Giving Pledge. Nilekani and his wife Rohini are among the four well-known residents from the city who have pledged half their wealth for the philanthropy. He named Wipro chairman and billionaire Azim Premji, who was the first Indian to be featured in the list, and also talked about Akhil Mazumdar and real estate major Sobha Developers founder PNC Menon.Watch the session here:“It is easier to be generous with first-generation wealth because if your wealth is inherited over multiple generations then children will rightly argue that if you didn’t generate the wealth then how can you give it away,” he said. “First-generation wealth… I think is easier to give away,” he argued.People who have made money in the city are funding think tanks, giving money to art and towards science museums and “all this is a sign of the city scaling up”, he added.Nilekani also said Bengaluru is his favourite city and feels “this is the best city to live in“It's a unique city, the city of innovation, city of the future and I'm really pleased with how it is and living there is always fun,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengaluru-has-public-spiritedness-nandan-nilekani-on-ht-dialogues-101615444637093.html
11-03-2021||India||Govt failed to implement Manual Scavenging Act 'badly': Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday blamed the Centre for badly implementing the Manual Scavenging Act of 2013, a legislation aimed at prohibiting employment as manual scavengers and rehabilitation of manual scavengers and their families.Gandhi also attached a PTI report showing Centre's reply in Lok Sabha stating that 389 people died in the country while manually cleaning sewers from 2015 to 2019."This shows how badly GOI has failed to implement the Manual Scavenging Act of 2013. Proactive measure must be taken to ensure no further indignity to our fellow citizens and our collective national conscience," Gandhi said in a tweet.This shows how badly GOI has failed to implement the Manual Scavenging Act of 2013.Proactive measure must be taken to ensure no further indignity to our fellow citizens and our collective national conscience. pic.twitter.com/pgYiZ3nYDAIn a written reply in Rajya Sabha, Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment Ramdas Athawale said FIRs have been registered against 266 people for engaging people for hazardous cleaning of sewers and septic tanks that resulted in fatalities.Also read: Manual scavenging continues to mar Karnataka as conviction stays zeroFrom 2015 to 2019, he said, 389 people died while manually cleaning sewers.Responding to another question, Athawale said 210 people died while cleaning sewers and septic tanks in the last three years, and states and UTs paid compensation to the families of the deceased in 165 cases.Responding to a third question, he said 66,692 manual scavengers have been identified across 17 states in the country.In January this year, the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has made a series of recommendation to the Centre to eradicate manual scavenging, including bringing a new Act on “hazardous cleaning” and taking strict action against local authorities who employ people as manual scavengers.Also read: NHRC recommends special Act against manual scavengingThe Prohibition of Employment as Manual Scavengers and their Rehabilitation Act, 2013 prohibits construction or maintenance of insanitary latrines, and employment of any person for manual scavenging or hazardous cleaning of sewers and septic tanks.Currently, engaging any person for hazardous cleaning of sewers and septic tanks by any person or agency is punishable with imprisonment of up to five years or a fine up to ₹5 lakh or both.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-failed-to-implement-manual-scavenging-act-badly-rahul-gandhi-101615443080475.html
11-03-2021||India||Celebrating Maha Shivratri in India amid Covid-19 pandemic||Maha Shivratri, also known as the 'Great night of Lord Shiva,' is a Hindu festival observed by devotees from Kashmir to Kanyakumari with much fervour. It is celebrated on the 14th day of the dark fortnight of the Magha month, as per the Hindu lunar calendar, and marks the night of the marriage of Lord Shiva and Goddess Parvati.However, amid the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, there are several restrictions and guidelines put in place to ensure the safety of the devotees offering prayers on the holy day.The Pashupatinath Temple in Kathmandu, which usually draws thousands of pilgrims and sadhus on the festival is seeing a dip in the number of visitors this year due to the health crisis.Meanwhile, in Haridwar, Uttarakhand, just like every year, thousands of Shiva followers assembled at Har Ki Pauri ghat to take a holy dip. The city is considered one of the most important Hindu pilgrimage centres because according to popular legend, it was here that Lord Shiva released the mighty river from the locks of his hair.In Madhya Pradesh, priests at Ujjain's Mahakal Temple offered prayers and performed 'abhishek' of Lord Shiva on the occasion of Mahashivaratri. Following the traditional rituals, priests were seen offering milk and honey to 'Shivling,' an iconic representation of Shiva- one of the deities of the Hindu triumvirate.In Gorakhpur, pious devotees arrived in large numbers at Jharkhandi Mahadev Temple to offer prayers to their Lord.In Varanasi, a sea of Shiva lovers arrived outside Kashi Vishwanath Temple and queued up for 'darshan' this morning.However, due to an uptick in Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra, Trimbakeshwar Temple in Nashik and Babulnath Temple in Mumbai will remain closed for devotees on the occasion of Maha Shivratri.Also read: 57-day Magh Mela to end with Maha Shivratri bathingMaha Shivratri is considered auspicious for spiritual growth. The festival, also known as 'the great night of Shiva', celebrates the overcoming of darkness and ignorance.It also celebrates the grand marriage of the lord of destruction, Shiva -- with the goddess of fertility, love, and beauty -- Parvati, who is also known as Shakti (power).According to Hindu mythology, on the night of the marriage, Lord Shiva had a very diverse group of acquaintances including Hindu gods, goddesses, animals, and demons escorting him to the house of the goddess.The duo of Shiv and Shakti is considered to be the epitome of love, power, and togetherness. The festival marking the initiation of their bond - 'Maha Shivratri' - is celebrated with great fervour across India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/celebrating-maha-shivratri-in-india-amid-covid-19-pandemic-101615436115166.html
11-03-2021||India||‘Just like we discuss Palestine’: Shashi Tharoor on farm stir debate in UK parliament||Days after a row over a debate on the protest by Indian farmers in the UK parliament, Congress leader Shashi Tharoor on Wednesday said it is normal for any democracy with elected representatives to hold a discussion on a domestic issue of another country, reported news agency ANI. “Just we in India, can discuss, say the Palestine issue, as we have done or can discuss if we so choose any other domestic issue of a foreign country, the British parliament has the same right,” the Congress MP told ANI. He, however, did not condemn the government’s stand against the discussion. “I don't blame the government of India for doing its job, for speaking up for its point of view. But we must recognise there is another point of view and that in democracies, elected representatives are free to air their point of view on this,” Tharoor added.The Congress MP was referring to a debate on Monday in the British parliament, which was a response to a public petition signed by more than 115,000 people. During the discussion, Labour, Conservative, Liberal Democratic, and Scottish National Party lawmakers called on the Boris Johnson government to raise their concerns about the handling of the protest and media freedoms in India.On Tuesday, British envoy Alex Ellis was summoned by foreign secretary Harsh Shringla and served a demarche or formal diplomatic representation that conveyed India’s “strong opposition to the unwarranted and tendentious discussion on agricultural reforms in India in the British Parliament”, a statement from the external affairs ministry said. The foreign secretary said the debate “represented a gross interference in the politics of another democratic country”, and he advised British MPs to refrain from “practising vote bank politics by misrepresenting events, especially in relation to another fellow democracy”.The Indian mission in London called the debate a “distinctly one-sided discussion”. “We deeply regret that rather than a balanced debate, false assertions – without substantiation or facts – were made, casting aspersions on the largest functioning democracy in the world and its institutions,” the mission said in a statement.According to Tharoor, it wasn’t something “so surprising”. “We should take it as a normal give and take that happen between democracies,” he told ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/just-like-we-discuss-palestine-shashi-tharoor-on-farm-stir-debate-in-uk-parliament-101615442902095.html
11-03-2021||India||NHRC recommends alert system to trace missing children in India||An early warning system should be developed in India on the lines of America’s Missing: Broadcast Emergency Response (AMBER) Alert to trace the missing, runaway, trafficked, and abducted children, the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has recommended.The AMBER Alert was created in 1996 after Amber Hagerman, 9, was kidnapped and murdered in Texas. Under the system, once a child is abducted, law enforcement agencies notify broadcasters and state transportation officials for alerts. The alerts are issued by suspending regular programming on radio and television. They are also issued via emails, SMS, and electronic billboards on highways.At a meeting, the NHRC’s Core Group on Children cited growing numbers of missing children to recommend the alert system. As many as 73,138 children went missing in India in 2019 alone, according to National Crime Records Bureau. The group has said the issue should be made a national priority and recommended incentives for police to proactively investigating cases of missing children.Also Read | NHRC notices to Jharkhand govt, ministry of social justice over delay of pensionThe group has also recommended the revival of the Union home ministry’s Operation Smile under which drives were carried nationally to trace the missing children from 2015 to 2017. Over 70,000 children were traced under the scheme.The group has also recommended a single comprehensive national standard operating procedure (SOP) to ensure uniformity by doing away with other overlapping procedures. It has said roles of each stakeholder, especially district child protection units, should be defined. There are overlapping Union home and women and child development ministries’ SOPs on missing children.At the meeting, the group’s members flagged a “lack of accountability in law enforcement agencies and civil servants” and said it was “hindering effective implementation of various policies and guidelines”. “There is a need to fix accountability for delay or non-registration of FIRs [first information reports],” according to the minutes of the meeting seen by HT. The members underlined the need for using artificial intelligence and heat-map for data collection and identification of the most vulnerable spots and routes. “There is a need to look at why children are leaving home, look at what prevents us from identifying those indicators early on, examine the impact of the response system on children’s right, etc. There is a need to research and evolve a model procedure for investigation for missing children, incorporating all the good practices and doing away with the redundant practices,” said the minutes.Child rights lawyer Bhuwan Ribhu and Asha Bajpai, a former law professor at Tata Institute of Social Sciences, are among the members of the group. The group also includes representatives from the women and child development ministry, United Nations International Children’s Emergency Fund, and NHRC.Bharti Ali, the co-founder of HAQ Centre for Child Rights and a member of the group, said this is an issue on which all stakeholders like ministries of home and women and child development have been involved in a dialogue for a long time. “There are SOPs but they are not being implemented on the ground. Then there is duplication... of data.”Ali said the time police and other authorities take to react when a child goes missing is crucial. “Tracing mobile numbers of children or mobile numbers used by children to reach out to their parents when they are lost or have been kidnapped is not done timely. The time lag is very crucial, and many children can be traced if promptness is shown as soon as the parents share such numbers with the police.”The home ministry did not immediately respond to HT’s query on the recommendation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nhrc-recommends-alert-system-to-trace-missing-children-in-india-101615443273273.html
11-03-2021||India||Car rams into truck, 8 dead 4 injured in UP's Etmaddaula||As many as eight people were killed and four others were injured on Thursday morning when the car in which they were travelling rammed into a truck in Etmauddaula area of Uttar Pradesh's Agra."Four people are injured and have been rushed to a hospital. The truck is from Nagaland and the car is bearing the registration number of Jharkhand," said SP City Botre Rohan Pramod.Also read: 9 killed as bus falls into gorge in Himachal’s Chamba districtThe dead bodies have been sent for post mortem while the injured are being treated at the hospital.Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath expressed grief over the road accident and instructed the senior officers to reach out on the spot and help in every possible way.More details are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/car-rams-into-truck-8-dead-4-injured-in-up-s-etmaddaula-101615435807747.html
11-03-2021||India||Billboards praising India for sending Covid-19 vaccine come up in Canada||Billboards thanking Prime Minister Narendra Modi for providing the vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) have appeared in Canada’s Greater Toronto Area. The billboards have the image of Prime Minister Modi with the national flags of India and Canada.“Thank you India & PM Narendra Modi for providing Covid vaccine to Canada," read the text on the billboard installed at the side of roads. "Long live Canada-India friendship," the billboards installed by an organisation named Hindu Forum Canada also said.Starting with the immediate neighbours, India has delivered millions of doses of Made in India vaccine to various countries around the world including Canada. In the coming weeks, the government is planning to further extend the assistance to 49 more countries in Europe, Latin America, South-east Asia, the Pacific Islands and Africa.India will also deliver 200,000 doses to United Nations (UN) peacekeepers, Union minister of external affairs, S Jaishankar had announced on February 18. "Keeping in mind the UN Peacekeepers who operate in such difficult circumstances, we would like to announce today a gift of 200,000 doses for them," Jaishankar had said at the United Nations Security Council debate.He also said India has been "very much" at the forefront of the global fight against the pandemic and is providing vaccines to the world under 'Vaccine Maitri' initiatives. "We are working actively with GAVI, WHO and ACT Accelerator. Our contribution has also supported the SAARC," he also said.The Vaccine Maitri initiative was launched by India on January 20 and under this initiative, the government is gifting the Covid-19 vaccine to various countries. The initiative has earned India praise from around the world, especially in small countries such as the Commonwealth of Dominica. Last week, a group of African, Caribbean, and Pacific countries commended India for supplying Covid-19 vaccines to developing countries during a discussion at the World Trade Organization (WTO). The World Health Organisation also thanked India for promoting supporting vaccine equity.In February, The United States also lauded India and its pharmaceutical companies for playing a role in producing "life-saving" vaccines for the world. The US also said that it is looking forward to an 'overarching' memorandum of understanding to enhance health partnership with India.The assistance comes as India is inoculating millions of people in the country as well. It is using two vaccines—Covishield manufactured by Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) and developed by AstraZeneca and Oxford University, and Covaxin developed by Hyderabad's Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Medical Council of Research (ICMR) and National Institute of Virology—for the immunisation drive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/billboards-praising-india-for-sending-covid-19-vaccine-come-up-in-canada-101615441082818.html
11-03-2021||India||Kumbh Mela: Devotees take holy dip in Haridwar on Maha Shivratri, security heightened||Thousands of devotees took the holy dip at the Har Ki Pauri ghat in Uttarakhand’s Haridwar on the occasion of Mahashivratri on Thursday amid a tight security ring thrown around the area. “Up to 22 lakh devotees have performed the ‘snan' till now. We are going to begin the process of emptying this ghat (Har Ki Pauri) as 'akharas' are getting ready for 'shahi snan',” Sanjay Gunjyal, inspector general of police (Kumbh Mela) in Haridwar told news agency ANI earlier this morning. Uttarakhand director general of police Ashok Kumar said, according to ANI, "For akharas, bath timings at Har Ki Pauri is from 8am to 5pm, while for the general public, it's before 8am and after 5pm." The new Uttarakhand chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat on Wednesday directed officials to ensure floral showers for the pilgrims on the occasion of Maha Shivaratri. "The visitors should be able to take a holy dip in the Ganga conveniently. The honour of seers is paramount. A grand and divine Kumbh should be ensured," he was quoted as saying by news agency PTI. The snans are a part of the Kumbh to be held from April 1 to April 30 in Haridwar and the state government has decided to limit the festival this year to 30 days because of the coronavirus pandemic. The Maha Kumbh is celebrated once in 12 years at Haridwar, Allahabad, Ujjain and Nasik.As many as 5,000 security force personnel have been deployed for the Kumbh Mela in the city, reported news agency ANI, adding that CCTV cameras and drones were also to be used to boost security. All the pilgrims attending the Kumbh Mela in Haridwar need to carry negative RT-PCR test report. They also need to register online registration at https://dsclservices.org.in/kumbh/ from where they can get e-passes.A centralised control room has also been set up at Haridwar railway station which is monitoring CCTV feed from all nearby railway stations.Earlier in the day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi extended greetings to the nation on Mahashivratri. “Heartiest greetings to all countrymen on the auspicious occasion of Mahashivaratri. Mahadev wishes to provide happiness, peace and prosperity in everyone's life. Om Namah Shivaya,” Union home minister Amit Shah wrote on Twitter in Hindi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kumbh-mela-devotees-take-holy-dip-in-haridwar-on-maha-shivratri-security-heightened-101615438231556.html
11-03-2021||India||PM Modi urges youth to read Bhagwad Gita, says it is 'practical guide for life'||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday urged the youth of the country to read the Bhagwad Gita as he launched an e-book version of Swami Chidbhavananda's commentaries on the ancient Hindu scripture, which is a part of the epic Mahabharata. “In the middle of the fast-paced life, the Gita will provide an oasis. It is a practical guide for several dimensions of life,” PM Modi said as he extending his congratulations on the launch.The Kindle version was launched to commemorate the sale of more than 500,000 copies of the Swami Chidbhavananda’s Bhagavad Gita.The Prime Minister also said the Gita inspires us to question and makes us think. "It encourages debate and keeps our minds open. Anybody who is inspired by Gita will always be compassionate by nature and democratic in temperament," he added.Swami Chidbhavanandaji, the founder of Sri Ramakrishna Tapovanam Ashram, has written 186 books in all genres of literary composition. However, his scholarly work on the Gita is one of the most celebrated ones. The Tamil version of the Gita with his commentaries was published in 1951, followed by the English in 1965. Its translations into Telugu, Oriya, German and Japanese were undertaken by devotees.Pushing the self-reliant India campaign, PM Modi said, "At the core of Aatmnirbhar Bharat is to create wealth and values, not only for ourselves but for the larger humanity. We believe that an Aatmnirbhar Bharat is good for the world."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-launches-kindle-version-of-swami-chidbhavananda-s-bhagavad-gita-101615439582750.html
11-03-2021||India||Union minister Anurag Thakur appointed as Captain in Territorial Army||Union Minister Anurag Thakur on Wednesday became the first serving MP to be appointed as Captain in the Territorial Army.The four-time BJP MP from Himachal Pradesh's Hamirpur was commissioned into the Territorial Army as a Lieutenant by then Chief of Army Staff (COAS) General Dalbir S Suhag TA in July 2016, according to a statement.Thakur was promoted as Captain in the 124 Sikh regiment, it said."I am extremely honoured to have been promoted to the rank of Captain. I would like to reaffirm my commitment for serving the people and the call of duty towards mother India," the minister said.He said his grandfather and great-grandfather had served in the Army."I come from Devbhoomi Himachal which has a long tradition of (its people) serving in the armed forces. I am glad I could carry on the mantle of my ancestors. It's a privilege to wear the uniform," he said.Thakur said it is an honour for him to serve the society as a parliamentarian and he will always be ready to serve his country on the call of duty from his regiment in the Territorial Army.Thakur joined the Army after clearing the SSB exam and a personal interview conducted in Chandigarh. He underwent over two weeks of pre-qualification training held in Bhopal. Later on Wednesday, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh complimented Thakur on Twitter about his promotion."Congratulations Captain Anurag Thakur on your promotion. Jai Hind!" Singh said.The Territorial Army, the second line of defence in the hierarchy, comprises volunteers who are imparted military training for about a month in a year. The Territorial Army can be pressed into national service in case of any emergency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/union-minister-anurag-thakur-appointed-as-captain-in-territorial-army-101615434851296.html
11-03-2021||India||Boosting Covid vaccine delivery key item on Quad agenda: What we know||Efforts to ramp up the delivery of Covid-19 vaccine doses to developing countries is expected to be a key item on the agenda of the first Quad leaders’ summit on Friday. Here is all you need to know about the summit:• Leaders of the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue, or Quad, which includes India, Australia, Japan and the US, will meet virtually for their first summit on Friday• They are expected to discuss ways to ramp up vaccine manufacturing by India, the world’s largest producer, and measures to get doses speedily to more developing countries in Asia and Africa.• Several options are expected to be on the table including forming a group or fund with financial support from Australia, Japan and the US to procure vaccines from Indian manufacturers for developing countries. Also Read | Quad summit timing reflects Biden admin’s priorities: US• Another option is using India as a hub for supplying vaccines procured with the Quad’s support to South and South-east Asian countries.• Japan is expected to help with establishing cold storage facilities for storing vaccines before they are shipped to countries in South and South-east Asia.• Discussions are still on among officials of the four countries to firm up the contours of the plan and financial contributions of the Quad members before the leaders meet on Friday evening.• The Quad Summit plans to announce financing agreements to back an increase in vaccine manufacturing capacity in India. • These agreements will focus on companies and institutions in India manufacturing vaccines for American drug majors Novavax and Johnson & Johnson. • Novavax has a manufacturing arrangement with Pune’s Serum Institute of India, the world’s largest maker of vaccines. • Johnson & Johnson has a similar arrangement with Biological E Ltd.• The initiative’s aim is to reduce manufacturing backlogs, speed up vaccination and defeat Coronavirus mutations.• All these moves are aimed at countering China’s vaccine diplomacy, which initially could not match India’s roll-out of doses since January 21 but has appeared to be catching up in recent days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/boosting-covid-vaccine-delivery-key-item-on-quad-agenda-what-we-know-101615436732690.html
11-03-2021||India||Rains, light snowfall continue in Kashmir, improvement likely from March 16||Snow and rains continued in many parts of Kashmir on Thursday. It was raining since morning in many parts including north Kashmir as well as Srinagar, while the higher reaches received snow. The weather office expects the precipitation to continue for the next 36 hours."We expect light to moderate rains and snow for the next 36 hours," meteorologist Mohammad Hussain Mir said.The meteorological department has predicted erratic weather in Jammu and Kashmir for the next five days, urging farmers to avoid spraying during this period.Director of meteorological department, Sonam Lotus said weather will remain erratic till March 15.“Expect widespread intermittent light to moderate rain and snow (higher reaches) mainly during 11-12th of March and also on 14th. Overall improvement most likely from 16th till the next spell,” he saidLotus said the weather may affect Banihal-Ramban, Zojila highways as the precipitation was likely to cause landslides and snow slides.He also urged farmers to suspend their operations for the time being.“Farmers are advised to avoid spraying orchards and other farm operations till 15th,” he said.Rains and snow have hit parts of Kashmir valley intermittently since Sunday, bringing down the temperatures.Also Read: J&K newly elected DDC call off protest as Lt Gov promises monthly honorariumThe maximum temperature on Wednesday in Srinagar was 10.8 degree Celsius while it was 6.8 degrees Celsius during the night. In Pahalgam and Gulmarg, the minimum temperatures plunged to 1.6 degrees C and minus 1.5 degrees Celsius respectively.In the Union territory of Ladakh, the minimum temperature was minus 4.7 degrees C in Leh, while in Kargil, temperature was at minus 4.0 degrees C. The coldest place of the country, Drass, recorded minus 10.1 degrees Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rains-light-snowfall-continue-in-kashmir-improvement-likely-from-march-16-101615436444372.html
11-03-2021||India||News updates from HT: WB minister says ‘EC must take responsibility’ as Banerjee injured in ‘attack’ and the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Bengal minister says ‘EC must take responsibility’ as Mamata Banerjee injured in ‘attack’West Bengal education minister Partha Chatterjee trained guns at the Election Commission of India (ECI) following an ‘attack’ on chief minister Mamata Banerjee in which she suffered injuries in her leg on Wednesday.. Read moreIndia, China will continue talks to resolve remaining issues along LAC: GovtIndia on Wednesday said it will continue discussions with China to resolve the remaining issues along the Line of Actual Control in eastern Ladakh and achieve the objective of disengagement from all friction points to restore peace and tranquillity.. Read more Rain, thunderstorm predicted for northwest India till SaturdayA Western Disturbance (WD) is lying as a cyclonic circulation over north Pakistan. A fresh Western Disturbance as a trough (area of low pressure) in mid and upper tropospheric westerlies is likely to affect the Western Himalayan region.. Read moreCDC finds Covid-19 drove 15% spike in US death rate in 2020: ReportA US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention study has found that last year was the deadliest in US history, with Covid-19 helping to drive a 15% increase in deaths, Politico reported on Wednesday, citing sources.. Read moreAndrew Cuomo groped female aide in governor's residence: ReportAn aide to New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo says the Democrat groped her in the governor's residence, marking the most serious allegation among those made by a series of women against the embattled governor, according to a report published in a newspaper Wednesday.. Read moreMira Rajput's striped sequined saree is the modern twist to tradition we neededLooking for bridesmaids outfit inspiration? Mira Rajput has been serving some stunning looks lately while attending her friend's weddings. mother-of-two is again in Delhi to attend a wedding and well, she has already started sharing images with us on her social media and we are not complaining.. Read more'Pakistan has more talent, can't compare them with Indian players': Abdul Razzaq on Virat Kohli-Babar Azam debateFormer Pakistan all-rounder Abdul Razzaq refused to compare cricketers of India and Pakistan as he believes cricketers from his country have more talent. Razzaq made those comments when he asked to choose between.. Read morePriyanka Chopra, Nick Jonas to announce Oscar nominations on Monday, actor asks Academy if she 'could do it solo'Actor Priyanka Chopra and singer Nick Jonas have got their fans excited with their latest video. The couple will be announcing the nominations for the 93rd Academy Awards on Monday.. Read moreSachin Tendulkar and Chris Tremlett’s funny Twitter exchange may amuse youSachin Tendulkar recently engaged in a witty online conversation with England’s Chris Tremlett on Twitter. Tendulkar responded to a post, including a picture, shared by Tremlett. The friendly exchange has gained much love from netizens.. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-bengal-minister-says-ec-must-take-responsibility-as-mamata-banerjee-injured-in-attack-and-all-the-latest-news-101615431664304.html
11-03-2021||India||13K new cases, 99K active cases in Maharashtra, India's most affected state: 10 points||Maharashtra, the state worst affected by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, continues to report a surge in daily caseload.The state, on the brink of another strict lockdown, recorded 13,659 new coronavirus cases on Wednesday, its highest one-day spike this year. This pushed the total case tally in Maharashtra to 22,52,057. This has been the highest number of cases recorded in the state in 154 days.With 54 fatalities, the death toll stood at 52,610, an official told news agency PTI.Maharashtra has also been the top state in focus for the health ministry in terms of daily new cases.Here are the 10 key points from India's most affected state Maharashtra:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/13k-new-cases-99k-active-cases-in-maharashtra-india-s-most-affected-state-10-points-101615428616265.html
11-03-2021||India||'Har Har Mahadev': PM Modi, President Kovind greet citizens on Mahashivaratri||President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday extended their wishes to citizens on the occasion of Hindu festival Mahashivaratri."Best wishes to all countrymen on the auspicious occasion of Mahashivaratri. Celebrated as a sacred remembrance of the marriage of Goddess Parvati and Lord Shiva, this festival should be beneficial for the whole of humanity," President Kovind tweeted."Greetings on the special occasion of Mahashivratri. Har Har Mahadev!" PM Modi said in a tweet.Mahashivratri, known as the 'Great night of Lord Shiva,' is a Hindu festival observed by devotees across the country where people observe fasts for the God. They also throng Lord Shiva's temples and offer prayers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/har-har-mahadev-pm-modi-president-kovind-greet-citizens-on-mahashivaratri-101615433101525.html
11-03-2021||India||India's daily Covid-19 cases cross 20,000 mark for third time this year, active cases up by 4,628||India recorded 22,854 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), which took the nationwide tally to 11,285,561, according to a Union health ministry bulletin on Thursday.The number of active cases went up by 4,628, and currently stand at 1,89,226, the health ministry bulletin said.It also said that 126 people died due to the infection, which pushed the death toll up to 1,58,189. The number of those cured or discharged from hospitals reached 10,938,146.This is only the third time in 2021 that the country’s daily caseload has crossed the 20,000-mark - the previous two instances were in the first week of January when the first wave of Covid cases was receding.The ministry said on Wednesday that six states - Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Karnataka, Gujarat and Tamil Nadu - account for 83.76 per cent of fresh Covid-19 cases. Maharashtra, the worst-affected state of the lot, reported 13,659 Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, its first one-day spike in excess of 13,000 in 2021 and highest in 154 days. The state has till date recorded 2,252,057 infections.The health ministry further said that the total number of tests conducted in India so far has crossed 22 crore-mark and the daily positivity rate stood at 2.43 per cent.Meanwhile, the total number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country crossed 2.52 crore with 9.22 lakh jabs given on Wednesday till 7 pm, the Union health ministry said.Of the 2,52,89,693 vaccine doses administered, 71,70,519 healthcare and 70,31,147 frontline workers were given the first dose, while 39,77,407 healthcare and 5,82,118 frontline workers the second dose, according to a provisional report.The countrywide vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16 with healthcare workers receiving vaccine jabs. Immunisation of frontline workers started on February 2.The next phase of Covid-19 vaccination commenced on March 1 for those who are over 60 years of age and for people aged 45 and above with specified comorbid conditions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-daily-covid-19-cases-cross-20-000-mark-for-third-time-active-cases-up-by-4628-101615434290353.html
11-03-2021||India||Rajdhanis as ‘push-pull’ locos may reduce travel time by up to 90 min: Officials||The railways has readied 12 Rajdhani train rakes as push-pull locomotives to reduce their travel on major routes such as Delhi-Mumbai and Delhi-Kolkata by 60-90 minutes, officials aware of the matter said. It also plans to move all Rajdhani trains to the push-pull mode of transportation.The push-pull mode of operating locomotive-hauled trains allows trains to be driven from both ends with locomotives attached to the front as well as the rear.“Indian Railway has further carried out trials on Rajdhani Express trains on Delhi–Mumbai and Delhi-Kolkata routes. It is possible to reduce the journey time by 60 to 90 minutes on these routes with [the] operation of Rajdhani Trains in push-pull mode,” a railway ministry spokesperson said.“Advantages of running trains in [the] push-pull mode include enhanced safety of train operation, reduced journey time, comfortable ride [jerk free] and cost-effectiveness. The push-pull composition is also [a] future-ready solution for up to 160 kmph speed potential, as trains can be run with existing rolling stock [electric locomotives and LHB coaches]. Besides it can also do away with the noisy and polluting power cars, thereby saving on precious diesel.”The railways first in 2016 began running trials of passenger trains with the push-pull locomotives between Jaipur and Jodhpur.Also Read | Railways to roll out first 500 Tejas sleeper coaches in FY 22In the push-pull concept, the locomotives are connected on both ends of a rake and operated in such a way that the tractive and electrical braking efforts are always synchronised.“We have developed 12 rakes of Rajdhani on [the] push-pull system that save 60-90 minutes on the journey on a daily basis. We plan to move all Rajdhani trains to [the] push-pull system in a phased manner. In the future, we also plan to convert our Shatabadi trains to the same mode,” an official said, requesting anonymity.The Rajdhani Express trains between Mumbai and Delhi run on the push-pull mode. The frequency of the trains has been increased from twice a week to daily.Simulation for running double head push-pull trains have also been carried out on major routes including Mumbai-Delhi, Howrah-Delhi, and Mumbai-Pune. according to the Research Designs & Standards Organisation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajdhanis-as-push-pull-locos-to-reduce-travel-time-by-up-to-90-minutes-101615434332684.html
11-03-2021||India||On call with Saudi’s Mohammed bin Salman, PM Modi talks trade, investment||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Saudi Arabia Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud discussed bilateral ties between India and the Gulf nation during a phone call on Wednesday. The two leaders agreed on continued support for each other against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) said in a statement.The Prime Minister and Crown Prince reviewed the functioning of the bilateral Strategic Partnership Council established in 2019 and expressed satisfaction over the steady growth in the India-Saudi partnership, according to the statement.The telephonic conversation comes almost six months after their previous call in September last year when the two leaders discussed the challenges due to the Covid-19 pandemic.During the call on Wednesday, Modi discussed with the Saudi leader his wish to further expand trade and investment between the two countries and also brought to spotlight the opportunities that the Indian economy offers to Saudi investors. They also reviewed regional and international developments of mutual interest, according to PMO.Also, in the wake of the pandemic, Modi and Crown Prince Salman vowed continued support in the spirit of the special friendship and people-to-people links between India and Saudi Arabia.The Prime Minister reiterated his invitation to the Saudi Crown Prince to visit India at an early date. The Saudi leader last visited India two years ago in February when in the joint statement, the two leaders emphasised the need to fight terror and “agreed” to put pressure on countries providing support to terrorism in any form.The two leaders also met in 2018 in Buenos Aires on the sidelines of the G-20 summit, where they decided to set up a mechanism at the leadership level to scale up Saudi’s in energy, infrastructure, and defence sectors in India. They had also discussed ways to further boost economic, cultural, and energy ties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-call-with-saudi-s-mohammed-bin-salman-pm-modi-talks-trade-investment-101615433048446.html
11-03-2021||India||Covid: High death risk after surgery within 6 weeks of testing +ve, says study||Surgery should be delayed for at least seven weeks after a patient tests positive for Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) as patients are more than two-and-a-half times more likely to die after their operations, if the procedure takes place in six weeks following a positive diagnosis, according to a new global study.The aim of this study was to determine the optimal duration of planned delay before surgery in patients who have had SARS-CoV-2 infection. SARS-CoV-2 is the virus that causes Covid-19.Researchers, whose findings were published in Anaesthesia, performed an international, multicentre, prospective cohort study of 140,231 patients undergoing elective or emergency surgery in 116 countries during October 2020.Surgical patients with pre-operative SARS-CoV-2 infection were compared with those without previous SARS-CoV-2 infection. The primary outcome measure was 30-day postoperative mortality.“31 doctors of All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), New Delhi, participated in the study, including patients from surgery, paediatric surgery, orthopedics, cardiothoracic surgery, cardiac anesthesia, neurosurgery and neuroanesthesia. For the first time, it gives us evidence about the least amount of time delay in doing surgery that would optimise final outcomes,” said Dr Shilpa Sharma, paediatric surgeon, AIIMS, New Delhi, who is also the lead author from the hospital.Also Read | CDC finds Covid-19 drove 15% spike in US death rate in 2020: Report“However, this needs to be balanced by the disease risk to the patient. At AIIMS, we have been doing RTPCR /CBNAAT routinely for screening all surgical patients. Many times these have come positive, and where possible, we have delayed the surgery and waited for the patient to recover,” she added.Adjusted 30-day mortality in patients who did not have SARS-CoV-2 infection was 1.5%. This was increased in patients operated at 0-2 weeks (4.0%), 3-4 weeks (4.0%), and at 5-6 weeks (3.6%), but not at 7-8 weeks (1.5%) after SARS-CoV-2 diagnosis, according to the study paper.Patients operated within six weeks of SARS-CoV-2 diagnosis were also at an increased risk of 30-day postoperative pulmonary complications.These findings were consistent across age groups, differing severity of the patient’s condition, urgency of surgery, and grade of surgery and in sensitivity analyses for elective surgery.“These risks decreased to baseline in patients who underwent surgery after at least seven weeks or more of SARS-CoV-2 diagnosis. These findings were consistent across both low-risk (age < 70 years..) and high-risk (age ≥ 70 years) sub-groups. Therefore, surgery should be delayed for at least seven weeks following SARS-CoV-2 infection to reduce the risk of postoperative mortality and pulmonary complications,” said researchers in the paper.“In addition, we have shown that patients who are still symptomatic seven weeks after SARS-CoV-2 infection and undergo surgery, also have an increased mortality rate. As such, these patients may benefit from a further delay until their symptoms resolve,” they added.According to researchers, this is the first study to provide robust data regarding the optimal timing for surgery following SARS-CoV-2 infection. The researchers also stated in the paper that while cut-offs beyond seven weeks were not formally tested, they are unlikely to offer a significant advantage, since adjusted mortality rates for delay intervals post seven weeks were broadly stable.“Moreover, overall mortality following a delay of at least seven weeks was similar to mortality in patients who did not have pre-operative SARSCoV-2 infection.The study holds significance as it offers evidence to support the safe restarting of surgery in the context of a rapidly increasing number of people who have survived SARS-CoV-2 infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-high-death-risk-after-surgery-within-6-weeks-of-testing-ve-saysstudy-101615433312660.html
11-03-2021||India||Janta curfew begins in Jalgaon from today, emergency services exempted||Maharashtra's Jalgaon will be under 'Janta curfew' from Thursday. The strict measure was announced by district authorities after a spike in the number of Covid-19 cases in Jalgaon.The curfew will begin at 8pm today, and continue till 8am on March 15.Announcing the strict measure on Tuesday, Abhijit Raut, the Jalgaon district collector, said in his order, “Enforcement of this order will be the responsibility of Municipal Corporation and local police. Violators will be liable for action under the Epidemic Act and other relevant sections of IPC (Indian Penal Code).”The order clarified that emergency services, Maharashtra Public Service Commission (MPSC) and other departments' examinations which are scheduled to be held have been exempted.This has been announced in the wake of a surge in the number of daily Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra, the worst-affected state in the country, and Jalgaon, one of the badly hit districts in the state.A similar measure was implemented in Latur, which saw curbs in the form of Janta curfew over the weekend last month. The district officials in Latur said that it received a good response from the public.Nashik too is placed under restrictions, including 7 am to 7 pm work time for shops. The district recorded 750 new cases of the infection on Wednesday.Meanwhile, Maharashtra on Wednesday recorded 13,659 new cases of the coronavirus disease, the highest one-day spike this year, which took the state's caseload to 22,52,057, according to health department bulletin.With 54 fatalities, the death toll stood at 52,610, the bulletin further said.The badly affected cities are Mumbai, which reported 1,539 cases, Pune which saw 1,384 new cases, and Nagpur where 1,513 people were found infected.The state government on Wednesday came out with guidelines for the celebration of the Mahashivratri festival on Thursday. The guidelines said that not more than 50 persons should be present in a temple at a time. The state government has also asked temple managements to ensure that the premises are disinfected and Covid-19 safety protocol, including social distancing and use of masks, is followed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/janta-curfew-begins-in-jalgaon-from-today-emergency-services-exempted-101615431855319.html
11-03-2021||India||India, China will continue talks to resolve remaining issues along LAC: Govt||India on Wednesday said it will continue discussions with China to resolve the remaining issues along the Line of Actual Control in eastern Ladakh and achieve the objective of disengagement from all friction points to restore peace and tranquillity in the border areas at an early date.In responding to a question in Lok Sabha on whether China has admitted loss of lives of their commandos in the Galwan encounter, minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan said the Central Military Commission of China on February 19 announced awarding posthumously honorary titles and merit citations to Chinese soldiers."As per the announcement, these titles were awarded for the role of these soldiers in the faceoff at Galwan Valley in June 2020," he said.Twenty Indian soldiers were killed in the fierce hand-to-hand combat in the Galwan Valley clash, an incident that marked the most serious military conflicts between the two sides in decades.For the first time, China officially acknowledged last month that five Chinese military officers and soldiers were killed in the clash with the Indian Army."Government will continue discussions with the Chinese side to resolve the remaining issues along the LAC in eastern Ladakh and achieve the objective of disengagement from all friction points and restoration of peace and tranquillity in the India-China border areas at an early date," Muraleedharan said.The border standoff between the Indian and Chinese armies erupted on May 5 following a violent clash in the Pangong lake areas and both sides gradually enhanced their deployment by rushing in tens of thousands of soldiers as well as heavy weaponry.As a result of a series of military and diplomatic talks, the two sides completed withdrawal of troops and weapons from the north and south banks of Pangong lake in line with an agreement on disengagement.In his response, Muraleedharan also referred to defence minister Rajnath Singh's announcement in Parliament on February 11 that India and China reached an agreement on disengagement in the North and South banks of Pangong lake."The disengagement in the Pangong Lake area has been completed," he said.After completion of the disengagement process in Pangong lake areas, senior military commanders of India and China held another round of talks on February 20 with a focus on taking forward the disengagement process in other friction points.In the talks, India pitched for a faster disengagement process in areas like Hot Springs, Gogra and Depsang to bring down tension in the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-will-continue-talks-to-resolve-remaining-issues-along-lac-govt-101615428999790.html
11-03-2021||India||China poses greatest long-term strategic threat in 21st century: Pentagon||China poses the greatest long-term strategic threat in the 21st century, a top Pentagon commander told lawmakers on Wednesday, alleging that Beijing's very pernicious approach to the region includes a whole of party effort to coerce, corrupt and co-opt governments, businesses, organizations and the people of the Indo-Pacific."...the greatest long-term strategic threat in the 21st century ... is the People's Republic of China. In stark contrast to our free and open vision, the Communist Party of China promotes a closed and authoritarian system through internal oppression, as well as external aggression," Admiral Phil Davidson, commander of United States Indo-Pacific Command, told members of the House Armed Services Committee."China's very pernicious approach to the region includes a whole of party effort to coerce, corrupt and co-opt governments, businesses, organisations and the people of the Indo-Pacific," he said.As China continues to increase the size of the PLA and advance their joint capabilities, the military balance in the Indo-Pacific is becoming more unfavourable for the United States and its allies, Davidson said."With this imbalance, we are accumulating risk that may embolden China to unilaterally change the status quo before our forces may be able to deliver an effective response. The greatest danger the United States and our allies face in the region is the erosion of conventional deterrence vis-a-vis the People's Republic of China," he said.Absent a convincing deterrent, China will be emboldened to continue to take action to supplant the established rules-based international order and the values represented in the vision for a free and open Indo-Pacific, he said."Our deterrence posture in the Indo-Pacific must demonstrate the capability, the capacity and the will to convince Beijing, unequivocally, that the cost of achieving their objectives by the use of military force are simply too high. Indeed, we must be doing everything possible to deter conflict. Our number one job is to keep the peace. But we absolutely must be prepared to fight and win should competition turn to conflict," he told the lawmakers.Acting Assistant Secretary of Defense for Indo-Pacific Security Affairs David Helvey told lawmakers that the US is not asking nations to choose between the United States or China."In fact, we welcome and encourage all nations across the Indo-Pacific to maintain peaceful, productive relations with all of their neighbours, China included. Framing the strategic competition that we find ourselves in with China as a choice between us or China, or as a choice between nations is really a false choice,” he said."The choice that our allies and our partners and everyone in the region faces is between supporting the existing international order, the existing system. It's free and open. It's the system that we helped to create and that we've supported, and that we believe has benefited everybody in the region, including China--and the alternative now that China is presenting, which is a closed system and a more authoritarian governance model," he said.So it's a competition between systems, and it's a choice between systems, he told the lawmakers.Responding to a question, Davidson alleged that the Chinese are trying to basically impose Chinese national law on the international regime that provides for the freedom of navigation and freedom of the seas. "We've spoken quite a bit about the Chinese use of lawfare. This is one of the methodologies in which they do it.""It's not just the naming or renaming of features that have had long standing names and the region, it's the redefinition of what they might be, because, rocks islets, islands all have very specific navigational rights associated with them, as well as their continued militarisation of the features that they built out early in the last decade," he said.Their continued militarisation is to deter not only the United States, but truly cow all of US allies and partners in the region, and certainly the South China Sea claimants from their absolute rights to operate and those rights that they enjoy for economic resource extraction of freedom of the seas, freedom of the airways, et cetera, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-poses-greatest-long-term-strategic-threat-in-21st-century-pentagon-101615427659242.html
11-03-2021||India||Smog engulfs Rourkela; schools, colleges, polluting industries’ closure sought||Odisha pollution control board on Wednesday suggested closing down industries causing air pollution in the steel city of Rourkela apart from suspending operation of heavy diesel vehicles, construction works & burning of wastes as a cloud of smog enveloped the city.Since Sunday, Rourkela has been witnessing a layer of smog floating over the city, reducing visibility. People experienced a burning sensation while breathing, when outside their homes. The situation is so severe that the Sundargarh district administration asked people to keep using anti-pollution masks and avoid unnecessary outings till the situation improved.OSPCB regional officer in Rourkela, PK Mohapatra said based on the reading of PM 2.5 and PM 10 in Rourkela, the pollution control board has advised certain emergency measures including closure of schools and colleges.Also Read: Odisha claims Similipal fire under control, deploys special fire fighting squads"The level of PM 10 and PM 2.5 in the Rourkela atmosphere on March 8 was 5 times more than the desired levels. We are still monitoring the situation and measuring the level of the particulate matter regularly. The rise in pollution level was due to lack of wind movement and cloudy sky. As a matter of precaution, we have advised the district administration to stop construction activities and shut down some industries which are probably adding to the pollution," said Mohapatra. High PM2.5 and PM10 levels can potentially impair lung function.Though the condition improved a little bit on Wednesday, students said they faced a burning sensation in the nose and eyes while travelling to the college. The heavy smog also reduced visibility during driving.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/smog-engulfs-rourkela-schools-colleges-polluting-industries-closure-sought-101615427955721.html
11-03-2021||India||Covid-19: Karnataka reports first positive case of South Africa variant||The first case of Covid-19 infection from the coronavirus variant from South Africa has been detected in Karnataka, the state health department said in its bulletin on Wednesday.Till March 10, a total of 64 United Kingdom returnees have tested positive during RT-PCR tests. A total of 26 primary contacts of these 64 people have also tested positive during RT-PCR tests, the health department said.As per results of tests done on international passengers till March 10, one person was tested positive for the South African strain of Covid-19 virus.A mutation of the Covid-19 virus was discovered in South Africa and announced in December 2020. Previously in September 2020 a UK strain of the virus had emerged.So far, a total of 29 people have tested positive for the UK strain in Karnataka. 760 new Covid-19 cases were reported in the state.The total number of active cases in Karnataka is 7,456 and till March 10 evening the total number of Covid-19 positive cases stood at 9,56,801, which includes 12,379 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-karnataka-reports-first-positive-case-of-south-africa-variant-101615427018769.html
11-03-2021||India||National Rail Plan aims to increase modal share of Railways in freight to 45%: Piyush Goyal||Union Railway Minister Piyush Goyal on Wednesday said that the Indian Railways has prepared a National Rail Plan (NRP) to create a "future ready" Railway system by 2030.In a written reply to a question in Lok Sabha, Goyal said the NRP is aimed to formulate strategies based on both operational capacities and commercial policy initiatives to increase the modal share of the Railways in freight to 45 per cent.The rail minister said that the objective of the National Rail Plan is to create capacity ahead of demand, which in turn would also cater to future growth in demand right up to 2050 and also increase the modal share of Railways to 45 per cent in freight traffic and to continue to sustain it.The draft plan has been put up in the public domain and is also being circulated amongst stakeholders for comments, he added.The Minister said that urban transport is an integral part of urban development which is a state subject. Respective state governments are, therefore, responsible for initiating and developing urban transport infrastructure, including metro rail projects/MetroLite/MetroNeo in cities or urban agglomerates.The Central Government considers financial assistance for metro rail proposals, on the basis of the feasibility of the proposal and availability of resources, as and when posed by the concerned state governments. Details of new technologies are as MetroLite, MetroNeo.Giving details over other steps taken by the government to reform Railways Goyal said that Business Development Units (BDUs) have been set up to attract new business by providing compelling value-for-money logistics solutions.Indian Railways is undertaking a Public-Private Partnership (PPP) approach for Passenger Train Operations to enhance overall service quality and operational efficiency, the Minister said in a written reply.Indian Railways has leveraged digital platforms to encourage transparency in all the facets of functioning to enhance customer satisfaction and outreach, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/national-rail-plan-aims-to-increase-modal-share-of-railways-in-freight-to-45-piyush-goyal-101615425333839.html
11-03-2021||India||Top court notice to govt on plea for uniform succession and inheritance laws||The Supreme Court on Wednesday sought response from the Centre on a petition seeking uniform succession and inheritance laws, which are gender and religion neutral.The petition, filed by BJP leader and lawyer Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay, said uniform laws in succession and inheritance are necessary to secure justice, equality and dignity of women, and alleged that the central government has not taken any steps in this regard till date.“The injury caused to the citizens is extremely large because gender-biased and religion biased personal laws relating to succession and inheritance are not only against the constitutional ethos of gender justice and gender equality, guaranteed under articles 14-15, but also against the dignity of women,” the plea said. A three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde issued notice to the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/top-court-notice-to-govt-on-plea-for-uniform-succession-and-inheritance-laws-101615414460933.html
11-03-2021||India||India rated as an ‘electoral autocracy’ by global institute||India has been classified as an “electoral autocracy” alongside Hungary and Turkey in the annual report from Sweden-based V-Dem Institute because of “restrictions on multiple facets of democracy” such as civil society groups and free speech.V-Dem Institute said India registered a 23-percentage point drop on its 0-to-1 Liberal Democracy Index (LDI) scale, marking “one of the most dramatic shifts among all countries in the world over the past 10 years”.The V-Dem (Varieties of Democracy) Institute, an independent research organisation founded in 2014 by Swedish political scientist Staffan Lindberg, produces its annual report on the state of democracy around the world based on a dataset of almost 30 million data points for 202 countries.“The world’s largest democracy turned into an electoral autocracy: India with 1.37 billion citizens,” the report said. India was previously classified as an electoral democracy.V-Dem Institute’s report comes close on the heels of the annual report on global political rights and liberties by US-based Freedom House, which downgraded India’s status as a democracy and free society to “partly free”. There was no immediate response from Indian officials to the V-Dem Institute report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-rated-as-an-electoral-autocracy-by-global-institute-101615412313577.html
11-03-2021||India||India’s largest floating solar power plant to be commissioned by NTPC in May||India’s largest floating solar power plant of 100 MW capacity, belonging to the National Thermal Power Corporation, is expected to be commissioned at Ramagundam in May this year, NTPC southern region executive director CV Anand said on Wednesday.Addressing a virtual press conference in Hyderabad, Anand said the floating solar photo-voltaic project would be spread over 450 acres on the water surface of Sri Ram Sagar Project reservoir. This will be the largest floating solar plant in the country in a single location as of now. The total cost of the project would be ₹423 crore, including GST, he said.“NTPC is utilising the water bodies and huge reservoirs to set up these floating solar units, because it requires huge expenditure for ground-mounted plant. For setting up one MW solar photo-voltaic plant on ground, we require five acres,” he said.The NTPC has successfully completed pilot projects at Kayamkulam (100 KWH) capacity and Kawas (1 MW). “Now, we are implementing large floating solar plants,” the executive director said.The NTPC southern region has taken up setting up of solar power plants of the total capacity of 450 MW. Of this, 217 MW plants would be floating on water bodies. Apart from the 100 MW plant at Ramagundam, the corporation is setting up 92 MW floating unit at Kayamkulam gas plant in Kerala and a 25 MW unit at Simhadri power plant in Visakhapatnam.“We are actually slightly delayed in implementing these floating solar projects due to the Coronavirus pandemic,” Anand said.Regarding other solar power projects of the NTPC southern region, he said a 5 MW solar plant was set up at Port Blair Solar in Andaman & Nicobar Islands on March 30, 2012, that catered to the power needs of the Union territory; a 10 MW solar plant was commissioned at Ramagundam December 31, 2013 and the phase I- of the 250 MW (5X50 MW) Ultra Mega solar project was commissioned at N P Kunta village of Anantapur district in Andhra.In addition, the NTPC is setting up a 230 MW ground mounted solar power plant in Ettayapuram near Tuticorin in Tamil Nadu by next year. On an average, the cost of setting up solar plant is around ₹4 crore per MW, he said.Explaining about other ventures of the NTPC southern region, the executive director said it was in the process of commissioning 2x800 MW coal fired thermal power project at Ramgundam in Telangana. The phase I unit of 800 MW will be commissioned by January 2022 and the phase II of 800 MW by March 2022.NTPC Southern region has total installed capacity of about 9,125 MW, out of the corporation’s total capacity of 64,880 MW in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-largest-floating-solar-power-plant-to-be-commissioned-by-ntpc-in-may-101615410322573.html
11-03-2021||India||Godman on Interpol radar for sexually abusing minors||The Interpol has issued a red notice against Virendra Deo Dixit, self-styled godman who is accused of sexual exploitation and confinement of several girls over a period of time in a fortress-like ashram in Delhi’s Rohini area.The ashram — Adhyatamik Vishwa Vidyalaya in Vijay Vihar (Rohini) was unearthed during a raid by Delhi Police and Delhi Commission for Women in December 2017. The authorities had rescued 67 women, mostly minors, from the so called ‘spiritual university’, where they had been confined in cages, fed like animals and weren’t allowed to meet their parents.Dixit, 79, has been absconding since then and is suspected to be hiding in Nepal.The Delhi high court handed over the probe to the Central Bureau of Investigation in December 2017 after which the agency formed a Special Investigation Team (SIT) to locate him and even announced a reward of ₹5 lakh for any information on his whereabouts. However, he has been untraceable.The Interpol red notice, which is a global arrest warrant for a fugitive, will empower Nepal authorities to trace Dixit, arrest and hand him over to India, said an official.The CBI has already chargesheeted Dixit in June 2019 in two rape cases. In one of them, CBI stated Dixit raped the complainant from 2011 to 2015 on various occasions in different branches of Adhyatmik Vidyalaya. CBI had claimed the girl was brought to Lucknow and given some intoxicated substances in milk after which she was allegedly raped.Similarly, in the second chargesheet, CBI said Dixit, being head of the Ashram and a spiritual teacher, committed rape on a minor against her will at two different Ashrams at Kampil (Uttar Pradesh) and Vijay Vihar, Delhi during May/June 1999. “It was also alleged that the accused threatened the victim and gave life threat to her family members,” according to a CBI statement in 2019.The North Delhi corporation had demolished the illegal ashram structures in January 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/godman-on-interpol-radar-for-sexually-abusing-minors-101615410042713.html
11-03-2021||India||SC seeks Centre’s response on denying women cadets entry to NDA, Naval Academy||The Supreme Court on Wednesday asked the Ministry of Defence to explain its policy to exclude women cadets from being trained for armed forces at the prestigious National Defence Academy (NDA) and the Naval Academy.A petition filed by advocate Kush Kalra brought the issue before the Court which has issued notice to the Centre, the NDA, the Department of Defence through the Chief of Defence Staff, and the Union Public Services Commission that invites applications from eligible male candidates and even conducts examination for entry into NDA.Finding this to be a barrier for eligible women for pursuing their dream to serve in the Armed Forces, the petition said, “Eligible and willing female candidates are not allowed to take the said Examination (of NDA and Naval Academy) on the sole ground of their sex…and this act of discrimination is a dishonour committed by the Respondents to the Constitutional values of Equality (Article 14) and Non-Discrimination (Article 15) in the Constitution of India.” Besides, the petition even alleged violation of Article 16 (equal opportunities in matters of public employment) and Article 19 (freedom to practice profession).A bench of Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde and Justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian issued notice on the petition filed through advocate Mohit Paul. The petitioner told the Court that the occasion to file the petition came after the top court delivered a landmark verdict in February 2020 allowing women short service commission officers in the Army to be eligible for permanent commission. At present, the only route for women to enter Armed Forces is through applying for short service commission.An application moved by a prospective female cadet was also entertained by the Court as the applicant demanded that “systematic discriminatory treatment meted out to eligible female candidates aspiring to join the NDA to train as future officers of the Indian Armed Forces” be done away with.The applicant said, “The relief claimed by the petitioner, if granted by the Court, would possibly be the breakthrough step in moving towards facilitating equal representation of genders in the Armed Forces.” Presently, the sex ratio in the Armed Forces is skewed. As per a recent statement by the Minister of State for Defence Shripad Naik in the Rajya Sabha, women officers in the Army constitute a negligible 0.56 per cent, 1.08 per cent in the Air Force, and 6.5 per cent in the Navy, the application said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-seeks-centre-s-response-on-denying-women-cadets-entry-to-nda-naval-academy-101615408171043.html
11-03-2021||India||Gymkhana directors move SC against takeover by govt||The directors of Delhi Gymkhana Club, one of the oldest clubs in the Capital have approached the Supreme Court challenging the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal’s (NCLAT) order naming an administrator to manage the affairs of a private club.Challenging the NCLAT’s February 15 order, nine directors of the club said in their appeal that “the appointment of administrator destroys the autonomous functioning of a private club without satisfying the threshold criteria for exercise of power under Section 241(2) of the Companies Act.”Section 241(2) of Companies Act states, “The Central Government, if it is of the opinion that the affairs of the company are being conducted in a manner prejudicial to public interest, may itself apply to the Tribunal for an order under this Chapter.”The Club established in 1913 is registered under the Companies Act and holds a perpetual lease over a prime plot of 27.3 acres in the heart of Lutyens Delhi. In 2016, the Club claimed that some disgruntled members filed a complaint with the Ministry of Corporate Affairs alleging mismanagement. This led to an inquiry by the ministry and two inspection reports , the second running into around 4,000 pages. On the basis of this, the ministry approved the filing a petition before the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) alleging that the activities of the club were being conducted in a manner “prejudicial to public interest”.NCLT admitted the petition filed by the Union Government against Delhi Gymkhana Club and held that the affairs and management of the private club involved “public interest”. In an interim order on June 26, 2020 , it sought constitution of a committee to examine and recommend changes in the character of the club. Both the Club and the Centre moved appeals before NCLAT which led to the appointment of an administrator . The appeals body also dismissed the club’s appeal . NCLAT’s order was damning. It said: “Under the garb of distinctive character of the club which is a relic of the imperial past, the doors of membership are virtually limited to people having blue blood in their veins thereby perpetrating apartheid and shattering the most cherished constitutional goal of securing social justice and equality of status and opportunity.”In the appeal, the directors , led by Major Atul Deb (Retd) claim that the order passed by NCLAT set a dangerous precedent by allowing government to interfere into the affairs of a private club.“Governments are not and ought not to concern themselves with the affairs of private member clubs,” the petition said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gymkhana-directors-move-sc-against-takeover-by-govt-101615409495212.html
11-03-2021||India||HC stays Delhi govt order suspending perks for Nexon EV||The Delhi high court on Wednesday stayed a Delhi government order by which it suspended the subsidy to buyers of the Tata Nexon EV after complaints of sub-standard range performance, saying the officer who passed the order of suspending the subsidy did not have anything before him which could show that the vehicle did not meet the required efficiency or to prove that the bare minimum rules were not met.Justice Sanjeev Sachdeva said that a statutory body, like the Automotive Research Association of India (ARAI), Pune, gave a certificate to Nexon EV that it meets the requirement of over 300km/charge, and it was on this basis that the manufacturers, Tata Motors had applied for subsidy. ARAI is an autonomous body affiliated to the Union ministry of heavy industries and public enterprises.Under its Electric Vehicles (EV) policy, the Delhi government offers subsidies, and road tax and registration free waivers, for electric vehicles bought in the Capital. On March 1, the AAP government suspended the subsidy offered for Tata Nexon EV after complaints that the car didn’t meet the per-charge range claimed by the manufacturer.A Tata Motors spokesperson on Tuesday said the Delhi high court has issued a notice on the company’s writ petition and granted interim relief by directing a stay against the delisting of Nexon EV from Delhi government’s eligible list of vehicles. “The high court has granted time to the Delhi government to file a counter affidavit in the matter,” the spokesperson said.Though the Delhi government did not comment on the HC’s order, it constituted a five-member committee to look into the complaints regarding Tata Nexon EV. The committee has been asked to take a final decision in the matter by March 20.A senior transport department official said the committee, headed by deputy commissioner (transport) Manoj Kumar Pandey, will evaluate the mileage range of the EV as claimed by Tata Motors, its actual mileage in city conditions in Delhi to examine and verify the complaints made by complainants. The panel also has representative from the company and experts from other groups.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-stays-delhi-govt-order-suspending-perks-for-nexon-ev-101615408576725.html
11-03-2021||India||Search warrant for Pracha office stayed by Delhi court||Delhi court on Wednesday stopped the city police from searching the premises of advocate Mehmood Pracha, the lawyer representing several accused and victims of north-east Delhi riots cases.Chief metropolitan magistrate (CMM) Pankaj Sharma said “till the pendency of this application, the search warrant issued against the applicant is stayed”.Pracha’s office was searched by the city police on Tuesday in connection with an FIR alleging that the advocate had tutored a witness to initiate a false case.When Pracha learned about the alleged raid, he filed an application before CMM Sharma seeking modification of a March 2 order, wherein the judge had given permission to the police to search his premises in Nizamuddin East for the only purpose of seizing a computer.In his application, Pracha said the demand of the investigating agency for the hard disk of the computer is illegal as all documents are already in the police’s possession from an earlier search on December 25, 2020.On Wednesday, the court reserved its order on the advocate’s plea which has also sought a direction to the police to retrieve only the “relevant information from his hard disk” in the presence of a magistrate.Pracha said a soft copy of the materials was as good as a hard copy under the Information Technology Act. He said that he would sacrifice himself but would not give up the confidential information of his clients which is stored on the hard diskDuring the course of arguments, the advocate also argued that it was clear from the video of the riots that his complaint was not false.“Larger issues are involved. Entire judicial system is involved,” he pleaded.Opposing the plea, the Delhi Police said seizing the original hard disk was essential as it ought to be sent to a forensics laboratory for examination. They said a mirror hard disk can be put back into the computer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/search-warrant-for-pracha-office-stayed-by-city-court-101615406103415.html
11-03-2021||India||Panel clears withdrawal of ‘clinical trial’ tag for Covaxin||The subject expert committee of central drugs standards organisation (CDSCO) cleared Bharat Biotech’s coronavirus vaccine Covaxin for emergency use authorization (EUA), recommending the “clinical trial mode” condition be relaxed, which will bring it at par with the other dose, Covishield.Covaxin was being administered as an extension to its clinical trial, with those receiving the dose required to provide informed consent and the company needed to make follow-up calls to check for adverse effects for at least some period. This was because the company was yet to determine efficacy at the time of the approval on January 3.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageLast week, the company determined it was 81% effective in preventing Covid-19 in an interim analysis.“The company submitted the interim phase 3 trials data three-four days back,” confirmed a senior official in the know of things in CDSCO. The SEC looked into the phase 3 interim data before making its recommendation, which will now need to be cleared by the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI). The change could give a further boost to the dose, helping address hesitancy concerns.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/panel-clears-withdrawal-of-clinical-trial-tag-for-covaxin-101615405530391.html
11-03-2021||India||Praise for justice Indu Malhotra days before her retirement||“You are an icon”, Supreme Court judge Dhananjay Y Chandrachud told justice Indu Malhotra on Wednesday in what was perhaps the last sitting of the two judges together.Justice Malhotra, one of the two women judges in the apex court, retires on March 13 after a tenure of almost three years. She will sit in the top court as a judge for the last time on Friday. Previously a senior advocate, justice Malhotra joined the bench on April 27, 2018.On Wednesday, she sat with justice Chandrachud on a special bench to hear a review petition in a criminal case related to the early release of a life term convict who has served more than 20 years in jail in Uttar Pradesh.The petition was dismissed after the bench found substance in the report of the state government that the enmity, which resulted in the murder in the present case, still existed, and that there were five cases pending against the convict’s son at the moment.After the proceedings, justice Chandrachud realised this could be the last time when he was sitting with justice Malhotra on a bench in the Supreme Court -- judges in the top court sit with the Chief Justice of India on the day of their retirement as per convention.“Sister Indu, it was a privilege sitting with you on the bench. I will miss sitting with you, Indu,” justice Chandrachud said to the judge who returned the compliment by saying she would also miss sitting with him in the court. Justice Chandrachud then recalled his message to justice Malhotra on March 8, International Women’s Day. “I had sent you this message on the Women’s Day too: Indu, you are an icon, for women and for all of us. God be with you always.”A Supreme Court judge retires at the age of 65. After justice Malhotra’s retirement, the apex court will be left only with one woman judge, justice Indira Banerjee, who is set to retire in September 2022.Justice Malhotra’s career has seen an interesting journey: from teaching students political science in Delhi colleges in the 1970s to joining the Bar in 1983; from topping an advocates’ exam in 1988 to being only the second woman to be designated as a senior advocate after 30 years in 2007; and from taking up the cause of preventing deaths due to road accidents to being the first woman lawyer to be directly appointed from the Bar to the Supreme Court in April 2018. With her elevation, the Supreme Court, for the first time in its history had three sitting women judges with justices R Banumathi and Indira Banerjee being the other two. Justice Banumathi retired in July 2020.During her stint, Justice Malhotra made the mark as a judge who was a stickler for principles of law and not afraid to express her point of view.In September 2018, when the Supreme Court, by a 4-1 verdict, threw the Sabarimala temple open to women of all age, justice Malhotra dissented with the four male colleagues. “Rationality cannot be used to judge faith,” she said in her judgment, adding that followers must be allowed to follow their own faith in a secular polity and that it was not for courts to determine which religious practices are to be struck down except in issues of social evil like “Sati”.She stuck to her views when the review petition was filed in the Sabarimala case and agreed that the review petition should remain pending until a larger bench determined questions related to essential religious practices in all faiths.Justice Malhotra, however, was with her four male colleagues when the same bench unanimously struck down Section 497 (adultery) in the Indian Penal Code, ruling it was unconstitutional since the very basis for criminalising adultery was that a woman was considered as the property of the husband and could not have relations outside the marriage.She was a prominent voice throughout the hearing on decriminalisation of Section 377 of the Indian Penal Code, which made gay sex a crime punishable by up to a life term. “History owes an apology to the members of this community and their families, for the delay in providing redressal for the ignominy and ostracism that they have suffered through the centuries. The members of this community were compelled to live a life full of fear of reprisal and persecution,” she wrote in her concurring verdict.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/praise-for-justice-indu-malhotra-days-before-her-retirement-101615401804749.html
11-03-2021||India||Sainik Schools being set up with help from NGOs, states: Govt tells Parliament||The government on Wednesday told Parliament that it is working on a new scheme to set up more Sainik Schools in the country in partnership with non-governmental organisations (NGOs), private schools and state governments. This comes weeks after finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced in her budget speech on February 1 that India will set up 100 new Sainik Schools in partnership with NGOs, private schools, and states.Currently, there are 33 Sainik Schools in the country that account for a large number of candidates who join the armed forces.“The endeavour is to provide schooling opportunities in ‘CBSE plus’ type of educational environment by involving desirous government/private schools/NGOs to partner in establishing/aligning their system with Sainik Schools’ ethos, value system and national pride,” minister of state for defence Shripad Naik told Lok Sabha in response to a question.Sainik School alumni have risen to top ranks in the military including service chiefs such as Generals Dalbir Singh and Deepak Kapoor.“It (the proposal) envisages enrolling existing/upcoming schools to be run on the lines of Sainik School curriculum. The schools are proposed to be affiliated to Sainik Schools Society. Detailed guidelines and requisite approval are at an advance stage,” the minister told the lower house.VK Krishna Menon, who was India’s defence minister during the India-China 1962 war, had come up with the idea of setting up Sainik Schools.Figures testify the role of Sainik Schools as feeder institutions for the armed forces. In 2018, the National Defence Academy (NDA), known as the cradle of military leadership, inducted a total of 662 cadets of whom 147 (22.2%) were from Sainik Schools. The preceding year the number was even higher. In 2017, of the 644 cadets who joined NDA, 179 (27.8%) were from Sainik Schools. Similarly, of the 595 cadets who joined NDA in 2016, 158 (26.5%) were alumni of Sainik Schools. Some select Sainik Schools have begun opening their doors to girls too since 2018, with the government opening up more avenues for women in the armed forces in recent years.As reported by Hindustan Times on March 8, the Indian Navy has deployed four women officers on warships after a hiatus of almost 25 years, with the service focusing on steadily opening more roles to them.One of the turning points for women in the military came in 2015 when the Indian Air Force decided to induct them into the fighter stream. Tanks and combat positions in infantry are still no-go zones for women, who were allowed to join the armed forces outside the medical stream for the first time in 1992.Until now, Sainik Schools were set up after receiving requests from state governments/union territories, which have to provide infrastructure such as land and educational/ residential buildings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sainik-schools-being-set-up-with-help-from-ngos-states-govt-tells-parliament-101615400048155.html
11-03-2021||India||70.66% voter turnout at AP municipal polls||Hyderabad: The first real electoral contest in Andhra Pradesh since 2019’s Lok Sabha and state assembly elections saw around 70.66% of voters exercise their franchise in elections for 71 municipalities and nagar panchayats held on Wednesday, state election commission (SEC) officials said. The votes will be counted on March 14 and the results will be announced on the same day, they added. The voter turnout in 12 municipal corporations in the state, however, remained low and stood at 57.14% at 5 pm when the voting process concluded. “The final polling percentage in both the municipalities and municipal corporations might go up slightly, as those who were in the queues at the time of closing hours are being allowed to cast their votes,” state election commissioner Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar said. In all, 581 divisions in 12 municipal corporations and 1,632 wards in 71 municipalities and nagar panchayats went to polls on Wednesday. Of the total, representatives in 490 wards were elected unanimously. According to reports reaching the SEC office, polling was largely peaceful, barring stray incidents of clashes between workers of the ruling YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) and the opposition Telugu Desam Party (TDP) in some areas. “There was enthusiastic participation of voters in the polling process. Women, old people and physically challenged people, too, exercised their franchise in large numbers,” the SEC said. While the elections to the gram panchayats held in four phases in February were on a non-party basis, the elections to the urban local bodies – municipalities, nagar panchayats and municipal corporations -- were held on party-basis. Since this is the first major electoral battle in the state after the general elections in 2019, both the YSRCP and the TDP took them seriously. While YSRCP is hoping to retain its hold, the TDP has pulled out all stops to regain its lost ground in the state. The YSRCP has already bagged Pulivendula, Punganur, Macherla and Piduguralla municipalities as candidates in majority of the wards in these municipalities were elected unanimously. The TDP, however, accused the ruling party of resorting to large scale irregularities in the municipal elections by misusing official machinery and police forces. TDP president and former chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu alleged YSRCP leaders attacked TDP workers to prevent free and fair elections. Naidu urged the SEC to take stringent action against the conniving officials and the erring YSRCP leaders. It was the duty of the SEC to punish the culprits responsible for the election violations and ensure a democratic polling process, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/7066-voter-turnout-at-ap-municipal-polls-101615401451559.html
11-03-2021||India||Trade unions plan meeting with farmers in Delhi to intensify stir||Hyderabad Taking their agitation to the next level, workers at the loss-making Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Limited (RINL), also known as Visakhapatnam Steel Plant, have decided to launch an indefinite strike to protest against the privatization of the steel plant. Trade unions plan to hold talks with farmers who have been protesting outside the Capital’s borders against the three contentious agricultural bills since November 27, to understand how to plan and manage a lengthy protest. A decision to this effect was taken at a meeting of Vizag Steel Plant Parirakshana Samithi, a joint action committee (JAC) of the trade unions, late on Tuesday.“We shall serve the strike notice to RINL management on Thursday. All the workers will go on an indefinite strike from a date which will be decided later. We have also decided to constitute committees with employees working in various departments of the steel plant and launch a campaign till March 19, preparing the workers for a long-drawn agitation,” J Ayodhya Ramu, president of Centre for Indian Trade Unions (CITU), the recognized trade union of RINL, said. RINL workers are planning to hold discussions with top farm leaders, including Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait. “We are studying their model of agitation and if possible, we shall adopt their strategy to wage a long-drawn battle to prevent the privatization of the steel plant. We have invited the farm leaders to Visakhapatnam on March 28 for a meeting with steel plant workers on how to go about with the future course of action,” the trade union leader said.Meanwhile, the trade unions have decided to stage a dharna in front of the steel plant on March 15. “On March 16 and 17, representatives of the trade unions will visit Delhi to represent our issue with the floor leaders of all political parties and request them to take up our case in Parliament,” Ramu said. The JAC has also decided to hold a massive rally titled ‘Karmika Garjana’ (roar of the workers) at Trishna Grounds near the Steel City in Visakhapatnam on March 20. Prominent national trade union leaders, including G Sanjeeva Reddy of INTUC, Tapan Kumar Sen of CITU, Amarjeet Kaur of AITUC and Surendranath Pandey of BMS are likely to attend this public meeting. The steel plant workers have intensified their agitation following a statement by Union finance minister in Lok Sabha on Monday on the Centre’s plan for 100% disinvestment of its shares in the RINL which has a production capacity of 6.3 million tonnes per annum, and makes products used in the construction sector.  RINL has at least 17,000 permanent employees and 14,000 contract employees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trade-unions-plan-meeting-with-farmers-in-delhi-to-intensify-stir-101615401450916.html
11-03-2021||India||State’s history in way of CPM, Vijayan future||Thiruvananthapuram: For the Communist Party of India (Marxist), it is a battle for survival. If it loses Kerala — the only state where it is in power — the Left will be left out of the political-governance map of the country. And hoping to see the party through this test is the 76-year-old chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan. Will he be able to beat the four-decade-old poll history of the state where an incumbent has never been given a second consecutive chance and there has been an electoral cycle where power has alternated between the state’s two key political forces, the Left and the Congress? Known for his Stalinist style of functioning in the organisational hierarchy, Vijayan is indispensible within the party’s scheme and emerged stronger within the state unit after party veteran V S Achuthanandan, who often acted as his counter foil, retired from active politics. But this story has deeper roots, and explains Vijayan’a political evolution as well as his ability to both compromise and struggle to achieve his ambitions. Hailing from a toddy tapper’s family, Vijayan entered politics through the Left movement in late 1960s. Interestingly, his bête noire, Achtuhanandan, groomed him initially and he helped his mentor in internal party battles. Vijayan, then, became the party secretary with his mentor-turned-foe’s help in 1998 after the death of party secretary Chadayan Govindan. But when both started cultivating parliamentary ambitions, they fell out. At the height of factional feud, both Achuthanandan and Vijayan were suspended from the politburo in 2007. Slowly, Vijayan turned undisputed leader in the party after 97-year-old Achuthanandan hung up his boots. Once he did assume control, Vijayan has been focused on highlighting his governance, both in terms of development and welfare, and adding to his political strength. In Kerala, Vijayan’s stamp is everywhere with control over his cabinet and all key governance programmes. But this has also opened him to charges — when some of his officials allegedly got into a thriving smuggling racket or when, despite the state once being lauded for its battle against the pandemic, it turned into a hub for the spread of the virus.To distance himself from the controversies, Vijayan has deployed his political astuteness. While scandals such as gold smuggling, back door entry in government service, Life Mission project kickbacks and fishing rights issue gripped his government, the CM has sought to portray himself as “above so-called misdeeds” by “sacrificing” some of his aides. He has also, cleverly, used the norm of not giving tickets to those who have won two terms consecutively to sideline some of his detractors such as finance minister Thomas Issac.While his detractors claim that it is a well-oiled cyber army and strong public relations that has installed Vijayan on high pedestal, his supporters claim Vijayan steered the state, successfully, during two consecutive floods (2018 and 19) and devastating pandemic and he stood with people in thick and thin. “He is a man of masses and he knows their pulse very well,” said Politburo member M A Baby, claiming that both the Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) have teamed up against the CM since they know that his continuation of power is certain. The CM, known to adroitly use crises as opportunities, often claims in his political campaign that his government never let people to go to bed hungry. “In tough times, we kept our people close to our heart.” It is true that free food kits, distributed through the public distribution system, is popular in the state — with an eye on polls, the government has extended food kit distribution that began in last March till May this year. In response, the Congress has gone back to Rahul Gandhi’s Nyay (minimum monthly income scheme for the poor) promise during the 2019 elections to offset the political advantage of food kits for the Left. Wedded to social causes, the idea of economic development, based on the modernisation of farming, labour sector, or technology, was anathema for Communists. But Vijayan is also, now, riding on developmental plank for the second term. “Many things that were written off forever materialised during my five-year tenure like the national high way development plan, GAIL pipeline and linking of inland waterways,” the CM has said, hoping this will break the four-decade-old poll pattern in the state. What really boosted the CM’s morale is a thumping win in local body elections last year, and at least four pre-poll surveys predicting an edge to his coalition. Worried, the Congress has been forced to bring back old war horse Oommen Chandy to check the Left’s run. It is also trying hard to infuse new faces in their candidate list. In the last five years, Vijayan also strengthened his coalition by adding Janata Dal (S) and Kerala Congress (Mani), a predominant Christian party to the Left fold, besides accommodating defectors from other parties. “He has also managed to give an impression to minority communities that only the Left can check saffron forces in the state. People like his tough taskmaster attitude and he somehow developed an image that things will work under his leadership,” said senior journalist N K Raveendran. Unlike earlier austere Communist regimes, the Vijayan government has invested tremendous resources in its public relations exercise, alleges the Opposition. “On certain days, newspapers carry eight to ten advertisements of the government. The government spent crores of rupees for public relations exercise. But people are intelligent and they won’t be carried away by his publicity glitz,” said opposition leader, Ramesh Chennithala. A reply secured under the Right to Information last year said the government had spent ₹27.9 lakh to commemorate death anniversary of late Cuban leader Fidel Castro, with critics saying this was only tip of the iceberg.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-history-in-way-of-cpm-vijayan-future-101615401389584.html
11-03-2021||India||Zomato delivery boy ‘punches’ woman, arrested||A Bengaluru-based content creator on Wednesday alleged that she was punched by a delivery person from the food delivery company, Zomato. Hitesha Chandranee, who posted a video on social media, alleged that incident happened on Tuesday, following an argument over a delay in delivery. She claimed the delivery person barged into her house, verbally abused and assaulted her resulting in a fracture to her nasal bone.The woman registered a complaint with Bengaluru’s electronic police station, based on which, the delivery executive was taken into custody, said police.In the video, Chandranee claimed that she placed an order on the Zomato app around 3.20 pm. Even after an hour, when she didn’t receive the order, she contacted support to cancel the order or provide a refund. As she was talking to customer service, the delivery person arrived; she took the order, but when she told him to wait, she claims, he started abusing her.“He started screaming at me, saying ‘Am I a slave or what? You are asking me to wait here.’ It was really threatening for me. I tried to shut my door but he pushed the door, took my order from the table by entering my home, punched me in my face and ran away,” she said.Chandranee said she has suffered a fracture to her nasal bone. “I was given high-power antibiotics and painkillers because of which I am able to talk... My eyes water and my nose bleed as soon as I start talking,” she added in the video.Police said the delivery executive presented a different version of the story. “According to him, he wanted to hand over the food and get on with another delivery. The woman demanded a refund, which was beyond his capacity. As she refused to accept the order, there was a verbal altercation. When she tried to hit him with her sandals, he pushed her in self-defence, which resulted in the injury,” said an electronic city police station official.Meanwhile, Zomato said that the delivery executive has been delisted from the platform pending an investigation. “We deeply regret this incident and apologise to Hitesha for this traumatic experience. We are in touch with her and are providing our complete support through the necessary medical care and investigation. Meanwhile, we have delisted the delivery partner from our platform.”Earlier, Zomato responded to Chandranee’s tweets, saying: “We can assure you this is not the experience our delivery universe stands for. Our local representative shall be in touch with you shortly to help you with the police investigation along with assistance on the medical care required. We can’t emphasise how sorry we are, rest assured we’ll take necessary actions to prevent such incidents from happening in future.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/zomato-delivery-boy-punches-woman-arrested-101615401330607.html
11-03-2021||India||7 hydel projects ‘vulnerable’ to damage from disasters||A disaster risk management company has listed seven hydropower projects in Uttarakhand (apart from the Rishi Ganga and Tapovan Vishnugad projects on the Rishi Ganga river, both of which were destroyed in the February 7 floods) as extremely vulnerable to damage by floods, avalanches and other natural disasters.RMSI, a global disaster risk management firm said in its advisory dated February 11 that although this event damaged two hydropower projects, many other hydropower projects are vulnerable to natural disasters caused by floods, cloud bursts, Glacial Lake Outburst Floods (GLOFs), avalanches, landslides, and rockslides, in the Himalayan region. The advisory lists Lata Tapovan (171 MW) on Dhauli Ganga; Vishnuprayag (400 MW) on Alaknanda; Tehri (1000 MW) on Bhagirathi; Vishnugad Pipalkoti (444 MW) on Alaknanda; Naitwari-Mori (60 MW) on Tons; Phata Byung (76 MW) on Mandakini and Singoli Bhatwari (99 MW) also on Mandakini. Each of these projects costs ₹7 to 8 crore per MW.“RMSI applied its understanding of the Uttarakhand geography with its machine learning-based models for landslide and avalanche and hydrodynamic models for flood and GLOF to do a quick review of the hydropower projects in Uttarakhand. We found several of them at risk from these hazards,” said Pushpendra Johari, senior vice president sustainability, RMSI.The analysis has been contested by some of the project developers. “I haven’t seen this advisory yet. But I believe it’s based on half-cooked information. Tehri has been standing strong for two decades... In 2013, Tehri helped save Rishikesh and Haridwar from the floods. Tehri is built to face a one-in-10,000-years disaster. Vishnugad Pipalkoti , located next to Tapovan Vishnugad , which was destroyed in the February 7 glacier breach disaster, wasn’t affected,” said Rajeev Kumar Vishnoi, director (Technical), THDC (Formerly Tehri Hydro Development Corporation Limited).The advisory states that the Rishi Ganga Power Corporation and National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) are assessing the damage to their projects on account of the February 7 disaster, which has resulted in the deaths of at least 150 people, mostly workers on the project site. Preliminary estimates suggest damages worth ₹1,500-2,000 crore.The floods also washed away five bridges of the Border Roads Organization (BRO) that connected narrow roads in the hills with 13 villages, including Gahar, Bhangyun, Raini Palli, Pang Lata, Suraithota, Tolma and Fagrasu.NTPC’s Tapovan-Vishnugad project was under construction when the disaster occurred, while the Rishi Ganga project resumed generating power since June 2020. Nearly 75% of the total cost of the Tapovan-Vishnugad project, estimated to be about ₹4,000 crore has been spent. NTPC officials did not respond to requests for comment.Johari said the analysis highlights the importance of disaster-proofing projects. “We can make the slope stable by applying natural vegetation, slope stabilisation techniques as well as (building) retention walls to stop the slides from either impacting the dam or river. Similarly, small interventions upstream of the dam such as creating structures below the river bed that are covered with steel mesh that separates the debris from the water when it flows over it, can reduce the impact of debris flows like what happened in the recent event.”Some independent experts, however, said disaster management firms have started seeing a business opportunity in Uttarakhand.“We clearly said in our report that projects in the para glacial zones (2200-2500 m height) and those located north of the main central thrust (a geological fault in the Himalayas) are extremely vulnerable to landslides, GLOFs and floods. So, this advisory comes as no surprise,” said Hemant Dhyani, member of the Supreme Court-appointed expert body formed in 2013 to study the environmental impact of hydropower projects after the 2013 Kedarnath floods.A senior retired geologist said on condition of anonymity that “both hydropower and disaster management businesses are benefitting from the risks. Tehri is quite downstream while many are upstream and in really dangerous locations. So of course, there is risk, but we don’t know yet how many models have been used for such analyses.”The Kathmandu based International Centre for Integrated Mountain Development said last week that there is a link between the February 7 disaster with infrastructure development.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/7-hydel-projects-vulnerable-to-damage-from-disasters-101615400975589.html
11-03-2021||India||Quad summit timing reflects Biden admin’s priorities: US||Washington: The timing of the first summit-level meet of the Quad — short for Quadrilateral Security Dialogue — reflects the “importance we place on close cooperation” with allies and partners in the Indo-Pacific region as it will be one of the earliest of President Joe Biden’s multilateral meetings, the White House said late on Tuesday.Biden will meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Australia’s Scott Morrison and Japan’s Yoshihide Suga virtually on Friday in a meeting that will cement the status of the security grouping that has moved rapidly towards acquiring an institutional structure in recent years.“That President Biden has made this one of his earliest multilateral engagements speaks to the importance we place on close cooperation with our allies and partners in the Indo- Pacific,” said Jen Psaki, the White House press secretary at her daily news briefing on Tuesday.President Biden has held virtual bilateral summits with Prime Minister Justin Trudeau of Canada and President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador of Mexico — the US’s two closest neighbours — and one multilateral meeting, a private video conference with his G-7 counterparts.“A range of issues, of course, will be discussed -- we expect to be discussed, I should say -- facing the global community from the threat of Covid, to economic cooperation, and of course, to the climate crisis,” Psaki said of the upcoming Quad meet.The first summit-level meeting was announced by the external affairs ministry in New Delhi this week. “The leaders will discuss regional and global issues of shared interest, and exchange views on practical areas of cooperation towards maintaining a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific region,” the ministry said of agenda. “The Summit will provide an opportunity to exchange views on contemporary challenges such as resilient supply chains, emerging and critical technologies, maritime security, and climate change,” it added.The US National Security Council accorded some more context to the meeting. “@POTUS and this administration are committed to working with our allies and partners in the Indo-Pacific to secure the peace, defend our shared values, and advance our prosperity,” it said in a tweet, using the acronym used in the US President’s twitter handle.Formed in the aftermath of the 2004 Tsunami — though some say it was started in 2007 — the Quad seemed to be all but over in 2008 chiefly due to Australia’s reluctance to continue. The grouping was revived in 2017 and the first meeting took place on the sidelines of an ASEAN meeting in Manila, 2017. It was held at the level of officials.The first Quad ministerial-level meeting was held in September 2019 on the margins of the UN General Assembly meetings in New York. They met again in October 2020 and in February 2021 after President Biden took office.And now, the first Summit is on Friday.Reports have suggested it was the US that pushed hard for a summit-level meeting. The Biden administration made clear its enthusiasm for the grouping very clear and explicit form the start. “I think we really want to carry forward and build on that format, that mechanism, which we see as fundamental, a foundation upon which to build substantial American policy,” Jake Sullivan, the National Security Adviser, said in January.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/quad-summit-timing-reflects-biden-admin-s-priorities-us-101615401151121.html
11-03-2021||India||Deeper ties, Indo-Pacific on the agenda of US defence secy visit||Washington The United States will seek to deepen the “Major Defense Partnership” with India during Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin’s visit and advance cooperation in the Indo-Pacific and the western Indian Ocean region, which is an emerging area of interest for coordinated action by the two countries.Austin will reach India next week after visiting Japan and South Korea. This will be his first trip overseas after taking office and, notably, it is to the Indo-Pacific, reflecting the importance the Biden administration is according to the region. He will begin the tour on March 13 with a visit to the US Indo-Pacific command headquarters in Hawaii.In his meetings in India, Secretary Austin will “discuss deepening the US-India Major Defense Partnership and advancing cooperation between our countries for a free, prosperous and open Indo-Pacific and Western Indian Ocean Region,” the defense department said Wednesday.“Major Defense Partnership” is a description unique to India-US defense ties. India was designated a Major Defense Partner by the Obama administration in 2016, and it was elevated by the Trump administration to Strategic Trade Authorization tier 1 status, which allows India license-free access to a wide range of military and dual-use technologies, same as NATO allies of the United States.India’s defense purchases from the United States have ballooned in recent years. It is using an increasing number of US platforms — such as P-8 maritime patrol aircraft, C-130J and C-17 military transport aircraft, AH-64 Apache attack helicopters, CH-47 Chinook heavy-lift helicopters, Precision Guided-Excalibur artillery shells, and M777 howitzers. India had ordered Apache and MH-60R multi-mission Seahawk helicopters worth $3.1 billion in February, a top US military commander told lawmakers at a hearing Tuesday. And, according to reports, India is in talks with the country for armed drones.It could not be immediately ascertained if new deals will be announced during Austin’s visit.The US defense secretary will begin his tour on Saturday, day after the first summit of the leaders of the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue — or the Quad, as the group comprising India, the US, Australia and Japan is popularly called — underscoring, once again, the importance the Biden administration is giving to the region.The Indo-Pacific and Europe will see the “most robust” US military presence under President Joe Biden, as stated in a National Security Strategic Guidance released last week.In his meetings with his counterparts and other officials in the region, the Pentagon said, Austin will “reinforce the United States’ commitment to a free and open Indo-Pacific region – founded on respect for international rules, laws, and norms”, the US department of defense said.The secretary will be joined by Secretary of State Antony Blinken for 2+2 meetings with their counterparts in Japan and South Korean, both treaty allies of the United States. India and the US also had a similar 2+2 dialogue in New Delhi in October last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/deeper-ties-indo-pacific-on-the-agenda-of-us-defence-secy-visit-101615401150551.html
11-03-2021||India||Ambani security threat case: Cop transferred amid Maha row||Mumbai: Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh on Wednesday said that Mumbai police officer Sachin Vaze was being removed from the crime intelligence unit till an investigation into the mysterious death of Mansukh Hiran, linked to a vehicle found parked with explosives outside billionaire Mukesh Ambani’s residence, was concluded.The announcement came even as the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) reiterated its demand for action against Vaze for his alleged role in the death of the 48-year-old auto parts dealer, who was linked to the vehicle found parked outside billionaire Ambani’s residence Antilia on February 25 with 20 sticks of gelatin and a threat letter.Assistant police inspector Vaze, the 49-year-old head of the crime intelligence unit of the Mumbai Crime Branch, was leading the investigation into the car found parked outside Antilia.“Police officer Sachin Vaze will be removed from his current posting in the crime branch till the investigation is not completed. I am taking this decision in view of the rising demand from the opposition,” Deshmukh said in the Maharashtra legislative council.Later in the day, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said a picture of policeman Vaze as “Osama Bin Laden” was created by the opposition BJP, which wanted to “hang Vaze first” before his alleged role was investigated in the death of Hiran.On Wednesday, Vaze held meetings with senior Mumbai police officials including commissioner Parambir Singh. “I will clarify my side of the story and release a statement on Thursday,” he said.An Anti Terrorism Squad (ATS) team investigating the murder of Hiran recorded Vaze’s statement over several hours on Monday. On Tuesday, Maharashtra leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis said that Hiran was likely murdered and demanded the arrest of Vaze, based on the statement that Hiran’s wife, 43-year-old Vimla, gave to the ATS investigators on March 7, two days after her husband’s body washed up on the Reti Bunder creek in Mumbra, Thane district.According to Vimla’s statement, Vaze was known to Hiran and had borrowed the SUV in question in November and returned it four months later in February. Her statement also said that Vaze had been with Hiren through the course of the investigation when the SUV was traced back to him.Fadnavis’s demand on Tuesday caused uproar in the assembly, with the ruling parties of the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government trading charges with the opposition over unrelated cases, including the death by suicide of Dadra and Nagar Haveli parliamentarian Mohan Delkar, in February.Vaze’s transfer came after Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar spoke to Thackeray on Wednesday morning, a senior party leader said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ambani-security-threat-case-cop-transferred-amid-maha-row-101615401090580.html
11-03-2021||India||PM won’t make March 12 statement as Oppn seeks debate on fuel price||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will not make a statement on March 12 to commemorate celebrations on 75 years of Independence due to lack of consensus between the ruling dispensation and opposition parties, the government said on Wednesday. The opposition parties have been demanding a separate debate on rising fuel prices in the House.The Opposition disrupted both Houses of Parliament for three consecutive days over fuel price hikes and three contentious farm laws before proceedings were adjourned till Monday. After negotiations with the Opposition failed, parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi said: “PM Modi wanted to make a statement in the House on the 75th Independence celebrations ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’. But due to lack of consensus, the statement will not be made. It will happen when a consensus is reached.”Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla earlier called leaders of different political parties to end the Parliament logjam but the opposition parties insisted on a separate debate on fuel price hikes, people aware of the developments said. The government managers have maintained that the issue can be taken up during the debate on demand for grants and the finance bill.Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge said the government was “guilty of monumental mismanagement of the Indian economy” and is “not allowing a normal functioning of the highest institution of India democracy”. The party’s Rajya Sabha MP Anand Sharma alleged that “the opposition is being deprived and denied continuously their right to raise issues, which matter to the people of India”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-won-t-make-march-12-statement-as-oppn-seeks-debate-on-fuel-price-101615400970038.html
11-03-2021||India||India to extend vaccine coverage to those above 50 in next phase||As India is fast ramping up daily coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccinations, the next in line among the high priority groups are those above 50 years of age.According to the list of priority population groups drawn by the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC), after nearly 30 million health care and frontline workers, the next in line were individuals above 50 years of age, and those with comorbidities.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“The groups were demarcated in the beginning and are now being covered gradually. India is a large country, and to vaccinate 1.3 billion people simultaneously is not feasible. The government had to prioritise. Health care and frontline workers were top priority as this category is directly involved in Covid-19 management and is at maximum risk. Now that it has opened for general population, which is a larger number, the age group has been further sub-divided,” said a senior government official, in the know of the development.As per the expert recommendation, the above 50 years of age category to be vaccinated on priority was further sub-divided into eligible beneficiaries — those above 60 years of age and in the specified comorbid groups, those between 45 and 59 years of age — who were given priority.“Now that there has been a sharp vaccination scale up over the past few days, it is being deliberated to also open up the next category in line, which is above 50. NEGVAC recommended including 50 plus population group also, and the process could start soon as the capacity is clearly in place,” said the official.In an official statement issued on Tuesday, Union health ministry announced that at least 2 million vaccine doses were administered across the country, making it the highest in a single day so far.Also Read: Panel clears withdrawal of ‘clinical trial’ tag for Covaxin“The scale up has been tremendous and we intend to take it to five million per day, and the way vaccination process is going, it will happen soon. Vaccination centres will also be expanded to anywhere between 50,000 to 100,000 across the country to make it possible. All this is doable as we have the capacity and have vaccinated about 170 million children in a week against Polio under the national immunisation drive,” said Dr N.K. Arora, member, National Task Force on Covid-19 related matters.Over the past few weeks, the government has taken several measures to ramp up Covid-19 vaccination process, which includes making changes to the CoWIN platform to allow self-registration, flexible timings and days, walk-ins etc.In its latest advisory to states during a high-level review on Tuesday, the Centre asked them to involve the private sector hospitals in a big way and provide enough stocks to last at least for 15 days to facilitate booking of slots well in advance for the convenience of eligible beneficiaries.“…register and activate all private facilities and also provide sufficient stock of vaccines to the private facilities for 15-28 days so that these facilities can offer online open slots to citizens. Visibility of more open slots not only assures the citizens about the services but also helps avoid overcrowding on account of perceived scarcity in absence of clear visibility of vaccination slots,” said the health ministry in a statement.States were particularly urged to leverage the private sector to the maximum in order to enhance coverage, registering and activating as many private facilities that fulfill the laid down criteria by the central government as possible.“…providing sufficient stock of vaccines is necessary for these centres to work at their optimum and providing any other facilitation required,” the health ministry statement read.Experts also said that expanding coverage was the best way to ramp up the Covid-19 vaccination.“To ramp up vaccination, it’s imperative to open up the facility beyond essential services. The numbers will further go up as more India-manufactured vaccines will gradually get added to the bucket, and more beneficiaries in general population get vaccinated as it will build vaccine confidence. Important figures of the country getting the shot also helps,” said Dr K Srinath Reddy, founder, Public Health Foundation of India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-extend-vaccine-coverage-to-those-above-50-in-next-phase-101615400969543.html
11-03-2021||India||1999 Kargil war: Ex-Pak envoy denies US diplomat’s claim||The former Pakistan High Commissioner to India Ashraf Qazi (1997-2002) has denied that he approached US ambassador to India Richard Celeste (1997-2001) to get the US to back Pakistan during the Kargil War of 1999. Responding to revelations in Celeste’s forthcoming book reported by Hindustan Times last month, Qazi said: “My government did not instruct me to do any such thing as its communications with the US would naturally be through either our mission in Washington and/or the US mission in Islamabad.’’The book Life in American Politics & Diplomatic Years in India published by Har-Anand Publications and expected to be out by September, quoted an exchange between the two diplomats at the height of the Kargil War in 1999. Celeste writes that Qazi dropped in one night: “He was seeking our help to persuade the Indians to “cease their aggressive actions in Kargil.” I pointed out that the Indians had held these posts for some time. Ashraf repeated the claim that civilian “freedom fighters” had occupied the positions. “Ashraf.” I said, “I’m going to let you tell me what your government wants you to tell me. But I know that it is not true and I am embarrassed for your sake. I’m your friend so I’m going to be honest with you. We know who trained and equipped those troops and we know how they are being supplied and directed. Our government cannot accept your plea.”Celeste goes on to add how, in a meeting with Pakistan PM Nawaz Sharif shortly after this, President Bill Clinton asked him to “withdraw troops” from Kargil. Then came a call from the US president to Indian PM Atal Behari Vajpayee, “That call from Clinton to Vajpayee was without precedent in Indo-US relations,’’ the former ambassador writes. Indeed, some experts mark it as a key turning point in India’s relations with the US.Speaking to HT from Islamabad, Qazi said that he and the American envoy lived across the road from each other and did have a good relationship. “Dick Celeste is indeed a good friend of mine and during the Kargil crisis he and I had a few private conversations. But he is certainly mistaken in claiming I was “seeking [US] help to persuade the Indians to cease their aggressive actions in Kargil” to which he allegedly replied “our government cannot accept your plea”.”Qazi added: “My government did not instruct me to do any such thing as its communications with the US. That would naturally be through either our mission in Washington and/or the US mission in Islamabad. It would certainly not ask its envoy in India to get in touch with his US counterpart for any such purpose. Nor would I presume to be officially conveying, as Celeste puts it, “what your government wants you to tell me” without any instructions to do so. ‘’Qazi said that while he was sure that Celeste’s book was not ill-intended, its claims were ”simply not true.”Reacting to Qazi’s comments, Celeste said: “Ambassador Qazi is a well respected diplomat and a dear friend. I accept the fact that our recollections differ and, in my case, would acknowledge an aging mind.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1999-kargil-war-ex-pak-envoy-denies-us-diplomat-s-claim-101615400609479.html
11-03-2021||India||'Set up help desks near Covid-19 vaccination centres': PM Modi in BJP MPs’ meet||Prime Minister Narendra Modi asked Bhartiya Janata Party(BJP) lawmakers and officials to set up help desks next to Covid-19 vaccination centres across the country, to help guide people, increase awareness of the vaccination drive, even ferry the old and the infirm to and from vaccination centres (much as is done during elections), people familiar with the mater said.The Prime Minister was addressing members of parliament and while he highlighted the work done by the government over what has been a trying year for the country and pulled up MPs who played truant, the emphasis of his talk was on India’s ongoing vaccination drive, the largest such exercise in the world , as the country aims to vaccinate hundreds of millions of people against the coronavirus disease.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage"BJP should help people get their vaccines,’’ he told the MPs this morning, according to three people who asked not to be named. “Why should we only set up help desks during elections. There are so many people who come without their I-card, who need some kind of help and so we should be there.’’“Even if you have to park their cars, or help the elderly get to the vaccination camps, do that,” the PM said at the meeting according to a second person, a BJP MP.Party president JP Nadda reiterated the message, the people said, and added that all state units should work to make the drive a success. He said that he units have already been instructed what to do. HT has reviewed a letter sent to all states by the party’s national general secretary, Arun Singh. It reads: “Party help desks to be set up at all vaccination centres in all mandals (divisions) for general awareness campaigns and help. Arrangements to be made for commuting of elderly and sick people to the vaccination sites and hospitals and drop them back.’’Arun Singh’s letter dated March 5 lists 12 ways in which party lawmakers and officials can help .According to the BJP MP cited above, Nadda, a former Union health minister recalled how PM Modi told him in early march last year that it would be a tough year on account of the pandemic (although cases in India didn’t really start climbing till April). ” At that time we hardly had any testing labs, but now we have 1000s, we have our own personal protection kits (PPEs); we have been able to tackle the pandemic successfully with Modiji’s vision.’’Both the vaccines administered in India are locally made -- one, Covishield is the Indian version of Astra Zeneca-Oxford’s vaccine, made by Serum Institute, and the other, Covaxin, has been locally developed by Bharat Biotech.Commenting on the meeting, inister of parliamentary affairs Pralhad Joshi said: “PM Modi said that all the MPs and party workers should help eligible people get COVID-19 vaccines including helping them reach the vaccination centres.’’“The Prime Minister is a statesman and he advised us to work in a non electoral role,’’ said MP Rakesh Sinha. ``In situations where people require our assistance and sympathy, PM’s concern is beyond political and guided by social concern during the vaccination drive.”The Prime Minister also had some tough words for those who’ve been irregular with their attendance in the house. ”You are here because of the people, the party has made you win, why do we always have to tell you to attend parliament? I don’t want to keep repeating this,’’ he said, according to a second BJP MP.The MPs, however, were told they would get a long weekend with Friday being off, along with Thursday, which is a holiday on account of Shivratri . “They gave us the list of bills that will be brought till March 25; the finance bill expected on the 19th. And the session may end by March 25,’’ said the first MP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaccination-centre-for-mps-gets-lukewarm-response-101615400549401.html
11-03-2021||India||Tirath Singh Rawat’s ability to take everyone along key factor for selection||When the assembly elections were held in Uttarakhand in 2017, Tirath Singh Rawat was not given a ticket despite being the president of the party in the state and a sitting legislator. He did not sulk or protest, and patiently waited till 2019, when he was awarded a Lok Sabha ticket from Garhwal. It is the sitting MP’s unflinching loyalty, and his ability to get along with different communities and factions, that has got him the top job in the state, according to several party insiders that HT spoke to.“Satpal Maharaj was given his seat in 2017 (from Chaubhattakhal),’’ said MLA Munna Chauhan, “But Tirath Singh ji maintained the discipline. Today he’s been rewarded with the CM’s post.”At the state MLAs’ meeting on Wednesday, also attended by the party’s members of Parliament from the state, outgoing CM Trivendra Singh Rawat proposed Tirath Singh Rawat’s name. It was supported by all the other CM aspirants, including Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal “Nishank”.The ability to take every one along was a prerequisite for any new incumbent since the outgoing CM’s apparent lack of coordination with his party MLAs and his cabinet colleagues led to a virtual rebellion in the state, with senior leaders complaining that Trivendra Rawat never consulted them before taking major decisions.“The BJP in Uttarakhand has been known for factionalism. Every leader here has his own followers and their areas of strength. In their midst, the new CM is someone who is totally uncontroversial and very, very modest. He has time to sit and talk to all,’’ said a member of the Akhil Bhartiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP), in which Tirath Singh Rawat served as national secretary and organising secretary before his political career took off.“I met him last month, and he sat with me for hours; he is very, very down to earth,’’ said the person quoted above.A second key factor supporting his candidacy was that while he is a Rajput, he is seen as someone who is acceptable to Brahmins. The Brahmin lobby in the state has been unhappy with Trivendra Rawat after he constituted the Uttarakhand Char Dham Devasthanam Management Board in January 2020 to manage all temples in the state.”From Brahmins managing these temples, it was handed over to bureaucrats. This decision by Trivendra Rawat deeply upset the community, ” said a third leader who asked not to be named. “They don’t have the same problem with Tirath Singh ji.”The new CM is also from Pauri Garhwal, where five out of nine chief ministers in the state have come from. “A few days ago, when CM Trivendra Rawat carved out a new division of Garsain out of the existing Kumaon and Garhwal regions, it led to an outcry all over social media from many who considered themselves Kumaonis or Garhwalis but were now part of Garsain. Hopefully, Tirath ji will change these orders,” the third leader said.It will be a challenging road ahead for Tirath Singh Rawat, with just a year to go for the assembly polls. Apart from handling some of the tricky problems cited above — the new board for temples, the new division of Garsain — he has to manage his own election from an assembly seat in the next six months, and then ensure a win in the MP by-election in his seat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tirath-singh-rawat-s-ability-to-take-everyone-along-key-factor-for-selection-101615399289368.html
11-03-2021||India||Haridwar Mahakumbh 2021: First holy bath on March 11 amid strict Covid-19 norms||The first Shahi Snan or holy bath Of Mahakumbh 2021 at Haridwar will be held on March 11, Thursday, on the occasion of Maha Shivratri. This will be one of the massive congregations of devotees during the ongoing Coronavirus pandemic. Preparations have been made to ensure adherence to Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. The mela, which will be a one-month affair this time owing to Covid-19, spans over Haridwar, Pauri Garhwal and Dehradun. All hotels, restaurants, ghats in this area will have to follow Mahakumbh SOP.Here is all you need to know:> Negative RT-PCR test report is mandatory for all those who will be attending the congregation.> Online registration is to be done at https://dsclservices.org.in/kumbh/. After their documents are validated, they are issued e-passes.> There will be constant sanitising of the ghats and changing rooms.> Pilgrims found violating Covid-19 SOPs will be prosecuted.> A centralised control room has been set up at Haridwar railway station which is monitoring CCTV feed from all nearby railway stations.> A state-of-the-art 150-bed hospital has been established at Pawan Dham Bhupatwala for the devotees.> The second Shahi Snan is on April 12, the third on April 14 and the fourth on April 27.> Devotees will be allowed a bath for a maximum of 20 minutes.> People belonging to high-risk groups have been discouraged from the holy dip.> The Indian Railways said 12 pairs of Kumbh Mela Specials, which are in addition to the existing Haridwar-bound trains are being operated. Apart from these 12, there are other 15 pairs of trains operating to Haridwar.In February, the Uttarakhand government made vaccination for officials who will be on duty of Kumbh mandatory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/haridwar-mahakumbh-2021-first-holy-bath-on-march-11-amid-strict-covid-19-norms-101615369809844.html
11-03-2021||India||With 69% quota, Tamil Nadu hub of politico-legal battle on affirmative action||In the backdrop of the Supreme Court seeking the views of states to re-examine the 50% cap on reservation, all eyes are on Tamil Nadu—which is not only among the seven states that breach the cap by providing 69% reservation based on caste in public employment and educational institutions, but is a pioneer in the most expansive affirmative action programme in India. Both the major Dravidian parties—Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam and All India Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK)—and their ideological parent body, the Dravida Kazhagam (DK), have fought for reservation as a measure of social justice. The reservation policy had been in operation since the 1920s, with late chief minister J Jayalalithaa playing an important role in providing legislative support to the 69% reservation in the 1990s. Also Read | Tamil Nadu: TTV Dhinakaran’s AMMK releases first list of candidatesIn 1992, the Supreme Court ruled that reservation cannot exceed 50% in Indra Sawhney versus Union of India, based on which the Madras high court directed the state to bring it down to 50% in the 1994-95 academic year. “There was a fear in Tamil Nadu that it will be affected by the Mandal commission which was challenged by Indra Sawhney (1992) case,” says retired justice of Madras high court K Chandru. In 1993, the assembly under Jayalalithaa passed the Tamil Nadu Backward Classes, Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Reservation of Seats in Educational Institutions and Appointments or Posts in the Services under the State) Act, 1993, now known as the Tamil Nadu Act, 1994 to keep its reservation limit intact at 69%. Jayalalithaa then led a delegation to Delhi and urged the central leadership, which resulted in the then President Shankar Dayal Sharma giving his assent to the Bill in a month. The late AIADMK leader and former CM also ensured a special legal protection by bringing the legislation under a constitutional amendment under the Ninth Schedule to ensure that its validity could not be challenged judicially (for violating Articles 14 and 19 of the Constitution). However, the Supreme Court, in a case in 2007 (IR Coelho v State of Tamil Nadu), ruled that the court has power to review any legislation added to the Ninth Schedule of the Constitution, and so the Tamil Nadu law that increased reservation to 69% is open to review. “The Supreme Court said the court has got the power of judicial review even to see whether the inclusion (of a law to the ninth schedule) is valid or not. By this time, several other states not only had OBC reservations but had exceeded the 50% cap,” says Chandru. The composition of the 69% reservation in Tamil Nadu is the following: Backward Caste (BC) are eligible for 30% reservation (26.5% + 3.5% internal reservation for Muslims). In the 1990s, BC Muslims were part of the BCs, but this was carved as a separate sub-category during DMK regime in 2007. Most Backward Caste (MBCs) are eligible for 20% reservations, broken down into 10.5% for Vanniyars, 7% for Denotified Communities (which constitute 28 castes) and 2.5% for others (41 castes). Scheduled Castes in the state have 18% reservations, and Scheduled Tribes one per cent, taking the total upto 69%. Under the existing 20% MBC quota, the AIADMK government, led by chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami, announced on February 26 that the Vanniyar community will be allocated 10.5% internal reservation. This announcement came hours before the Election Commission announced poll dates for Tamil Nadu as the AIADMK was under pressure from its ally, the PMK, which has been demanding a separate quote for Vanniyars—their core vote bank for close to four decades. The PMK revived this demand in the run up to the assembly elections slated for April 6 but scaled it down settling for an internal reservation. Previous chief ministers hadn’t heeded the PMK’s demand. Palaniswami too says that the Bill was passed temporarily based on the Justice Janarthanan Committee (who was heading the backward classes commission until 2018) and that the reservation slab would be modified by the Justice A Kulasekaran Committee, appointed in December 2020 to collect quantifiable data on caste, communities and tribes. The last caste-based census was conducted in 1983.“This will open a Pandora’s Box, now every caste and community will start demanding a share for themselves,” says political commentator Sriram Seshadri. “It’s debatable whether this reservation will hold good in the eyes of the law as courts have rejected such reservations in the past.”Besides the political imperatives dictating the reservation policy, there is also legal uncertainty. The petitions challenging the Tamil Nadu law, on the grounds that open category students were at a disadvantage since reservation in admissions were being carried out in an increasing number of seats, have been long-pending in the Supreme Court “Every year, petitions are filed with respect to medical college admission that if the state follows the Indra Sawhney judgement, they (students) would have received a seat which was denied because of the 1993 law. Supreme Court, then, started passing curious orders to calculate the difference between the two caps—so each year, among whoever is left out, about 40-50 students would get admitted through interim orders. This went on for 19 years. Even before the Maratha reservation case, the Tamil Nadu case was there before the Supreme Court. There isn’t a scientific approach on deciding on what is important.” Seshadri says.The AIADMK says that the party will continue to fight for the 69% reservation to uphold the social justice fabric of the state. “[Former Tamil Nadu chief minister] MG Ramachandran had increased the state’s 50% reservation to 68% which Amma [Jayalalithaa] sealed at 69%. Legal challenges have been present and Tamil Nadu has been a forerunner in challenging it,” says AIADMK spokesperson Vaigaichelvan. The AIADMK’s ally, the BJP, at the Centre announced 10% reservation for Economically Weaker Section (EWS) in 2019 which the state has not accepted as a reservation policy. The state passed a resolution in the assembly that EWS certificates will be provided only for those applying to Central government and Central institutions. The DMK and DK challenged the EWS in court. “Economic status is fungible, that is if someone is a poor man tomorrow, he may become a millionaire and billionaire overnight. But this is not the case for socially and educationally backward people—their status cannot change overnight,” says advocate and DMK spokesperson A Saravanan. “This is the precise reason why we oppose EWS and we always stick to social and educational backwardness to be the criteria for determining or giving reservation. There is no need to re-examine Tamil Nadu’s current 69% reservation as one formula will not fit all. We have this formula based on the number of communities and how backward they are. This decision can’t be made from Delhi which is impinging on state autonomy.” DMK has also criticised the AIADMK for rushing the internal reservation for Vanniyars as an electoral move.“Reservation combined with several educational institutions being opened across the state by both DMK and AIADMK governments has ensured upward mobility and high social development indices in Tamil Nadu. This has helped produce first generation diploma holders and degree holders since the 1990s who are children of daily-wage workers,” says consultant and independent researcher in the social development sector Geetha Narayanan. “But we need more sociological research to understand who truly requires reservation as the creamy layer in various castes (the land-holders and power-holders) is repeatedly benefitted.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/decoding-tamil-nadu-s-reservation-policy-101615315765316.html
