12-03-2021||India||BJP to contest by-polls to Tirupati Lok Sabha seat, Jana Sena drops out||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will contest the forthcoming by-elections to Tirupati parliamentary seat in Andhra Pradesh’s Chittoor district with the support of Jana Sena Party headed by actor Pawan Kalyan.Union minister of state for parliamentary affairs and BJP in-charge of Andhra Pradesh affairs V Muralidharan announced this on Friday evening after a meeting of state BJP leaders with their Jana Sena Party counterparts.“Leading the fight for the people and by the people, a @BJP4Andhra’s candidate, backed by @JanaSenaParty will fight Tirupati by-election. An unanimous decision was taken at a meeting attended by Shri @PawanKalyan Ji & Shri @somuveerraju Ji. @JPNadda @Sunil_Deodhar @blsantosh,” Muralidharan tweeted.The by-election to Tirupati Lok Sabha seat is needed due to the sudden demise of sitting YSR Congress party MP Balli Durgaprasada Rao due to Covid-19 in September last year.Jana Sena Party, which has an alliance with the BJP, had been very keen on contesting the Tirupati by-poll for various reasons. The constituency, reserved for SCs, has considerable number of Kapu votes which are the backbone of Jana Sena Party (Pawan Kalyan belongs to Kapu community).Secondly, the Tirupati assembly segment was earlier represented by Pawan Kalyan’s elder brother K Chiranjeevi, a popular Telugu actor and former Union minister, between 2009 and 2012 and he has a huge fan following there.Thirdly, the BJP is not a very significant force in Tirupati. Its candidate Bommi Srihari Rao had got just 1.22 per cent of votes, which is lesser than the votes polled under NOTA (1.96 per cent).The Jana Sena Party chief went to New Delhi a couple of times in the last four months to meet the BJP national leadership, including party president J P Nadda and Union home minister Amit Shah and lobby for the Tirupati seat.Yet, the BJP refused to give up the seat to its alliance partner. At the meeting held with Pawan Kalyan and his senior colleague Nadendla Manohar, BJP state president Somu Veerraju and party co in-charge of Andhra affairs Sunil Deodhar conveyed the message by the central leadership that it was keen on contesting the Tirupati seat.“After detailed discussions, it was decided that the BJP will contest the Tirupati by-poll. The candidate will be decided by the party Central Election Committee and announced shortly,” Veerraju said.There has been no statement from Pawan Kalyan in support of the BJP so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-to-contest-by-polls-to-tirupati-lok-sabha-seat-jana-sena-drops-out-101615572750178.html
12-03-2021||India||‘Exclusive cliques’ should not target third parties: China on Quad meet||Bejing The four-member Quad grouping should not undermine the interests of a third party and not form ‘cliques’, the Chinese foreign ministry said on Friday as the state-controlled media dismissed the first virtual summit between India, Australia, the US and Japan as an impractical attempt to copy the model of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation (NATO).“State-to-state exchanges and cooperation should help enhance mutual understanding and trust among regional countries, instead of targeting against or undermining the interests of any third party,” Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian said during the ministry’s daily briefing. “We hope relevant countries will follow the principles of openness, inclusiveness and win-win results, refrain from forming closed and exclusive ‘cliques’ and act in a way that is conducive to regional peace, stability and prosperity,” he added.In a report, state-controlled media Global Times said: “While the US is trying to contain China through the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue, known as Quad, or the ‘Asian NATO’, such ambition is impossible to realise.” Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Australian counterpart Scott Morrison, US President Joe Biden and Japan Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga attended the virtual summit, which is the first conference of the top leaders of the Quad alliance, on Friday. During the meeting, the four leaders are expected to lay out their vision of a free and open Indo-Pacific, amidst China flexing its muscle in the strategically-vital region. Last year, state councillor and foreign minister Wang Yi had dismissed the Quad grouping as the “so-called Indo-Pacific new NATO”. In a statement by the Chinese foreign ministry, Wang Yi was quoted as saying that the “Indo-Pacific strategy” proposed by the US is in essence aimed at building a so-called Indo-Pacific “New NATO” underpinned by the quadrilateral mechanism involving the US, Japan, India and Australia. “The strategy is to trumpet the old-fashioned Cold War mentality to stir up confrontation among different groups and blocs and to stoke geopolitical competition, in a bid to maintain the dominance and hegemonic system of the United States,” he was quoted as saying during a visit to Malaysia in October.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/exclusive-cliques-should-not-target-third-parties-china-on-quad-meet-101615573479336.html
12-03-2021||India||Govt employees can’t head state poll bodies: SC||New Delhi/Panaji: The Supreme Court on Friday directed that any person employed with the central or state governments should not be appointed as election commissioner “across the length and breadth of the country”, in a ruling that aimed at ensuring the independence of poll panels. “The independence of the election commission cannot be compromised in a democracy. Entrusting additional charge of state election commissioner to a government official is a mockery of the Constitution,” held the bench of justices Rohinton F Nariman and BR Gavai. It added that the election commissioners have to be “independent persons” and that nobody, who has been employed or holds an office of profit under the central or any state government, should be appointed as election commissioners. The court issued the direction exercising its powers under Articles 142 and 144 of the Constitution. Under Article 142, the apex court is empowered to issue directives to do “complete justice” whereas Article 144 obligates all authorities to act in aid of the Supreme Court. The judgment came as the top court censured the Goa government for appointing its law secretary as the state election commissioner for conducting municipal council elections in the state. Law secretary Choka Ram Garg was given additional charge as state election commissioner to hold municipal elections. Calling this a “disturbing feature”, the bench ordered that Garg will immediately cease to hold the post of the state election commissioner and directed that henceforth, no such person shall be appointed as election commissioner by the Centre or state governments. The top court also dismissed the appeal by the Goa government against the order of the high court, which had cancelled elections to five municipalities in the state for not reserving wards for women as per the law. It upheld the order of the high court that fresh notifications ought to be issued after reserving seats for women and for candidates under other reserved categories as the law. The Opposition has claimed a moral victory calling the Supreme Court judgement “a complete slap and indictment of the government led by [chief minister] Pramod Sawant in Goa”. Speaking to reporters, Congress leader and advocate Carlos Alvares Ferreira, who represented some of the original petitioners before the high court, said: “The SC has straightforward dismissed the appeals filed by the state government. The SC has found that there was clear machination done by the SC in trying to manipulate the entire constitutional machinery and override constitutional provisions.” Leader of Goa Forward Party Vijai Sardesai tweeted: “The Highest Court of the land has crushed @DrPramodPSawant’s blatant attempt to violate our constitution and derail democracy; He’s brought disgrace not only to Goa but also to his own leader @narendramodi who had bowed before the Constitution before taking office in 2019.” The case had come up before the high court after Fouzia Imtiaz Shaikh and some other candidates challenged the notifications issued by the Director of Municipal Administration (DMA), in charge of notifying which seats in municipal councils were to be reserved for candidates like women, STs, SCs and OBCs. The DMA had “rounded off” the number of seats to be reserved for women to the lower integer that emerged when the total number of seats was sought to be divided into three. For example, in the Mapusa Municipal Council of the 20 seats only six were reserved for women (30%) when the constitution mandated that “no less than” 33% be reserved for women which meant that at least seven seats should have been reserved. This was also done some other municipal councils, prompting the high court to nix the poll schedule for five councils.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-employees-can-t-head-state-poll-bodies-sc-101615573179400.html
12-03-2021||India||TMC and BJP meet EC over Mamata’s injury||Kolkata: Delegations from the Trinamool Congress (TMC) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) met the Election Commission of India (ECI) on Friday in connection with the injury suffered by West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee during an event in Nandigram two days ago. A five-member team of TMC parliamentarians met the poll watchdog in Delhi and alleged that the attack on Banerjee, 66, was premeditated and part of a deep-rooted conspiracy. On Wednesday, Banerjee had alleged that 4-5 men had attacked her though some eyewitnesses suggested that her car may have hit a pole jutting out of the road. To back its claim, the TMC cited several social media posts and comments by BJP leaders, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The party also cited caricature and cartoons shared by BJP state chief Dilip Ghosh and alleged that the ECI “abruptly” removed the director general of police after appeals from the BJP. Similar allegations by the TMC on Thursday had drawn a sharp response from the ECI, which called the insinuations unfortunate. “Even the Prime Minister said at his recent rally in Kolkata that Mamata Banerjee’s scooty would fall in Nandigram. The entire episode smells of a conspiracy,” said Lok Sabha member Saugata Roy. The TMC memorandum also alleged that eye witnesses were planted by the BJP. The BJP rejected the charges. “The TMC is distorting the Prime Minister’s comment at the rally. He never said Mamata Banerjee would get hurt in Nandigram,” said Bengal BJP’s chief spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya. On Friday evening, a six-member BJP delegation met EC officials in Kolkata with the demand for a through probe. The leaders also urged the poll panel to check video footage. “We also want a special observer for Nandigram since it is a high-profile constituency,” Dasgupta said after the meeting. Bhupender Yadav, BJP general secretary, said, “The party also requested the election commission to make public the video of Banerjee’s rally in which she got injured.” A section of BJP leaders - Barrackpore Lok Sabha member Arjun Singh one of them - accused the chief minister of lying about the attack. But others, such as Bhattacharya, said the BJP did not want to do politics about the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmc-and-bjp-meet-ec-over-mamata-s-injury-101615572940489.html
12-03-2021||India||BJP leader Adhikari files papers from Nandigram||Kolkata: Suvendu Adhikari, the Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader and one-time protege of chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Friday, filed his nomination from Nandigram constituency to take on his former mentor in what promises to be one of the most watched contests in the West Bengal assembly elections, which will be held in eight phases starting March 27. The Nandigram contest is scheduled for April 1. Adhikari was flanked by two central ministers, Smriti Irani and Dharmendra Pradhan, as he filed his nomination at the sub-divisional office in Haldia. Banerjee already filed her nomination on Wednesday. She later sustained injuries on her leg following an alleged attack and was discharged from the state-run SSKM hospital in Kolkata on Wednesday. Located around 100 km south of Kolkata, Nandigram is a historically important for the TMC as mass movements against land acquisitions in the area in 2006-08 paved the way for Banerjee’s political resurrection. It is also in south Bengal, where 240 of the state’s 294 assembly constituencies fall.The nondescript town is all set for the big political battle and is decked up with banners, posters, cut-outs and wall graffiti of the two leaders. Both the TMC and BJP have come up with their own helipads and Banerjee has also rented a house to stay in Nandigram amid the polls. The TMC posters portraying Banerjee say that Bengal wants its own daughter, and the BJP posters in favour of Adhikari say that Nandigram wants it Bhoomiputra (son of soil). “The people of Nandigram will teach Adhikari a lesson. The people will show him who is an outsider and who is the daughter of Nandigram,” TMC spokesperson Tapas Roy said. The Left-led grand alliance has fielded CPI(M)’s youth leader Minakshi Mukherjee from this seat. Mukherjee also submitted her nomination on Friday. On Friday, attacking the TMC for a series of chit fund frauds that have defrauded investors of hundreds of crores, Adhikari said only the BJP would be able to return the money to the depositors if it came to power. “Only the BJP can return you your money by selling off the assets, which the Enforcement Directorate (ED) has seized, once it comes to power. No one else will be able to give you the money back.”The TMC, however, hit back . “Two central agencies – the Enforcement Directorate and the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) – have been investigating the cases since 2013-14. How can he say that if the BJP comes to power, it will return the money by selling off the assets seized by central agencies? He is making false promises,” TMC spokesperson Kunal Ghosh said.During the 2016 assembly elections, Adhikari won over 67% of the votes as a TMC candidate and defeated his nearest rival of the CPI by a margin of 81,230 votes. Citing “extremely deep rot” with the TMC, he quit the party in December last year and joined the BJP in the presence of Union minister Amit Shah in Midnapore. Meanwhile, Irani also targeted the chief minister, saying that the latter can continue playing with the lives of the people while Prime Minister Narendra Modi looked after the welfare of the state. “Khela hobe (the game is on). You (Banerjee) have played with the lives of people and respect of women. Your game has turned the soil of Bengal red with blood. Have you played with Bhawanipore or do you want to play with Nandigram? You can play while Modi will bring development. A real transformation will be brought by Modi. Bengal has decided that the TMC will go and the BJP will come,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjpleader-adhikari-files-papers-from-nandigram-101615572941072.html
12-03-2021||India||CBI, ED to question key TMC contestants ahead of Bengal polls||Kolkata The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and Enforcement Directorate (ED) are set to question key Trinamool leaders Partha Chatterjee and Madan Mitra as part of investigations into two chit fund cases, days ahead of the eight-phase West Bengal assembly polls.State education minister Partha Chatterjee is contesting the Behala West seat in south-west Kolkata while former minister Mitra is the candidate from Kamarhati in North 24 Parganas. Chatterjee is also the secretary general of the Trinamool Congress (TMC) and the state’s parliamentary affairs minister. The ED on Friday questioned Samir Chakraborty, a Trinamool MLA from Taldangra in Bankura district, over two hours in connection with an investment he made in a news channel a few years ago. “I will cooperate with the agency whenever it calls me,” Chakraborty said while leaving the ED office. Chakraborty, a veteran TMC leader, is not contesting the polls this time. While Chatterjee is being summoned in a probe into the I-Core chit fund company, Mitra is a suspect in the Saradha chit fund case. Mitra was arrested in 2014 and unsuccessfully contested the 2016 assembly polls from jail.The CBI also plans to question Ankush Arora, brother-in-law of chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s nephew Abhishek Banerjee. CBI officials questioned Arora’s wife Maneka Gambhir and Abhishek Banerjee’s wife, Rujira, a few days in connection with a coal smuggling case. Arora’s father, Pawan Arora, has also been summoned to the CBI office on March 15, agency officials said. No member of the Arora family could be reached for comments. TMC leaders reacted sharply to the development, saying they were being targeted because of the elections. “Using probe agencies against prominent political adversaries is not something new. We have seen this happening in other states. It will have no effect in Bengal because people know the BJP very well,” said deputy parliamentary affairs minister Tapas Roy. “One cannot scare an honest man. They can do whatever they want. This is being done because of the elections,” said Chatterjee, who took part in a campaign rally in his constituency on Friday. “I have not received the summons yet.”Mitra was not available for comments as he was busy with a roadshow. Kunal Ghosh, one of the spokespersons of the TMC and an accused in the Saradha case, has already been summoned by the ED twice over the past two weeks. On February 21, chief minister Mamata Banerjee reacted in public for the first time after the CBI sent summons to Rujira Banerjee. “A tiger cub is not scared of fighting cats and rats... We have stood before guns,” Banerjee retorted at a public event hours after the CBI visited the south Kolkata residence of her nephew and TMC Lok Sabha member Abhishek Banerjee and served a notice on his wife for questioning in the coal smuggling case.“Muscle flexing or threats of jail sentence cannot scare us. We have stood before guns in the past. We won’t be scared of fighting rats. I will not surrender as long as I am alive. You cannot break our spine. A tiger cub is not scared of cats and rats,” Banerjee said. Abhishek Banerjee took to Twitter, saying that he will not be “cowed down”. “TMC leaders start seeing political vendetta whenever the CBI or ED probes a case but they did not hesitate to get involved in corruption,” BJP state vice-president Jay Prakash Majumdar said on Friday. On December 31, the CBI raided three residences of businessman and the TMC’s youth front general secretary Vinay Mishra in connection with the coal smuggling case. Mishra is missing since then and has been declared an absconder by the agency. Abhishek Banerjee is the president of the TMC’s youth wing. On July 20, he appointed 15 general secretaries, including Mishra. It is alleged that illegally mined coal, worth several thousand crores of rupees, was sold in the black market over several years by a racket operating in the western parts of West Bengal where Eastern Coalfields Ltd runs several mines. Another prime suspect, Anup Majhi, alias Lala, is also missing.In early December, the CBI raided the home and office of Ganesh Bagaria, a Kolkata-based chartered accountant. The homes and offices of three more businessmen have been raided since January. The agency has not made any official statement before the media till date. Ever since the probe started in September, the BJP has been alleging that money from the sales was “whitewashed” through shell companies and siphoned into the funds of the ruling party. The BJP has also alleged that the main beneficiary is Abhishek Banerjee. Banerjee has dismissed the allegations as political vendetta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-ed-to-question-key-tmc-contestants-ahead-of-bengal-polls-101615572939936.html
12-03-2021||India||MHA tells 4 N-E states to prevent influx of people from Myanmar||New DelhiThe ministry of home affairs (MHA) has asked four north eastern states – Mizoram, Nagaland, Arunachal Pradesh and Manipur, as well as the Assam Rifles, to prevent a possible influx of people from Myanmar in the wake of massive civilian protests in the neighbouring country following a military coup, people familiar with the matter said. In a letter to the states, sent on Wednesday, the home ministry has also reminded the states that they do not have powers to grant refugee status to any foreigner and India is not a signatory to the United Nations Refugee Convention of 1951 and its 1967 Protocol. Mass demonstrations are being held in Myanmar against the declaration of a year-long emergency by the country’s armed forces.In its communication, seen by HT, the MHA said, “As you are aware, there is a possibility of large scale illegal influx into Indian territory through India-Myanmar Border due to current internal situation in Myanmar. In this regard, MHA has already issued an advisory (dated February 25) to chief secretaries (of these four states) to stay alert and take appropriate action to prevent a possible influx into Indian Territory.” According to MHA, “Now it has been reported that illegal influx from Myanmar has started.” The development came in the wake of nearly 16 people from Myanmar crossing over to Mizoram last week, of which eight were police officers. Myanmar authorities asked the Mizoram government to send back the policemen. Manipur chief minister N Biren Singh also said that several people from Myanmar tried to enter Manipur but returned amid the presence of a large number of security personnel on the border. While Mizoram shares a 510-km long border with Myanmar, Manipur shares a 398-km border with the nieghbouring country. Arunachal Pradesh and Nagaland share 520 kms and 215 kms long border with country, respectively. The border along the four states is unfenced and porous. The MHA also referred to a 2017 communication, in which it told the states to “sensitise all law enforcement and intelligence agencies for taking prompt steps in identifying the illegal migrants and initiate the deportation processes expeditiously and without delay”. Similarly, the letter sent on Wednesday talks about its 2018 direction to the states to take biographic and biometric details of all illegal migrants in the country and cancel their fake Indian documents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mha-tells-4-n-e-states-to-prevent-influx-of-people-from-myanmar-101615572759435.html
12-03-2021||India||At WMCC meet, India, China agree to ensure peace at LAC||New Delhi/BeijingIndia and China agreed on Friday to ensure stability in the Ladakh sector of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and convene another meeting of senior military commanders soon to take forward disengagement and de-escalation at friction points on the disputed border. These were among the outcomes of a virtual meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs, which was held against the backdrop of the disengagement process stalling after the withdrawal of troops by both sides from the north and south banks of Pangong Lake in February. The meeting was held hours before the first summit of the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue or Quad, which will be joined by Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison, Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga and US President Joe Biden. The Quad Summit is expected to lead to several initiatives aimed at countering China’s influence and actions across the Indo-Pacific. At the WMCC meeting, the two sides reviewed the situation in the western sector of the LAC and had “in-depth discussions on the remaining issues” in this sector, a statement from the external affairs ministry said. The two sides agreed to continue their dialogue through diplomatic and military channels to “reach a mutually acceptable solution for complete disengagement from all friction points at the earliest”, the statement said. They also agreed to convene the 11th meeting of the senior military commanders “at an early date so that two sides could work towards complete disengagement from the remaining friction areas”, the statement added. The disengagement would enable both sides to “look at broader de-escalation of troops in the area and work towards restoration of peace and tranquillity in the border areas”. The two sides further agreed that in the interim period, they would “continue to maintain stability at ground level and prevent any untoward incident”, the statement said. A similarly worded readout issued from the Chinese side said the two sides had agreed to continue communications through diplomatic and military channels, “hold the next round of military-level talks as soon as possible, promote further de-escalation of the situation on the ground and jointly safeguard the hard-won peace and stability in the border areas”. The Indian statement said the two sides viewed the completion of disengagement on the north and south banks of Pangong Lake as providing a “good basis for the two sides to work towards early resolution” of remaining issues. It added that the agreement between the two foreign ministers during their meeting on the margins of a Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) meet in Moscow last September and their phone conversation last month “should continue to guide the work of two sides”. The Chinese readout noted that the two sides had positively evaluated the disengagement at Pangong Lake and had a candid and in-depth exchange of views on promoting resolution at other areas. It added that the two sides had agreed to stabilise the situation on the border and avoid any “repetition of the situation on the ground in accordance with the five-point consensus reached at the Moscow meeting of the two foreign ministers and the spirit of their February 25 phone call”. The WMCC meet was co-chaired additional secretary (East Asia) Naveen Srivastava of the external affairs ministry and Hong Liang, director general of the boundary and oceanic department of China’s foreign ministry. The 10th meeting of the senior military commanders was held on February 20 after the two sides completed the withdrawal of frontline troops with armoured formations and artillery from the banks of Pangong Lake. However, the two sides were unable to make progress on efforts to disengage at other friction points such as Gogra, Hot Springs and Depsang Plains. The two sides have been locked in a standoff since May last year after Chinese troops impeded patrols by Indian forces and there were scuffles in the Ladakh and Sikkim sectors. A brutal clash at Galwan Valley last June – which left 20 Indian soldiers and at least four Chinese troops dead and was the first incident on the LAC involving fatalities since 1975 – took bilateral ties to an all-time low. India has insisted that China’s actions on the LAC have seriously damaged bilateral ties and normalcy can be restored only by disengagement, de-escalation and restoration of the status quo on the border.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-wmcc-meet-india-china-agree-to-ensure-peace-at-lac-101615572699428.html
12-03-2021||India||BJP changes Uttarakhand unit president||DehradunThe Bharatiya Janata Party on Friday changed the president of its Uttarakhand unit, replacing Bansidhar Bhagat with Madan Kaushik, days after it removed Trivendra Singh Rawat as the chief minister. Talking to reporters after his appointment, Kaushik said, “We will win the 2022 elections in a big way and we will pass this agni-pariksha by winning over 60 seats.” The overhaul in the party has come just a year ahead of the elections to the 70-member assembly. Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat resigned on Tuesday, nine days before his government was to complete four years in power, following a rebellion in the ranks against his decision to announce Gairsain as a new administrative division, party leaders said then. Several MLAs were upset that the leader kept many of his cabinet colleagues out of the decision-making process. Kaushik, a four-time MLA from Haridwar constituency, was the spokesperson in the Trivendra Singh Rawat government. He also served as the cabinet minister between 2007 to 2012 in the governments of BC Khanduri and Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank. Following the announcement, Bhagat told mediapersons that the party took the decision after considering all aspects and he will work in the interest of the party in whatever new role he is assigned. Welcoming the change, BJP MLA Dhan Singh Rawat said Kaushik’s experience within the party and the government will benefit the party unit.State BJP spokesperson Devendra Bhasin said he welcomed the changes in the party. “We are having elections here soon and these changes have been brought to strengthen the party and make sure that the party becomes victorious in the 2022 elections in a big way,” he said. Ahead of the polls, with the appointment of Kaushik, who hails from Garhwal region, the BJP is expected to bring more changes to the state unit to balance the regional and caste equations. The newly appointed chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat also hails from the Garhwal region, while the former state unit president Bhagat is from the Kumaon region.A senior BJP leader, requesting anonymity said that for the first time the party unit president is from the plains and not the hill region of the state. “Also, it is likely for the first time that both state BJP president and the chief minister are from the Garhwal region. This will push the party leadership to bring more changes in the leadership here to strike a balance along the axis of caste (Thakur-Brahmin) and region (Garhwal-Kumaon),” the leader said. The Brahmin community in the state was unhappy with the Trivendra Rawat government after he constituted the Uttarakhand Char Dham Devasthanam Management Board in January 2020 to manage all temples in the state. “From Brahmins managing these temples, it was handed over to bureaucrats. This decision by Trivendra Rawat deeply upset the community,” a party leader said after the former CM resigned on Tuesday. “A few days ago, when CM Trivendra Rawat carved out a new division of Garsain out of the existing Kumaon and Garhwal regions, it led to an outcry all over social media from many who considered themselves Kumaonis or Garhwalis but were now part of Garsain. Hopefully, Tirath ji will change these orders,” this leader said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-changes-uttarakhand-unit-president-101615572640564.html
12-03-2021||India||SC to review law barring suits to reclaim holy sites||New Delhi: The Supreme Court on Friday agreed to examine the validity of a 30-year-old law that prohibited lawsuits to reclaim any place of worship after India was declared independent -- a move that could open the way for a clutch of lawsuits in several parts of the country. The Places of Worship (Special Provisions) Act 1991 fixed the “character” of all places of worship prevailing as on August 15, 1947, except the Ramjanmabhoomi at Ayodhya. A bench of Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde and justice AS Bopanna sought the response of three Union ministries, home, law and justice, and culture, on a plea filed by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and lawyer Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay.The petition challenged the provisions of the 1991 Act on the ground that it barred Hindus, Sikhs, Jains and Buddhists from restoring their places of worship and pilgrimage and placed an arbitrary cut-off date by which the “illegal barbarian acts of invaders” were allowed to continue in perpetuity.“It is necessary to state that members of other faiths have occupied those places taking advantage of the pitiable condition of Hindus during Mughal and British Rule,” the petition stated. The move comes amid court cases regarding the status of Krishna Janmasthan (regarded by some as the birthplace of Hindu God Krishna) in Mathura (where the Shahi Idgah mosque stands), and the Kashi Vishwanath Temple - Gyanvapi mosque case. Ayodhya, Mathura and Kashi were often mentioned in the same breath at the peak of the Ram Janmabhoomi - Babri Masjid case. It was against this background that the then Congress government headed by PV Narasimha Rao in 1991 passed the Places of Worship Act, freezing the status of places of worship at the time of Independence (August 15, 1947). Ayodhya was excluded because of an ongoing litigation regarding the status of the disputed site. The BJP criticised the law at the time of its passing. In November 2019, the Supreme Court delivered the final word in the Ayodhya case, ruling in favour of Hindu parties, paving the way for the construction of a Ram temple, work on which has begun. The Muslim parties were allocated a five-acre site in Ayodhya to build a mosque. Interestingly, that judgement referred to the law being challenged and said it “imposes a non-derogable obligation towards enforcing our commitment to secularism”. Section 4(1) of the 1991 Act said: “The religious character of a place of worship existing on the 15th of August 1947 shall continue to be the same as it existed on that day.” The same provision further stated, “if any suit, appeal or other proceeding with respect to the conversion of the religious character of any place of worship existing on the 15th day of August 1947 is pending before any court, tribunal or other authority, the same shall abate and no suit, appeal or other proceeding with respect to any such matter shall lie on or after such commencement in any court, tribunal or other authority.” The law came into force from July 11, 1991. Upadhyay’s petition challenged Section 4(1) as unconstitutional on the grounds that it violated Article 25 (right to practice and propagate religion), Article 26 (right to manage religious affairs), besides being discriminatory to religious communities by barring them from approaching courts to restore their places of worship. Even the Centre’s power to enact such a legislation was called in question. “In the garb of secularism, injustice cannot be done with places of worship and pilgrimage. Religious and cultural heritage plays vital role in laying the future foundation. Therefore, we cannot say goodbye to our cultural legacy. It will be the height of injustice if the rights of Hindus, Jains, Sikhs, Buddhists are junked,” added the petition. In June 2020, a Hindu trust, Vishwa Bhadra Pujari Purohit Mahasangh, and other people , moved a petition in the Supreme Court challenging Section 4(1) of the 1991 Act. This petition was opposed by Jamait Ulama-i-Hind which filed an application to be heard in that case. Although the matter came up for hearing once, no order was passed as the same was adjourned. The present petition made reference to the pending claims of Hindu groups to restore the birthplace of Lord Krishna in Mathura. “While enacting the Act, Centre excluded the birthplace of Lord Ram at Ayodhya but not the birthplace of Lord Krishna in Mathura, though both are the incarnations of Lord Vishnu, the creator,” the plea said. Upadhyay’s petition also pointed out that a retrospective cut-off fixed by the legislature was even historically wrong as foreign rule in India began in the 11th century and continued till India gained independence in August 1947. According to the petition , the cutoff date ought to have been the date when India was conquered by Muslim invader Mohammd Gori in the 11th century.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-to-review-law-barring-suits-to-reclaim-holy-sites-101615572579416.html
12-03-2021||India||Ministry of Home Affairs asks 4 northeast states to stop influx from Myanmar||The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has asked four northeastern states – Mizoram, Nagaland, Arunachal Pradesh and Manipur - along with the Assam Rifles to prevent a possible influx of people from Myanmar in the wake of massive civilian protests in the neighbouring country following a military coup.The state governments have been asked to take appropriate action as per law to check illegal influx from Myanmar into India.The home ministry has also reminded the state governments that they have no powers to grant ‘refugee’ status to any foreigner and India is not a signatory to the United Nations Refugee Convention of 1951 and its 1967 Protocol.Around sixteen people from Myanmar had crossed over to Mizoram last week, of which eight were police officers. Myanmar authorities had asked Mizoram to send back the policemen.Manipur chief minister N Biren Singh had also said several people from Myanmar tried to enter Manipur but returned after seeing the presence of security personnel. While Mizoram shares a 510 kilometre-long border with Myanmar, Manipur shares a 398-kilometre border with the neighbouring country and Arunachal Pradesh and Nagaland share 520-kilometre-long and 215-kilometre-long border respectively. The entire 1,623 kilometre-long border is unfenced and porous.Also read: Quad vaccine initiative 'landmark partnership' of 4 countries, tweets PM ModiIn its communication sent on Wednesday, the MHA told states, “As you are aware, there is a possibility of large scale illegal influx into Indian territory through India-Myanmar Border due to current internal situation in Myanmar. In this regard, MHA has already issued an advisory (dated February 25) to chief secretaries (of these four states) to stay alert and take appropriate action to prevent a possible influx into Indian Territory”.According to the MHA, “Now it has been reported that illegal influx from Myanmar has started.”The MHA has reminded the state governments about its 2017 communication in which states were told to “sensitise all law enforcement and intelligence agencies for taking prompt steps in identifying illegal migrants and initiate the deportation processes expeditiously and without delay”.Similarly, the letter sent on Wednesday talks about its 2018 direction to the states to take biographic and biometric particulars of all illegal migrants in the country and cancel their fake Indian documents.HT has reviewed the MHA letter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ministry-of-home-affairs-asks-4-northeast-states-to-stop-influx-from-myanmar-101615571608908.html
12-03-2021||India||Over 1.8 million doses of Covid-19 vaccine administered on Friday: Government||India administered over a million doses of the Covid-19 vaccine on Friday, the Union ministry of health and family welfare said in a statement. “Total 18,40,897 vaccine doses were given till 8pm today, the fifty-sixth day of nationwide Covid-19 vaccination,” according to the statement. With this, cumulative vaccine doses administered in the country climbed to over 28 million doses. Also, the country administered more than a million doses on all days in the week except on Thursday, when only 389,337 doses were given, because of a gazetted holiday in multiple states.#LargestVaccineDriveMore than 2.80 Cr #COVID19 vaccine doses administered.18.40 lakh vaccine doses given till 8 pm today.https://t.co/bHK2PabeDI pic.twitter.com/ewAe0ky9tPThe ministry’s announcement comes on a day when the country reported a fresh spike of 23,285 new Covid-19 cases and 117 related deaths. Maharashtra, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Delhi, Karnataka, Haryana and Tamil Nadu have reported an upward trajectory in the number of daily new cases, the Union health ministry observed on Friday.Also read | Punjab reports over 1,400 new Covid-19 cases, active caseload jumps by over 350 casesDay 56 of vaccination driveAccording to the latest data from the ministry, 1,840,897 doses of the Covid-19 vaccine, comprising 1,464,779 first doses and 376,118 second doses, were administered on Friday. Healthcare workers received 61,335 first doses and 120,161 second doses, while frontline workers received 94,691 first doses and 255,957 second doses of the vaccines.While the second dose of vaccination is yet to begin for the general public, 1,108,661 people over 60 years of age and 200,092 between 45 and 59 years with co-morbidities received their first dose, the data showed.Covid-19 vaccination drive so farIndia has administered 28,005,817 doses of the Covid-19 vaccine so far. A total of 7,284,406 healthcare workers and 7,215,815 frontline workers have received their first dose and 4,176,446 healthcare workers and 928,751 frontline workers have received their second.Meanwhile, among the general public, 7,169,695 people over 60 years of age and 1,230,704 between 45 and 59 years have received the first dose of the vaccine, the ministry said.Watch | Ramdas Athawale, his wife take first shot of Covid-19 vaccine in MumbaiIndia’s Covid-19 vaccination drive began on January 16, 2021, and entered its second phase on March 1, 2021. Since then, private hospitals are also administering vaccines at a charge of ₹250 per dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-1-8-million-doses-of-covid-19-vaccine-administered-on-friday-government-101615570543618.html
12-03-2021||India||'India specially offers you wellness tourism': PM Modi at Global Ayurveda festival||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday called on the world to visit India for 'wellness tourism' at a time the world is reeling under the Covid-19 pandemic. Addressing the virtual conference on the fourth global ayurvedic festival, the Prime Minister said the strongest pillars of wellness tourism are Ayurveda and traditional medicines."India specially offers you wellness tourism, at the core of wellness tourism is the principle of treating illness for wellness. When I talk about wellness tourism, its strongest pillars are Ayurveda and traditional medicine."During his address, he urged people to imagine doing yoga beside the gushing river of the mountains in Uttarakhand or detoxing in Kerala."If your life’s deadlines and timelines are stressing you out, it is time to tap into the timeless culture of India. Whenever you want to treat your body or retreat your mind, come to India," he said.Also Read | Quad vaccine initiative 'landmark partnership' of 4 countries, tweets PM ModiPM Modi added that the rise in the popularity of Ayurveda due to the coronavirus pandemic brings about great opportunities to integrate Ayurveda with evidence-based medical science. The Prime Minister also proposed a global summit on Ayurveda.Praising the 25 countries which took part in the conference, PM Modi said it is a great sign and this shows the rising interest in Ayurveda and traditional medicines.Signifying the link between Ayurveda and nature, he said that the Indian culture is closely linked to Ayurveda that is associated with nature and the environment. He said Ayurveda not only cures existing ailments but also protects the overall health of the body."Ayurveda is closely linked to the respect Indian culture gives to nature and the environment. It could rightly be described as a holistic human science, from the plants to your plates," the Prime Minister said.Assuring full support of the Centre to Ayurveda, the Prime Minister also talked about the measures taken by the government to promote Ayurveda and the use of traditional medicines. He cited the national Ayush mission to promote the medical system through cost-effective services. The mission is also aimed at enforcing quality control measures on Ayurveda, siddha, homoeopathy and unani drugs and to ensure sustainable availability of raw materials.He also urged academics to deepen research into Ayurveda and traditional forms of medicines and the vibrant community of startups to focus on this arena.PM Modi also welcomed the World Health Organization's (WHO) step to build a global centre for traditional medicines in India. Highlighting the link between Ayurveda and turmeric, ginger and other spices, the demands of which have gone up during the pandemic, the Prime Minister called upon to spread awareness about millets, as WHO two days ago announced 2023 as the year of millets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-specially-offers-you-wellness-tourism-pm-modi-at-global-ayurveda-festival-101615562121611.html
12-03-2021||India||Medical entrance exam NEET for under graduate admissions to be on August 1||The National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) for admission to undergraduate medical courses will be conducted on August 1, the Ministry of Education's National Testing Agency (NTA) announced on Friday."The NEET (UG), 2021, is going to be conducted by NTA for admission to MBBS, BDS, BAMS, BSMS, BUMS and BHMS courses as per the relevant norms, guidelines and regulations notified by the regulatory bodies concerned."The exam will be conducted in 11 languages, including Hindi and English, through pen and paper mode on August 1," the NTA said in an official notification.Bulletin containing detailed information regarding the test, syllabus, eligibility criteria for age, reservation, categorisation of seats, examination fee, cities of examination, state code will be available shortly when the submission of the application form for NEET (UG) starts, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/medical-entrance-exam-neet-for-under-graduate-admissions-to-be-on-august-1-101615569303375.html
12-03-2021||India||CBI, ED to question TMC leaders, Abhishek Banerjee’s relatives in crucial cases||With the eight-phase Bengal assembly polls only 19 days away, the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) on Friday found the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and Enforcement Directorate (ED) breathing down the neck of some of its prominent contestants.The agencies want to question education minister Partha Chatterjee, who is contesting from Behala West in south-west Kolkata, and former minister Madan Mitra, the nominee from Kamarhati in North 24 Parganas, in connection with the probe into two chit funds. They will be summoned next week. ED officials said they, too, want to question Mitra.Chatterjee is also the secretary general of the TMC and the state's parliamentary affairs minister.Chatterjee is being summoned in connection with the probe into the I-Core chit fund company, while Mitra is a suspect in the Saradha chit fund case. Mitra was arrested in 2014. He unsuccessfully contested the 2016 assembly polls from inside the jail.Significantly, the CBI also wants to question a non-political person, Ankush Arora, the brother-in-law of chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s nephew Abhishek Banerjee. CBI officials questioned Arora’s wife Maneka Gambhir and Abhishek Banerjee’s wife, Rujira, a few days ago in connection with a coal smuggling case.Ankush Arora’s father, Pawan Arora, has also been summoned to the CBI office on March 15, agency officials said. No member of the Arora family could be contacted.TMC leaders reacted sharply to the development, saying they were being targeted because of the elections.“Using probe agencies against prominent political adversaries is not something new. We have seen this happening in other states. It will have no effect in Bengal because people know the BJP very well,” said deputy parliamentary affairs minister Tapas Roy.“One cannot scare an honest man. They can do whatever they want. This is being done because of the elections,” Chatterjee, who took part in a campaign rally in his constituency on Friday, said. “I have not received the summons yet,” he added.Mitra was not available for comment as he was busy in a roadshow.Kunal Ghosh, one of the spokespersons of the TMC and an accused in the Saradha case, has already been summoned by the ED twice over the past two weeks.On February 21, Mamata Banerjee reacted in public for the first time after the CBI sent summons to Rujira Banerjee.“A tiger cub is not scared of fighting cats and rats…We have stood before guns,” Banerjee retorted at a public event hours after the CBI visited the south Kolkata residence of her nephew and TMC Lok Sabha member Abhishek Banerjee and served notice to his wife for questioning in the coal smuggling case.“Muscle flexing or threats of jail sentence cannot scare us. We have stood before guns in the past. We won’t be scared of fighting rats. I will not surrender as long as I am alive. You cannot break our spine. A tiger cub is not scared of cats and rats,” Banerjee said.Abhishek Banerjee retaliated by taking to Twitter and saying that he will not be "cowed down".“TMC leaders start seeing political vendetta whenever the CBI or ED probes a case but they did not hesitate to get involved in corruption,” BJP state vice-president Jay Prakash Majumdar said on Friday.On December 31, the CBI raided three residences of businessman and TMC’s youth front general secretary Vinay Mishra in connection with the coal smuggling case. Mishra is missing since then and has been declared an absconder by the agency.Abhishek Banerjee is the president of the TMC’s youth wing. On July 20, he appointed 15 general secretaries, including Mishra.It is alleged that illegally mined coal, worth several thousand crores of rupees, have been sold in the black market over several years by a racket operating in the western parts of West Bengal where the Eastern Coalfields Limited runs several mines. Another prime suspect, Anup Majhi, alias Lala, is also absconding.In early December, the CBI also raided the home and office of Ganesh Bagaria, a Kolkata-based chartered accountant. The homes and offices of three more businessmen have been raided since January.The agency has not made any official statement before the media till date.Ever since the probe started in September, the BJP has been alleging that the money from the sales was whitewashed through shell companies and siphoned into the funds of the ruling party. The BJP has also alleged that the main beneficiary is Abhishek Banerjee.The ED on Friday questioned Samir Chakraborty, TMC's sitting MLA from Taldangra in Bankura district, for more than two hours in connection with an investment he made a few years ago into a news channel. "I will cooperate with the agency whenever it calls me," he said while leaving the ED office.Chakraborty, a veteran leader, is not contesting the coming polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-ed-to-question-tmc-leaders-abhishek-banerjee-s-relatives-in-crucial-cases-101615566726969.html
12-03-2021||India||Quad vaccine initiative 'landmark partnership' of 4 countries, tweets PM Modi||The leaders of the four Quad countries — the United States, India, Japan and Australia — have agreed to build an Indo-Pacific specific vaccine initiative during their first virtual summit on Friday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted."United in our fight against Covid-19, we launched a landmark Quad partnership to ensure accessibility of safe Covid-19 vaccines. India’s formidable vaccine production capacity will be expanded with support from Japan, the US & Australia to assist countries in the Indo-Pacific region," PM Modi wrote."Reiterated India’s commitment to a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific in line with our vision of SAGAR - Security and Growth for All in the Region," PM added.Our discussions today on vaccines, climate change, and emerging technologies make the Quad a positive force for global good and for peace, stability and prosperity in the Indo-Pacific.Explaining what Quad vaccine initiative is, foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla said, "This is a vaccine supply chain which is built by trust and being built to convey trust. It is an example of human-centric international cooperation and globalisation that the Prime Minister has referred to on more than one occasion.""It is also a validation of our reputation as a reliable manufacturer of high-quality vaccines and pharmaceutical products during this Covid crisis that has been much in evidence. And I must say that during the discussions, there was a wholesome appreciation by the other Quad leaders on India's role in providing vaccines to 70 countries all over the world under the Vaccine Maitri initiative," he added."What we are creating are additional capacities. This, I repeat, will not, in any matter, affect our domestic vaccine production and roll-out," he said.Quad vaccine Initiative will be like an extension of the Vaccine Maitri initiative, the foreign secretary said, adding that Make-in-India and Aatmanirbhar Bharat are reliable contributors to global supply chains and augment global reliability of critical commodities and products.The Quad leaders agreed to create three working groups — vaccine expert working group, critical and emerging technology working group and climate working group.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/quad-vaccine-initiative-will-be-additional-won-t-affect-domestic-supply-mea-101615565927851.html
12-03-2021||India||Telangana alerts border districts amid Covid-19 surge in Maharashtra, Karnataka||The Telangana government on Friday sounded a high alert for the administrations in the districts bordering Karnataka and Maharashtra amid increasing number of Covid-19 cases in the neighbouring states.State health minister Eatala Rajender held a teleconference with collectors and medical and health officers of Nizamabad, Kamareddy, Nirmal, Adilabad, Asifabad, Mancherial, Jayashankar Bhupalpalli and Jagitial bordering Maharashtra, besides Medchal-Malkajgiri, Ranga Reddy, Hyderabad and Sangareddy bordering northern Karnataka.He issued special instructions to the officials of these districts to be on high alert due to the possibility of large-scale inflow of people from the neighbouring states into these border districts for the sake of employment, agricultural work, personal work and for attending marriages.“We need to be careful about the people coming from the neighbouring states and ensure that there are no mass gatherings. Testing, tracing and treating should be stepped up and implemented in full scale in these border districts. The number of Covid-19 tests should be stepped up to at least 50,000 a day,” Rajender told the officials.The minister also asked the authorities to make all the necessary arrangements in the local hospitals for treating Covid-19 patients, if there was a sudden increase in the number.In the last 24 hours, Telangana recorded 181 new Covid-19 infections and one fatality, taking the total number of fatalities to 1,650 while the total number of positive cases is 3,00,717. As of Thursday night, there were 1,872 active Covid-19 cases in the state.A total of 163 people recovered during this period taking the total Covid-19 recoveries in the state to 2,97,195 with a recovery rate of 98.83 per cent, while the countrywide recovery rate was 96.8 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-alerts-border-districts-amid-covid-19-surge-in-maharashtra-karnataka-101615562902839.html
12-03-2021||India||PM Modi nods, smiles as US President Biden says, 'Great to see you'||US President Joe Biden greeted Prime Minister Narendra Modi and said 'great to see you', as he addressed the first leaders summit of Quad on Friday, which took place virtually. This marked the first meeting between Biden and PM Modi after the former became the president in January. In February, PM Modi had a telephonic conversation with Biden where regional issues were discussed. Apart from PM Modi and Biden, Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga and Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison took part in Friday's virtual meet.Speaking at the First Quad Leaders’ Virtual Summit. https://t.co/Ypom6buHxS"Free and open Indo-Pacific is essential for each of our future. The United States is committed to working with all the other three countries," Biden said in his opening remark adding that this group is particularly important as it is dedicated to practical solutions and concrete results.Biden's warmth was reciprocated by PM Modi as he nodded and smiled after Biden's greetings and said, "It feels good to be among friends.""Excellencies, we're united by our democratic values and commitment to a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific. Our agenda today covering areas like vaccines, climate change and emerging technology make the Quad a force for global good," PM Modi said. When Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison began his address, he folded his hands and said 'Namaste', adding, "My fellow prime ministers, it's great to see you."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-nods-smiles-as-us-president-biden-says-great-to-see-you-101615564741461.html
12-03-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Google to aid in finding Covid-19 vaccination centres and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Covid-19 vaccination centres can now be found through GoogleGoogle India on Friday announced that to aid the world's largest vaccination drive it will be providing accurate information regarding Covid-19 vaccination centres on Google Search, Maps and Google Assistant. Read more‘Rain saved wildlife and trees’, says Similipal forest official who won heartsSnehalata Dhal, the Odisha forest official whose dance in rain went viral said she was dousing the flames at Similipal biosphere reserve and started dancing in joy when the rain came pouring, saving the reserve’s wildlife and trees. Read moreIndia, China to ensure stability on LAC, call another meeting of commanders soonIndia and China agreed on Friday to ensure stability in the Ladakh sector of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and convene another meeting of senior military commanders soon to take forward disengagement and de-escalation at friction points on the disputed border. Read more'We dream of hosting 2048 Olympics': Delhi CM KejriwalDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday said it is his government's dream to host the 2048 Olympics, adding that he would approach the Central government and the Indian Olympic Association (IOA) for it. Read moreIt's breaking news': Parthiv Patel reacts after India pick KL Rahul and Shikhar Dhawan as openers for 1st T20IIndia captain Virat Kohli sprang in a surprise at the toss when he declared the name of Team India’s openers for the first T20I against England in Ahmedabad. Read moreTwinkle Khanna's funny vacation photos with Akshay Kumar make Sikandar Kher ask, 'Are you beating him up regularly?'Twinkle Khanna drew attention to the deceitful nature of social media, as she shared a hilarious ‘Instagram vs reality’ post, featuring Akshay Kumar. In the first picture, they were seen happily posing for the camera, while in the second, she could be seen smothering him. Read morePost Alexi McCammond's racist tweet outcry, Ulta Beauty pauses Teen Vogue adsA major advertiser at Teen Vogue, the retailer Ulta Beauty, has paused ad spending at the Conde Nast publication amid a growing outcry over anti-Asian tweets by the site's new editor in chief, Alexi McCammond. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-google-to-aid-in-finding-covid-19-vaccination-centres-and-all-the-latest-news-101615559842394.html
12-03-2021||India||PM gifted copy of Gandhi's speech about need to make India 'Atmanirbhar'||The Sabarmati Ashram trust on Friday gifted Prime Minister Narendra Modi a framed copy of a page from Mahatma Gandhi's 1919 speech where he talks about the need to make India "Atmanirbhar" (self-reliant).Modi, in recent times, has often stressed the need for economic policies aimed towards `Atmanirbhar Bharat'.The Sabarmati Ashram Preservation and Memorial Trust which manages the century-old Ashram established by Mahatma Gandhi here found a speech by Gandhi where the term was used."In October 1919, Gandhiji gave a speech at Bhagini Samaj, Mumbai. In that speech, he stressed the need for making India Atmanirbhar. We framed a copy of that part of the speech and gifted it to the PM during his visit today," said trustee Kartikeya Sarabhai.The exact words used by the Mahatma in the Hindi speech were: "Hindustan ko Atmanirbhar hona sikhna hi hoga (India must learn to be self-reliant)."The speech referred to the benefits of the charkha or spinning wheel which could be a source of income for women."There is no other occupation in which millions of women can engage while staying at home. It does not call for much intelligence. India must learn to be self-reliant."When India produces brave men and women, we shall become self-reliant," Gandhi further said in the speech.He went on to say that satyagraha needs more courage than that needed for using arms, and if the nation could show that bravery, "we shall be free right away."Modi visited the Ashram before launching `Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav', the government's initiative to mark 75 years of India's Independence.Incidentally, in his speech later, the prime minister said that India's 'Atmanirbhar' approach of development will give momentum to the development journey of the world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-gifted-copy-of-gandhi-s-speech-about-need-to-make-india-atmanirbhar-101615561093613.html
12-03-2021||India||5 policemen among 8 arrested for possessing tiger skin in Chhattisgarh||Chhattisgarh forest department arrested eight persons, including five policemen and two health department personnel, for possession of a tiger skin in Bastar district on Friday.The interrogation of the accused is on and more arrests could follow, it said. Police have also detained two assistant sub-inspectors in Bijapur district in connection with the case.Sunderaj P, Inspector General of Police, Bastar range, in a statement to the media, said that the arrest took place in the early hours of Friday from Jagdalpur city.The accused claimed that they got the tiger skin from two persons in Dantewada district.“The accused were going to do some puja from the tiger’s skin to get prosperity and wealth, but they were arrested before that. We have seized the tiger skin, further interrogation is on,” said the IG, adding that a team of forest officials and police arrested the accused.The accused include constable Bhomraj Thakur, constable Arun Godiyam, constable Pavan Kumar Nakka, assistant constable Rakesh Emla and assistant constable Babulal Majji.The other three - Har Prasad Gavde, Surendra Kumar Dewangan (43), Anil Nakka (25) - were health personnel, the IG said.“We have also detained two assistant sub inspectors in Bijapur district and interrogation is underway. We are yet to find out where the tiger was killed,” said the IG.Police said that they had inputs that some people were performing ‘tantrik puja’ (sorcery) with a tiger skin on the occasion of Mahashivratri and subsequently raided a spot where the accused were arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-policemen-among-8-arrested-for-possessing-tiger-skin-in-chhattisgarh-101615560316548.html
12-03-2021||India||Former Kerala Congress leader Vijayan Thomas joins BJP||Former Kerala Congress leader Vijayan Thomas, who was a general secretary in the party, joined the BJP here on Friday. The BJP has been looking to make inroads among the Christian voters in the southern state. It may field Thomas, who hails from the minority community which has a sizeable presence there, in the assembly polls.Elections in the state are scheduled to be held on April 6.Thomas took a swipe at his former party, claiming that it does not have a regional-party presence in many parts of the country and that its leadership does not know what is happening.Echoing the views of P C Chacko, another Kerala Congress leader who quit the party recently, that the party is divided into two factions in the state, he said a lot of its senior leaders may leave soon. Inducting him into the BJP, its general secretary Arun Singh said Thomas is influenced by the policy and programmes of the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government. Thomas had earlier quit the Congress apparently over denial of a party ticket to fight the assembly polls. He, however, rejected the view and said it had become very difficult for a "principled" person like him to continue in the party.There had been a buzz about Thomas joining the BJP before the 2019 Lok Sabha polls as well. Speaking at Thomas's joining ceremony, BJP spokesperson Tom Vadakkan took a dig at Congres leader Rahul Gandhi, saying he is "responsible" for opening the floodgates in the party for its leaders to leave. In Kerala, where the fight is primarily being seen as between the ruling Left front (LDF) and the Congress-led UDF, the BJP has been working hard to emerge as a strong force.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-kerala-congress-leader-vijayan-thomas-joins-bjp-101615558342517.html
12-03-2021||India||Costly food, higher fuel prices take retail inflation to 3-month high of 5.03%||The consumer price index, a measure of what households pay for everyday items, accelerated to 5.03% in February on the back of costlier food and sharply higher fuel prices, the highest in three months, data released by the ministry of statistics and programme implementation showed on Friday.Retail inflation remained above the Reserve Bank of India’s targeted range of 4(+/-2) % for eight months in this fiscal. In January, retail prices had risen 4.06%, a 16-month low.The CPI for February and March will be the last set of inflation data based on the current target range of 4(+/-2)%, also called the ‘acceptable limit of inflation’. After March 2021, the Reserve Bank and the government are set to announce a new band of desirable inflation range.Data released by the statistic department also showed that the index of industrial production (IIP), a measure of factory output and key barometer of economic activity, shrunk 1.6% in January after rising 2.1% in December, prompting analysts to say that the uptick in manufacturing is yet to be surefooted after devastating shocks in a pandemic year.Households paid higher prices in key categories, such as food, fuel, healthcare and transport and communication, Friday’s data showed.Food prices rebounded 3.87% in February against a 1.96% climb in January. High food costs affect poorer households more than affluent ones. The poor tend to spend a higher proportion of their monthly budgets on food.Vegetable prices fell 6.27% but this was more than offset by sharply rising prices of pulses (12.54%) and oils and fat (20.78%).Prices of protein items also rose sharply, as eggs and meat inflation stood at 11.13% and 11.14%.Fuel and light prices rose at 3.53%. Higher oil prices drove inflation in the “transport and communication” category to 11.36% in February compared to 9.32% in January, while shoppers also had to spend higher for clothing and footwear articles, whose inflation was at 4.21% compared to 3.82% in January, the data showed.People in urban areas paid more for their daily needs, as urban inflation, at 5.96%, exceeded price growth in rural areas, which stood at 4.19%.Elevated retail prices not just affect consumers but also shrink the Reserve Bank’s room to lower interest rates to boost growth. The economy grew 0.4% in December after two straight quarters of recession.“Inflation has risen across all three categories – food, fuel, and core – in the pandemic year. Uptick in core inflation, an indicator of underlying demand conditions, during an economic slump is, however, surprising,” said Dharmakirti Joshi, chief economist of Crisil Ltd, the ratings firm. Core inflation excludes price rise in volatile components such as food and fuel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/costly-food-higher-fuel-prices-take-retail-inflation-to-3-month-high-of-503-101615558947292.html
12-03-2021||India||Kerala reports less than 2,000 new Covid-19 cases after 3 days, active cases continue to decline||Kerala on Friday reported 1,780 new Covid-19 cases and 14 related deaths, taking the state’s tally to 1,087,443 cases and death toll to 4,369, according to a bulletin released by the Kerala government. The state reported less than 2,000 daily new cases on March 8 (1,412 cases), as per official data. The state had reported 2,316 cases on Tuesday, 2,475 cases on Wednesday and 2,133 cases on Thursday.Also read | Covid-19 vaccination centres can now be found through GoogleActive caseload fell by over 1,600 cases on Friday and currently stands at 32,174 from the 33,785 cases on Thursday. Also, the active cases have witnessed a decline since the beginning of the month. Kerala had 47,868 active cases on March 1, 2021, according to the department of health and family welfare. Ernakulam reported the maximum number of active cases with 4,796 cases followed by Kozhikode and Thrissur districts with 3,994 and 2,964 cases, the bulletin showed.Total recoveries in Kerala reached 1,050,603 so far, of whom 3,377 were reported as recovered on Friday. Also, the state currently has 152,760 patients in home isolation and another 4,829 in hospital isolation, data from the bulletin showed.The Union ministry of health and family welfare on Friday said that Kerala along with Maharashtra, Punjab, Karnataka, Gujarat and Tamil Nadu continue to report an upsurge in daily new Covid-19 cases. The ministry also noted that these states cumulatively accounted for over 85 per cent of the total new cases India reported on Friday. Kerala is also one among six states that accounted for nearly 83 per cent of the new deaths recorded in the country on Friday.#Unite2FightCoronaMaharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Karnataka, Gujarat and TN continue to report an upsurge in Daily New Cases; cumulatively account for 85.6% of the new cases reported in the past 24 hours.23,285 new cases registered in the last 24 hours. https://t.co/iRe1FpGbqu pic.twitter.com/Bnh0YSUWj2Earlier on Thursday, the ministry identified Kerala as the top district where the active caseload has declined the maximum in a one-month period. On February 11, Kerala had 64,607 active cases which fell to 35,715 on March 11, the ministry noted.Watch | Covid update: Covishield under ₹200; cheapest RT-PCR test; Patiala night curfew﻿Meanwhile, 1,346,252 doses of the Covid-19 vaccine, comprising 1,105,629 first doses and 240,623 second doses, have been administered in Kerala to eligible beneficiaries as of 7am on Friday. It only lies behind Gujarat, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal in terms of the total vaccine doses administered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-reports-less-than-2-000-new-covid-19-cases-after-3-days-active-cases-continue-to-decline-101615558512280.html
12-03-2021||India||Maharashtra: Man celebrates buffalo's birthday, case filed for violating Covid-19 norms||The police in Thane district of Maharashtra on Friday registered an FIR against a man who allegedly celebrated the `birthday' of his buffalo in spite of Covid-19 restrictions.Kiran Mhatre (30) allegedly organized a celebration of his buffalo's birthday at his house in Reti Bunder in Dombivali area on Thursday.Those who attended it did not wear masks or observe social distancing even as coronavirus cases are increasing in the district as well as in the state, said an official of Vishnu Nagar police station.A case under IPC section 269 (act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and the Epidemic Act was registered against him. No arrest has been made, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-man-celebrates-buffalo-s-birthday-case-filed-for-violating-covid-19-norms-101615559017330.html
12-03-2021||India||Over 15k new Covid cases in Maharashtra, Mumbai sees highest jump in months||Mumbai city reported 1,646 new Covid-19 infections registered in the last 24 hours, recording the highest single-day spike in months. On March 10, Mumbai's daily infection tally crossed the 1,500-mark for the first time in 2021 as the city recorded 1,539 fresh infections. With 1,508 cases on March 11, there was a slight dip on Thursday, only to be followed by a sharp rise again that breached the 1,600-mark.Maharashtra too sustained its surge with 15,817 fresh Covid-19 infections, which broke all the records of this year. On Thursday, the state reported 14,317 cases, which was the highest single-day spike till yesterday.Maharashtra lockdown: These districts have announced fresh curbs amid Covid-19 spikeSeveral districts of the state, including Nagpur, Thane, Nashik. Aurangabad, Jalgaon, Nanded, Parbhani have imposed restrictions in view of the sudden surge in the number of cases. Pune on Friday brought back night curfew and restricted the timing of hotels, restaurants. Nagpur will be going under a strict lockdown from March 15.The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation has revealed that in Mumbai, most of the positive cases reported in January and February were from highrises. Giving a percentage of the data, the civic body said at least 90 per cent of cases were from apartments and only 10 per cent were from slums and chawls.Speculations of a complete lockdown have been doing the rounds since February when the number of cases started to rise. Amravati, Yavatmal, Akola were the first to place curbs for the second time after the nationwide lockdown. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation has dismissed any immediate lockdown in Mumbai as it is relying on surveillance and testing, tracking. No decision on whether the services of Mumbai local trains will be curtailed for the public has been taken yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-records-1-647-fresh-covid-19-infections-highest-in-months-101615559113902.html
12-03-2021||India||Covid-19 vaccination centres can now be found through Google||Google India on Friday announced that to aid the world's largest vaccination drive it will be providing accurate information regarding Covid-19 vaccination centres on Google Search, Maps and Google Assistant. The tech giant expects to roll out the feature in the coming weeks.The move comes as India in March entered its second phase of the vaccination drive where it is inoculating the elderly population and people between the age of 45-59 years with certain comorbidities."With vaccinations for the vulnerable population having commenced from 1st March in thousands of hospitals across the country, we are also working with the MoHFW and the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation to accurately surface the information on vaccination centres on Google Search, Maps and Google Assistant, and expect to roll this out in the coming weeks," Google India said on Friday.Also Read | Covid-19 spike: Maharashtra sees back-to-back cluster outbreaks of Covid casesSignifying the assistance of the company in the vaccination drive, Google said that as soon as the first phase of inoculation began, knowledge panels on its search engine were used to provide credible information, sourced from the ministry of health and family welfare(MoHFW), relating to the two coronavirus vaccines in the country (Covishield and Covaxin), the effectiveness of the vaccines safety, distribution, side effects and more in multiple Indian languages."These panels provide consolidated information such as details on the two vaccines, effectiveness, safety, distribution, side effects, and more, and is available in English and eight Indian languages (Tamil, Telugu, Malayalam, Kannada, Marathi, Gujarati, Bengali, and Hindi). This information is sourced from MoHFW, and provides answers to commonly asked questions, displays real-time statistics around vaccinations completed, and provides links to the MoHFW website for additional local resources," the company said in its blogpost.The company also said that it has been working with the health ministry's Rapid Risk Response team and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation to track misinformation pertaining to vaccination drive using social media tools and combat it with science-based messaging on vaccines and pandemic.Additionally, the company highlighted the launch of information panels that show up while searching for Covid-19 related queries and banners on the YouTube homepage, both of which redirect the resources on the website of the health ministry.Teams have also helped in optimising the website of the ministry for mobile viewers including localisation of several vaccination resources pages into the eight Indian languages, the company claimed.India, as of Friday morning, has administered more than 2.61 crore Covid-19 vaccines doses through 487,919 sessions. This includes over one million vulnerable people aged between 45-59 years who have received the first dose of the vaccine and six million people above age 60 who have received the first dose, as per the health ministry data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-vaccination-centres-can-now-be-found-through-google-101615553375168.html
12-03-2021||India||‘Rain saved wildlife and trees’, says forest official who won hearts for dancing in rain-hit Similipal||Snehalata Dhal, the Odisha forest official whose dance in rain went viral said she was dousing the flames at Similipal biosphere reserve and started dancing in joy when the rain came pouring, saving the reserve’s wildlife and trees.“Two days ago, a fire broke out in my area, in Similipal. I thought I would have to stay here for long. While we were dousing the fire, it started raining. I started dancing with joy. Rain saved wildlife and trees," she told ANI.A massive forest fire devastated large tracts of the Similipal biosphere reserve in the Mayurbhanj district of Odisha. It was finally brought under control on March 9, two weeks after it had started towards the end of February. Sandeep Tripathy, who has been tasked with suggesting ways for containing the rising number of forest fires in the state, told HT that the core area containing wildlife has escaped unscathed from the blaze.He also said that two teams of Odisha Disaster Rapid Action Force and four fire brigade teams had been deployed in the areas of Barehipani, Gudugudia, Talabandha, Kendumundi, Chahala, and Nawna. Dhal was a member of one such teams, dispatched to bring the fire under control.“The forest fire in Similipal is now almost contained. The core area with precious wildlife has not been impacted much, with fire mostly confined to the peripheral areas of the Similipal Tiger Reserve. Two teams of Odisha Disaster Rapid Action Force have been sent to the reserve," Tripathy said to HT.Local youth and student wings of the ruling Biju Janata Dal joined hands with the villagers and forest officials to extinguish the fire in the biosphere reserve, reported news agency PTI. The raging inferno was finally brought under control by mother nature’s gracious downpour, becoming the cause for Dhal’s celebration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rain-saved-wildlife-and-trees-says-forest-official-who-won-hearts-for-dancing-in-rain-hit-similipal-101615558335780.html
12-03-2021||India||Pregnant rape survivor must be told about legal rights: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Friday suggested setting up a board which will advise rape survivors, who become pregnant, about their legal rights if they seek termination of the unwanted pregnancy.“There could be a local board that can follow up with the rape survivor in cases where the rape is reported. A girl who gets pregnant must be told about her legal rights under the Medical Termination of Pregnancy (MTP) Act,” the bench of Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde and Justice AS Bopanna remarked.Pointing to such a situation that may arise in future where a rape survivor is not saddled with a pregnancy that she does not desire, the bench wished to know from the Centre if something could be done in this regard.The suggestion from the court came after it was faced with a case where a 14-year-old from Haryana wanted to abort her 26-week foetus. A medical board constituted at the instance of the court returned a finding that due to the advanced stage of pregnancy, it was not feasible to abort the foetus. Following the report, advocate VK Biju, appearing for the survivor, dropped the prayer for abortion but pressed for a general order from the top court to remedy such situations in future.“The situation as it has arisen in the present case needs to be dealt with sensitivity and care,” the bench said.Additional Solicitor General (ASG) Aishwarya Bhati, appearing for the Centre, informed the court that an amendment to the MTP Act is at an advanced stage with the Bill in this regard being passed by the Lok Sabha is pending with the Rajya Sabha.The amended law, she said, contemplates termination of pregnancy at 25 weeks in cases where a medical board feels that continuing pregnancy can endanger the mother or the child. She sought two weeks time to file a response in this regard.Under the MTP Act, there is a legal bar on terminating pregnancy which is over 20 weeks. This is provided under Section 3(2)(b) of the Act. In the past, the Supreme Court has in exceptional cases allowed termination of pregnancy up to 26 weeks after consultation with a medical board.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pregnant-rape-survivor-must-be-told-about-legal-rights-supreme-court-101615557385623.html
12-03-2021||India||‘United by democratic values’: PM Modi at historic first Quad leaders' summit||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday addressed the first summit of the leaders' of the Quad, laying emphasis in his opening address upon the ‘shared democratic values’ among the four member nations-India, the United States, Australia and Japan.President Joe Biden was the first leader to address the summit, followed by PM Modi. "Now PM Modi I'm sticking over to you. And again great to see you," the US President told the Prime Minister."It's good to be among friends," PM Modi commenced his address, expressing thanks to Biden for the initiative. "Excellencies, we're united by our democratic values and commitment to a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific. Our agenda today covering areas like vaccines, climate change and emerging technology make the Quad a force for global good," he added.Calling the Quad a 'positive vision,' he said that this was an extension of India's philosophy of 'Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam,' which, he explained, regards the world as 'one family.'PM Modi also said that the four countries would work together 'closer than ever before,' to advance the shared values and promote a secure, stable and prosperous Indo-Pacific.The Quad has come of age and will now remain an important pillar of stability in the region, the Prime Minister concluded his address.Quad stands for the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue or QSD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/united-by-democratic-values-pm-modi-at-quad-summit-101615557133927.html
12-03-2021||India||India's forex reserves fall by over USD 4 billion to USD 580.299 billion: RBI||The country's foreign exchange reserves declined by USD 4.255 billion to USD 580.299 billion in the week ended March 5, according to RBI data.In the previous week ended February 26, the reserves rose by USD 689 million to USD 584.554 billion. It had touched a record high of USD 590.185 billion in the week ended January 29, 2021.In the reporting week ended March 5, the fall in reserves was due to a decline in the Foreign Currency Assets (FCA).The FCA dipped by USD 3.002 billion to USD 539.613 billion, the Reserve Bank of India's (RBI) weekly data showed.Expressed in dollar terms, FCA includes the effect of appreciation or depreciation of non-US units like the euro, pound and yen held in the foreign exchange reserves.The gold reserves declined by USD 1.206 billion to USD 34.215 billion in the reporting week, as per the data.The Special Drawing Rights (SDRs) with the International Monetary Fund (IMF) fell by USD 11 million to USD 1.506 billion in the reporting week.The country's reserve position with the IMF also declined by USD 36 million to USD 4.965 billion in the reporting week, the data showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-forex-reserves-fall-by-over-usd-4-billion-to-usd-580-299-billion-rbi-101615557244335.html
12-03-2021||India||Covid-19 spike: Maharashtra sees back-to-back cluster outbreaks of Covid cases||Maharashtra is witnessing a steady rise in the number of daily Covid-19 cases. One factor that has contributed to this astronomical rise is several cluster outbreaks in the state. Cluster outbreaks are when a number of cases get reported from one particular place and thus can have a connection.Here is the list of cluster outbreaks in the state in the last few weeks. All of these took place in residential schools.PalgharAccording to news agency ANI, 79 persons, including students, teachers and other staff of three residential schools in Jawahar Taluka of Palghar district tested positive in the last week.LaturOn March 11, it was reported that a total of 44 students of a hostel in Maharashtra's Latur tested covid positive. In February, 47 students from the same hostel were found infected.Maharashtra Covid-19 situation very worrying, says Centre as lockdowns returnWashimIn February, as many as 229 students as a residential school in Maharashtra's Washim tested positive, following which the hostel was sealed and declared as a containment zone.Similar such clusters have been reported from temples as well. In February, the district administration of Maharashtra's Jalna closed the Jalicha Dev temple after 55 people living in and around the temple tested positive.In February itself, at least 12 people, including the chief priest of Washim's Pohradev temple, tested positive after Maharashtra minister Sanjay Rathod visited the temple and thousands of supporters gathered during his visit.The spike in Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra is entirely being attributed to a violation of Covid-19 norms. As part of the government's 'Mission begin again', education institutes started reopening gradually in January. Civic elections were also held in January. All of this collaboratively resulted in the spike in Maharashtra, the Centre's report has said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-spike-maharashtra-sees-back-to-back-cluster-outbreaks-of-covid-cases-101615554419846.html
12-03-2021||India||Jagan writes to Centre, seeks Bharat Ratna for Andhra man who designed tricolour||Andhra Pradesh chief minister and YSR Congress president YS Jagan Mohan Reddy on Friday appealed to the Centre to confer the Bharat Ratna, the highest civilian award of the country, on Pingali Venkaiah, a prominent freedom fighter from Andhra Pradesh who had designed the national flag.In a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the chief minister said honouring late Venkaiah with the Bharat Ratna would be a matter of pride for every Indian on the occasion of the 75th Indian Independence Day celebrations.On Friday morning, Jagan went to the residence of Venkaiah at Macherla in Guntur district and felicitated the freedom fighter’s daughter Ghantasala Seetha Mahalakshmi and other family members. He also garlanded the portrait of Venkaiah and paid tribute to him.Appreciating the Prime Minister’s decision to celebrate Azadi ki Amrut Mahotsav programme to mark 75 years of Independence, the Andhra CM recalled that during the first meeting of the national committee held on March 8, “Har Ghar Jhanda” had been selected as one of the key themes for the celebrations.“A call will be given to every citizen to hoist the National Flag in their house on August 15, 2021 and become part of the festivities. In this context, I would like to draw your attention towards the immense contribution made by Pingali Venkaiah in designing the Indian National Flag,” he said.He recalled that Venkaiah, also known as Jhanda Venkaiah was born on August 2, 1876 at Bhatlapenumarru village near Machalipatnam and was deeply influenced by Gandhian thoughts and ideology. “He worked on various designs of the national flag and on March 31, 1921 in Vijayawada, he gifted his designs to Mahatma Gandhi, who mentioned Venkaiah’s efforts in his journal Young India,” Jagan said.The chief minister said Venkaiah’s design of the tricolour was adopted as the national flag of free India by the Constituent Assembly on July 22, 1947. “Thus, Venkaiah was credited as the architect or designer of the Indian National Flag. The flag designed by him came to be synonymous with the spirit of free and independent India. However, his life and works largely remain unrecognised and he breathed his last on July 4, 1963,” he said.Jagan requested that as the nation was celebrating 75 years of Independence, the Centre recognise Venkaiah’s contribution to the nation and confer him with the Bharat Ratna (posthumously).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jagan-writes-to-centre-seeks-bharat-ratna-for-andhra-man-who-designed-tricolour-101615552458097.html
12-03-2021||India||PM Modi to address Global Ayurveda Festival today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the Global Ayurveda Festival through video conferencing on Friday."At around 8:45 PM this evening, will address the Global Ayurveda Festival. This Festival is a commendable effort to further popularise Ayurveda and traditional forms of medicine," PM Modi tweeted.The festival is being held virtually between March 12 and March 19.Union Sports and Youth Affairs Minister Kiren Rijiju, Union Minister V Muraleedharan, the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI) President Uday Shankar and former FICCI President Dr Sangita Reddy will also be present at the event.Muraleedharan is the Chairman of the Organizing Committee of the festival.The keynote address in the event will be delivered by World Health Organization Chief Scientist Dr Soumya Swaminathan, Central AYUSH Secretary Vaidya Rajesh Kotecha and Central AYUSH Advisor Vaidya Manoj Nesari.The festival will also include international seminars, a global exhibition and business meet. The festival will hold an all-time record in the number of delegates, the number of scientists presenting papers and the number of participating countries and institutions.It will feature lectures by 35 internationally renowned scientists and more than 150 Indian scientists. As many as 650 of the 1,150 selected research papers will be presented live and 500 research papers will be with a poster presentation.The festival, which was scheduled to be held in Angamaly in May 2020, was postponed due to the Covid-19 pandemic. And, now it is being held virtually in five virtual venues from 9 am to 10 pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-address-global-ayurveda-festival-today-101615552462368.html
12-03-2021||India||CBI summons family members of TMC MP Abhishek's sister-in-law in coal scam||The CBI on Friday issued summons to two family members of TMC MP Abhishek Banerjee's sister-in-law Menaka Gambhir in connection with the multi-crore rupees coal pilferage scam being investigated by the central probe agency, sources in it said.The two - Gambhir's father-in-law Pawan Arora and her husband Ankush Arora have been asked to appear before the CBI on March 15, they said.The probe agency has already interrogated Banerjee's wife Rujira and Gambhir at their respective residences in the city in the last week of February for their alleged involvement in the scam.Banerjee is the nephew of West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee.According to the sources, Gambhir had told the CBI sleuths during interrogation that she as not aware of anything and that her husband and father-in-law were in the know of what was happening.The agency has been on the look out for the scam kingpin Anup Majhi, alias Lala, who has been been absconding. A lookout circular had also been issued against him.CBI had also raided several premises of Majhi in the city and in the coal bearing belt of Asansol and Ranigunj in the state.The investigation agency is of the view that the coal scam arising out of illegal mining from abandoned mines of Eastern Coalfields, runs into thousands of crores of Rupees and part of the crime proceeds had been transacted through the hawala route for which the Enforcement Directorate (ED) has also joined the probe.On Nov 28, 2020, CBI had conducted raids at 45 different places, including in West Bengal in connection with the coal pilferage scam.The state is set to witness an eight-phase Assembly election starting March 27. The BJP, which has emerged as the main opposition, is campaigning vigorously to oust the ruling Trinamool Congress which had secured consecutive electoral wins in 2011 and 2016 under Mamata Banerjee.Abhishek Banerjee, the TMC Lok Sabha MP from Diamond Harbour, weilds considerable influence in the party and has been leading the TMC's counter-attack in the run-up to the Assembly polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-summons-family-members-of-tmc-mp-abhishek-s-sister-in-law-in-coal-scam-101615550232348.html
12-03-2021||India||Delhi records highest single-day spike in 2 months with 431 fresh Covid-19 infections||Delhi reported more than 400 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) for the second consecutive day on Friday, which is the highest single-day spike in over two months. According to the health department’s daily bulletin, there were 431 Covid-19 cases in Delhi between Thursday and Friday. The national capital, which has been reporting a surge in infections for more than a week now, logged 409 Covid-19 cases on Thursday. There were 424 daily infections on January 3, the health department’s data shows. According to the government's Covid-19 bulletin, 356 recoveries and two deaths have been reported on Friday.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19Delhi is one of the eight states in India that has been reporting an upward trajectory in daily coronavirus cases. The other states are Maharashtra, Punjab, Karnataka, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh and Haryana, as per the data provided by the health ministry.In February, Delhi was reporting around 200 daily infections. From March 1, the daily cases in the Capital have been rising. Delhi on January 27 for the first time in nine months reported daily cases below 100.The positivity rate of the coronavirus cases in the Capital has been registered to be 0.60 per cent and the total number of containment zones have reached 488. A total of 72,031 tests have been conducted in the last 24 hours, as per the health bulletin.India on Friday reported 23,285 new coronavirus cases and 117 fatalities, registering a massive spike. Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Karnataka, Gujarat and Tamil Nadu cumulatively contribute more than 85 per cent to the active Covid-19 caseload of the country, according to the data of the health ministry. Maharashtra, Kerala and Punjab are at the top spots in respect to their contribution to the daily cases and death toll.The surge in the coronavirus cases in these states comes at a time when the country has administered more than 2.61 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses. The active coronavirus case tally of the country is on the path to reach the two lakh-mark.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-records-highest-single-day-spike-in-2-months-with-431-fresh-covid-19-infections-101615545869513.html
12-03-2021||India||News updates from HT: SC judge gets emotional during farewell address and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.At her farewell, Justice Indu Malhotra chokes with emotion during speechSupreme Court justice Indu Malhotra, first woman member of the Bar to be directly appointed as a judge in the top court, choked on her farewell speech on Friday that got chief Justice of India SA Bobde to cut in. Read MoreI have worked, says deputy CM Panneerselvan as he files nominationDeputy chief minister O Panneerselvam on Friday sounded confident of winning from his stronghold of Bodinayakanur in Theni district of Tamil Nadu, where assembly elections will be held in a single phase next month, for the time in a row. Read MoreTamil Nadu’s freebie culture is here to stay, say parties, expertsFrom promises of free laptops to colour TVs and grinders, Tamil Nadu’s political parties have tried to outdo each other in offering freebies ahead of the polls for decades. Read More'Too good a cricketer not to be in India's playing XI': Kris Srikkanth calls India batsman a 'class act'Everyone is pondering what would India's team composition be for the T20I series against England starting Friday. Read MoreKangana Ranaut weighs in on Meghan Markle-Prince Harry interview, says 'saas, bahu, sajish' never interests herAfter maintaining an unusual silence on the Meghan Markle and Prince Harry's bombshell interview with Oprah Winfrey, Kangana Ranaut has finally delivered her hot take. Read MoreSamiksha Pednekar plays demure modern bride in sequinned Manish MalhotraSamiksha Pednekar's claim to fame may be her actor sister Bhumi Pednekar, but the lawyer by profession has managed to rake up quite a social media following and a legion of fans for herself. Read MoreMan edits pics to make it look like he is inside a fridge, post sparks laughterHave you ever come across those posts which are absolutely creative but also equally hilarious? If you know what we’re talking about, then this share will not come as a surprise to you but will surely leave you thoroughly entertained. Read More‘Mamata Banerjee only remembers Nandigram during polls’: Suvendu AdhikariBJP candidate from Nandigram and local strongman Suvendu Adhikari filed his nomination and slammed the incumbent Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-sc-judge-gets-emotional-during-farewell-address-and-all-the-latest-news-101615547560741.html
12-03-2021||India||Pune lockdown: Schools to be shut till March 31; Mall, market timing restricted||A day after the Nagpur administration announced a seven-day strict lockdown from March 15 to March 21, the Pune district administration on Friday announced a few restrictions to curb public movement, crowding, the operation of business establishments at night. But it is not being officially called a lockdown.Pune district has the maximum number of active Covid-19 cases in India, according to health ministry data. Apart from Pune City taluka, there are 14 talukas in the Pune district. These new curbs will be applicable to all those areas.Schools and colleges of the district will remain shut till March 31. Hotels and restaurants will be allowed to remain open till 10pm, with 50 per cent seating capacity. The authorities will have to display the number of people seated inside at any given time.There will be a night curfew between 11pm and 6am. Without calling it a curfew, the administration is saying that citizens will not be permitted to roam around the roads unnecessarily.Weddings, funerals will be allowed to take place but with only 50 persons.While morning walkers are allowed to take a stroll, parks will remain shut in the evening.Mall and multiplexes won't be allowed to operate after 11pm.Covid-19 situation in Pune districtAccording to Union health ministry data on Thursday, Pune district has 18,474 active Covid-19 cases. On Thursday, the district reported 2,840 fresh infections.How Covid-19 cases in Pune spikedThe overall Covid-19 situation in Maharashtra turned serious since the middle of February. The spike is not concentrated in Pune or Nagpur or any specific region. Pandemic fatigue, laxity in tracking testing, flouting of social distancing norms, municipal elections are being blamed for the spike.Lockdown status of MaharashtraChief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has clarified that he is not in favour of lockdown. But at the same time, district authorities have been asked to take steps, including 'lockdown', to contain the spread of the infections. Since announcing lockdown goes against the spirit of the Maharashtra government's 'Mission Begin Again', district authorities are not officially announcing lockdown, but are bringing back restrictions.VaccineNiti Aayog member (health) VK Paul on Thursday suggested that people in the areas where the second wave is being seen can be prioritised for vaccination.Pune city wants its adults to get vaccinated on priority. "As Pune city is witnessing a rise in active cases and daily count of infections is also high, the authorities plan to send a proposal to the Centre seeking a policy decision to inoculate people above the age of 18 in Pune, as an exception," the official told PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pune-lockdown-schools-to-be-shut-till-march-31-mall-market-timing-restricted-101615543401692.html
12-03-2021||India||Mobile phone found inside terror convicts' cell at Tihar Jail; probe ordered||Delhi Home Minister Satyendra Jain on Friday said that he has ordered an investigation in the matter related to a cellphone that was found by the Tihar Jail authorities from a cell where certain terror convicts were lodged."I have ordered an investigation. Action will be taken against anyone who is found to be at fault. I have written to DG (Prisons) that it should be properly investigated that how was a phone found inside the jail," Jain said while speaking to reporters here on Friday.Tihar Jail authorities seized a cellphone from a jail where certain terror convicts were lodged. The mobile was allegedly used for operating Telegram channels used recently for claiming responsibility for terror acts/threats," police said on Friday."Based on Special Cell's information, Tihar Jail authorities seized a cellphone from a jail where certain terror convicts are lodged. It is suspected that the phone was used for operating Telegram channels used recently for claiming responsibility for terror acts/threats," Delhi Special Cell police said.The police also said that further investigation and forensic analysis will be done after the mobile handset and details of the seizure are received from Tihar Jail authorities.Considering the importance of the matter, Delhi Home Minister ordered the investigation into the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mobile-phone-found-inside-terror-convicts-cell-at-tihar-jail-probe-ordered-101615542809609.html
12-03-2021||India||Banks to remain closed for 4 days from March 13. Here's why||United Forum of Bank Unions (UFBU), which represents nine bank unions has called for a 2-day nation-wide strike from March 15 to protest against the proposed privatisation of two state-owned lenders by the government. With banks being shut on March 13 (second Saturday of the month) and 14 due to regular holidays a 4 day consecutive shut down is on the cards.Who called the strike and Why?All India Bank Employees Association (AIBEA), All India Bank Officers' Confederation (AIBOC), National Confederation of Bank Employees (NCBE), All India Bank Officers' Association (AIBOA) and Bank Employees Confederation of India (BEFI), Indian National Bank Employees Federation (INBEF), Indian National Bank Officers Congress (INBOC), National Organisation of Bank Workers (NOBW) and National Organisation of Bank Officers (NOBO) are the nine bank unions that make up UFBU and represent a total of 10 lakh employees. All these unions have collectively called for a two-day nationwide strike to protest the proposed privatisation of two public sector banks (PSBs) as part of the Centre's disinvestment plan announced by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman during last month’s budget session.Conciliatory meetings held with the additional chief labour commissioner on March 4,9, and 10 failed to produce any tangible results. AIBEA general secretary C H Venkatachalam told news agency PTI that the failed meetings have influenced the union’s decision to hold a strike. "Hence, it has been decided to go ahead with the strike for two continuous days on 15th and 16th March 2021. About 10 lakh bank employees and officers of the banks will participate in the strike," PTI said quoting Venkatachalam.Which banking services will be affected?With banks being on holiday for March 13 and 14 and the strike coming into effect from March 15, regular banking services like opening a savings account, applying for loans, issue of demand drafts is expected to be hit. The State Bank of India has cautioned its customer about the strikes hitting regular banking hours and services, reported PTI.Private banks like ICICI, Kotak Mahindra, Axis Bank etc are not a part of this strike and hence their working hours will not be affected. ATMs will also be operational across the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/banks-to-remain-closed-for-4-days-from-march-13-here-s-why-101615542480467.html
12-03-2021||India||90% of Mumbai's Covid-19 patients in past 2 months from highrises, 137 buildings sealed||As many as 90 per cent patients in Mumbai, who tested positive for Covid-19 in January and February this year, were residents of high-rise buildings, while the remaining 10 per cent were from slums and chawls, the city civic body has said.However, the situation has changed to some extent this month as the number of cases from slums are also going up, civic officials said.Of the total number of 23,002 people, who tested positive for Covid-19 in the first two months of this year, 90 per centwere residents of building and 10 per cent others from slums and chawls, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC)said in a release."But we are now receiving a large number of patients from slums as well. Most of them are from middle and lower class background," a senior doctor of a civic hospital, who did not wish to be named, said.The number of coronavirus containment zones and sealed buildings in the city increased by 170 per cent and 66.42 per cent, respectively, from the beginning of this month, the civic body said.According to the BMC's Covid-19 dashboard, while the city had 10 containment zones and 137 sealed buildings on March 1, the number of containment zones increased to 27 and sealed buildings to 228 on March 10.The dashboard pointed out that of the 7.46 lakh people living in these zones, over 23 per cent were from slums and chawls, while the remaining 77 per cent were from sealed buildings.An assistant municipal commissioner said the number of Covid-19 cases from slums has certainly gone up, but it cannot be called a spike.Also the patients are scattered across slums and not concentrated in any particular pocket of the slums.Mumbai's coronavirus tally till Thursday night was 3,38,631, while the death toll was 11,515.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/90-of-mumbai-s-covid-19-patients-in-past-2-months-from-highrises-137-buildings-sealed-101615541952635.html
12-03-2021||India||Farm laws protest: Train services resume in Amritsar after farmers end 169-day-long dharna||Train services resume in Amritsar after farm union on Thursday suspended 169-day long 'dharna' on tracks ahead of the wheat harvest season."Dharna at Jandiala Guru Railway Station suspended for the time being and passenger trains operational now," the Deputy Commissioner (DC) of Amritsar, Gurpreet Singh Khaira said while speaking to ANI.A group of farmers was squatting on railway tracks near Amritsar to protest against the Centre's farm laws.Farmers have been protesting at the different borders of the national capital since November 26 last year against the three newly enacted farm laws -- Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-laws-protest-train-services-resume-in-amritsar-after-farmers-end-169-day-long-dharna-101615541753738.html
12-03-2021||India||India becoming increasingly chained by authoritarian forces, says Rahul Gandhi||On the anniversary of the historic "Dandi March", Congress leader Rahul Gandhi alleged on Friday that India is becoming increasingly "chained by authoritarian forces led by the RSS" and urged people to be guided by Mahatma Gandhi's example to continue with the march for freedom.On March 12, 1930, Mahatma Gandhi walked from the Sabarmati Ashram to Dandi in Gujarat to break the salt-tax law imposed by the British. It was an act of civil disobedience to protest against the British rule in India."Gandhiji's Dandi March gave a bold message of freedom to the entire world," Rahul Gandhi said in a Facebook post."Today, as India is becoming increasingly chained by authoritarian forces led by the RSS, we must renew our individual commitment to collective freedom. Let us be guided by Gandhiji's example and continue the march for freedom. Jai Hind!" the former Congress chief said.In a tweet, he also attacked the Centre over the issue of employment, saying students want jobs but the government is giving them "beating by police, spraying by water cannon, tag of 'anti-national' and unemployment".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-becoming-increasingly-chained-by-authoritarian-forces-says-rahul-gandhi-101615540869189.html
12-03-2021||India||India's self-reliance in Covid-19 vaccine manufacturing has proved beneficial for entire world: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said that India's self-reliance in Covid-19 vaccine manufacturing has proved beneficial for the entire world.The Prime Minister, earlier in the day, flagged off 'padyatra' (foot march) from Ahmedabad to Dandi, as part of the 'Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav' program to mark the 75 years of India's independence.Speaking at the Mahotsav here, Prime Minister Modi said, "To relieve the humanity of the crisis of Covid-19 pandemic, India's self-reliance in vaccine manufacturing has proved beneficial for the entire world. The achievements of India are not only our own today, but they are going to show light to the whole world.""Today we have the vaccine, so with the emotion of Vasudev Kutumbkam, we are useful in reducing the sorrows of others. This is the ideal and philosophy of Bharat and the basis of Atmanirbhar Bharat. Today other countries are trusting Bharat and thanking us. This is the first light of our golden future," he added.In his speech, Prime Minister Modi said that the 'Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav' of independence, which began today, will continue till August 15, 2023."Today is the first day of the Amrit Mahotsav of independence. This Mahotsav has started 75 weeks before 15th August 2022 and will continue till 15th August 2023," he said.The Mahotsav is a series of events to be organised by the government to commemorate the 75th anniversary of India's independence. It will be celebrated as a "Jan-Utsav" in the spirit of "Jan-Bhagidari".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-self-reliance-in-covid-19-vaccine-manufacturing-has-proved-beneficial-for-entire-world-pm-modi-101615541357333.html
12-03-2021||India||India is likely to be included in global bond index by October: Report||India is confident of getting included in a global bond index by October but it will not be able to raise funds in the coming financial year as the actual listing could take around 12 months after its inclusion, said two senior sources aware of the discussions.Since 2019, India has been working toward getting included in global bond indexes as rising government borrowing has necessitated opening the largely domestic bond market to a broader investor base.India was hopeful of completing the listing in the upcoming financial year, starting on April 1, as it would help bring down borrowing costs, which have been rising in recent weeks due to a lack of appetite amid high supply, one of the sources said.The government plans to issue bonds worth $165.24 billion to fund its spending programme in the upcoming fiscal year to revive the pandemic-hit economy from a slump."The indices will be reviewed in September. We have dealt with most of their concerns, we should be able to resolve the other issues too," said one of the sources, referring to an index provider."We expect to be included in at least one of the two major indexes in September or October," he said.However, he said the actual listing could take longer and would not be concluded before the end of the fiscal year.The finance ministry and the central bank, the Reserve Bank of India, did not immediately respond to requests for comment.Last September, J.P. Morgan opted not to include India's government bonds in one of its flagship emerging market indexes after investors cited problems with capital controls, custody and settlement and other operational snags.Two other senior officials said India was in the final stages of negotiating with Euroclear for settlement of Indian bonds and that could likely be a precursor for a bond listing as it would allay most investor concerns.'OPEN UP MORE'India expects to get approval from major index operators like J.P. Morgan and Bloomberg Barclays in September as it is planning to move fast on resolving taxation concerns of investors in these passive funds and bond settlement issues by August, the first source said.Bloomberg and J.P Morgan did not respond to requests for comment.Several bonds are now part of the "Fully Accessible Route" (FAR) and as of January, the outstanding FAR bonds were over $145 billion. The government sets a limit on foreign institutional investors' government securities purchases, but the FAR category introduced in 2020 is free from such limits."We have already opened investments through the fully accessible route and securities across the curve are available from five to 30 years. We will definitely open up more securities on a need basis," a second source said requesting anonymity.There have been concerns about outflows if the bond market is fully opened to foreign investors and what is largely thought of as "hot money" flows that flood in to chase high yields but can exit just as quickly during times of distress.Over the last couple of years, however, there has been a shift in the attitude of regulators and the government towards the global bond indexes, which largely have passive fund houses among their investor base, which are known to be longer-term investors.The government is expecting to be given a 3-4% weightage initially for the first 2-3 years after listing, which is expected to be raised gradually to 10% over five years, the first official said.India has one of the largest bond markets among emerging-market economies with more than $800 billion in debt stock. Long-held restrictions on foreign buying of its bonds have kept it out of the top benchmarks used by global money managers and an inclusion could be a landmark change.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-is-likely-to-be-included-in-global-bond-index-by-october-report-101615540094663.html
12-03-2021||India||6 TMC MPs arrive at EC office in Delhi to raise concern over Nandigram incident||A delegation of six MPs of Trinamool Congress (TMC) on Friday arrived at the Election Commission office in the national capital to raise their concern over the Nandigram incident in which West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee suffered injuries."Today, six TMC Member of Parliaments are meeting ECI to raise Nandigram incident issue that left Mamata Banerjee injured. They (BJP) have replaced ADG Law and Order and DG immediately after, the incident occurred. The entire responsibility now is with ECI to prove where are the lapses and why it has happened," said party leader Partha Chatterjee.The delegation on Thursday had filed a complaint at the EC office in Kolkata over the attack and have called the incident a "deep-rooted conspiracy to take her life".The Chief Minister, who was on a two-day visit to Nandigram from where she filed her nomination earlier on Wednesday, alleged that she was pushed by a few unidentified people during her election campaigning.She was brought to Kolkata's SSKM Hospital by road from Nandigram.Banerjee sustained "severe bony injuries" on her left foot and ankle as well as bruises and injuries on her shoulder, forearm and neck, according to the report of her initial medical examination.Elections to 294-member West Bengal Assembly will be held in eight phases starting from March 27 with the final round of voting taking place on April 29. The counting of votes will take place on May 2. (||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6-tmc-mps-arrive-at-ec-office-in-delhi-to-raise-concern-over-nandigram-incident-101615539003849.html
12-03-2021||India||Do not want to contribute to rise in Covid cases: SC on limiting physical hearings||The Supreme Court on Friday erred on the side of caution by citing the surge in Covid-19 cases across many states to justify its decision to hold limited physical hearings. A bench of justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Hemant Gupta said, “We do not want to contribute to the situation... The troubling aspect is that Maharashtra is facing a serious problem.”The bench was hearing a petition filed by the Supreme Court Bar Association (SCBA) which challenged the Supreme Court order of March 5 introducing limited physical hearing of cases beginning March 15.Senior advocate Vikas Singh, who is also the president of SCBA, said that the recent surge in Covid-19 cases is because people are becoming irresponsible and not wearing masks. He said that the standard operating procedure prepared by the top court was taken out without discussion with the Bar. Also Read | Officials associated with govts cannot work as state election commissioners: SC“I don’t want lawyers to die of starvation. The positivity rate of Covid-19 has come down to 0.3%. Lawyers are daily wagers. Today, the government has permitted 200 people to gather in closed spaces.”The bench told Singh, “All of us were hesitant to use the virtual medium. But now we see many lawyers are beginning to use it. Ultimately all will use it but at the moment we are concerned what manner of hearing and to what extent should we open.”The Court emphasised that medical opinion was the basis for the court to arrive at a decision of allowing limited physical hearing. Since the SCBA alleged that the Bar was not consulted on the SOP, the bench said, “We will call for the minutes of meeting that went into preparing the SOP.” The court will now hear the case on Tuesday. On March 5, the Supreme Court issued a circular introducing hybrid mode of hearing cases in the top court. Only regular or old cases were to be taken up on Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday through physical hearing, provided that an advance request for physical hearing is made by the lawyer for the concerned party, according to the circular. The circular stated that the pilot scheme was being tried out on an experimental basis based on recommendation of a Supreme Court Judges Committee of seven senior-most judges and requests by Bar Associations for resuming physical court. SCBA alleged that this decision of the court was taken unilaterally without consulting the Bar. Although SCBA met the CJI on March 1 and the SCBA president wrote a letter to CJI on March 2, the SOP did not reflect the same. The petition, filed through advocate Rahul Kaushik, said, “In the meeting of the Executive Committee of the SCBA with Chief Justice of India on March 1 regarding the physical/hybrid hearing, it was assured that the needful would be done by the Registry expeditiously taking into consideration the suggestions given by the Executive Committee of SCBA, however the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) dated March 5 has been issued unilaterally by the Registry.”The SCBA wanted the hybrid option to be available even on Mondays and Fridays with right of uninhibited entry for lawyers into the high security zone of the court. The SOP required lawyers to make special entry passes for entry into the courtroom.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/do-not-want-to-contribute-to-rise-in-covid-cases-sc-on-limiting-physical-hearings-101615538678586.html
12-03-2021||India||India recorded close to 1 lakh Covid-19 cases in the last 5 days||India, which experts say may be witnessing a second wave of the pandemic, has witnessed nearly 100,000 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the second week of March, data by the Union ministry of health and family welfare showed. The likely signs of the second wave are surfacing almost a year after India announced its first lockdown triggered by rising cases in March 2020.The country has recorded 98,047 Covid-19 cases in March so far and on Friday clocked the highest daily infections at 23,285, data shows. The surge in cases is being reported in six states, including Maharashtra where authorities have announced a weeklong lockdown in the densely-populated Nagpur city next week and placed restrictions in other regions. Five states account for 82.96% of the total active cases in the country, and two severely affected states—Maharashtra and Kerala—account for 71.69% of India’s total active cases, according to the health ministry’s data.According to the health ministry, eight states are displaying an upward trajectory in daily new cases. These include Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Delhi, Gujarat, Karnataka and Haryana.The 117 new fatalities recorded in the last 24 hours include 57 from Maharashtra, 18 from Punjab and 13 from Kerala. More than 82 per cent of casualties due to the virus have been traced to six states, the health ministry has pointed out. Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties (57), followed by Punjab with 18 daily deaths, Kerala (13), Tamil Nadu (5) and Andhra Pradesh (4). There have been 158,306 deaths so far in the country, including 52,667 from Maharashtra followed by 12,535 from Tamil Nadu, 12,381 from Karnataka, 10,934 from Delhi, 10,286 from West Bengal, 8,741 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,179 from Andhra Pradesh.In a weekly press briefing, NITI Aayog member (health) VK Paul on Thursday had expressed concern over the rise in active cases in a few states and said the trend was "worrisome", especially in Maharashtra. "Don't take this virus for granted. It can come up unexpectedly. If we have to remain free of this virus, Covid-appropriate behaviour, containment strategy as well as vaccination has to be brought in," he said.Pointing at the states in the red, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said, "We think Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Haryana are at a tipping point. They are yet to have a surge. But looking at early signs of an increase in numbers, we have had three meetings where the states have been told to increase the number of tests, surveillance, containment areas."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-recorded-close-to-1-lakh-covid-19-cases-in-the-last-5-days-101615533989440.html
12-03-2021||India||Supreme Court notice to Centre on plea challenging 1991 Places of Worship Act||The Supreme Court on Friday issued a notice to the Centre on a petition challenging the validity of the Places of Worship (Special Provisions) Act 1991. This law introduced on July 11, 1991, placed a status quo retrospectively on the character of places of worship as existing on the date of Independence, i.e. August 15, 1947.A bench of Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde and Justice AS Bopanna issued notice on the petition challenging this Act. The petition was filed by BJP leader and lawyer Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay.The petition said, “The Centre has barred remedies against illegal encroachment on places of worship and pilgrimages and now Hindus, Jains, Buddhists, Sikhs cannot file a suit or approach a high court under Article 226. Therefore, they won’t be able to restore their places of worship and pilgrimage including temple endowments in spirit of Articles 25-26 and illegal barbarian act of invaders will continue in perpetuity.”Also Read | Officials associated with govts cannot work as state election commissioners: SCThe petition, argued by senior advocate Vikas Singh, added that the 1991 law violated the principle of secularism which is an integral part of Preamble and a basic feature of Constitution.The 1991 law exempted the suit pending with respect to Ayodhya, the birthplace of Ram.The petition referred to the ongoing dispute before a trial court for reclaiming the birthplace of Lord Krishna at Mathura which is directly hit by the bar under the 1991 Act.The petition said, “Hindus are fighting for restoration of birthplace of Lord Krishna from hundreds of years and peaceful public agitation continues, but while enacting the Act, the Centre has excluded the birthplace of Lord Ram at Ayodhya but not the birthplace of Lord Krishna in Mathura, though both are the incarnations of Lord Vishnu, the creator. The apex court has finally decided Ayodhya dispute on November 9, 2019 and found substance in the claim of Hindus and now a new temple is going to be constructed after more than 500 years of demolition.”As per Upadhyay, “Centre has without resolution of the disputes through process of the Law, abated the suit/proceedings, which is ‘per se’ unconstitutional and beyond its law making power.”Interestingly, there is another petition pending in Supreme Court challenging the validity of the 1991 Act. This petition was filed by Vishwa Bhadra Pujari Mahasangh. In this petition, the Jamait Ulama-i-Hind had also moved an application asking the court not to disturb the status quo laid down by the 1991 Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-notice-to-centre-on-plea-challenging-1991-places-of-worship-act-101615537778848.html
12-03-2021||India||Stalin retains his seat in DMK's list of candidates for TN assembly polls||The Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) on Friday released its first and full list of candidates for the upcoming assembly election in Tamil Nadu. Party chief MK Stalin is contesting again from Kolathur, while his son Udhaynidhi will debut from Chepauk constituency.Thanga Tamilselvan, who quit the ruling All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) to join TTV Dhinakaran's Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) and later the DMK, has been given the ticket from Bodinayakanur. He will face deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam.The DMK is contesting the single-phase election in alliance with the Congress and the Left. Apart from these two, the DMK has also firmed up tie-ups with other parties including the Marumalarchi Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (MDMK) and Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi (VCK). It is contesting on 173 of the 234 seats and has allotted the rest to its alliance partners.The election will be held in Tamil Nadu on April 6 and the counting of votes will take place on May 2. The DMK-Congress-Left alliance will seek to oust the BJP-AIADMK alliance and return to power after a gap of a decade.This is the first assembly election after the demise of towering leaders J Jayalalithaa and M Karunanidhi. The filing of nominations will start on Friday and the last day is March 19.The big fights will be between DMK’s Senthil Balaji and transport minister M R Vijayabaskar in Karur. Former mayors of Chennai, AIADMK’s Saidai Duraisamy and DMK’s Ma Subramanian will clash in Saidapet. Environment activist and a pro-jallikattu crusader Karthikeya Senapathy, who joined the DMK in 2020 will go head on with AIADMK heavyweight and minister for municipal administration SP Velumani in his stronghold of Thondamuthur constituency in Coimbatore.The DMK has retained its party veterans, sitting MLAs and prominent faces across the assembly seats such as party general secretary Durai Murugan, Thangam Thennarsu, Palanivel Thiaga Rajan, P K Sekhar Babu, former state IT minister Poongothai Aladi Aruna. The AIADMK has retained most of its incumbents apart from fielding two Lok Sabha MPs in party’s list of 177 candidates. However, to challenge chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami in Edappadi constituency, DMK has fielded Sampath Kumar as a candidate. “He may be an ordinary man but he has the potential to win,” Stalin told reporters after reading out the list of 173 candidates.Also Read: The significance of Trichy for the DMK in TN pollsThe party has fielded only 13 women.In Trichy, party principal secretary and Trichy West MLA K N Nehru is fielded from the same seat and Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi will seek re-election from Thiruverumbur constituency. Stalin will file his nomination on March 15 and continue his campaign, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stalin-retains-his-seat-in-dmk-s-1st-list-of-candidates-for-tn-assembly-polls-101615537180768.html
12-03-2021||India||News updates from HT: DMK releases first list of candidates for TN polls and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.DMK releases first list of candidates for TN pollsThe Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) on Friday released its first list of candidates for the upcoming Assembly election in Tamil Nadu. While party chief MK Stalin is contesting again from the Kolathur, his son Udhaynidhi will debut from Chepauk constituency. Read moreHighest number of border violations by Pakistan before February ceasefirePakistan resorted to the highest number of ceasefire violations over the 12 months preceding the announcement by the Indian and Pakistani militaries that they had begun strictly observing a ceasefire along the Line of Control (LoC) from midnight of February 24. Read moreJacobites come closer to BJP, church leaders to meet Shah in Delhi on FridayThree top Jacobite church leaders are in Delhi on Friday to meet Union home minister Amit Shah and others to find an amicable solution to the long- standing feud between Orthodox and Jacobite sects of the Malankara Syrian Church, said a church spokesperson. Read moreQuad owes its revival to President Xi’s 'fortress China' doctrineAs leaders of the four-nation Quadrilateral Security Dialogue, or Quad, hold their crucial meeting on Friday, the credit for creating the circumstances that led to the resurrection of the informal security dialogue in 2017 goes to China’s Xi Jinping. Read more'My mind was messed up': Shaw reveals the advice he got from Sachin Tendulkar after disappointing tour of AustraliaPrithvi Shaw had a miserable 2020 with the bat as he failed to capitalize on the chances provided to him. The 21-year-old batting sensation had to endure a below-par season in Indian Premier League 2020 for Delhi Capitals as coach Ricky Ponting highlighted the shortcomings in his game. Read moreHonda rolls out new cabin air filter, claims it can fight off coronavirusAround one year since coronavirus was declared as a pandemic by World Health Organization, the threat from the virus remains every bit as real even though vaccination drives have started in several parts of the world. Read moreToofaan teaser: Farhan Akhtar packs a resounding punch as a goon who turns boxing champion. WatchFarhan Akhtar has unveiled the first teaser of his upcoming film Toofaan. The film is directed by Rakeysh Omprakash Mehra of Rang De Basanti and Bhaag Milkha Bhaag. It also stars Mrunal Thakur, Paresh Rawal, Supriya Pathak Shah and Hussain Dalal in pivotal roles. Read moreJaw-dropping drone video of Minneapolis bowling alley goes viralA video of a bowling alley at Minneapolis captured by a drone is now going all kinds of viral online. People cannot stop expressing their amazement at the clip. It even received words of appreciation from Guardians of the Galaxy director James Gunn who wrote that he wants to hire the creators of the amazing video. Read moreKiara Advani's famous lime yellow athleisure set was a gift, has a special storyRemember Kiara Advani's lime-yellow athleisure co-ord set that she was snapped wearing outside her dance class? Yes, that one. The outfit that proved athleisure is upping its game with bright colours and quirky prints, has an adorable story behind it which the Kabir Singh actor recently shared with her followers. Read moreWatch: ‘Haryana Job quota law to be tweaked’: Deputy CM Dushyant ChautalaIn the latest episode of On The Record, Hindustan Times’ Sunetra Choudhury speaks with the deputy chief minister of Haryana, Dushyant Chautala about the 75% job quota for locals in the state and how industry says it will destroy ease of business. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-dmk-releases-first-list-of-candidates-for-tn-polls-and-all-the-latest-news-101615534846354.html
12-03-2021||India||Jacobites come closer to BJP, church leaders to meet Shah in Delhi on Friday||Three top Jacobite church leaders are in Delhi on Friday to meet Union home minister Amit Shah and others to find an amicable solution to the long- standing feud between Orthodox and Jacobite sects of the Malankara Syrian Church, said a church spokesperson.The delegation is headed by Metropolitan of Kottayam diocese Thomas Mar Timotheos. The Jacobites, who lost control of many churches to the rival Orthodox faction following the implementation of the Supreme Court verdict in 2017, have had several rounds of discussions with the BJP top brass and also met Prime Minister Narendra Modi to find a solution to the vexatious issue.Denominations of the Malankara Syrian Church, both the factions have been fighting for the control of 2000-odd churches and their rich coffers for more than two decades. In 2017 the Supreme Court upheld the 1934 constitution of Malankara church and gave the Orthodox group control over more than 1000 parishes and churches in Kerala but Jacobites, who were controlling the majority of them, were not ready to give up. While Orthodox is an indigenous group, the Jacobites have more followers. Both share the same rites of worship but have a long-standing rivalry that goes back to 1912 when Malankara church split into two-- Orthodox and Jacobites.Though the SC verdict came four years ago, it was not implemented fearing violence, but later the government enforced it after the court began contempt proceedings.The meeting assumes much significance ahead of the assembly elections and the Jacobite high priests have already made it clear that believers will vote for the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance if it helps in finding a lasting solution. It is also a golden opportunity for the saffron party, which is desperately trying to get a foothold in the southern state.“We have no untouchability towards anyone. Our discussions with the Prime Minister and others were really fruitful. It is a question of our survival and we will help the BJP if it ensures justice to us,” said church spokesman Bishop Kuriakose Mar Theophilos. He said nobody was willing to hear them sincerely and the Prime Minister and others gave them patient hearing. “We will vote for those who will serve justice to us,” he said. Earlier, the RSS top brass also met Jacobite leaders.Also Read: Kerala temple affairs minister regrets Sabarimala stand in poll seasonThe loss of many churches and burial grounds became an emotional issue for the Jacobites and triggered law and order problems at several places. Though small in numbers when compared to the Syro-Malabar church, the Jacobites hold sway in at least eight constituencies in central Kerala.Mizoram governor P S Sreedharan Pillai, hailing from the state, was the first to take initiative to solve the impasse and took the issue to the PM. Reacting to the latest development, BJP state president K Surendran said the church was happy with the intervention made by the PM and a lasting solution will be found soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jacobites-come-closer-to-bjp-church-leaders-to-meet-shah-in-delhi-on-friday-101615532988213.html
12-03-2021||India||NCPCR asks Netflix to stop streaming Bombay Begums: Key points||The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR), the apex child rights body, has asked Netflix to stop streaming the series Bombay Begums citing inappropriate portrayal of children in the web series. Here is all you need to know about the direction:• The apex child right body National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) issued a notice to Netflix on Thursday asking the OTT platform to furnish a detailed action report within 24 hours.• It said the alleged inappropriate portrayal of children in the series will pollute young minds and also result in their abuse and exploitation.Also Read | OTT industry representatives welcome new guidelines, says Javadekar• NCPCR said in case Netflix did not respond to the notice, the body will be forced to initiate appropriate legal action.• “Netflix should take extra precaution while streaming any content in respect of the children or for the children and shall also refrain themselves from getting into such things,” the commission said in its notice.• Bombay Begums is based on the lives of five women wanting different things in life.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ncpcr-asks-netflix-to-stop-streaming-bombay-begums-key-points-101615533158374.html
12-03-2021||India||PM Modi flags off 'Azadi ka Amrut Mahotsav’, remembers freedom fighters||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday launched 'Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav' in Gujarat’s Ahmedabad to mark the celebrations ahead of India’s 75 years of Independence. He flagged off the event by paying tribute to Mahatma Gandhi and all the freedom fighters who lost their lives fighting for the country’s independence. “I pay my respects at the feet of Bapu on this auspicious occasion. I bow to the feet of all the great personalities who sacrificed their lives during the freedom struggle of the country and lead the country. I salute them,” the Prime Minister said.The Prime Minister flagged off a padyatra or foot march from Sabarmati Ashram to re-enact Mahatma Gandhi's Dandi March. The 25-day padyatra will be undertaken by 81 people and cover a journey of 241 miles from Sabarmati Ashram to Dandi in Navsari. Union minister Prahlad Singh Patel will lead the first lap of 75 kilometres.The Prime Minister said ‘Azadi ka Amrut Mahotsav means elixir of the energy of freedom, it means the nectar of inspiration from freedom fighters, the nectar of new ideas, the nectar of new resolutions. and the nectar of self-reliance’. This nectar of inspiration from the past will serve to further inspire the coming generations of this country, he added.PM Modi invoked the Hindi idiom ‘desh ka namak’ and during the freedom, struggle salt became India’s symbol of self-reliance. “We still say we have eaten ‘desh ka namak’. This is not because salt is a very valuable thing. Salt has never been valued by its cost in our country. The salt here means honesty. Salt means faith. Salt means loyalty,” he said.The Prime Minister talked about the contributions of Bhakti saints in 'continuously awakening this flame of the freedom movement' across all regions of the country. “In a way, the Bhakti movement had prepared the bench for the nationwide freedom movement,” PM Modi said.Talking about freedom fighters from across the country, he invoked the memory of Kodi Kathmaran, the 32-year-old martyr from Tamil Nadu who lost his life while protecting the Indian flag. “The British shot the young man in the head, but he did not let the country's flag fall in the ground even while dying,” the Prime Minister said. He also talked at length about Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose and Birsa Munda for their contribution to the freedom struggle.“Whether it is a memorial in Jallianwala Bagh or a memorial in remembrance of the Paika movement, work has been done on all. The places associated with Baba Saheb, which had been forgotten for decades, have also been developed by the country in the form of Panchtirtha,” said the Prime Minister.He also talked about India’s present-day achievements, especially the country’s advancement in the fields of vaccine manufacturing and space exploration. “The whole world is benefitting from India’s self-sufficiency in vaccine manufacturing,” he said.The Prime Minister concluded his speech by passing over the baton to the youth and scholars of the country, asking them to take forward the exercise of writing India’s history and the history of her freedom fighters. He also asked artists associated with theatre, literature, film, and digital entertainment to bring to life the unique stories of India’s past.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-launches-amrut-mahotsav-to-mark-75-years-of-india-s-independence-101615531590477.html
12-03-2021||India||Officials associated with govts cannot work as state election commissioners: SC||The Supreme Court Friday held that a person associated or employed with the Centre or the state government cannot work as a state election commissioner, who need to be an independent person.The judgement came on an appeal by the Goa government against the high court's ruling on panchayat polls.The bench said election commissioners have to be independent persons and no state can appoint a person who holds any office with the government.A bench headed by Justice RF Nariman also directed the Goa state election body to issue the notification for the panchayat polls within 10 days from today and complete the poll process by April 30.Under the Constitutional mandate, it is the duty of the state to not interfere with the functioning of the state election commission, it held. It took strong note of the fact that Goa government has given its Law Secretary the additional charge of State Election Commissioner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/officials-associated-with-govts-cannot-work-as-state-election-commissioners-sc-101615530411772.html
12-03-2021||India||Teen rapes 7-year-old on pretext of making her watch TV in Uttar Pradesh||A seven-year-old girl was allegedly raped by a 15-year-old relative in Uttar Pradesh's Mahoba district, police said on Friday.The alleged incident took place on Wednesday evening in an area under the Charkhari police station limits, Station House Officer (SHO) Lakhan Singh said.Based on the complaint of the girl's family, a case in this connection was registered on Thursday, the SHO said.Citing the FIR, Singh said the girl was playing outside her house on Wednesday evening, when the relative took her to his home on the pretext of making her watch TV and allegedly raped her.The girl later narrated the incident to her mother, the SHO said.He said the accused, a class 10 student, has been apprehended and will be produced before a juvenile court on Friday.The girl was sent for medical examination, the SHO added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/teen-rapes-7-year-old-on-pretext-of-making-her-watch-tv-in-uttar-pradesh-101615529570162.html
12-03-2021||India||BJP CEC expected to meet on Saturday, clear candidates for poll-bound states||The Bharatiya Janata Party's (BJP) central election committee (CEC) will hold a meeting on Saturday for discussing the names of candidates for the upcoming Assembly polls in Assam, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Kerala and Puducherry, news agency ANI reported.The committee had met on Thursday to finalise party candidates for the initial phases of assembly polls in West Bengal and Assam, two of the four states going to the elections besides the union territory of Puducherry.The committee, which includes Prime Minister Narendra Modi, home minister Amit Shah and party president Jagat Prakash Nadda, met at the BJP headquarters along with other members.The CEC may clear the names of the candidates for most of the seats in the two states where elections will be held in the first two phases on March 27 and April 1, news agency PTI reported.While the third and last phase of polling in Assam will be held on April 6, West Bengal is scheduled to undergo elections in eight phases ending on April 29.Bengal is set to witness a high-pitched contest as chief minister Mamata Banerjee and her former aide and now BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari in Nandigram seat have been pitted against each other.Polling in Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry will take place in a single phase on April 6.The upcoming polls have set the tone for a fierce political battle between regional parties and the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party. The BJP has high stakes in West Bengal and Assam. In Bengal, it has mounted an aggressive, all-out campaign, deploying a battery of leaders and state heads to end the 10-year-old reign of chief minister Mamata Banerjee and her Trinamool Congress party.In Assam, where the party came to power for the first time in 2016, the BJP has been pulling out all the stops to retain power, with the Congress joining hands with regional parties to capture its old bastion.Before the CEC meeting, top BJP leaders like Shah and Nadda have held long deliberations with Assam party leaders, including chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal and minister Himanta Biswa Sharma, and those from Bengal, including state party chief Dilip Ghosh.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-cec-expected-to-meet-on-saturday-clear-candidates-for-poll-bound-states-101615524444535.html
12-03-2021||India||Uttarakhand Cabinet expansion today, new ministers set to take oath||New chief minister of Uttarakhand Tirath Singh Rawat will expand his cabinet on Friday, with new ministers set to take oath at 5pm, news agency ANI reported.State Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief Bansidhar Bhagat had hinted on Thursday that the new government will soon see cabinet expansion.Rawat was sworn-in as the Uttarakhand chief minister on Wednesday. Governor Baby Rani Maurya administered the oath of office to him alone at a simple function held at the Raj Bhawan.Three cabinet posts are up for grabs and will be filled soon, BJP Rajya Sabha member Dushyant Gautam told news agency PTI.Amid this talk of the impending expansion, Madan Kaushik, state minister for urban development, met Gautam on Thursday in the national Capital.Three more ministers can be sworn in during the expansion, PTI reported.Tirath Singh Rawat became the chief minister after his predecessor Trivendra Rawat resigned following a report from BJP general secretary in-charge of Uttarakhand Dushyant Kumar Gautam and former Chhattisgarh chief minister Dr Raman Singh. The report highlighted rebellion in the party, paving way for Rawat's exit.Assembly polls in the state are scheduled to take place in 2022.The BJP had swept the elections in 2017, winning 57 seats in the 70-member Uttarakhand Assembly. The Congress, on the other hand, was able to win just 11 seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-cabinet-expansion-to-take-place-today-new-ministers-to-take-oath-101615527589896.html
12-03-2021||India||Govt employees can’t be election commissioners, rules SC||The Supreme Court on Friday ruled that any persons employed with the central or state governments could not be appointed as election commissioners “across the length and breadth of the country”. The ruling aims at ensuring independence of the election commissions. A bench of justices Rohinton F Nariman and BR Gavai issued the direction exercising its powers under Articles 142 and 144 of the Constitution. Under Article 142, the apex court is empowered to issue directives to do “complete justice” whereas Article 144 obligates all authorities to act in aid of the Supreme Court. “The independence of the election commission cannot be compromised in a democracy. Entrusting additional charge of state election commissioner to a government official is a mockery of the Constitution,” held the court. Also Read | Supreme Court to hear plea for appointment of regular CBI director todayThe bench held that election commissioners have to be “independent persons” and that nobody, who has been employed or holds an office of profit under the central or any state government, could be appointed as election commissioners. The judgment came as the top court censured the Goa government for appointing its law secretary as the state election commissioner for conducting municipal council elections in the state. The law secretary was given the additional charge as the state election commissioner. Calling this a “disturbing feature”, the bench ordered that henceforth, no such person shall be appointed as election commissioner by the Centre or state government. The Goa government had appealed in the Supreme Court against the order of the high court which had cancelled elections to five municipalities in the state for not reserving the wards for women as per the law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-employees-can-t-be-election-commissioners-rules-sc-101615527698271.html
12-03-2021||India||Leaders of Quad to hold first summit today: Here’s what’s on agenda||The leaders of the Quad—which includes India, Australia, Japan and the US—will hold their first summit on Friday to decide on specific areas of cooperation to boost post-pandemic recovery and maritime security across the Indo-Pacific. Here’s a closer look at the summit and what’s on the agenda.What is the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue or Quad? The genesis of the Quad is a “core group” that was formed by the four countries in 2004 to coordinate their response to the Indian Ocean tsunami after India emerged as the first responder. After several meetings of senior officials, the grouping was sidelined by 2007, largely because of the concerns of the US and Australia about its impact on their relations with China.With the emergence of the Indo-Pacific as a key strategic region and a growing convergence between the four countries on key challenges in the region, the Quad was revived as a loose grouping in 2017 at the level of senior officials. As India’s comfort levels grew and all four countries faced challenges from an increasingly assertive China, the Quad was upgraded to the level of foreign ministers in September 2019.Also Watch | QUAD summit on 12 March: The agenda, significance & the China factor﻿What’s different about the Quad Summit? The Quad has never even issued a joint statement after any of its meetings, reflecting the slightly ambiguous nature of the grouping. So, for the leaders of the four countries to come together for a summit less than two months after US President Joe Biden assumed office is a big deal.India sees the Quad Summit as an opportunity for evolution because the grouping didn’t traditionally have definite areas of cooperation and restricted itself to discussing principles and shared strategic approaches. For India, the summit will help build on crucial partnerships to address challenges across the Indo-Pacific, which is home to some of New Delhi’s key partners.What’s on the agenda for the Quad Summit?The Quad leaders, in addition to discussing regional and global issues of shared interest and practical cooperation to ensure a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific, will exchange views on post-Covid-19 recovery, resilient supply and production chains, cooperation on emerging and critical technologies, maritime security, and climate change.There is also, as former ambassador Rajiv Bhatia, distinguished fellow for foreign policy studies at Gateway House, puts it, the unstated part of the agenda —the challenge posed by an assertive and aggressive China or the “dragon in the room”.All members of the Quad are currently dealing with challenges emanating from China. India has been locked in a military standoff with China in Ladakh sector of the Line of Actual Control since May last year; Australia has faced the impact of China’s escalating trade sanctions and has concerns about Chinese influence within the country; Japan has witnessed countless incursions by Chinese vessels in waters around the Senkaku Islands and has concerns about the Chinese Coast Guard law that authorises the use of force; the US administration has identified China as its main security and trade challenge.What are the expected outcomes of the Quad Summit?The launch of a Vaccine Initiative is being seen as the most significant deliverable of the summit. Vaccines developed in the US will be made in India, the world’s largest producer of vaccines. This initiative will be funded by Japan and the US and will add to India’s capacity as the “pharmacy to the world”, while Australia will provide logistics support to ship vaccines across the region.The Quad is also expected to launch a new initiative for the refining and production of rare earth metals, the production of which is currently controlled by China. These metals are critical for products such as mobile phones and batteries for electric vehicles.Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison has spoken on Friday about the four countries pursuing a “new energy economy right across the Indo-Pacific”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/leaders-of-quad-to-hold-first-summit-today-here-s-what-s-on-agenda-101615527518312.html
12-03-2021||India||Domestic flight departures grew by 63.4% from Sept 2020 to Feb 2021: ICRA||The number of flight departures grew by 63.4% from September 2020 to February 2021, as Indian airlines continued to add services following the government’s allowance for operating higher capacity in phased manner. During the same period, according to ICRA, a rating agency, the number of domestic passengers flown by the airlines increased more than four-fold to around 45.6 million from around 11 million. Indian airlines operated around 64,288 flights in February vis-à-vis 39,330 flights six months ago ie. September, last year, when the government allowed domestic carriers to operate up to 70% of their total flight capacity. This data, collated from rating agency ICRA’s monthly traffic numbers, reiterates the government’s claim that domestic air traffic has been growing every month since the first day restrictions were lifted. At the time domestic air services were reopened on May 25 last year following the pandemic-induced lockdown, which brought total flight movements to a halt for nearly two months, the government had allowed airlines to deploy only one-third of their capacity. Also Read | Airlines can take action against passengers not wearing masks: Delhi HCHowever, this threshold was increased to 80% in December, 2020.In 2020, IndiGo was the only airline to cross 100,000 scheduled departures. According to ICRA, it operated the most aircraft, 104,549 departures in 2020, followed by SpiceJet, Air India and GoAir respectively. In the last six months (from September, 2020 to February, 2021) approximately 24,958 flights have been added by Indian airlines. While, domestic air traffic continues to grow, the government is yet to allow airlines to utilise 100% flight capacity. Kinjal Shah, vice president, ICRA, said, “The average number of passengers per flight during February 2021 was 121, against an average of 136 passengers per flight in February 2020. Thus, it is expected that the domestic aviation industry operated at a passenger load factor (PLF) of ~78% in February 2021, against 87.7% in February 2020, that too on a low capacity. Overall, from May 25, 2020 till February 28, 2021, domestic passenger traffic has been pegged at ~45.6 million.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/domestic-flight-departures-grew-by-63-4-from-sept-2020-to-feb-2021-icra-101615527098156.html
12-03-2021||India||Gulmarg gets over 13 inches of fresh snow as Kashmir weather remains erratic||The upper reaches of Kashmir are receiving fresh snowfall, while rains lash many other parts of the region. The Indian Meteorological Department has predicted erratic weather conditions in Jammu and Kashmir till March 15. Tourist resort of Gulmarg has received more than 13 inches of snow during the night.Snowfall was recorded in several north Kashmir towns including Kupwara and Baramulla. Srinagar city and south Kashmir witnessed heavy snowfall through the night, bringing down the temperature.Director MeT, Sonum Lotus said widespread incessant light to moderate rain, snow (on higher reaches) in Kashmir and at scattered places in Jammu was likely to continue. "We expect significant decrease in rain from March 12 but weather is likely to remain erratic till March 15," he said, while warning about the possibility of landslides and avalanches at vulnerable spots as the land is fully saturated.Also Watch: Two terrorists killed in encounter with security forces in J&K's AnantnagThe maximum temperature in Srinagar at night was 2.2 degree Celsius, while Pahalgam and Gulmarg recorded minimum night temperatures of 0.3 degree and minus 2.4 degree Celsius respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gulmarg-gets-over-13-inches-of-fresh-snow-as-kashmir-weather-remains-erratic-101615526706715.html
12-03-2021||India||Another activist Shubham Kar Chaudhari gets relief in toolkit case||After Nikita Jacob and Shantanu Muluk, another climate activist Shubham Kar Chaudhari was given interim relief by a Delhi court in the toolkit case related to farmers' protest. Chaudhari has been given protection from arrest till March 15.An FIR was registered against him in Delhi under sections 124A (sedition), 153A (promoting enmity) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).The Goa bench of the Bombay high court had earlier granted Chaudhari protection from arrest until March 12, so that he can approach a court in Delhi where the FIR is registered against him.Additional public prosecutor Irfan Ahmed told the court that similar pre-arrest bail petitions of the co-accused Muluk and Jacob is listed for March 15 and hence the matter should be taken up then. The prosecutor told the court that facts of the case are same and hence the matters can be taken up together.Advocate Soutik Banerjee, representing Chaudhari, requested the court that the protection be extended as the interim relief from the Goa bench is going to end today. Banerjee also said that his client has no role in the creation, editing and dissemination of the toolkit.Chaudhari also said through his lawyer that he has volunteered with environment organisation Extinction Rebellion and is presently its South Asian liaison. Both Jacob and Muluk are members of the said organisation, said the lawyer Banerjee, making it clear that his association with the duo is strictly in their capacity as volunteers and he has nothing to do with the creation of the online toolkit.Additional sessions judge Dharmender Rana then posted the matter for hearing on March 15 stating that "meanwhile no coercive steps would be taken against the accused till then".The court had earlier granted regular bail to climate activist Disha Ravi in the case.On February 3, Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg had shared this 'toolkit' in a tweet, which she later deleted. Greta had also extended support to the protest by farmer unions on the borders of Delhi against the new farm laws.As per Delhi Police, the toolkit shared by the Swedish climate activist played a major role in turning the January 26 tractor parade violent, leaving a few hundred police personnel injured.Police said that the toolkit was not created just by a handful of activists in India but in collaboration with pro-Khalistani organisations.The Special Cell of Delhi Police lodged an FIR against creating and spreading the toolkit and said that a probe is on to unravel an "international conspiracy" to defame India.The police had registered the case on February 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/another-activist-shubham-kar-chaudhari-gets-relief-in-toolkit-case-101615526202751.html
12-03-2021||India||'A lump of salt': Significance of Dandi March led by Mahatma Gandhi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will flag off a commemorative 25-day long foot march from Mahatma Gandhi’s Sabarmati Ashram in Gujarat’s Ahmedabad on Friday to launch the celebrations of the 75th year of India’s Independence, the Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav. The day marks the start of the Dandi March, also known as the Salt March or the Salt Satyagraha, a part of Mahatma Gandhi’s non-violent protest against the British monopoly over the production of salt. Led by the Father of the Nation, 78 people started the Salt Satyagraha on March 12, 1930, from Gandhi’s Sabarmati Ashram.Read more: Guest Column: At 75, a renewed resolve to build New India togetherBefore beginning the foot march, Gandhi addressed a letter to the viceroy expressing his intention to launch a civil disobedience movement in the country by symbolically breaking the salt tax law imposed by the Britishers, calling the law as "the most iniquitous of all from the poor man's standpoint." On the eve of the March, Gandhi said in a speech, “In all probability, this will be my last speech to you. Even if the Government allows me to march tomorrow morning, this will be my last speech on the sacred banks of the Sabarmati. Possibly, these may be the last words of my life here.”The march ended on April 5, 1930, in Dandi when Gandhi defied the salt law by picking a lump of salt. After this, millions of people broke the salt law as salt depots were raided everywhere and the manufacture of salt was undertaken. "Now that the technical or ceremonial breach of the salt law has been committed, it is now open to anyone who would take the risk of prosecution under the salt law to manufacture salt, wherever he wishes and wherever it is convenient,” Mahatma Gandhi said in a statement issued after breaking the salt law.Read more: National Salt Satyagraha Memorial: Recreating the historic Dandi MarchIn response, the British government arrested more than 95,000 people by March 31. After making salt at Dandi, Gandhi headed to Dharasana salt works and was arrested on May 5, 1930, and taken to the Yerwada central prison. But the salt satyagraha spread nationwide, becoming the first call for civil disobedience and thus, one of the most important chapters of India’s Independence struggle.Union culture and tourism minister Prahlad Singh Patel has said the nearly 387km padayatra flagged by PM Modi will also start on the same root on which Mahatma Gandhi led that march. "There is a group of 81 youth from Gujarat, who will complete the journey from Sabarmati to Dandi. There is another group of 81 people, who will complete the 75km journey and I will also be in it. This journey will be a 75km journey from Sabarmati to Nadiad," the minister was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-lump-of-salt-significance-of-dandi-march-led-by-mahatma-gandhi-101615525901443.html
12-03-2021||India||'Vocal for Local' wonderful tribute to Mahatma Gandhi, freedom fighters: PM Modi||Announcing the beginning of the 'Amrit Mahotsav', Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said that 'Vocal For Local' is a wonderful tribute to Mahatma Gandhi and other great freedom fighters."Today's #AmritMahotsav programme begins from Sabarmati Ashram, from where the Dandi March began. The March had a key role in furthering a spirit of pride and Aatmanirbharta among India's people. Going #VocalForLocal is a wonderful tribute to Bapu and our great freedom fighters," Prime Minister Modi said in a tweet.He added, "Buy any local product and post a picture on social media using #VocalForLocal. A Charkha will be installed near Magan Niwas at Sabarmati Ashram. It will rotate full circle with each Tweet related to Aatmanirbharta. This shall also become a catalyst for a people's movement."Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate ''Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav' and flag off Padyatra from Sabarmati Ashram, Ahmedabad in Gujarat to mark 75 years of India's Independence.PM Modi will also flag off the freedom march or 'padyatra' from Sabarmati Ashram.The Mahotsav is a series of events to be organised by the Government to commemorate the 75th Anniversary of India's Independence. It will be celebrated as a Jan-Utsav in the spirit of Jan-Bhagidari. The curtain raiser activities are beginning from March 12, 75 weeks prior to August 15, 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vocal-for-local-wonderful-tribute-to-mahatma-gandhi-freedom-fighters-pm-modi-101615525280590.html
12-03-2021||India||After din over fuel price hike, peace likely to return to Parliament from Monday||After a stormy budget session week due to the din over the hike in fuel prices, chances are bright for the two Houses of Parliament to return to normalcy from Monday. The Opposition parties agreed to participate in House proceedings at a meeting chaired by Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla on Friday after the latter’s negotiations. According to two Opposition leaders, Birla told them that while their issues—fuel price hike and farm laws—are important, urgent business with constitutional requirements needs to be completed. “The Speaker told us we need to pass the Finance Bill and the demand for grants on an urgent basis. He also told us that he will adjourn the House quickly so that the MPs can go back to their states for poll campaign,” said senior Trinamool leader Saugata Ray. The budget session of Parliament is likely to be cut short by 10 days and is expected to adjourn on March 25. Also Read | PM won’t make March 12 statement as Oppn seeks debate on fuel priceA senior Congress leader admitted that disruptions “can’t go on forever”. “We have protested for three consecutive days and didn’t allow any government business. Now, we also need to raise our issues on the floor of the House and corner the BJP over people’s issues,” a senior Rajya Sabha strategist of the Congress said on Friday on the condition of anonymity. The Opposition parties are likely to meet informally on Monday morning and jointly strategise on how to utilise the debates on demand for grants and Finance Bill to underline the alleged mismanagement of the government on various sectors and the economy. Meanwhile, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will make a statement on Monday to commemorate the celebrations of 75 years of independence. He was scheduled to speak on March 12 but deferred the plan due to lack of consensus between the ruling dispensation and Opposition parties. The Opposition disrupted both Houses of Parliament for three consecutive days over fuel price hikes and three contentious farm laws before proceedings were adjourned till Monday. After negotiations with the Opposition failed, parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi said: “PM Modi wanted to make a statement in the House on the 75th independence celebrations ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’. But due to lack of consensus, the statement will not be made. It will happen when a consensus is reached.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-din-over-fuel-price-hike-peace-likely-to-return-to-parliament-from-monday-101615524578268.html
12-03-2021||India||Historic first Quad summit today; focus on vaccine supply: All you need to know||The first Quad leaders’ summit on Friday will create a framework to allow the four-nation grouping to take the lead in post-Covid-19 recovery efforts, especially access to vaccines, and the creation of resilient supply chains for materials such as rare earth metals. Here is all you need to know about the summit:• The maiden summit of the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue, convened by US President Joe Biden less than two months after he assumed office, reflects the urgency attached to coalesce the loose group to bolster cooperation on key challenges across the region and to counter a belligerent China.• India perceives the summit as key to building on crucial partnerships to address challenges in the Indo-Pacific and securing the maritime domain.Also Watch | QUAD summit on 12 March: The agenda, significance & the China factor• Among the key initiatives expected to be on the agenda when Biden, Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi, his Australian and Japanese counterparts, Scott Morrison, Yoshihide Suga, gather virtually at 7pm on Friday is a “Vaccine Initiative” and a procurement and supply chain for rare earth metals.• The Vaccine Initiative is being seen as the “most significant deliverable” from the summit as greater access to doses, especially for developing nations, will foster a quick global economic recovery.• This pooling of capacities by Quad members will help boost global vaccine delivery, meet the demand-supply gap, especially within the Indo-Pacific, and add momentum to efforts to contain the pandemic.• India’s role in the Vaccine Initiative will reinforce its credentials as a trusted and reliable manufacturer and supplier of medicines and expand the “Vaccine Maitri” initiative that has supplied 58.3 million doses to 69 countries so far. • Sources said the Quad’s model for collective humanitarian action through supply of Covid-19 vaccines can also serve as a template for peace, cooperation and prosperity in the Indo-Pacific, which the grouping defines as its main objective.• The genesis of the Quad was a “core group” formed by the four countries in 2004 for a joint response to the Indian Ocean tsunami. After the US and Australia sidelined the grouping because of sensitivities linked to their relations with China, the grouping faded away from the centre stage around 2007.• As the Indo-Pacific became a key strategic region, the Quad was revived, largely because of Japan’s efforts, in 2017 as a dialogue at the level of senior officials. India was represented by a joint secretary from the foreign ministry. In September 2019, the grouping was elevated to the level of foreign ministers as India became more comfortable with it and there was greater convergence among members on concerns related to China.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/historic-first-quad-summit-today-focus-on-vaccine-supply-all-you-need-to-know-101615523018051.html
12-03-2021||India||NCPCR asks Netflix to stop streaming 'Bombay Begums' over inappropriate portrayal of children||The apex child rights body NCPCR has asked Netflix to stop streaming 'Bombay Begums' citing inappropriate portrayal of children in the web series.In a notice to Netflix on Thursday, the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) has asked the OTT platform to furnish a detailed action report within 24 hours, failing which it said it will be constrained to initiate appropriate legal action.Objecting to the alleged inappropriate portrayal of children in the series, the commission said this type of content will not only pollute the young minds but may also result in abuse and exploitation of children.The commission took action based on a complaint which alleged that the series normalises minors indulging in casual sex and drug abuse."Netflix should take extra precaution while streaming any content in respect of the children or for the children and shall also refrain themselves from getting into such things," the commission said in its notice."Therefore, you are directed to look into this matter and immediately stop streaming of this series and furnish a detailed action report within 24 hours, failing which the Commission will be constrained to initiate appropriate action pursuant to the provisions of Section 14 of the CPCR (Commission for Protection of Child Rights) Act, 2005," the commission said.'Bombay Begums' delves into the lives of five women from different sections of society who all want different things in life.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ncpcr-asks-netflix-to-stop-streaming-of-bombay-begums-101615521475631.html
12-03-2021||India||India's records 23,285 new Covid-19 infections in 24 hours, active cases up by 8,011||India recorded 23,285 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), which pushed the nationwide tally to 11,308,846, data from the Union health ministry showed on Friday.Also Read: 4 charts that show India’s second wave has startedThe number of active cases, which has been an area of concern for the central government, stood at 197237 after a staggering 8,011 new cases were recorded in the last 24 hours. The number represents people who are infected with the disease right now. After a recent surge in the number of Covid-19 cases in a few states, the active cases have risen rapidly, raising fears among the experts of yet another wave of the viral disease looming.Also Watch: Situation 'worrisome' in Maharashtra, says CentreThe country recorded 117 fresh fatalities due to the infection in the last 24 hours, which pushed the death toll to 1,58,306, the health ministry data showed. According to the government, 10,953,303 patients have been cured or discharged from hospitals.Maharashtra, the worst-affected state, has seen a resurgence of the disease. On Thursday, Maharashtra recorded 14,317 new infections - its highest number of new cases this year - a situation that Union health ministry officials separately described as “very worrying”.Several parts of the state will be put under a lockdown in an attempt to contain a worsening Covid-19 outbreak, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said on Thursday.Also Read: Districts in Maharashtra which have announced fresh curbsIn Delhi too, there has been a fresh spike in the number of cases. The national capital on Thursday reported 409 new infections of Covid-19, the highest single-day increase in cases in over two months. The seven-day average of daily cases, also known as the case trajectory, in Delhi touched 322 on Thursday - it had dropped to 125 for the week ending February 12, which was the lowest in eight months.The Centre also released a list of 10 districts that have the highest number of active Covid-19 cases at present. Out of these, only two are outside Maharashtra.According to ministry data, Pune has 18,474 active cases, which is the highest. It is followed by Nagpur (12,724), Thane (10.460), Mumbai (9,973), Bengaluru Urban (5,526), Ernakulam (5,430), Amravati (5,259), Jalgaon (5,029), Nashik (4.525) and Aurangabad (4,354).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-records-23-285-new-covid-19-infections-active-cases-up-by-8011-101615520095538.html
12-03-2021||India||Supreme Court to hear plea for appointment of regular CBI director today||The Supreme Court on Friday will take up a petition filed by NGO Common Cause seeking the appointment of a regular director for the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI).Presently, the premier investigating agency is headed by interim director Pravin Sinha after the regular director, Rishi Kumar Shukla, demitted office on February 2 after serving his tenure of two years. The petition filed in Supreme Court through advocate Prashant Bhushan has sought directions to the Centre to initiate and complete the process of selection of CBI director and to ensure that such process is initiated at least one month prior to the post becoming vacant.The matter will be heard by a bench of justices L Nageswar Rao and S Ravindra Bhat. Also Read | SC to hear NHRC plea seeking release of Senior Superintendent of PoliceOn February 3, 2021, Pravin Sinha assumed office as interim or acting director. His appointment was to last till the appointment of a new director or until further orders.As per regular practice, a high-powered committee (HPC) headed by Prime Minister and comprising the Leader of the single-largest Opposition Party and the Chief Justice of India (or any judge of the Supreme Court nominated by CJI) recommends the name of the CBI director. This procedure is detailed under Section 4A of the Delhi Special Police Establishment (DSPE) Act which governs CBI. This process was clearly bypassed in the appointment of the interim director. Also, the HPC had to meet two months before the term of the director expires, the petition said. Once the HPC makes its recommendation, the Department of Personnel and Training issues an order appointing the new director. The petition said, “The director of the CBI is the final authority in the organisation. He supervises all the work in the CBI and is responsible for constitution of investigating teams for probing cases. Hence, this court and later even Parliament have made determined efforts to enhance the functional autonomy of the CBI director and limit the extent of executive discretion in the matter of appointment of this key functionary.” This is not the first time the NGO Common Cause has approached the Supreme Court over the appointment of CBI director. In 2016, the NGO had similarly faulted the government’s move to appoint an interim director. “Now again the same issue has cropped up which has to be dealt with utmost seriousness in view of the sheer power that vests with the important office of a CBI director,” the petition stated. According to the petition, the CBI is probing cases involving rampant corruption in high places in the country. The manifest unwillingness of the government to institute a transparent and accountable system to ensure that the culprits are punished seriously impairs the right of the people to live in a corruption and crime free society which violates Articles 14 (right to equality) and 21 (right to life and liberty) of the citizens, added the petition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-to-hear-plea-for-appointment-of-regular-cbi-director-today-101615521217914.html
12-03-2021||India||News updates from HT: PM Modi to inaugurate 'Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav' today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.PM Modi to flag off Dandi March, launch 'Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav' todayPrime Minister Narendra Modi will on Friday flag off a padyatra (foot march) from Sabarmati Ashram in Gujarat to re-enact the famous Dandi march carried out by Mahatma Gandhi. It will also mark the beginning of 'Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav', a government initiative to mark 75 years of India's Independence. Read moreRain and thunderstorms likely over NW India till SundayRain and thunderstorms are expected across the Western Himalayan region and parts of northwest India till March 14 according, to India Meteorological Department. There is a Western Disturbance (WD) as a trough (low pressure area) in westerlies. An induced cyclonic circulation is lying over central Pakistan and adjoining West Rajasthan. Read moreAustralia continues AstraZeneca roll-out, says no evidence of blood clotsAustralia said on Friday it will continue to roll-out AstraZeneca's Covid-19 vaccine as there was no evidence of a link to blood clots, despite some European countries suspending its use. Read moreNetflix tests password sharing feature, asks users to verify in a messageNetflix Inc is testing a feature that asks viewers to verify they share a household with the account holder, the company said on Thursday, a move that could lead to a clampdown on sharing of passwords. Read more‘Prime focus would be on them’: Virat Kohli names ‘the favourites’ to win T20 World CupAs India and England gear up for the 5-match T20I series on Friday, both teams will be utilising this contest to figure out a strong combination for the much-awaited T20I World Cup which will be held in India later this year. Read morePriyanka Chopra interrupts Nick Jonas' Spaceman music video launch with kiss, he shares a cheeky pic of her. WatchNick Jonas has unveiled the music video for his latest song, Spaceman. The video shows Nick as a lovelorn man, walking on a distant planet after being separated from the one he loves. Nick has previously said that the song, and the entire album is about his feeling of isolation and his love for Priyanka. Read moreGenelia Deshmukh paints the town red in timeless co-ord set worth ₹18k, picsDo you know why we keep saying that a beautiful bright red attire is a must-have in every wardrobe? Well, today we will let Genelia Deshmukh tell you. Not long ago, the actor, for an interview, wore a gorgeous red-co-ord set and looked like a dream. Read moreWatch: 150 NSG commandos get Covid-19 vaccine doses in Mumbai﻿||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updated-from-ht-pm-modi-to-inaugurate-azadi-ka-amrut-mahotsav-today-101615518113374.html
12-03-2021||India||PM Modi to virtually inaugurate Global Ayurveda Festival today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to inaugurate the fourth edition of the Global Ayurveda Festival through video conference on Friday .This festival will be held virtually between March 12 and March 19.Union Sports and Youth Affairs Minister Kiren Rijiju, Union Minister V Muraleedharan, the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI) President Uday Shankar and former FICCI President Dr Sangita Reddy will also be present at the event.Muraleedharan is the Chairman of the Organizing Committee of the festival. The keynote address in the event will be delivered by World Health Organization Chief Scientist Dr Soumya Swaminathan, Central AYUSH Secretary Vaidya Rajesh Kotecha and Central AYUSH Advisor Vaidya Manoj Nesari.The festival will also include international seminars, a global exhibition and business meet. The festival will hold an all-time record in the number of delegates, the number of scientists presenting papers and the number of participating countries and institutions.It will feature lectures by 35 internationally renowned scientists and more than 150 Indian scientists. As many as 650 of the 1150 selected research papers will be presented live and 500 research papers will be with a poster presentation.The festival, which was scheduled to be held in Angamaly in May 2020, was postponed due to the Cov-19 pandemic. And, now it is being held virtually in five virtual venues from 9 am to 10 pm.Notably, the second edition of the Global Ayurveda Festival had been also inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Kozhikode.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-virtually-inaugurate-global-ayurveda-festival-today-101615517610104.html
12-03-2021||India||PM Modi to flag off Dandi March, launch 'Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav' today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Friday flag off a padyatra (foot march) from Sabarmati Ashram in Gujarat to re-enact the famous Dandi march carried out by Mahatma Gandhi. It will also mark the beginning of 'Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav', a government initiative to mark 75 years of India's Independence."12th March is a special day in India’s glorious history. On that day in 1930, the iconic Dandi March led by Mahatma Gandhi began. Tomorrow, from Sabarmati Ashram we will commence Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav, to mark 75 years since Independence," PM Modi said in a tweet on Thursday.The inauguration will take place at 10.30 am. Gujarat governor Acharya Devvrat, Union minister Prahalad Singh Patel and chief minister Vijay Rupani will be present on the occasion.In a release, the government said that the padyatra will be undertaken by 81 marchers from Sabarmati Ashram in Ahmedabad to Dandi in Navsari, a journey of about 388 kilometres. The march will end after 25 days, on April 5. Union minister Prahlad Patel will lead the first lap of 75 kilometres of the padyatra."A Padyatra would be flagged-off from Sabarmati Ashram, which would cover the journey from Ahmedabad to Dandi. People from all sections of society will take part in the Padyatra," the Prime Minister said in another tweet.A Padyatra would be flagged-off from Sabarmati Ashram, which would cover the journey from Ahmedabad to Dandi. People from all sections of society will take part in the Padyatra."There is a group of 81 youth from Gujarat, who will complete the journey from Sabarmati to Dandi. There is another group of 81 people, who will complete the 75 km journey and I will also be in it. This journey will be a 75 km journey from Sabarmati to Nadiad," Patel said.Notably, Mahatma Gandhi started the Dandi March in 1930 by announcing the 'Salt Satyagraha' on March 12 and the yatra lasted till April 5.The Centre will also launch a series of events from Friday to celebrate 75 years of India's Independence on August 15, 2022. According to government's plan, the events will be celebrated with the spirit of public participation.The government has constituted a committee under Union home minister Amit Shah to chalk out policies and planning of various events to be undertaken as part of the celebrations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-flag-off-dandi-march-launch-azadi-ka-amrut-mahotsav-today-101615516930106.html
12-03-2021||India||Rain and thunderstorms likely over NW India till Sunday||Rain and thunderstorms are expected across the Western Himalayan region and parts of northwest India till March 14 according, to India Meteorological Department.There is a Western Disturbance (WD) as a trough (low pressure area) in westerlies. An induced cyclonic circulation is lying over central Pakistan and adjoining West Rajasthan. Under the influence of the Western Disturbances and their interaction with lower level easterlies, fairly widespread to widespread light to moderate rainfall or snowfall is very likely over Jammu & Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan, Muzaffarabad, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand with isolated heavy falls likely over Jammu & Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan & Muzaffarabad on March 11 and 12.Thunderstorms, lightning or gusty winds (speed reaching 30-40 kmph) or hail over the Western Himalayan region is likely during March 11 and 12. Scattered light to moderate rainfall over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, Rajasthan and West Uttar Pradesh is likely during March 11 to 12 evening. Thunderstorm, lightning or gusty winds (speed reaching 30-40 kmph) or hail are likely over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and West Uttar Pradesh during March 11 and 12.Due to eastward movement of the Western Disturbance, thunderstorm or lightning and hail are very likely over east Madhya Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, West Bengal and Sikkim during March 12 to 13.A fresh WD is very likely to affect the Western Himalayan Region and the adjoining plains of Northwest India from March 13. Under its influence, scattered rainfall is expected over the Western Himalayan region during March 14 and 15 and very light rainfall over northern parts of Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh on March 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rain-and-thunderstorms-likely-over-nw-india-till-sunday-101615517138106.html
12-03-2021||India||Goa beach’s Blue Flag certification in limbo as court stays Central notification||The Bombay high court at Goa has stayed a fresh notification issued by the ministry of environment and forests, which relaxed the coastal regulation norms for Goa’s Miramar beach to set up facilities required for international Blue Flag certification since the ministry hasn't explained the reasons for dispensing with the mandatory public consultation process.Goa’s Miramar beach, located in the state capital, is one among several beaches across the country that have been identified for Blue Flag certification, an internationally recognized beach certification which gives potential visitors the assurance that the beach will maintain a minimum set standard of cleanliness and facilities for access, changing among other amenities.In a notification first issued in July 12, 2019, the MoEF relaxed the CRZ norms allowing the setting up of facilities including container based toilet blocks, change rooms, shower panels; mini grey water treatment plant enclosed in temporary structures; Mini solid waste recycling plant enclosed in temporary structures; Off grid solar PV panels; purified drinking water kiosks; watch towers; beach information hoarding boards and beach layout map hoarding boards, etc as close as 10 metres from the High Tide Line.As per the Coastal Regulation Zone (CRZ) notification, no structures, barring temporary structures specifically permitted can be set up within 200 metres from the High Tide Line.The notification was challenged before the Bombay high court at Goa which had in October 2019, granted a temporary stay on the notification with regard to its operation at the Miramar beach, giving the Union ministry four weeks to reply.However, when the petition came up for hearing, the petitioner Kashinath Shetye, an activist, told the court that the Union ministry has ignored the notice from the high court and instead issued a fresh notification.“We had stayed the notification on the grounds that there were no reasons disclosed for dispensing the Public Consultative Process which was required to be followed under the Environment Protection Rules, 1986. The Ministry of Environment Forest & Climate Change has issued yet another order/notification dated 09.01.2020, again, declaring Blue Flag Certification in respect of Miramar beach. Even on this occasion, the Public Consultative Process has been dispensed with. We today stay the impugned notification dated 09.01.2020 to the extent it concerns the Miramar beach at Panaji until further orders,” the high court bench of justices M S Sonak and Bharati Dangre ruled.Also Read: Alert cop saves passenger from falling under train at a station in Goa. WatchThe Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, with a view to protect and conserve the environment and control and abate pollution in beaches and sea waters, has decided to identify beaches for the purpose of internationally recognised “Blue Flag” certification. Goa’s Miramar beach was one among an initial list of 12 beaches to be selected which was later expanded to include others.In October last year, eight beaches across the country were successfully awarded the certification while Goa's Miramar beach is yet to make headway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-beach-s-blue-flag-certification-in-limbo-as-court-stays-central-notification-101615514228494.html
12-03-2021||India||TMC set to encash alleged attack on Mamata as BJP says no politics on incident||With the supremo of the Trinamool Congress and the country’s only lady chief minister Mamata Banerjee being allegedly attacked, days ahead of the crucial assembly polls, the state’s ruling party is planning to go all out to encash on the incident even as a Bharatiya Janata Party leader described her as “PhD in drama.”Banerjee on Thursday declared that she will be starting her campaign trail on a wheelchair and will attend the party meetings.“I hope to return to the field in the next two to three days. I will have pain but I will manage. I will not drop a single meeting. Maybe I would have to take the help of a wheelchair. I need your support,” she said in the video message from the hospital.Her party, the TMC has decided to organise silent protest across the state from tomorrow and the party workers would wear black bands to condemn the incident, party leaders said.“We are going to organize silent rallies in every block and wards across the state on Friday between 3 pm and 5 pm. People carrying black flags, wearing black badges and covering their mouth with black cloth will participate in the rally,” said Parth Chatterjee, state minister.TMC workers since Wednesday night have already been staging protests and blocked roads with burning tyres in various corners. Skirmishes were also reported between TMC and BJP workers in some places though no one was seriously injured, the police said.Pujas were performed at various temples across the states and prayers were held at mosques seeking her speedy recovery as the TMC tried to make a political issue accusing the BJP over the incident.“The only woman chief minister in the country was injured and attacked. The Prime Minister and the Union home minister however didn’t show the courtesy to call up. We condemn this,” said Saugata Roy, TMC MP.The BJP on the other hand, mounted an attack on Banerjee while maintaining that a thorough probe was required in the incident. It also demanded that the pictures of the incident be made public and it be probed by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI).“Even our workers sustained injuries. They underwent treatment and then returned to give a befitting reply. They didn’t stage any drama. But she doesn’t have the strength to give a befitting reply anymore and hence only staging a drama. She has done a PhD in drama,” Dilip Ghosh, state BJP president, told reporters while adding, “This is her old habit.”However, later in the day, the BJP leaders said that they would not indulge in any politics over her injuries. Saying that the fight with the TMC is a political one and on ideological and development issues, BJP spokesman Samik Bhattacharya wished her a speedy recovery and said the party hoped for her return to the electoral arena as soon as possible.“We will not do any kind of politics over the chief minister's injuries. We pray for her early recovery and return to the political stage," he told reporters at a press conference at the BJP headquarters.Also Read: TMC letter after CM injury full of ‘insinuations, averments’: ECThe TMC’s allegations of an attack against the chief minister got a shot in the arm with many of her allies, including Arvind Kejriwal, Akhilesh Yadav and Tejashwi Yadav, throwing their weight behind her.“I strongly condemn the attack on Mamta Didi. Those responsible should be immediately arrested and punished. I pray for her speedy recovery,” Kejriwal tweeted on Wednesday night.“Shocked by the reprehensible attack on @MamataOfficial at an election rally today. Shows the hatred & division that has possessed this country. My best wishes for her campaign & hope she recovers soon,” tweeted Mehbooba Mufti, former CM of Jammu and Kashmir on Thursday.Ahead of 2014 Lok Sabha polls, Banerjee had alleged that there was an attempt to kill her when a fire broke out in her hotel room because of a short circuit. In December 2016, she had alleged that there was conspiracy to kill her when a flight in which she was travelling had to hover for some time before landing.Also Read: Mamata injury draws new Bengal battle lineThe TMC has already started to target the state’s women voters who comprise more than 49% of the electorate. The party has also launched a slogan which translates into ‘Bengal wants its own daughter’. West Bengal has around 3.73 crore male voters, while there are around 3.59 crore female voters in the state. In the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the participation rate of women voters in Bengal was as high as 81.7%.On the politics over the incident, Biswanath Chakraborty, professor of political science at Rabindra Bharati University, said all will depend on whether there is a strong anti-incumbency against Mamata Banerjee or not.“If the anti-incumbency factor is strong against Mamata and people have decided that BJP can be an alternative force, then it won't matter whether she fights the election on a wheel chair. But if Mamata is still acceptable and people still want her as the chief minister then the TMC could encash this," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmc-set-to-encash-alleged-attack-on-mamata-as-bjp-says-no-politics-on-incident-101615512671454.html
12-03-2021||India||4 charts that show India’s second wave has started||A minor change in trajectory that began towards the second half of February in Maharashtra and Punjab has now become a steady stream of increasing new infections of Covid-19 across the country in the past week or so. This has led some experts to speculate that this may be the start of India’s second Covid wave. But is this really the start of a new wave of infections? Is it limited to only a handful of regions, or are cases rising everywhere? Amid an ongoing vaccination drive and the fears of mutant strains gaining ground, four charts show how the talks of India’s second wave of infections may be entirely valid.1. Nationwide resurgence of new infections continuesThe seven-day average of new Covid-19 cases (also known as case trajectory) across India has risen by 67% from lows seen after the end of the first wave of the pandemic (from 10,988 cases a day week ending February 11, to 18,371 cases a day for week ending Wednesday), underlining what clearly appears to mark the start of the second wave of infections.While initially, this increase in cases was gradual, it has slowly been gaining pace and has come at a time when restrictions on several economic and social activities have eased, and people and governments are getting complacent, with almost no mask discipline in many parts of rural India, and even some cities.The worrying trend, however, is that in most countries in the West that have experienced multiple waves, the second wave (and in some cases third wave) has been stronger than the first in terms of number of daily cases, although the number of deaths were far fewer.At the same time, testing is at least 40% off its peak across India. In the past week, 725,626 samples were tested every day for Covid-19 across the country on average, against a peak of 1,196,972 tests a day on average for the week ending October 10, 2020.2. States where cases are rising twice as fast as the national averagePunjab has seen its seven-day average of daily cases go up the most in the country – it has gone up 509% from the trough after the first wave, nearly eight times the national average. The state, which has been at the centre of the farmer agitation in the past three-four months, saw a bottoming out of the case trajectory at 181 cases a day on average for the week ending January 27. Since then, however, cases started rising slowly through the first two weeks of February, after which the case trajectory rose abruptly.Maharashtra has seen the second highest resurgence of cases after Punjab. The state has witnessed a rise of 331% from its post-peak low seen for the week ending February 11 – from 2,415 average daily infections to 10,410. In absolute numbers, the western state, which is the worst-hit in the country with 2,252,057 confirmed infections and 52,610 deaths till Wednesday, leads all other states and UTs by a massive margin. More than half (57%) of the 128,599 new Covid infections reported across the country in the past week have been in Maharashtra.Haryana, another state which has seen mass mobilisation of people due to the ongoing farmer agitation, is on the third spot in terms of resurgence of cases. The seven-day average of new infections in the state has gone up 302% from the trough seen for the week ending February 8 – from 74 new infections a day on average to 297 in the past week.These three states are followed (after a fair gap) by Madhya Pradesh (164% rise from lows seen after the first wave) and Delhi (140% rise from lows), which make up the five states with the most sharply rising cases in the country.Among other of India’s 20 most populous regions, Assam (138% rise from trough), Gujarat (up 125%) and Rajasthan (rise of 111%) and Andhra Pradesh (105%) are also states of high concern.Kerala, meanwhile, remains the only state in the country which is yet to bring its primary wave of infections under control. In fact, 17 out of India’s 20 most populated states have seen cases rise 20% more from their troughs.3. Positivity rate has again started going upOn average, 2.6% of all samples tested across India have been positive for Covid-19 in the past week. While this number is still low in absolute terms (the World Health Organization recommends that the positivity rate from a region that has a comprehensive testing programme should be at or below 5%), the worrying trend is that is it rising again. In less than a month, the average weekly positivity rate in the country has gone up by a percentage point – it was 1.6% for the week ending February 14.Positivity rate is a crucial metric as experts say it shows how widespread the virus is in the community, and when coupled with an increase new cases, indicates that the virus is not only getting more common in the public, but also spreading fast. As a rule of thumb, tracking a region’s positivity rate serves as a good barometer for whether cases are going to increase or decrease in the coming days, i.e. a rising positivity rate generally means cases will be rising in the immediate future, while a dropping positivity rate tends to precede a drop in cases.4. Trajectory of active case has been rising for 20 daysActive cases are calculated by subtracting the number of people who have recovered or died from the total number of confirmed infections – it gives us an idea of the number of people that are currently carrying the virus (that we know of). Tracking the rise or fall of active cases is crucial because it reflects the actual spread of a virus in a region. A higher active caseload means that the virus has more hosts in a region, and can thus has a higher chance of spreading to more people.The seven-day average of change in active cases (unlike total caseload, active cases can fall) has been positive for the last 20 days, or since February 17. For the 80 days before February 17, the active case trend line was negative – this meant that every week, the country was reducing its active caseload. In the past week, however, the country has added 2,251 active cases every day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-charts-that-show-india-s-second-wave-has-started-101615502032933.html
12-03-2021||India||Most lawmakers defected from Congress, BJP got highest joinees||In the last five years, the Congress has lost the highest number of lawmakers to rivals while the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) absorbed most of the MLAs who switched sides, a study by the Association of Democratic Rights (ADR) said.There are BJP governments in 16 states.Between 2016 and 2020, the study said, a total of 405 MLAs switched parties and recontested elections—that roughly accounts for nearly 10% of 4,036 MLAs in the country. In the same period, 28 MPs changed sides. Of these, most MPs joined the BJP.While the added strength in assemblies helped the BJP win back states such as Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh, the switchover of MPs helped the BJP increase its strength in Rajya Sabha and clear important bills, including the Triple Talaq bill and legislation for effective revocation of Article 370 of the constitution.The ADR study shows that the Congress, which lost substantial ground to the BJP and other parties in the last six years, has suffered the maximum damage as 170 of its MLAs quit the party and recontested polls from other parties.The BJP only lost 18 MLAs followed by the Bahujan Samaj Party and the Telugu Desam Party -- 17 lawmakers each from BSP and TDP switched over to other parties.The ADR concluded that “the recent fall of governments in Madhya Pradesh, Manipur, Goa, Arunachal Pradesh and Karnataka State Assemblies were due to defections of their MLAs.”As many as 182 MLAs or roughly 45% of the MLAs who switched sides joined the BJP. The Congress got just 38 or 9.4% MLAs from other parties.Apart from the two main parties, 15 MLAs of YSRCP, 14 of NCP, 12 of Samajwadi Party and 10 of RJD defected.The ADR report linked this frequent switchover of leaders to “the failing standards of ethical and moral propriety of India’s parliamentary democracy.”“The ‘Aaya Ram, Gaya Ram syndrome and the never ending ‘hunger for power and money’ has become a common practice amongst our Parliamentarians and Political parties,” the report said, adding that “the most plausible reasons behind such defections and switching of parties are absence of value-based politics, lust for money and power, strong nexus between money and muscle and reward for office.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/most-lawmakers-defected-from-congress-bjp-got-highest-joinees-101615501123431.html
12-03-2021||India||‘We can expect healthy changes to state quota bill’: Dushyant Chautala||Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala tells Sunetra Choudhury there may be “healthy changes” in Haryana’s 75% domicile quota in private sector jobs. Edited excerpts:You won the vote of confidence. Was there any point at which you felt doubtful about it?Not even for a single moment. This was something the Congress just wanted to make an agenda about and disrupt the workings of the assembly for one day. They got their agenda where they didn’t even have the numbers, did not even have something to talk about. We gave them a good answer by showing them a strength of 55 and they didn’t even get one extra vote.Your party’s legacy has been to represent the farmers. How do you feel about thousands of them sitting at Delhi borders for 100 days now?There was an agenda that was started when it was an ordinance that MSP will shut down, the mandis will be shut down, farmers’ land will be taken, etc. When the whole movement took place in Punjab, the government there shifted it to Delhi. The farmers are now at three borders and at Haryana border, we have given them amenities such as mobile toilets, electricity; Haryana government employees are all working there. Most of the farmers sitting there don’t know what these three laws will do to agriculture and how they will improve or restrict them. Yes, there need to be amendments and I totally support that; the Prime Minister has spoken on it five times and said he is ready for amendments. There have been 11 meetings between the 40 leaders and three central leaders; agenda were ticked off. Twenty-five points were written and agreed on and sent to these 40 leaders. Today, what I see on why it’s not getting resolved is that there isn’t a single leader. I remember speaking to a Punjab politician and asked him what will happen to this agitation. He said “kakaji, aandolan khare karna aasan hai, khatam karna bahut mushkil hai (It is very easy to start an agitation but to conclude it is tough)”. If there are suggestions from these 40 leaders, I will take it to the PM or the home minister but they aren’t ready. They are saying just repeal these laws. We need reform; we can’t just grow paddy and rice. We have to look at alternative sectors to help agriculture grow. For the first time, we are going to procure barley which no other state does.But when you have international agencies criticising the handling of the protests and remarks about your allies throttling protests and calling protesters names such as Khalistanis, does that make you feel good about your alliance?I don’t think the Prime Minister has called them Khalistanis. There are people who may be spokespersons of the party, too, who came out with names. One fact I’ll share with you – Bangladesh used to grow paddy variety which we procured at MSP. This year, they banned that and asked their farmers to grow basmati as it can be exported. They can now come to India and ask for our paddy to feed their people at ₹2,100. They are selling their basmati to the middle-east at ₹3,500. So who’s the smarter agriculturist?So, you are a great believer in reform but don’t you feel you have let down your core farmer voters? They are now asking for your resignation.I have spoken on this multiple times. I will ensure that every grain be procured at MSP. Once the procurement is done, we will ensure the money gets to their accounts within 48 hours. This was never done and these are reforms we need to do. For the first time, I saw people going against me, I saw farmers going against me. But now they are happy. They are happy that in 74 years, they have got amount for their produce into their accounts in a very short time.So you are basically blaming it all on the farmer leaders? You are saying they don’t have legitimacy?It is an agitation that needs a single face. Can 40 people interview me like you are?Are you saying some of the farmer leaders want to end protest?Most of them want to. I will not name anybody. It is just some people trying to create nuisance. The government has power but we don’t want to get into a tussle. Today, there are 50,000 people sitting there. Ask anyone if the government has put any pressure to move back. We want positive talks to continue and life to get back to normal.Have you lost some of your support base in the agitation?We have 62% support in the state. Time will come when each and every grain will be procured and then I’ll ask you, have farmers banned me, have they not allowed me?If we can talk about the 75% quota for locals in Haryana’s private sector. Industry is saying it will completely destroy ease of business.We will speak to the industry in the future when the rules are framed (just like we did before the law). It is something that states will start thinking about. It is because the GST is now consumption-based and not production-based. We were a producing state and if we have to survive in the future, we have to get more consumption with locals than people who will take the money out of the state. We have 19 universities plus private universities; we have 100s of ITIs and polytechnics; taking all of this into consideration, the skill level in Haryana isn’t weak. But if I talk about this law, we cannot restrict someone who is specialised. For example, a make-up artist – they have a speciality and you cannot fix a pay scale. These people will be exempted from this law. But if you are based in Gurugram and someone serves you water in your office, if someone is coming from outside, then you will have to give them a place to stay, you will have to give them travel allowance; so it will be better for the industry to train local people who don’t have to travel more than 4-8km. That is the idea of this Act. I spoke to people from Maruti, Escorts.What did they say?Everybody accepts that it will save them money. Yes, everyone also says that ₹50,000 is a very big pay scale for someone who is starting out but ₹50,000 is not fixed in the bill. We can always sit, discuss and revise that on a timely basis. The Act has just been published and has to come into effect in the coming months. I spoke to DLF, I spoke to Mr Bhargava (of Maruti) again; we will sit.What change do they want?Maruti has this specific skill set of engineers that they require and their starting salary is about ₹35,000 to ₹40,000 and in two years, it may cross ₹50,000 also. I have written a letter to FICCI and to CII, all these associations, to give their suggestions on the Act. Whatever they want us to implement, let us come about with a brainstorming session, finalise on the issues and then move forward on implementation of the law.What’s interesting is that you think that the GST regime has led to this law?Earlier, producing states were the winners. Today, if I talk about Haryana, Punjab, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, those with bigger production units and smaller population base, they have to find out alternative ways where consumption becomes bigger. We cannot just think about Gurugram which has 10 lakh people or Faridabad of 17 lakh people, we have Fatehabad with 3 lakh people and you cannot look at their tax base and plan the budget of the state.Of course, many people say that it is a trade-off. You agree to the BJP’s farm laws and they agree to your promise of this quota for law on locals?It was our common minimum programme. Yes, it was my primary agenda. I was working on it for the last one year. We have cleared it in the assembly and I would have followed it up with the central government also to clear it.But what about the constitutional right to move and work anywhere?Please open Article 16. It clearly states that you cannot restrict anybody for a job or position “of the state” not “in the state”. It clearly defines that you cannot restrict anybody for a government job. Maharashtra in the 80s restricted that somebody below the position of support staff, only 80% people can be employed who speak Marathi. There have been rules in Himachal and Uttarakhand, when special tax benefits were announced, it said that 90% should be local employment. Andhra has also done it.But that’s been challenged. So final word, we can expect changes in the bill?We can’t expect major changes but we can expect healthy changes which are beneficial both to the state and to the industry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-can-expect-healthy-changes-to-state-quota-bill-dushyant-chautala-101615499590693.html
12-03-2021||India||Gurugramwale: In Covid era, an ode to ‘forever’||As we reach the first anniversary of the coronavirus-triggered lockdown, here’s a poem about our housebound days, then threatening to go on forever.In his early 20s, poet Raj Tekwani is both preparing for his MA entrance exams and giving a helping hand to his father’s business of “supplying disposable items.” Chatting on WhatsApp video from his apartment in Gurugram’s DLF Phase-4, he got the poem’s idea while on a fellowship programme in August last year. “We were all receiving training in pedagogy and education over online platforms.” He was inspired by the repeated structure and sessions of those days, he says, “especially since we were not leaving home at the time.” He kindly shares this poem with us.In Continuation of ForeverToday was just like yesterday just like tomorrow just like day after just like day before just like yesterday.Everyday now is like every other day,sleep and time are social constructs,the car in front of all our schools and homes hasn’t moved at all, its tires are punctured and its driver acupunctured.We are in a time loop, meant to live and exist and exist and live.We live. We exist.There are no I’s in a loop, only some we’s and a lot of us.We are in a construction loop.So everyday, we fall apart and build ourselves up week-by-week.We lend each other bricks and cement.We aim for the skies and like all skyscrapers, we lay our foundations thick.We are all hotshots,potshots,great shots,snapshots of sunsets and clouds,and cable wires and snails,and touch-me-nots.Touch us not, these are pandemic times,but touch our hearts, they are used to it by now.We are on a merry-go-round,so we don’t fall off, ever.Instead, every time we need to, we scream.And we take one handkerchief, we wipe our tears, sanitise it and throw it to the horse behind us.We’re all rough-riding down less-travelled roads in diverged woods.We’re all walls, white walls, blank walls, brick walls, walls built of us and for us.We are painters, caps low and brushes dripping.We are yellow and red and orange and pink and purple,we are canvasses to mandalas, doodles, music and ink.At the corner of every single world,there exists a field where there’s no right or wrong, just music.We live there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gurugramwale-in-covid-era-an-ode-to-forever-101615496788477.html
12-03-2021||India||Ruckus in Delhi assembly after riots report||Sweta GoswamiThere was ruckus in the Delhi assembly on Thursday when Aam Aadmi Party MLA Amanatullah Khan alleged the involvement of a political party in the February 2020 north-east Delhi riots, leading to disruption and some members rushing to the Well of the house.After objections from the opposition benches, Speaker Ram Niwas Goel ordered Khan’s mention of the political party to be expunged from the records.Khan was tabling a report on the compensation being provided to the victims of the communal riots in north-east Delhi. The report was put together by the Delhi assembly committee on welfare of minorities, which has recommended to the city administration to restart the compensation drive for those victims of the north-east Delhi riots who could not apply last year, and constitute a new team for assessment of their claims to avoid duplication. Khan, the AAP MLA from Okhla, is the chairman of the House panel.After the proceedings of the House were over, Khan, while talking to reporters outside the House, alleged that the riots were “scripted” by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), and added that no first information reports (FIRs) were filed against the party’s members such as Kapil Mishra who allegedly “incited people to resort to violence”.Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta said, “Khan is accusing the BJP because police investigation reports showed that AAP councillor Tahir Hussain was behind the riots. Rather, the BJP worked towards saving lives and helping people during and after the riots. The AAP is only trying to gain political mileage by such false and baseless accusations.”Mishra, for his part, said the AAP leaders were “obsessed” with his name. “They think of me day in and day out. I am proud of what I have done and will do the same if a similar situation arises again,” he said.It was the first report on compensation being provided by the Delhi government to the victims of the riots in which 53 people were killed and more than 400 injured.In the report, which will be adopted by the House on Friday, the committee stated that in some cases officials involved in the verification process for disbursal of compensation did not provide accurate information leading to a mismatch between the actual losses the corresponding compensation amount received. The panel has recommended that the Delhi government form a new team comprising representatives from the divisional commissioner’s office and the Delhi Waqf Board and MLAs from the affected constituencies for conducting a survey of such cases.Khan informed the House that the Delhi government has so far disbursed ₹27.19 crore as compensation to the riot victims.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ruckus-in-delhi-assembly-after-riots-report-101615494566397.html
12-03-2021||India||AAP MLA Raghav Chadha tests positive for Covid-19||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader and Delhi Jal Board (DJB) vice-chairman Raghav Chadha on Thursday said that he had tested positive for Covid-19.The Rajendra Nagar MLA said he had no serious symptoms until Thursday and will be under self-isolation for the next few days as a precautionary measure.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“I would like to inform you all that I have tested positive for Covid-19. My humble appeal to all who have come in direct contact with me in the last few days - if you notice any symptoms, please get yourself tested and take all necessary precautions. It is our responsibility to keep ourselves and others safe, preventing further spread of the virus,” Chadha, who is also an AAP spokesperson, tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aap-mla-raghav-chadha-tests-positive-for-covid19-101615488441691.html
12-03-2021||India||Eyewitnesses, initial probe indicate Nandigram incident may not be ‘deliberate’||Preliminary investigation by the police and a section of eyewitnesses have hinted that the Nandigram incident, which left Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee injured, may not be deliberate or a conspiracy. Further investigation is, however, on police said.The TMC, though, maintained that it was a ‘deep rooted conspiracy to kill’ the chief minister and demanded an independent investigation. The BJP too demanded a detailed enquiry.The police have failed to arrest anyone even after 24 hours of the alleged attack on the TMC chief in which she sustained severe injuries on her leg and had to be rushed to the hospital in Kolkata.“No one has been arrested till Thursday evening. So far, we have not found anything which could suggest that it was a deliberate attempt or a conspiracy. But investigation is still going on based on a complaint we have received,” said a senior police official of East Midnapore district.A few eyewitnesses and a video, which surfaced during the day, suggested that the Trinamool Congress chief was injured in an accident when her white SUV hit an iron pillar jutting out of the road.Banerjee on Thursday, in a video message from the hospital urged everyone to stay calm and show restraint and said that she would stick to her campaign plan that starts from March 13.“I hope to return to the field in the next two to three days. Maybe I would have to take the help of a wheelchair,” she said in the video message.“We want her to return to the field at the earliest. Else against whom would we score the goal. All her party leaders have shifted to the BJP. Only she and her nephew are left,” said Dilip Ghosh, state BJP president.According to a section of eyewitnesses at Birulia Bazar in Nandigram, the front left door of Banerjee’s SUV, which was half open, hit an iron pillar jutting out of the road.“When Banerjee saw crowd gathering on both sides of the road, she half opened the front door and stood on the car. The car, hit an iron pillar and the door closed with a bang. Banerjee got injured,” said Animesh Das, a local resident.“There were at least two iron pillars, around the height of a man’s waist, jutting out of the road in Birulia Bazar. The car door hit the first pillar and this led to the accident,” Prabir Samanta, another local resident.TMC leaders, however, rubbished such accounts and said that had the car hit an iron pillar there would have been dents or scratch marks on the car door.“Some people are concocting a story that the car hit an iron pillar. This is false. There are no scratches or dents on the car door. Some people pushed the door in such a way that it hit Banerjee’s leg with great force,” said Firhad Hakim, state minister.On Thursday both the BJP and the TMC met the Chief Electoral Officer in West Bengal. A TMC delegation is also scheduled to meet the ECI officials in Delhi on Friday.“We request that a detailed enquiry is ordered. Also the video footage should be made available in the public domain to clear the air,” stated the letter submitted to the poll panel by the BJP.TMC leader and state minister Partha Chatterjee said that there were signs that it could be an attack on Banerjee.“Within 24 hours of the removal of the erstwhile DGP, an attempt on Mamata Banerjee’s life was made. Deliberate transfers at the top echelons of the police administration on the instruction and at the behest of BJP are having serious destabilising impact on the state administration,” said the letter. .Meanwhile TMC supporters staged protests and blocked roads with burning tyres in many areas across West Bengal since Wednesday night. Pujas and yajnas for Banerjee’s speedy recovery were also held.In some places heated altercations and scuffles broke out as workers of both the TMC and the BJP took out rallies and counter rallies.“On Friday there will be protest rallies wearing black badges in every block across the state between 3 pm and 5 pm,” said Saugata Roy, TMC MP.In the morning a BJP delegation went to see the chief minister at the hospital but was denied permission by the doctors.“Banerjee is stable. She has bone injury in her left ankle and has been plastered. She has headache. Further investigation has been prescribed. Her sodium level is low,” hospital authorities said."We have not received any report on the incident so far. It is still under investigation," P Nirajnayan, DG of West Bengal Police, told Hindustan Times.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eyewitnesses-initial-probe-indicate-nandigram-incident-may-not-be-deliberate-101615486514687.html
12-03-2021||India||Bittu to lead Congress in LS for rest of session||New Delhi: With its top three floor managers busy in the run up to the elections, the Congress affairs for the remaining part of the budget session would be managed by Ludhiana MP Ravneet Singh Bittu, the party informed the Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla on Thursday.Congress floor leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, who also heads the state unit of the party, is busy with the election campaign in West Bengal. A statement released from Chowdhury’s office on Thursday during his absence read, “his parliamentary duties and responsibilities were handed over to the chief whip K. Suresh” but he too would be away for election related responsibilities in Kerala.Party functionaries pointed out that Gaurav Gogoi, the deputy leader of the Congress in Lok Sabha, and Manickam Tagore, the other office-bearer of the Congress parliamentary party in the Lok Sabha would also remain unavailable in Delhi as they are also busy campaigning in Assam and Tamil Nadu.In their absence, Ravneet Singh Bittu will attend the business advisory committee meetings and other such meetings on the behalf of the party during this session,party functionaries added. A tweet by Punjab Congress on Thursdayhad described Bittu as the floor leader but it was hurriedly pulled down. “It is just a temporary arrangement for the next few days as the session is anyway going to be curtailed after March 25,” said a senior Congress leader.Bittu’s main task would be the skillfully negotiate the party’s demand in the all-party meetings chaired by Speaker Om Birla and also articulate the party’s stand of different issues during the upcoming debates on demand for grants and the finance bill.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bittu-to-lead-cong-in-ls-for-rest-of-session-101615486595327.html
12-03-2021||India||Humiliation by cops may have forced rape survivor’s father to kill self: Kin||The father of a 13-year-old gang rape survivor who was killed after he was hit by a truck in Kanpur may have died by suicide due to police humiliation during the course of the probe, a relative said on Thursday.The development came a day after the deceased’s brother, in an FIR, alleged that the incident was orchestrated by the accused – son of a local police officer and his friends.The relative, a cousin of the deceased, said the girl was repeatedly asked objectionable questions at the hospital when she was sent for medical examination.“Just imagine how one must have felt running from one hospital to another with police raising questions over the character of his daughter, that too in his presence,” the relative said.It was the manner in which the cops dealt with the case that perhaps drove the father to take his life, the relative said. “He was so frustrated with the police that he committed suicide,” he added.The family claimed that the questions were asked at health centres in two districts. The sub-inspectors and constables present on the spot did not care if their questions troubled the survivor’s father, he said.The teen was reportedly sent for medical examination five times across various medical centres. “Have you ever heard a rape survivor being examined so many times,” the girl’s uncle said.The relative further alleged that the teen and her family were kept at the police station all day and that the cops had refused to register a case initially.“The police behaved strangely. They were indifferent towards the suffering of the girl and asked her all sorts of questions. She told me how she was humiliated,” he said.Providing an account of the incident on Wednesday, a tea stall owner and two sanitation workers had told police that the deceased looked distressed and suddenly ran towards the truck.Officials associated with the investigation said they were probing the abetment to suicide angle. “Several facts have come to light and they will be investigated. None will be spared,” Superintendent of police (Kanpur rural) Brijesh Srivastava said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/humiliation-by-cops-may-have-forced-rape-survivor-s-father-to-kill-self-kin-101615485634178.html
12-03-2021||India||Govt urges senior citizens to take vaccine||The centre on Thursday urged senior citizens to come forward and take their coronavirus vaccine doses quickly as the government plans to gradually allow younger people to become eligible, which could add to the rush at centres later.Since January 16, when the campaign began, 26 million doses have been administered. The drive was opened up to people above the age of 60 and those older than 45 but with certain medical conditions. The government said a little over 7 million doses have been given to these groups.“We request senior citizens to take the vaccine quickly because then we will add more age-appropriate groups that will increase the rush” said VK Paul, member (health), Niti Aayog, during the weekly media briefing on Covid-19 updates, suggesting people above 50 may soon become eligible, even if they have no comorbid conditions.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“We are now focused on relatively large group of individuals above the age of 60 as well as those up to the age of 45 with comorbidities. We are building up momentum to cover significantly large group; we will see the progress, and moving forward further increase in the circle of those who are eligible will be considered,” he added.The officials at the weekly briefing also gave details about how vaccinations are being carried out. Close to 71% of the 25 million vaccinations so far have been done in government-run institutions, with the remaining number being done by private hospitals and nursing homes.Union health secretary, Rajesh Bhushan, said that these are the private hospitals empanelled under the Ayushman Bharat-Pradhan Mantra Jan Arogya Yojna (AB-PMJAY), Central Government Health Scheme (CGHS), and state government sponsored health schemes that are partaking in the exercise.“In places like Odisha, Maharashtra, Delhi and Telangana, these also include such private facilities which are not covered under the above three categories. These have been permitted because they have adequate number of space, cold chain, vaccinators and arrangements to address adverse event following immunisation,” he said.On March 4, one million vaccine doses were administered in 24 hours, while on March 8, the number was two million.“While for state government hospitals, the advice is they should do it for minimum four days a week because they have other work also which is non-Covid essential facilities. The states have been given discretion, we do not want to adversely impact the non-Covid essential health services which are delivered by the same hospitals,” he said.Also Read: US President Joe Biden signs $1.9 trillion relief bill before speech to nation“Till yesterday (Wednesday), we completed 53 days of vaccination administration in India. According to Our World in Data, in the first 53 days, US vaccinated 36.8 million doses which started its vaccination in December last year. India which started its vaccination programme on January 16 has given 25.6 million vaccine doses, Brazil which started its vaccination process a day after India has administered 11.3 million doses, while the UK which started the same on December 8 last even before the US has administered 9.4 million doses,” he said.“Just 0.020% adverse event post immunisation has been reported with 0.00025% resulting in hospitalisation in India, which is minuscule,” Bhushan added.Paul also informed that Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin has been issued a regular emergency use authorization, as the condition to administer it in clinical trial mode was removed by the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI), VG Somani, on Thursday based on subject expert committee recommendation on Wednesday.“The vaccine is safe and efficacious. It is truly a make-in-India vaccine and it is a moment of pride for us,” said Dr Balram Bhargava, director general, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-urges-senior-citizens-to-take-vaccine-101615485574285.html
12-03-2021||India||Lockdown to be enforced in parts of Maha, says CM||Several parts of Maharashtra will be put under a lockdown in an attempt to contain a worsening Covid-19 outbreak, the chief minister said on Thursday as the state recorded its highest number of new cases this year – a situation that Union health ministry officials separately described as “very worrying”.On Thursday, there were14,317new cases in the state – the most so far since the beginning of this year. The state has recorded a sustained increase since the middle of February. More than half (57%) of the 128,599 new Covid infections reported across the country in the past week have been in Maharashtra.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“Some areas of Maharashtra will witness strict lockdown measures to curb the spread of the coronavirus infection. The government is going to hold a special meeting with officials before coming out with the lockdown measures,” chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said.Later, the CM in a televised address said the state is now better prepared to deal with any surge compared to the previous waves, and that the government would try to avoid wider lockdowns as far as possible and target curbs only in hotspot areas.Earlier, state minister Nitin Raut said Nagpur – a commercial and logistics hub – will be put under a strict lockdown between March 15 and 21. Movement will be restricted and most offices and shops will be shut, except for those involved with essential services.In Delhi, at the Union health ministry’s weekly briefing on the Covid-19 situation, officials and experts said the spurt in Maharashtra was likely to be due to people becoming reckless. “At the moment we are very clear it is related to reduced number of testing and tracking, and tracing, as well as Covid-19 inappropriate behavior, and large congregations and masses (weddings, local trains etc),” said Balram Bhargava, director general, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).Bhargava said mutated variants of the Sars-Cov-2 virus were not found to have been fuelling the spread. The Union government identified the districts of Pune, Nagapur, Thane, Mumbai, Amravati, Jalgaon, Nasik, and Aurangabad as being cause for concern.The surge prompted experts to stress on the need to accelerate vaccinations. “Vaccination today has to be brought into facing this virus and pandemic in full blast. It will be our suggestion for districts where the virus is on the rise in a significant way, vaccination of the eligible individuals in those areas should be intensified, should be prioritised. That will be our advice,” said VK Paul, member (health), Niti Aayog.Paul said the government was “very worried about Maharashtra’s” situation. “It has lessons for us: one is not to take the virus for granted as it can come up unexpectedly; and the other is to understand until it is fully over, it is not over. The vaccination process will have to be ramped up fast,” said Paul.Centre has rushed expert teams to the state to assist local government in assessing and managing the situation of ground. “There is a rise in active cases which declined around mid-September when the active case load was as low as 135,000. And today these are 189,000 active cases,” said Rajesh Bhushan, Union health secretary.“Whatever we had been doing so far, it is more of the same that the states have to continue but in a more efficient manner. That is our message to the states,” he added.The key lies in scaling up, and speeding up Covid-19 vaccination service, say experts.“Today with the force of vaccination we are in a position to give the disease a stronger fight,” said Paul.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-to-be-enforced-in-parts-of-maha-says-cm-101615485454190.html
12-03-2021||India||Focus on vaccines, Indo-pacific at historic Quad Summit today||The first Quad leaders’ summit on Friday will create a framework to allow the four-nation grouping to take the lead in post-Covid-19 recovery efforts, especially access to vaccines, and the creation of resilient supply chains for materials such as rare earth metals.The maiden summit of the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue, convened by US President Joe Biden less than two months after he assumed office, reflects the urgency attached by the US to coalesce the loose group to bolster cooperation on key challenges across the region and to counter a belligerent China.Among the key initiatives expected to be on the agenda when Biden, Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison and Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga gather virtually at 7pm on Friday is a “Vaccine Initiative” and a procurement and supply chain for rare earth metals.India perceives the summit as key to building on crucial partnerships to address challenges in the Indo-Pacific and securing the maritime domain, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity. The summit is also an opportunity for evolution as the Quad didn’t traditionally have defined areas of cooperation and only discussed principles and shared strategic approaches.The Vaccine Initiative is being seen as the “most significant deliverable” from the summit as greater access to doses, especially for small and developing nations across the Indo-Pacific, will foster a quick global economic recovery, the people said.“Vaccines will be developed in the US, manufactured in India, financed by Japan and the US, and supported by Australia. The Vaccine Initiative will allow new manufacturing capacity to be added in India for exports to the Indo-Pacific. It will not impinge on India’s existing manufacturing capacities,” said one of the people cited above.The Serum Institute of India is the world’s largest vaccine manufacturer by number of doses produced, while successful vaccines developed in the US include those from Pfizer and BioNTech, Johnson & Johnson, and Moderna and the US National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases.This pooling of capacities by Quad members will help boost global vaccine delivery, meet the demand-supply gap, especially within the Indo-Pacific, and add momentum to efforts to contain the pandemic.India’s role in the Vaccine Initiative will reinforce its credentials as a trusted and reliable manufacturer and supplier of medicines and expand the “Vaccine Maitri” initiative that has supplied 58.3 million doses to 69 countries so far. “It will strengthen India’s standing as the pharmacy of the world and a critical node in global health supply chains,” the person cited above said.HT had reported on Thursday on options being considered by the Quad members to ramp up vaccine production and delivery, which will also help in the vaccine race with China.The people said the Quad’s model for collective humanitarian action through supply of Covid-19 vaccines can also serve as a template for peace, cooperation and prosperity in the Indo-Pacific, which the grouping defines as its main objective.The four countries are also expected to build a rare earth metals procurement chain to counter China’s dominance in supplying these critical elements to makers of everything from smartphones to high-performance motors and batteries for electric vehicles, Japan’s Nikkei newspaper reported.China produced almost 60% of the world’s rare earths in 2020 and the Quad members intend to counter China’s grip on supplies by funding new production technologies and development projects, and leading the way in drafting international rules, the report said.More than 90% of India’s imports of rare earths, worth $3.4 million in 2016, come from China.The genesis of the Quad was a “core group” formed by the four countries in 2004 for a joint response to the Indian Ocean tsunami. After the US and Australia sidelined the grouping because of sensitivities linked to their relations with China, the grouping faded away from the centre stage around 2007.As the Indo-Pacific became a key strategic region, the Quad was revived, largely because of Japan’s efforts, in 2017 as a dialogue at the level of senior officials. India was represented by a joint secretary from the foreign ministry. In September 2019, the grouping was elevated to the level of foreign ministers as India became more comfortable with it and there was greater convergence among members on concerns related to China.Former ambassador Rajiv Bhatia, distinguished fellow for foreign policy studies at Gateway House, said the summit would largely focus on five objectives. “China will be the unstated part of the agenda, and the other key elements will be the Covid-19 crisis, maritime security, techno-economic cooperation and climate change,” he said.“The Quad per se must increase its constituents and it must take action so that others believe it is a powerful but benign grouping in the Indo-Pacific. Though the current initiative is US-led, we must gauge the comfort level of the other three members, especially India – whether there is elbow room for it to make contributions and have a sense of ownership,” Bhatia added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaccines-indo-pacific-in-focus-at-1st-quad-summit-101615485334792.html
12-03-2021||India||Antilia bomb threat: Jaish-ul-Hind's Telegram channel made in Tihar, say police||A Telegram channel through which an organisation named Jaish-ul-Hind had claimed responsibility for placing an explosives-laden SUV near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's residence here was "created in the Tihar" area of Delhi, a senior Mumbai police official said on Thursday.The Delhi Police has been informed about it, he added.The police took the help of a private cyber agency to track the location of the phone on which the Telegram channel was created, the official said.During the investigation, the location of the phone was traced near Delhi's Tihar Jail, he added.A Mahindra Scorpio car with gelatin sticks was found parked near "Antilia", the multi-storey residence of Ambani, in south Mumbai on February 25.According to police sources, the Telegram channel was created on February 26 and the message claiming responsibility for placing the vehicle outside Ambani's residence was posted on the Telegram messaging app late in the night on February 27.The message had also demanded payment in cryptocurrency and mentioned a link to deposit the same.During the probe, the link was found as "not available", due to which the investigators suspected it to be mischievous, the official said.On February 28, another message from Jaish-ul-Hind surfaced on a social media platform, claiming that the organisation did not have any role in the incident.The investigation in the case was initially conducted by the Crime Branch of the Mumbai police.After the mysterious death of Thane-based auto parts dealer Mansukh Hiran, who was in possession of the SUV that was later found parked outside Ambani's residence, the probe was transferred to the Maharashtra Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS).On Monday, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) took over the case related to the recovery of the explosives-laden vehicle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/antilia-bomb-threat-jaish-ul-hind-s-telegram-channel-created-in-tihar-say-police-101615455859989.html
12-03-2021||India||Won't insist on Mehbooba Mufti's personal appearance: ED tells Delhi HC||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Wednesday sought time to file a reply to a plea by PDP leader Mehbooba Mufti challenging a summon by the agency and informed the Delhi High Court that it would not insist for her appearance on March 15.After taking on record the submissions of ED counsel Amit Mahajan, the bench of Justice Siddharth Mridul and Justice Anup Jairam Bhambhani adjourned the matter for March 19. The matter was earlier on Wednesday listed before the bench of the Chief Justice but later transferred to another bench as the chief justice bench didn't assemble.Mufti has approached Delhi High Court against the summon asking her to appear before ED on March 15 in connection with a money laundering case.Mufti has also challenged constitutional vires of Section 50, and any incidental provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 (PMLA).After receiving the notice of summon, Mufti had also tweeted on March 5, saying: "GOIs tactics to intimidate & browbeat political opponents to make them toe their line has become tediously predictable. They don't want us to raise questions about its punitive actions & policies. Such short-sighted scheming won't work".Section 50 of the PMLA empowers the 'authority' i.e., officers of the Enforcement Directorate, to summon any person to give evidence or produce records. All persons summoned are bound to answer questions put to them, and to produce the documents as required by the ED officers, failing which they can be penalised under the PMLA.Mufti's petition states that she has not been informed if she is being summoned as an accused or as a witness. She has also not been informed of what she is being summoned in connection with, and the scheduled offence under the PMLA which gave rise to the proceedings in respect of which summons has been issued to her.The plea added that Mufti is not the subject of investigation, nor is she an accused, in any of the scheduled offences under the PMLA, to the best of her knowledge.Ever since Mufti was released from preventive detention following the formal abrogation of Article 370, there have been a series of "hostile acts", against her acquaintances and old family friends, who have all been summoned by the ED and a roving inquiry about her personal, political and financial affairs was made, in the course of which their personal devices have been seized.The petitioner also wrote a letter to the ED, inter alia, pointing to the roving nature of the inquiry undertaken in the case thus far and that in the event that she is questioned, she will insist on the legitimacy of the process.Mufti also stated that: "As a responsible member of society, the petitioner is always ready and willing to aid the process of law. However, it is equally her duty to bring to the notice of this court, deviations from due process in legislative and executive acts."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-high-court-stays-ed-summons-to-mehbooba-mufti-101615364736411.html
12-03-2021||India||Indiscriminate mining has irreversibly damaged Aravallis, suggest documents||Haryana has sought the resumption of stone mining in the Aravallis over a decade after the Supreme Court in 2009 suspended extraction of all major and minor minerals in the eco-sensitive region, triggering fears among experts that it could reverse gains made in the region over the last 12 years. The experts said wildlife has since 2009 increased in the region and that the resumption of mining could harm it besides worsening the air quality. They argued the rehabilitation measures suggested for mining to resume are also inviable given the extensive damage already caused due to mining with no regard for ecology.The court banned mining until provisions for restoration and reclamation were complied with, particularly in cases where pits or quarries had been abandoned. In an application filed before the court, Haryana on March 3, 2021 sought the resumption with compliance with all statutory permissions including environmental clearance. It said justice and the economy are required to be taken care of along with ecological balance.Also Read | Environmentalists protest against mining in Aravallis at Haryana Bhawan, ahead of SC hearingHaryana asked the court to accept its rehabilitation and reclamation plan for mined areas and allow mining operations in Gurugram, Faridabad, and Mewat. But documents, including affidavits and court orders enclosed with the application, seen by HT, suggest the damage done in the Faridabad stretch of the Aravallis is beyond rehabilitation now.An affidavit enclosed with the application submitted by YS Malik, principal secretary, mines and geology, in March 2010 said in the Aravallis, opencast mining is followed, and stocks once mined are removed from the site and can never be replenished. “The so-called rehabilitation or restoration plans can partake of provisions of tree cover, creation of water pondage and recharge systems during rains depending upon the depth of excavation or solid waste reclamation refill sites be covered with vegetation over a period of time,” the affidavit said. It added the only other possible manner of rehabilitation of mined areas used across the world is by way of creation of ecotourism sites in a project mode wherein a private initiative is called upon to develop these areas and certain areas allowed to be commercially used for the economic viability of restoration projects.”According to the documents, Haryana engaged a consultant to prepare the mining rehabilitation plan as per the Supreme Court orders. The work order was issued on November 23, 2009. Haryana simultaneously engaged another private consultant to identify a 600-hectare area in Faridabad for the mining of minor minerals. It has also prepared a 30-year prospective mining plan and specific environmental impact assessment studies in Faridabad.According to the salient features of Haryana’s rehabilitation plan, 29 pits spread across 126.67ha have been identified for restoration. Of the 29, 13 are wet pits where the groundwater level was hit during mining operations and hence have water accumulated; 16 are dry pits that have been excavated to varying depths. No backfilling can be done in wet pits. Benches will be formed along the slopes and those will be planted on. These wet pits will also be used commercially for eco-tourism. The dry pits will be backfilled only to the extent possible.RP Balwan, a former forest conservator of Gurugram, said rehabilitation of these pits is impossible. “Making steps on the pits is as bad as mining. The reason is miners have not followed any rules and regulations or mining parameters stipulated by the Indian Bureau of Mines. I was a forest officer during that time, and I saw miners only plundered with no regard for ecology. Now the entire landscape is damaged. Thankfully, after mining stopped wildlife has increased but now, they want to start again.”Anil Grover, Haryana’s senior advocate general, on March 2 said they are ready to comply with all of the Supreme Court orders on mining issued earlier. “The SC [Supreme Court] directed us to prepare a rehabilitation plan for areas which were affected by mining. ...[the Union environment ministry] prepared it in 2013 but it is yet to be finalised. Our appeal in the SC will be to finalise the rehabilitation plan and allow us to start mining operations in Gurugram and Faridabad.”Chetan Agarwal, an environmental analyst, said much forest has regrown since the ban on mining. “Handing over the mines in the name of rehabilitation to the same firms who ravaged the area in the first place would be tantamount to...[damaging] the landscape again. Wildlife habitat will be destroyed. Faridabad and Gurgaon have among the worst air quality in the country and are out of compliance with standards many times over. In such a situation allowing mining within 15-20km of urban areas will put an unconscionable load on the residents.”The Supreme Court banned mining citing inspection of 26 mines, which indicated wide-scale non-compliance of statutory rules and regulations applicable to mines. It added in most cases, mining operations were carried out unscientifically with the sole aim of maximising profits which resulted in the indiscriminate scattering of the overburden, wasteful manner of mining in complete disregard to mineral conservation aspect, rendering reclamation of mined area impossible. “What we are emphasising is extensive mining and not individual unauthorised mining because even in the case of the former no steps to rehabilitate was ever taken. The result is that mining operations have been carried out on a disproportionate scale in the Aravalli hills mainly in Gurgaon and Faridabad including Mewat.” The court cited satellite images and added they indicate devastation caused to the area by extensive mining operations. “Extraordinary situations demand extraordinary remedies.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indiscriminate-mining-has-irreversibly-damaged-aravallis-suggest-documents-101615263141525.html
