14-03-2021||India||YSRCP sweeps Andhra local body elections||Hyderabad The ruling YSR Congress Party in Andhra Pradesh on Sunday won 10 out of the 11 municipal corporations after the March 10 elections. The party was also leading in Vijayawada where the votes were still being counted. The YSRCP also won 73 out of 75 municipalities and nagar panchayats. In four of the municipalities – Pulivendula, Punganur, Macherla and Piduguralla – the party’s candidates were elected unopposed. The opposition Telugu Desam Party drew a blank in the municipal corporations and won just two municipalities – Tadipatri in Anantapur district and Mydukur in Kadapa district -- with small margin. The YSRCP, however, said that the party will capture the Tadipatri and Mydukur municipalities with the votes of co-option members. State municipal administration minister Botsa Satyanarayana said, “We shall not allow the TDP to rule any municipality in the state.”“It is a historic win for the YSRC and an endorsement of the welfare schemes taken up by the Jagan Mohan Reddy government,” senior YSRCP leader Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy said.The Congress failed to win even a single ward. The BJP-Jana Sena combine also failed to register victory in any ward or division.The TDP, which was aiming to regain the ground it lost in the 2019 general elections, suffered a huge setback as the party. Ahead of the elections, party president and former chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu campaigned extensively, banking on the ongoing agitation against the privatisation of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant and the strong sentiment in favour of Amaravati being retained as the state’s capital. However, the TDP lost heavily in these districts. In Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation, the TDP could win only in 30 out of 98 divisions, while the YSRC won 58 divisions. In Vijayawada, which Naidu developed as part of Amaravati, the YSRC won 23 seats in 64-member corporation, while the TDP won just eight seats. Even in Guntur, the hotbed of agitation for Amaravati capital city, the YSRC won 44 out of the 57 divisions. The TDP won just nine divisions. “The victory in Viskahapatnam, Guntur and Vijayawada municipal corporations is a clear indication that the people have endorsed the chief minister’s decision to form the three capitals for the state with executive capital at Visakhapatnam,” YSRC general secretary and MP V Vijay Sai Reddy said. Following the announcement of the votes, TDP spokesman Varla Ramaiah accused the YSRCP of misusing election machinery to win the elections. “It has completely bulldozed the elections, misused the official machinery, used the ward volunteers as party workers, spent thousands of crores and cared a damn for the state election commission,” he alleged. The counting was suspended in the Eluru municipal corporation following a high court direction due to an election petition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ysrcp-sweeps-andhra-local-body-elections-101615746467970.html
14-03-2021||India||Amid strained LAC ties ‘Cultural bridge’: Aamir Khan’s Chinese fans ring in his 56th birthday||Beijing India and China might be grappling to resolve the worst military standoff in decades at the border but for actor Aamir Khan’s Chinese fans Sunday, March 14, was the day to celebrate his 56th with love and a large cake.A bunch of Khan’s fans from the “Aamir Khan China Fan Club” or “a+”, as it is called in short, gathered at the Indian embassy on Sunday afternoon to cut a cake, sing birthday songs, watch clips from his popular movies and read out letters addressed to the actor from admirers across the country.Several clips of earlier events related to Khan were shown including one on a young Chinese woman, Karen, who was invited to the actor’s home a few years ago.A Chinese remake of the “Dhaakad” music video from “Dangal” was screened as well during the two-hour event.“a+” boasts of a million followers on its Chinese social media handles on Twitter-like Weibo and Douyin, the domestic version of TikTok, and organises events related to Khan and his movies in different cities.Khan’s “Dangal” and “Secret Superstar” made big money and were big hits in China – despite the Doklam standoff in 2017 – but many of his followers fondly remember both “3 Idiots” and “PK”.In the letters that were read out, the writers wrote about how Khan’s movies had a positive impact on their lives; how in times of trouble the messages delivered in his movies had helped them to be emotionally resilient.Yang Ajie, who calls herself the “leader” of the fan club said Khan is like a “cultural bridge” between India and China.Yang said his movies – at least most of them – have “emotionally connected” with the Chinese audiences.Giving the example of the theme of “3 Idiots”, she said Chinese college students face similar problems like tough competition in academics and competitive exams, which are not easy to crack.And, in “Secret Superstar”, it was the tender mother-daughter – two of the film’s protagonists -- relationship that found empathy among the Chinese, she said.“Therefore, it is not an exaggeration to call him a cultural bridge between China and India. At the same time, he has a huge fan base in China and also maintains good interactions with fans from all over the country,” the fan club said in a message ahead of the event.While earlier events organised by the club were held both online and offline, this year was the first time that “a+” held Khan’s birthday event at the Indian embassy.Though his Chinese fans will love it, it remains to be seen if Khan can visit China ahead of his next release “Laal Singh Chaddha”, a remake of the critically acclaimed and Oscar-winning “Forrest Gump”, later this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-strained-lac-ties-cultural-bridge-aamir-khan-s-chinese-fans-ring-in-his-56th-birthday-101615746408045.html
14-03-2021||India||AIADMK pledges free houses, opposes CAA||ChennaiThe ruling All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) released its election manifesto on Sunday to seek a third consecutive term in Tamil Nadu’s April 6 assembly elections by promising free washing machines, offering dual citizenship to Sri Lankan refugees and pledging free housing to people.The AIADMK, an ally of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), said it would urge the Centre to scrap the Citizenship Amendment Act and work to bring education to the state list from the concurrent list of the Constitution.While the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) has vowed to abolish the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET), the AIADMK has offered providing training to students appearing for competitive exams such as NEET, UPSC and JEE. NEET is an emotional issue in the state as several students have died by suicide either because they failed to clear the exam or they feared they couldn’t realise their aspirations of studying medicine.The AIADMK manifesto, coming a day after the DMK released its poll promises, bore several similarities. Both parties have tried to appeal to youngsters, women and the Tamil sentiment. They have promised waiving education loans, providing milk for school students and making Tamil a compulsory language.Increase in maternity leave for women government employees from nine months to one year and construction of new buildings with modern medical facilities for about 2,000 Amma Mini Clinics also found mention in the AIADMK manifesto.To those who don’t own houses, the government has promised building and providing houses free of cost in rural and urban areas under the ‘Amma Illam Thittam’ (Amma Housing Scheme) and interest on housing loans availed from cooperative housing societies would be waived on loan repayment.It also said that ₹1,500 per month would be disbursed to all ration card holders and the amount would be credited to bank accounts of woman family heads, senior AIADMK leader C Ponnaiyan said.While the DMK retained its 2016 assembly poll promise of free tablets with internet for students, the AIADMK has promised 2G data to students. The AIADMK has also promised to lower fuel prices.While the DMK promised to enact a law to reserve 75% jobs for Tamils in the public sector and pursue it in the private sector, the AIADMK also promised a government job for every family that doesn’t have one person employed in the public sector. The manifesto reiterated that reservation in public education and jobs will be allotted based on the report of the caste-based census. Keeping the issue of Sri Lankan Tamils alive, the AIADMK manifesto promised steps to ensure dual citizenship and voting rights for Sri Lankan Tamil refugees. “Both manifestos are meant to attract voters which they have but compared to the DMK’s manifesto, the AIADMK has more sops,” said J Jeyaranjan, who researches political economy of Tamil Nadu.After releasing the manifesto at the AIADMK headquarters in Chennai, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami said the party has ensured protection for farmers and students through loan waivers even before the election. The DMK’s key campaign against the incumbent has been a charge that the ruling government didn’t protect rural students who were at a disadvantage competing at a common national test. Chief minister Palaniswami introduced a 7.5% horizontal reservation in medical colleges for government students who clear NEET.While the DMK swept the 2011 polls when late M Karunanidhi promised free colour television sets for all, the AIADMK has this year promised free cable connection provided by the state Arasu Corporation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aiadmkpledges-free-houses-opposes-caa-101615746347475.html
14-03-2021||India||BJP fields 4 MPs, TMC defectors||Kolkata The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Sunday named Union minister of state Babul Supriyo, two other Lok Sabha members and Rajya Sabha MP Swapan Dasgupta alongside four actors and several former Trinamool Congress (TMC) leaders in its list of candidates for the third and fourth phases of the Bengal assembly elections.The party named 63 candidates; 27 for the third phase and 36 for the fourth phase. The polls will be held on April 6 and 10, respectively. The state has 294 constituencies. The party did not name four candidates for the third phase and eight candidates for the fourth phase.Supriyo has been fielded from the Tollygunge seat in south Kolkata where the TMC has fielded current incumbent and minster Aroop Biswas. Dasgupta, a nominated Rajya Sabha member, has been fielded from Tarakeswar in Hooghly district against the TMC’s Ramendu Sinha Roy.Senior journalist Rantideb Sengupta, the editor of one of the mouthpieces of the right-wing camp, refused to contest after he was fielded from the Howrah south constituency. “I was not consulted. I only want to campaign,” Sengupta said. He contested the 2019 Lok Sabha polls unsuccessfully. Sengupta changed his mind later in the day after calls from senior party leaders.Subir Nag, former president of the BJP’s Hooghly district unit, said he would like to step out of politics for a while after the BJP central leadership in Delhi named Locket Chatterjee, the MP from Hooghly Lok Sabha constituency in Hooghly district, as candidate for the Chinsurah seat against the TMC’s Asit Majumdar. “Probably the leadership is not satisfied with my performance,” Nag said. “The BJP is a party where people follow the directions that come from the top. We will win all 18 seats in Hooghly district,” said Chatterjee. The announcements were made by BJP national general secretary Arun Singh and Union minister of state Debasree Chaudhuri, the MP from Raigunj in north Bengal. Alongside Supriyo, the MP from Asansol in West Burdwan district, Nisith Pramanik, the Lok Sabha member from Cooch Behar constituency in Cooch Behar district, has also been named as a candidate.While Supriyo is a two-time MP, Chatterjee and Pramanik went to the Lok Sabha in 2019 when the BJP won 18 of the state’s 42 Lok Sabha seats. Pramanik will contest from Dinhata against the TMC’s Udayan Guha, who was a minister during the Left Front era and left his party, the Forward Bloc, to join the TMC in 2011. The BJP fielded four actors, some of who joined the party less than a month ago. Yash Dasgupta, a young and popular star, who joined the BJP on February 18 has been fielded from Chanditala in Hooghly district against the TMC’s two-time MLA Swati Khandokar. “I have been given a huge responsibility. I am a bit nervous too,” said Dasgupta. Actor Tanusree Chakraborty, who joined the BJP a week ago, has been fielded along with actors Anjana Basu and Payel Sarkar. Sarkar joined the BJP on February 25. She will contest from Behala East against the TMC’s Ratna Chatterjee, the estranged wife of the ruling party’s former mayor Sovan Chatterjee. Chatterjee is now the BJP’s poll observer for the Kolkata zone. Former minster Rajib Banerjee has been fielded from the Domjur seat in Howrah district from where he had won twice. Prabir Ghosal, the TMC MLA from Hooghly’s Uttarpara seat, who joined the BJP along with Banerjee, has been fielded from the same seat. Similarly, octogenarian Rabindranath Bhattacharya, the TMC’s sitting MLA from Singur in Hooghly district, who joined the BJP on not being nominated, will contest the adjoining Haripal seat.“Fielding as many as four sitting MPs in an assembly poll is unprecedented in Bengal and surprising at the same time. This was probably done to address the discontent among old-timers of the BJP whose differences with leaders who defected from the TMC in recent months is well known,” said Kolkata-based political science professor and election analyst Udayan Bandopadhyay. TMC Lok Sabha member Saugata Roy said, “The lists expose the bankruptcy of the BJP. A party fields a Rajya Sabha member and three Lok Sabha members in state elections only when it cannot find candidates.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-fields-4-mps-tmc-defectors-101615746292891.html
14-03-2021||India||UP cops probe ‘assault’ on journos by Akhilesh||Lucknow Moradabad Police on Sunday began a probe into a case of rioting against Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav over an alleged incident of violence against a group of journalists in the district on March 10.A police team visited the spot of the alleged attack and recorded the statement of the staff present there. “The case is being investigated by a team of local police headed by the station house officer (SHO). The team has also collected the CCTV footage of the place. The statements of the concerned parties are being recorded,” superintendent of police (city) of Moradabad Amit Kumar Anand said. Yadav and 20 unidentified party workers were booked under sections 147 (rioting), 342 (wrongful confinement) and 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) in the FIR filed on the basis of a complaint by the journalists on Saturday. According to news agency PTI, the FIR claimed that Yadav was irked by a few personal questions posed by some journalists during an interaction with him at a hotel, following which he allegedly instigated his security guards and aides to attack the journalists.Taking to Twitter, Yadav said: “Today, the manner in which the Constitution is being attacked, false cases are being registered against party leaders and physical assaults are taking place after probes by agencies are an adverse effect of the BJP’s violent political thought. Those who level allegations against others of running a syndicate are in fact themselves running a ‘sanghicate’.”A counter-FIR was filed against one Ubaid-ur-Rehman and Fareed Samsi, believed to be journalists, by SP Moradabad district president Jaibir Singh Yadav. The case was filed under sections 160 (committing affray), 353 (deter public servant from discharge of his duty) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC. Condemning the FIR against his party chief, SP leader Shafiqur Rahman Barq said: “The FIR is equivalent to a fake FIR. Yadav ji is our president. This move by the complainants is not acceptable. Instead of covering his press conference, the media is busy covering his FIR-related stories. Yadav ji too has lodged an FIR against the complainants.” Barq added that the party will stage a protest against the FIR in the coming days. In an attack on the SP chief, Uttar Pradesh deputy chief minister and BJP leader Keshav Prasad Maurya said: “The SP has crossed all limits by attacking journalists for asking questions. Akhilesh Yadav ji, the violence against journalists in your presence is condemnable.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-cops-probe-assault-on-journos-by-akhilesh-101615746167421.html
14-03-2021||India||Trains on Delhi-Amritsar route to soon run at 130 km/hour||General Manager Northern Railway Ashutosh Gagal on Sunday inspected the stations of Ludhiana, Jalandhar, and Vyas on the Delhi-Amritsar route where the trains will start running at the upgraded speed of 130 kilometers per hour in the coming days."We are going to start running trains at a speed of 130 km/hr from Delhi to the Amritsar railway track for which we have come to inspect the track. Earlier here, trains used to run at a speed of 110 kilometers per hour. We will keep increasing the speed as the works get completed. Our trains are running at the speed of 130 km/hr on the Ahmedabad to Mumbai track," said Gagal."During the Covid-19 pandemic, the railway faced a loss of ₹2,400 crore, which is the biggest loss so far," he added.The General Manager also informed that the bridge on the Chenab river will be ready soon for transportation and it will be the "world's highest bridge".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trains-on-delhi-amritsar-route-to-soon-run-at-130-kmhour-101615742372461.html
14-03-2021||India||CM Thackeray responsible for the Sachin Waze episode, says Maharashtra BJP chief||Maharashtra Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president Chandrakant Patil on Sunday held Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray responsible for the entire Sachin Waze episode.Speaking to the reporters, Patil said, "It is extremely shameful that a police officer who was till yesterday strongly defended by the chief minister of our state has today been arrested by the National Investigation Agency in a terror conspiracy case. Do you (Uddhav Thackeray) even realise that your public statements in favour of a tainted officer have perhaps done irreparable damage to the reputation of our state?""I can't really understand why Shiv Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray had defended Shiv Sainik Sachin Waze this brazenly. Any political party in our democratic setup first pledges allegiance to our constitution and then seeks public support, but here was Shiv Sena supporting those who wanted to harm industrialists and destroy peace in society," the BJP leader said.He further stated, "There are many questions to which Mansukh Hiran's family and the people of Maharashtra seek answers. Why was Waze being supported to the hilt? Which ministers, MLAs and political leaders knew of the entire episode and still chose to remain silent? Which police officers knew of it all and remained silent?""Bear in mind that this is not just a murder case. This is a terror attack case where a police officer has been found involved in the financial capital of the country. The people have full faith in Maharashtra Police, Mumbai Police and the NIA and hope that the true masterminds behind this will be unmasked soon," said Patil here today.Certain police officers need to focus on reducing crimes especially against women in the state rather than trying to cover up a terror conspiracy or shielding those suspected in murder cases, he added.Sachin Waze, who was Assistant Police Inspector in the Crime Intelligence Unit (CIU) and later transferred to the Citizen Facilitation Centre at Mumbai Police Headquarters after his name came up in Mansukh Hiran death case, has been sent to NIA custody till March 25, in connection with his role and involvement in placing an explosives-laden vehicle near Mukesh Ambani's house in Mumbai on February 25.On February 25, a car carrying unassembled explosive materials was found abandoned at Carmichael Road in South Mumbai on February 25, near the house of Mukesh Ambani.The owner of the vehicle, Mansukh Hiran, was found dead in a creek in Thane last week. Now, ATS Maharashtra is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cm-thackeray-responsible-for-the-sachin-waze-episode-says-maharashtra-bjp-chief-101615741002727.html
14-03-2021||India||Follow safety measures to avoid another lockdown: Karnataka CM Yediyurappa||Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Monday said that he would be forced to announce another lockdown if people did not cooperate and take safety precautions against the spread of Covid-19.“For the last one month, Covid-19 is getting beyond control and numbers are going up. I have called a meeting with experts on Monday. I have just one request that if you (people) do not want a lockdown, if all activities should continue like now, people should cooperate,” Yediyurappa said.The statements come on a day when Karnataka reported 934 new Covid-19 cases (on Saturday) of which Bengaluru accounts for 628 positive cases and two deaths, taking its total number of active cases to 6107 and death toll to 4519, according to government data.Bengaluru is among the ten worst-hit districts in the country with 6017 active cases.CM Yediyurappa has convened a meeting with experts in Bengaluru on Monday where he is expected to discuss measures to contain the growing spread of the coronavirus which continues to remain a potent threat in India’s IT capital and other large cities.“From now on, we will fix the total number of people at weddings, events and other places,” he said, adding that the government will come down heavily on those who violate these provisions.Though Karnataka was one of the most impacted states till almost the end of last year, government data showed a significant decline in cases since then. However, the rise in cases has sparked fears of a possible second wave in one of the most populated cities in the country where safety measures like physical distancing, masks and washing hands or sanitising them are followed by few.Senior ministers and bureaucrats have warned of a relapse into another lockdown if Covid-19 protocols are violated.In the last one week, Bengaluru has recorded 3175 new cases of the total 4945 across the state.The deaths per million (as on March 13) in Bengaluru is 469.4 as against the state average of 177.0, that emphasises the surge in Karnataka's capital.However, politicians are among the biggest violators of these safety procedures as they continue to host large gatherings, organise protests and even invite thousands to marriages within the family.Bengaluru also has 10,203 people in active quarantine. But poor data collection and lack of random testing and other factors have added to the challenges in fighting the virus, according to the government.The city administration has mooted proposals to conduct tests at markets, malls and marriage halls among other places where large crowds gather.According to the Covid-19 state war room data, there were 37,820 tests per million conducted in Bengaluru in the last 10 days as against 10,356 across the state.The state has also successfully vaccinated (first and second dose) to over 13.40 lakh people, data shows.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/follow-safety-measures-to-avoid-another-lockdown-karnataka-cm-yediyurappa-101615740591231.html
14-03-2021||India||Kalka-Shimla heritage rail motor car to run as train service, says railways ministry||The ministry of railways on Sunday announced that the Kalka-Shimla Heritage rail motor car will start operations as a regular train service from March 18. Inviting passengers to experience the bliss of travelling in the UNESCO-declared World Heritage railway line, the ministry said it will run 04505/04506 Kalka-Shimla-Kalka trains as rail motor car special express trains."Experience the bliss of travelling on Kalka Shimla Heritage route in Rail Motor Car. Indian Railway announces operation of Rail Motor Car as regular Train service. It will run 04505/04506Kalka-Shimla-Kalka trains as RAIL MOTOR CAR Special Exp. Trains from 18.03.21," the ministry had tweeted on Sunday.Experience the bliss of travelling on Kalka Shimla Heritage route in Rail Motor Car:Indian Railway announces operation of Rail Motor Car as regular Train service. It will run 04505/04506Kalka-Shimla-Kalka trains as RAIL MOTOR CAR Special Exp. Trains from 18.03.21. pic.twitter.com/NJWCdtGZoeThe 14-seat single carriage train travels at a speed of 40km per hour and takes about 4.2 hours to reach the final destination. The train will only stop at the Barog railway station in the Solan district of Himachal Pradesh. The rail motor car is reported to start from Kalka at 5.25am and reach Shimla at 9.05am. From Shimla, the service will begin at 11.40am that will reach Barog at 2.10pm and reach Kalka at 4.30pm.The 96.6-kilometre-long single-track working rail link built in the 19th century was added to the mountain railways of India World Heritage Site by UNESCO on July 8, 2008.Also Read| Stage set for Kerala polls: Metro Man, Chandy figure in BJP and Cong listsThe 2-ft and 6-inch (762 mm) narrow gauge line traversing through the northern hills of India is known for the breathtaking views of the surroundings with the steepest rise in altitude through more than 800 crossover bridges and over 100 tunnels.The first-class railbus with a glass roof and a front view begins its journey from Kalka, the foothills, at an altitude of 655 meters (2,150 ft) and travels as high as 2,076 meters (6,811 ft) to Shimla, the capital of Himachal Pradesh.The Himachal Pradesh government in 2007 had declared the railway a Heritage property. The rail car travels via 900 curves as 70 per cent of the route is curves.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kalkashimla-heritage-rail-motor-car-to-run-as-train-service-says-railways-ministry-101615736478283.html
14-03-2021||India||Covid-19: Punjab, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh see spike in fresh cases | 10 points||With 25,320 fresh Covid-19 infections, India on Sunday recorded the highest single-day spike in this year. While Maharashtra remains the worst-affected state reporting the maximum number of daily infections, the situation in Punjab, Karnataka, Gujarat is steading worsening.Here are 10 points about the second surge of Covid-19 in the country> The surge began in February mainly with Maharashtra. But now Delhi, Punjab, Karnataka are also reporting a spike.> On Sunday, Maharashtra recorded this year's highest one-day spike of 16,620 new Covid-19 cases. Many districts of the state are imposing restrictions to foil the spread of the infection.> Sunday was the fourth consecutive day when Delhi recorded over 400 fresh Covid-19 cases. Its fresh case tally on Sunday was 407.> Karnataka reported 934 fresh infections on Sunday with Bengaluru Urban being the top on the list with 628 infections.> Kerala's fresh infection tally on Sunday dipped slightly as the state logged 1,792 new infections.> Punjab on Sunday reported 1,501 fresh Covid-19 cases and 20 fatalities.> Andhra Pradesh on Sunday reported the highest single-day spike since January 8 with 298 fresh cases.> The surge has no link to the mutant strains of the virus, the Indian Council of Medical Research has said.> Arunachal Pradesh did not report any fresh Covid-19 case in the last three days.> Apart from Covid-19 appropriate behaviour, extensive vaccination is being seen as an effective mechanism to fight the surge, as India's vaccination drive is now open to priority age groups. Private hospitals have been asked to run their vaccination sessions 24x7 and the Centre has assured that there is no vaccination shortage in any state.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-punjab-karnataka-andhra-pradesh-see-spike-in-fresh-cases-10-points-101615737055692.html
14-03-2021||India||Indigo flight makes emergency landing at Nagpur for medical reasons, passenger dies||A Delhi-bound IndiGo flight made an emergency landing at Nagpur airport, after a 65-year-old passenger complained of health issues, although he died by the time he was taken to a hospital, police said on Sunday.The incident occurred on Saturday, they said.The man, Chhotusingh Naryansingh Yadav (65), a resident of Gaya in Bihar, had boarded the flight at Chennai on Saturday morning. However, mid-flight he complained to the plane staff that he was experiencing health problems, an official of Sonegaon police station here said.Therefore, the flight made an emergency landing at the Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar International Airport in Nagpur. He was rushed to the city-based Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), where doctors declared him brought dead, he said.A case of accidental death was registered by the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indigo-flight-makes-emergency-landing-at-nagpur-for-medical-reasons-passenger-dies-101615735268318.html
14-03-2021||India||News updates from HT: BJP, Congress release candidate list for Kerala assembly election 2021 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Stage set for Kerala polls: Metro Man, Chandy figure in BJP and Cong listsMetro man E Sreedharan, former chief minister Oommen Chandy, opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala and actor Suresh Gopi figure in Kerala candidate list of the Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) released on Sunday. Read more2nd T20I: Ishan Kishan and Suryakumar Yadav make India debuts, Virat Kohli says duo ready to be unleashed - WATCHIshan Kishan and Suryakumar Yadav have been handed India caps which means the duo will be making its much-awaited debut, replacing Shikhar Dhawan and Axar Patel. Read moreGovinda says he has been corrupted: 'Was pious, now I party, smoke, drink'Actor Govinda has said that he has become 'more corrupt and bitter' now, whereas the Govinda of old was 'pious'. Read moreSara Ali Khan brings sexy back for Manish Malhotra's fashion film, NooraniyatSara Ali Khan was recently in Jaipur with designer Manish Malhotra and close friend Sara Vaisoha, and her latest social media post gave us some insight into why the Simmba actor was in the Pink City. Read moreMadhuri Dixit posts pic with pet doggo, tweets ‘My riyaaz partner’Madhuri Dixit often shares snippets of her personal life on Twitter through videos and pictures. Just like her recent post where she shared an image with her pet pooch Carmelo. Read more'Rahul Gandhi roaming around with Ajmal...': Amit Shah campaigns in AssamUnion Home Minister Amit Shah campaigned in Assam ahead of Assembly elections. Addressing a rally in Tinsukia, the BJP leader tore into the Indian National Congress party for allying with Badruddin Ajmal-led AIUDF in the state. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-bjp-congress-release-candidate-list-for-kerala-assembly-election-2021-and-all-the-latest-news-101615734913578.html
14-03-2021||India||Haryana govt to hold massive Covid-19 vaccination drive on March 15||The Haryana health department has decided to hold a massive Covid-19 vaccination drive on Monday, a senior official said.The department has coordinated with Accredited Social Health Activists and Anganwadi workers besides officials of the Department of Social Justice and Empowerment, Urban Local Bodies (ULB) and Panchayati Raj Institutions (PRIs) to motivate the beneficiaries above 60 years and those with co-morbidities falling within the age group of 45 years to 60 years.Additional Chief Secretary, Health, Rajeev Arora said the main objective of the department is to ensure maximum reach of the Covid-19 vaccine as it will help contain the spread of coronavirus infection.“We have one ASHA worker and Anganwadi worker for every 200 households. They will be moving from door-to-door to motivate the beneficiaries to get the doses of the vaccine administered,” he said.The Department of Social Justice and Empowerment has several schemes running for the senior citizens, and already has a database in this regard, he said.“The vaccine is also being administered at Health Sub Centres located in the villages across the state,” Arora said.Divulging details of the present status of the ongoing vaccination drive, Mission Director, National Health Mission, Haryana, Prabhjot Singh said till March 13, first dose of the vaccine has been administered to 1.68 lakh Health Care Workers (HCWs) and 97,410 HCWs have been administered the second dose.He said 83,338 Frontline Workers (FLWs) have been given the first dose. In all, a total of 2.51 lakh HCWs and FLWs have been given the first dose.Sharing details of the third phase of the vaccine rollout, Singh said a total of 1,56,299 beneficiaries have been covered under the programme till March 13.Until March 13, Haryana has recorded 3,073 Covid-19 fatalities and the infection count stands at 2,74,697.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/haryana-govt-to-hold-massive-covid-19-vaccination-drive-on-march-15-101615733581134.html
14-03-2021||India||65% voters exercise franchise in Telangana MLC elections; polling peaceful||Nearly 65 per cent of voters exercised their franchise in the elections to the two vacant seats in the Telangana state legislative council from graduates’ constituencies on Sunday.The polling percentage in Hyderabad-Ranga Reddy-Mahabubnagar graduates’ constituency was 64.87 per cent, it was around 65 per cent in Khammam-Warangal-Nalgonda constituency at the closing hour of polling at 4 pm.In all, 10,36,565 graduates including 3,67,808 women were enrolled as voters in the elections for the two MLC seats in these six districts. Polling took place in 1,530 polling stations in these districts.“The polling percentage is extremely satisfactory. There were still a large number of voters at the polling stations in both the constituencies and they would be allowed to cast their vote. This might increase the polling percentage slightly,” Telangana chief electoral officer Shashank Goel said.Goel said the polling was by and large peaceful, barring stray incidents of clashes between the cadres of the two different political parties. At Nellikuduru town of Mahabubabad district, the Bharatiya Janata Party alleged that its candidate G Premender Reddy was assaulted by the activists of the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi, when he opposed distribution of money by the TRS among voters at a function hall. Reddy was shifted to a private hospital in Khammam town.Senior TRS leader and panchayat raj minister Errabelli Dayakar Rao, however, denied the BJP leaders’ allegations. “Reddy was not assaulted at all. They are enacting a drama to gain sympathy,” he said.The chief electoral officer said he had received a complaint from the BJP on the alleged attack on its candidate. “We have called for a report from the district administration and shall take appropriate action,” he said.All India Congress Committee spokesperson Dasoju Sravan alleged that the TRS had resorted to large-scale violation of election rules during the MLC elections. He demanded action against state home minister Md Mahmood Ali, who openly divulged the candidate’s name he had voted for.He also alleged that the chief electoral officer had remained blind to the blatant violation of norms by TRS leaders, who had displayed party flags, flex boards, caps and scarfs at various polling stations. The CEO did not take any action though videos of the TRS leaders distributing money went viral on social media.“Shashank Goel is a representative of the Election Commission of India, but he was acting as an agent of TRS president K Chandrasekhar Rao,” he alleged.TRS working president and state industries minister K T Rama Rao thanked the party workers and leaders who worked hard in the electioneering. He also thanked the voters for their overwhelming response to his call to exercise their franchise in these crucial elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/65-voters-exercise-franchise-in-telangana-mlc-elections-polling-peaceful-101615732513753.html
14-03-2021||India||Central government is run by businessmen cashing in on people's hunger: Rakesh Tikait||Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh SinghTikait on Sunday said the Union government was being run by businessman who were cashing in on hunger by snatching away land.He was addressing a farmers' rally in Rewa against the Centre's three agri marketing laws."A new business to cash in on hunger has started. Humans get hungry two times a day, 700 times a year. When the food grains will be in their control, they will start the hunger business," Tikait said.He said in places in Rajasthan and Haryana, land was being bought by businessmen for paltry sums, and massive godowns, with storage capacities of 14 lakh metric tons, had come up, after which the Centre's new farm laws came in."This means this government at the Centre is not run by a party, but by businessmen. It is not only farmers who are in trouble, the railways are being sold, but the opposition is weak, and young people who should have opposed such moves are sleeping," Tikait claimed.He asked people to come out and protest at the district level to get the new laws repealed, adding that farmers must sit at the collectorate and ensure their wheat is sold at ₹1,975 per quintal.Tikait is scheduled to address a farmers' rally in Jabalpur on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/central-government-is-run-by-businessmen-cashing-in-on-people-s-hunger-rakesh-tikait-101615731910740.html
14-03-2021||India||Farmers' demands are genuine, govt must listen, says Meghalaya Governor SP Malik||Meghalaya governor Satya Pal Malik on Sunday waded into the farmers’ protest and said the Centre should accept one of their demands of writing minimum support price (MSP) into law and advised it against using the might of the state against the protesting farmers.Malik was addressing a gathering after his felicitation at Sheelchand Inter College in Aminagar Sarai town of his native district Baghpat in Uttar Pradesh. He belongs to Hisawda village of the district.He said that he had written letters to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah about the ongoing farmers' agitation but it remained unresolved.Visibly perturbed over the stir, he said that a governor was supposed to be quiet on certain issues but “I went against this norm because I am also the son of a farmer and understand the pain and problems of farmers.”He said that he opposed the arrest of farmers and advised the government not to use force against them but ensure that they did not go back empty-handed.The farmers’ protests against three farm laws have been raging for more than a hundred days.“The farmers' demands are genuine and the government must listen to them,” Malik said.Western Uttar Pradesh has been one of the regions from which many farmers had headed to the border with Delhi to stage their protests.He also recalled his tenure as governor of Jammu and Kashmir when Article 370 was repealed. He appreciated the decision of the Modi government and said that a better kind of democracy was established there after conducting panchayat elections.Malik (75), who was transferred as governor of Meghalaya in August last year dropped a hint that he may not be in that post for long.“I don't know how long I will remain in the Raj Bhawan," he said, and added that he would write books after retirement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-demands-are-genuine-govt-must-listen-says-meghalaya-governor-sp-malik-101615731430232.html
14-03-2021||India||Day before lockdown begins, Nagpur records spike of 1,976 fresh Covid-19 cases||Nagpur recorded 1,976 new Covid-19 infections on Sunday, a day before the district comes under a strict lockdown starting from March 15. There has been a steady rise in the number of infections in all districts in Maharashtra, but Nagpur stands conspicuously as the district is reporting more daily cases than Pune, Mumbai — believed to be busier districts than Nagpur. With an unabated rise in the number of daily infections, Nagpur is Maharashtra's first district to bring back lockdown.Here is how Nagpur came to the lockdown situation> The district has been reporting around 1,900 new Covid-19 infections daily in the past few days.> According to the Union health ministry's data, this is the district with the second-highest active Covid-19 cases in India. The first is Pune. The active number of cases refer to the number of people who are presently infection with the disease.> Pune has the highest number of active Covid-19 cases in the country, but its daily rise is lower than Nagpur. On Sunday, Pune recorded 1,780 fresh Covid-19 cases.> What is being called the second wave of Covid-19 in Maharashtra started from the Vidarbha region and Nagpur being in this region saw no exception. Amravati, Akola, Yavatmal — other districts of this region — went for restrictions in February itself when the spike was detected. Nagpur too had imposed weekend restrictions in February. But cases did not come down after the weekend lockdown.> An overall disregard to Covid-19 rules, pandemic fatigue, crowding are being blamed for the rise of cases. These are applicable to Nagpur as well. In fact, ahead of the lockdown from March 15, people were seen flocking to liquor stores flouting social distancing norms.As Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has clarified, the government is not in favour of bringing back a complete lockdown. However, district administrations have been instructed to take the necessary steps to check the spread of the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nagpur-records-1-976-fresh-covid-19-infections-a-day-before-lockdown-begins-101615731000727.html
14-03-2021||India||Pakistani drone spotted in Punjab's Bamial, returns after BSF opens fire||A Pakistani drone entered the Indian territory on Sunday but was forced to return as BSF jawans spotted it and opened fire in its direction in Punjab's Pathankot district, a police official said."The drone which came from the Pakistani side was sighted at Dinda post close to Bamial along the Indo-Pak international border," Pathankot Senior Superintendent of Police Gulneet Singh Khurana told PTI over phone.He said the BSF opened fire in its direction after which it returned to the neighbouring country.Asked if the drone dropped anything inside the Indian territory before flying back, Khurana said, "A thorough search operation was carried out at the site, but nothing was found."In December 2020, 11 hand grenades dropped by a drone flying in from Pakistan were recovered from a field near the International Border in Punjab's Gurdaspur district.The consignment was found in Salach village, located about one km from the border.The box of hand grenades had been attached to a wooden frame which was lowered from the drone onto the ground with a nylon rope, police had then said.The first incident of dropping of arms and weapons through drones from Pakistan came to light in Punjab in September 2019 when police recovered AK-47 rifles, magazines and rounds of ammunition, hand grenades, fake currency and other items in Tarn Taran district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistani-drone-spotted-in-punjab-s-bamial-returns-after-bsf-opens-fire-101615730955256.html
14-03-2021||India||Congress raises concern over spike in Covid-19 cases, asks govt to scale up vaccination drive||Raising concerns over the recent surge in coronavirus cases, the Congress on Sunday demanded that the government speed up the nationwide vaccination campaign and asked what was its strategy to complete the drive within 12 months.Citing Chhattisgarh's demand of more Covishield doses, the opposition party also urged the government to decentralise the vaccination drive and provide adequate vaccines to the states.India on Sunday recorded 25,320 Covid-19 infections, the highest daily rise in 84 days, taking the case tally to 1,13,59,048, according to Union health ministry data. Also, the death toll increased to 1,58,607 with 161 new fatalities, the highest in 44 days.Congress spokesperson Shaktisinh Gohil raised concerns over the rising coronavirus cases and said experts have stated that another wave of Covid-19 is starting."The government is trying to hide facts by giving a maze of vaccination figures. If you look at the government's claim of total vaccinations till now, it is 2,82,18,457. If you look at the 11 days of March, it is 95,90,594. Of the over 135 crore people in the country, only 1.5 per cent have got vaccines, including those who have got just the first dose," Gohil said.Only 47.29 lakh have got both doses of vaccines which means only 0.35 vaccination has been done, he said."By this rate 70 per cent people will get vaccinated in 12.6 years. For 100 per cent vaccination, it will take 18 years. We have vaccines, enough of it is there. Why is the government not giving it?" he posed and accused the government of being busy in elections and not caring for the people.Raising questions from the Narendra Modi government, Gohil asked that with experts and scientists suggesting the emergence of various coronavirus mutants, has the government scaled up genome sequencing to identify newer variants. "What is the government's plan to complete nationwide vaccination within 12 months and not 13, 16 or 18 years," he asked.Gohil also asked whether the government was conducting faster and sufficient RT-PCR tests."As it has been established worldwide, test, track and isolate is the gold standard to fight coronavirus. Is the Modi government pursuing it in the right direction?" he askedGohil also demanded that journalists, delivery persons, and government servants who were engaged in essential services be considered a priority group for vaccination. He also demanded decentralisation of the vaccination programme and scaling it up on priority. The countrywide vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16 with healthcare workers getting inoculated and vaccination of the frontline workers started from February 2.The next phase of Covid-19 vaccination commenced on March 1 for those who are above 60 years and for people aged 45 and above with specified comorbid conditions.Bharat Biotech's Covaxin and Oxford-AstraZeneca's Covishield are the two vaccines that are being administered in the country. According to the health ministry, over 2.91 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-raises-concern-over-spike-in-covid-19-cases-asks-govt-to-scale-up-vaccination-drive-101615728414975.html
14-03-2021||India||Himachal: Month-long Chaitra fair begins in Hamirpur's Deotsidh||The month-long Chaitra fair started at the historic Baba Balak Nath shrine at Deotsidh in Himachal Pradesh's Hamirpur district with a large number of people turning up to pay their obeisance on Sunday.The fair was stopped midway last year to check the spread of coronavirus.Deputy commissioner Debasweta Banik declared the fair open and performed a “puja” at the shrine. She was accompanied by other senior district officials and unfurled a red flag atop the temple.Mahant Rajinder Giri of the temple was also present on the occasion.Chanting religious hymns, thousands of devotees offered foodgrain, cash and ghee on the occasion.Women paid their respects to Baba Balak Nath from a platform raised for them and men were allowed to go to the holy cave to offer prayers.The deputy commissioner said necessary arrangements have been made for smooth “darshans” at the shrine as lakhs of people from Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh are expected to visit the place.“There are eight inns in the temple's vicinity, more or less adequate to accommodate the pilgrims. Over a million pilgrims from Haryana, Punjab, Chandigarh and abroad are expected to visit the temple during the fair,” she said.The temple will remain open round the clock till the ending of the fair, the deputy commissioner said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/himachal-month-long-chaitra-fair-begins-in-hamirpur-s-deotsidh-101615727366419.html
14-03-2021||India||‘Local issue,’ says Sharad Pawar on Vaze's arrest; criticises Governor Koshyari||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) president Sharad Pawar dubbed the arrest of Mumbai police officer Sachin Vaze by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) as a “local” issue and refused to react further.Vaze was arrested by NIA late on Saturday night in connection with the recovery of an explosives-laden vehicle near the residence of industrialist Mukesh Ambani.When asked how he sees the arrest of a Mumbai police officer by the central agency, Pawar said, “The issue is local and not related to the state's policies.”The NCP chief had earlier intervened and spoken to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray when the BJP led by leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis sought his suspension. Earlier in the day, when asked if Pawar was upset with Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh and sought his removal, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut in Mumbai said, “Pawar is the guiding light of the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA). It was because of him that this (Maharashtra) government was formed.”The NCP president also said Maharashtra has not seen a governor like Bhagat Singh Koshyari, who has not followed the responsibility given by the Constitution.To a question on Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari not clearing names recommended by the state cabinet for nomination as MLCs under the governor's quota, Pawar said, it is the responsibility of the governor to implement the cabinet's recommendation.“In the history of Maharashtra, the state has not seen a governor who has not followed the responsibility given by the Constitution. However, the present governor has done that magic, which is unfortunate,” he said.Pawar said when Narendra Modi was the chief minister of Gujarat, the latter had complained about hurdles being created by the then governor.“Today, the same thing is happening in Maharashtra and the Centre is merely a spectator, which is worrying,” said the NCP chief.Pawar on Sunday claimed that barring Assam, the BJP will face defeat in four other poll-bound states and the election trend in the five states will give a new direction to the country. Pawar was speaking to reporters at his hometown Baramati.The NCP chief, whose party is an alliance partner of the Shiv Sena-led Maharashtra government, also accused the Centre of misusing its power in poll-bound West Bengal. The Assembly elections in West Bengal, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Assam and Puducherry (Union Territory) will be held in March-April this year and votes will be counted on May 2.“...It is wrong to talk about results of the five states today as people of these states will take the decision. As far as Kerala is concerned, the Left parties and the NCP have come together and we are sure that we will get a clear- cut majority,” he said.In Tamil Nadu, people will support DMK and its chief MK Stalin, and they will come to power in the state after the polls, the former Union minister said.“In West Bengal, the Centre, especially the BJP is misusing power and trying to attack a sister (referring to Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee) who is trying to fight for the people of the state,” the NCP chief alleged.The entire state has rallied around Trinamool Congress (TMC) chief Mamata Banerjee since it is a matter of Bengali pride and self-respect, he said.“I have no doubt that the TMC will retain power under the leadership of Banerjee,” he said. Pawar further said he knows the situation in poll- bound Assam, and as per the inputs received from his party people, the BJP, which is currently in power there, is in a “good position” compared to others.“In a nutshell, the BJP will retain power in Assam, but will face defeat in other poll-bound states, and other political parties in those states will come to power. I am confident this trend will give a new direction to the country,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/local-issue-says-sharad-pawar-on-vaze-s-arrest-criticises-governor-koshyari-101615726932522.html
14-03-2021||India||Farmers’ stir may continue till December, says BKU leader Rakesh Tikait||The Bhartiya Kisan Union-led farmer agitation against the three central farm laws may continue till December this year, the outfit national spokesperson Rakesh Tikait said here on Sunday. Tikait made the statement while talking to reporters here after his recent visit to the poll-bund West Bengal.“This agitation possibly will stretch up to November or December this year,” he said. Talking about his West Bengal visit, Tikait said during their poll campaigning there, the central government people have been asking farmers to give them one feastful of rice.“I have advised Bengal farmers to ask grain seekers to fix an MSP of ₹1850 per quintal for paddy before giving them a single grain of rice,” Tikait told reporters here. He said after Bengal, he was planning to visit other parts of the country to press for the enactment of a law guaranteeing an MSP for various crops.“In Bihar, the paddy is currently being bought by traders at an abysmally low rate of ₹750 to ₹800 per quintal. I want a law guaranteeing the minimum support price for various crops,” said Tikait. He said he was not going to sit in Delhi alone but was planning to visit all over the country, including Madhya Pradesh on March 14 and 15, Ganga Nagar in Rajasthan on March 17, Ghazipur’s UP Gate border in Delhi on March 18, Odisha on March 19 and Karnataka on March 21 and 22.During his visit here, Tikait also garlanded a statue of his late father and farmer leader Mahendra Singh Tikait at Tikait Park in Jhalwa near here. The BKU spokesperson claimed the three central laws will lead to the closure of all small-time neighbourhood shops, leaving only big commercial malls to survive.“These farm laws will ruin traders and lead to the closure of small business utilities and the collapse of small industries. These laws will bring in big multinational firms like Walmart," claimed Tikait. “Had this government belonged to a political party, it would have talked to farmers and resolved the matter,” Tikait said. “But this government is being run by big business houses. It is bent upon selling the entire country,” he alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-stir-may-continue-till-december-says-bku-leader-rakesh-tikait-101615727100205.html
14-03-2021||India||Villagers lynch man after accusing him of theft near Ranchi||A 26-year-old man was allegedly tied to an electricity pole and lynched by villagers who accused him of stealing the battery and wheel of a motorcycle at Sirka village in Jharkhand’s Ranchi district, police said on Sunday.The incident took place on the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday when Mubarak Kham, a resident of Maheshpur village, had come to neighbouring Sirka village, police said.The locals told police that he was stealing wheel and battery of a bike. They also claimed that a wheel and jack of a car were found from the spot. They allegedly tied him to an electricity pole and beat him brutally.After getting information of the incident, police rushed to the spot around 3 am on Sunday but Mubarak had died by then. The body was brought to the police station.“The body has been sent for postmortem and we have started investigation into the matter,” said Ranchi’s superintendent of police (rural) Naushad Alam.Mubarak’s elder brother Tabarak Khan has lodged a complaint of murder against 19 named persons and 15-25 unknown persons at Angara police station.Alam said, “We have also detained few people in this regard and they are being interrogated.”He said prima facie it doesn’t seem to be a case of theft but some kind of a dispute. “The locals claimed that wheel and battery of a bike was being stolen. But it is doubtful. Will somebody come on a bike to steal wheel and battery of another bike in a neighbouring village? Why would he take risk of being caught by opening the wheel and battery in somebody’s house? Had he been a thief, he would have rather stolen the bike as it was unlocked,” Alam said.The SP said, “We suspect there had been any internal dispute. However, anything concrete could be said only after investigation is completed.”Meanwhile, villagers ghearoed the Angara police station demanding immediate arrest of the accused behind the murder. They were also demanding compensation for the family of Mubarak.Deputy superintendent of police (DSP), Silli, Christopher Kerketta said, “Mubarak has two children and wife. His wife is ill.”When asked if Mubarak had any criminal records, Kerketta said, “We have not so far found any trace of criminal record of him.”This was the second lynching incident in a week in Ranchi district. On March 8, a 22-year-old youth, identified as Sachin Verma, accused of stealing a mini-truck from Ranchi’s wholesale market, was lynched by labourers.Jharkhand’s mob lynching incidents have hit the national headlines several times. The Jharkhand Janadhikar Mahasabha (JJM) claimed that a total of 29 people were lynched by mob in Jharkhand from March 2016 to September 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/villagers-lynch-man-after-accusing-him-of-theft-near-ranchi-101615725492653.html
14-03-2021||India||‘Give us another five years..’: Amit Shah in poll rally speech vows to end infiltration in Assam||Union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday assured the people of Assam that infiltration in the state’s border would be stopped if the Bharatiya Janata Party is re-elected to power in the upcoming assembly elections. He also attacked the Congress and its leader Rahul Gandhi saying that they can not protect Assam from infiltration.“Can Rahul [Gandhi], who has taken Badruddin Ajmal's support, protect Assam from infiltration? Can Assam be safe with Badruddin? Give us another five years, infiltration will be a thing of past in the state,” news agency ANI quoted Shah as saying.Also read | BJP releases candidate list, Khusboo to contest from Thousand LightsThe home minister, who was addressing a rally at Tinsukia in Assam, also asked the people to choose between the BJP and the Congress governments. “In some days, it will be decided who will run Assam for the next five years. On one hand, there's PM Modi, Sarbananda [Sonowal] and Himanta's [Biswa Sawma] leadership and on the other hand, Rahul Gandhi and Badruddin Ajmal's leadership. Tell us who can develop Assam?” Shah asked the people, as reported by ANI.Continuing his attack, Amit Shah accused that the Congress “sees votes in infiltrators” in Assam, while the BJP doesn’t indulge in vote-bank politics. “In Kerala, they [Congress] have partnered with Muslim League that divided nation, in Bengal it's Furfura Sharif and here [Assam] it is Badruddin Ajmal. This party can stoop to any low to win,” he added.Also read | BJP announces names for 125 seats in Kerala; Sreedharan to contest from PalakkadThree-phased elections have been scheduled for 126 legislative constituencies in Assam on March 27, April 1 and April 6, as announced by the Election Commission of India (ECI). The incumbent government by the BJP and its allies won 86 seats in the last assembly elections in 2016.The Congress on March 6 released its list of candidates for the first phase of the polls and on March 10, the candidates for the second phase were announced. The BJP released their list of candidates for Assam on Sunday, after the party’s Central Election Committee (CEC) met on Saturday to decide on the candidates for all the upcoming state assembly elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/give-us-another-five-years-amit-shah-in-poll-rally-speech-vows-to-end-infiltration-in-assam-101615723565141.html
14-03-2021||India||UP govt will have to remove hoardings advertising 'highway of lies': Akhilesh Yadav||Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav on Sunday tweeted that after having to delete “false tweets on generating jobs and incomes”, the Uttar Pradesh (UP) government will have to now remove false hoardings advertising five new expressways.“First, the BJP government of UP had to remove false tweets on generating jobs and incomes and now they will have to remove false hoardings on five new expressways too,” tweeted Yadav.Yadav attached an image of a hoarding advertising the development work undertaken by the Yogi Adityanath-led UP government with his tweet. The hoarding had images of both the Prime Minister and UP’s chief minister, stating that the UP government has constructed five expressways in four years, compared to just two constructed in the last 70 years.Yadav, who has recently been booked under various sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) for an alleged incident of violence against journalists, took another dig at the incumbent government, tweeting that narrow passages themselves cannot create any great roads.“The truth is that narrow passages cannot create any great roads on their own,” said Yadav on the microblogging platform.Yadav, who has been stepping up his attack against the Yogi Adityanath government as the 2022 UP Assembly polls approach, said to news agency PTI on Saturday that Yogi Adityanath had got the chief minister's post "by chance".On the allegations of inciting against violence against journalists, Yadav tweeted "Today, the way in which the Constitution is attacked, false cases registered against leaders, and physical assaults taking place after raids by probe agencies, are all an adverse result of BJP's violent political thought,"He reiterated his previous statements on SP winning the upcoming 2022 assembly elections, tweeting on Saturday that the “highway of lies will soon be removed by the public”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-govt-will-have-to-remove-hoardings-advertising-highway-of-lies-akhilesh-yadav-101615723476178.html
14-03-2021||India||Tamil Nadu assembly election 2021: BJP releases candidate list, Kushboo to contest from Thousand Lights||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Sunday released its list of 17 candidates for the upcoming Tamil Nadu assembly elections. The party’s National General Secretary Arun Singh announced the list of candidates in a press conference.Popular south Indian actor Kushboo Sundar is contesting from the Thousand Lights constituency in Chennai, which has been a DMK stronghold. She was a former Congress national spokesperson and joined the BJP in October 2020.தமிழக பா.ஜ.க முதற்கட்ட வெற்றி வேட்பாளர்கள் பட்டியல் ...#TNElections2021@blsanthosh @JPNadda @Murugan_TNBJP @CTRavi_BJP @kishanreddybjp @ReddySudhakar21 @Gen_VKSingh pic.twitter.com/SDIw1LOR5FBJP’s Tamil Nadu state president L Murugan has been fielded from the Dharapuram seat in the Tiruppur district. Also, the national president of the party’s women wing Vanathi Srinivasan is contesting from the Coimbatore South constituency, where she will face actor turned politician Kamal Haasan of the Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) party.Also read | BJP announces names for 125 seats in Kerala; Sreedharan to contest from Palakkad“In Tamil Nadu, BJP is contesting as NDA partner and we will be contesting in 20 assembly constituencies spread across all regions of the state. State president L Murugan will contest from Dharapuram. Senior leader H Raja will contest from Karaikudi,” Arun Singh said, as reported by news agency ANI.Dr P Saravan, sitting DMK MLA who had joined the BJP earlier in the day, has been given the Madurai North seat. He won the 2019 by-election for the seat and was not offered a seat by the DMK for the elections this year.Meanwhile, BJP leader and former MLA H Raja is contesting from the Karaikudi constituency where he was the MLA between 2001 and 2006. Also, IPS office-turned-politician K Annamalai is contesting from Karur’s Aravakurichi seat.Also read | TN CM Edappadi Palaniswami confident of ‘sweeping majority’ in assembly pollsThe party has also fielded Nainar Nagendran from the Tirunelveli constituency. He had filed his nomination papers for the constituency on Friday, much before the party released its official candidate list, according to news reports. He was also a former member of the AIADMK, who joined the BJP in 2017.A single-phase election for the 234 seats in the Tamil Nadu assembly has been scheduled for April 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-assembly-election-2021-bjp-releases-candidate-list-khusboo-to-contest-from-thousand-lights-101615722906601.html
14-03-2021||India||SP leader Shafiqur Rahman Barq condemns FIR against Akhilesh Yadav||Samajwadi Party leader Shafiqur Rahman Barq on Sunday condemned the registration of FIR against his party supremo Akhilesh Yadav against whom an FIR was registered recently for allegedly attacking journalists during a press conference in Moradabad.The Lok Sabha MP from Sambhal said that the SP will protest against this registration of FIR.Speaking to ANI, Shafiqur Rahman Barq said: "This FIR is equivalent to a fake FIR. Yadav ji our President. This move by the complainants is not acceptable. Instead of covering what Yadav ji spoke on in the press conference, the media is busy covering his FIR related stories. Yadav ji too has lodged an FIR against the complainants in response. This move was acceptable.""We are having a conversation with the party's workers. If needed, we will protest against this move by the complainants," he said.Also read: Akhilesh kicks of 2022 election campaign with cycle rally from Azam’s bastionOn March 10, a scuffle broke out after some media persons allegedly came close to the security cover of Akhilesh Yadav during his press conference in Moradabad.Following this incident, a complaint was filed by a few alleged media persons with the police.In a tweet, Akhilesh Yadav said: "The FIR filed against me by the BJP led state government of Uttar Pradesh... This FIR is a symbol of BJP's losing power in the state." (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sp-leader-shafiqur-rahman-barq-condemns-fir-against-akhilesh-yadav-101615716236615.html
14-03-2021||India||NIA gets Sachin Vaze’s custody till March 25 in Ambani security care probe||The Special NIA court on Sunday remanded assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze to the National Investigation Agency’s custody till March 25 in connection with an explosives-laden SUV found near the residence of Mukesh Ambani.Vaze was arrested late Saturday night by the NIA at their Mumbai office after he was questioned in the case. The NIA produced him before the special NIA court on Sunday afternoon and sought his custody for further investigation.The prosecution asked for Vaze’s maximum custody for further investigation. The agency pleaded that the case has so far traveled by three agencies- Mumbai Crime Branch, ATS and later NIA. Hence they would want to probe the role played by the accused.The prosecution, however, refused to share the copy of remand application with the lawyers of Vaze citing privilege and confidentiality.Vaze’s lawyer Sudeep Passbola objected to it and claimed that the agency has no evidence to implicate the police officer.On the right to have access to the remand application, the court will hear the defence team's (Vaze) arguments on MondayA senior officer said that NIA has also seized an Innova car from Motor transport (MT) department situated in Nagapada bearing the registration number MH01- ZA- 403 which was seen escorting the Scorpio SUV found parked near Ambani’s residence Antilia with 20 loose gelatin sticks. The Innova was used with fake number plate and later it was parked in Motor transport department, Nagpada for repair.NIA officials visited the MT department at night and the Innova was confiscated brought to NIA office in South Mumbai around 3 am on Sunday.At the time of his arrest a top NIA official told HT, "Sachin Vaze is part of the group that planted the explosive-laden Scorpio on Carmichael Road (near Antilia) on February 25."Vaze was the lead investigator in the case before the investigation was handed over to the Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) and then to the NIA, The NIA recorded Vaze’s statement to find out the sequence of events as he was initially heading the probe and also for his connection to the man linked to the vehicle found with 20 gelatin sticks near the billionaire’s residence in Mumbai.Vaze was named in a statement to police by Vimla Hiran, the widow of Thane’s Mansukh Hiran, who claimed ownership of the vehicle parked outside Ambani’s house and was later found dead in a creek on March 5. The 48-year-old auto parts dealer’s widow told the police that the explosives-laden Scorpio belonged to one Dr Peter Newton and had been with them for the past three years.She said that Hiran lent the SUV to Vaze in November 2020 and the vehicle was sent back to his shop in Thane on February 5. It has been alleged that Vaze was also forcing the Thane businessman to take the blame for the case on him and surrender to the police.On Friday, the Thane sessions court had rejected Vaze’s anticipatory bail application and set March 19 as the next date of hearing in connection with a separate case registered by the ATS in Hiran’s suspected murder last week.People familiar with the developments said Vaze has also moved an application in the Bombay high court challenging the grounds of his arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-gets-sachin-vaze-s-custody-till-march-25-in-ambani-security-care-probe-101615722273558.html
14-03-2021||India||Sachin Vaze's brother claims he's being implicated||The brother of Mumbai police officer Sachin Vaze, who was held by the NIA over the recovery of an explosive-laden vehicle near Mukesh Ambani's residence, on Sunday said the investigators did not inform the family about his arrest and they came to know about it through media.Sudharma Vaze also alleged that his brother Sachin is being implicated in the case."The family was not told about his (Sachin's) arrest by the investigators. The family came to know about the arrest through media. The investigators did not contact the family," he told a regional news channel.He also said that he had met his brother a couple of days back, who looked tense.The National Investigation Agency (NIA), which is probing the last month's recovery of the explosives-laden vehicle from near Ambani's house in south Mumbai, arrested Waze late night on Saturday after over 12 hours of questioning.The NIA spokesperson had said said Vaze has been arrested "for his role and involvement in placing explosives- laden vehicle near Carmichael road" on February 25.The case was handed over to the NIA after the mysterious death of a Thane-based businessman Mansukh Hiran, who had claimed that the vehicle had been stolen a week earlier. His body was found in a creek at Thane on March 5.Hiran's wife had claimed that her husband had given the SUV to Vaze in November, which the officer returned in the first week of February.A court in Mumbai on Sunday remanded Vaze in NIA custody till March 25 in connection with the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sachin-vaze-s-brother-claims-he-s-being-implicated-101615721665260.html
14-03-2021||India||Delhi reports 407 new Covid-19 cases, positivity rate below 1%||Delhi reported 407 new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in the last 24 hours, continuing the streak of 400-above daily cases for the fourth straight day. The last time daily cases had gone over 400 in Delhi was on January 3, when it had logged 424 infections in 24 hours. The city had registered 585 cases on January 1.The Capital registered 350 recoveries and two deaths from the deadly virus in the last 24 hours, the health bulletin showed. More than 68,000 tests including 41,195 RT-PCR tests and 27,028 rapid antigen tests were conducted in the last 24 hours. The positivity rate of the disease remained at 0.60 per cent, the same as Saturday, according to the bulletin.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19The new cases registered on Sunday took the infection tally of the Capital to 6,43,696. Delhi on Thursday reported 409 cases, on Friday the city registered 431 cases, the highest in two months and on Saturday, it had registered 419 cases. In the last four days that Delhi has been registering above 400 cases, Sunday's number is the lowestOn the spike of the daily coronavirus cases, Delhi health minister Satyender Jain had said that the situation in the city is 'not alarming', asserting that the positivity rate is still below one per cent.The number of containment zones in the city is on a rise. As of Sunday, there are 537 containment zones in the city and around 1,270 people are under home isolation.The Union health ministry data has shown Delhi to be one among the eight states recording a steep hike in the number of daily coronavirus cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-reports-407-new-covid-19-cases-positivity-rate-below-1-101615717661455.html
14-03-2021||India||Yogendra Yadav meets jailed Raijor Dal president, says goal is to defeat BJP||Activist Yogendra Yadav met jailed Raijor Dal president Akhil Gogoi on Sunday and appealed to the people to defeat the ruling BJP in Assam.Yadav and Kisan Sangharsh Samiti leader Sunilam met Gogoi at the Gauhati Medical College Hospital."Gogoi has put up 19 candidates in the 86 seats in the first two phases. His goal is to ensure that the BJP is defeated," Yadav said."We have come with one message that the BJP should be ousted for the way it has treated farmers and taken decisions against their interests and welfare," the Samyukt Kisan Morcha leader said.Yadav said that he had met Gogoi in jail in February last year and his health condition has deteriorated considerably since then."He has been subjected to considerable mental torture and his medical condition has deteriorated but still the ideological clarity, mental resolve and the courage shown by him is a model," he said.Yadav alleged that Gogoi has been put in jail to ensure that he cannot interact with the people during the elections."This is not a criminal trial but a political trial," he alleged.Yadav said that he had not gone to discuss politics but Gogoi was very interested to know how the farmers' agitation was progressing and was very clear about the urgent need to defeat the BJP.Sunilam alleged that the way NIA is investigating the cases against Gogoi it appears that they are acting at the behest of the government."It is obvious that false cases have been slapped against him to silence peoples' voice, which he represents, but now that the elections are here, the people of the state must make a decision," he said.He appealed to the Congress to reconsider their decision of fielding a candidate against Gogoi.Sunilam said that he would go to Sibsagar to campaign for Gogoi.Gogoi was arrested in December 2019 during the protests against CAA in the state and was booked under the stringent UAPA.He had tested positive for Covid-19 some months back and shifted to the Gauhati Medical College and Hospital where he is still lodged with a board of doctors monitoring his condition.Sibsagar goes to the polls in the first phase on March 27 along with 46 other constituencies.Elections to the 126-member Assam legislative assembly will be held in three phases with 39 constituencies in the second phase on April 1, and 40 in the last phase on April 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yogendra-yadav-meet-jailed-raijor-dal-president-says-goal-is-to-defeat-bjp-101615721438933.html
14-03-2021||India||RSS' highest decision-making body to meet on March 19-20||Akhil Bharatiya Pratinidhi Sabha (ABPS), the highest decision-making body of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), will meet here on March 19 and 20. The proceedings of the ABPS would begin on March 19 and conclude on March 20 at Janaseva Vidya Kendra, the RSS said in a press release. The ABPS meets once a year in different cities of the country, and this is the 8th such meet happening in Karnataka. The meet would discuss ways to take RSS work to the unreached and undertake planning for expansion and consolidation of organisational work, the release said. The organisational work includes improving Shakhas, increasing training camps, sharing of innovative practices and experiences by representatives of various states and other activities for the coming year, it said. During the meeting of elected representatives of RSS, several delegates are expected to attend it and resolutions on important issues are passed which have a direct connection with the ongoings in society and the people. Swayamsevaks working in different areas and sections of society through different organisations are also invited for sharing their experiences and inputs on different issues of national importance, the release said. The Mahila representatives from Rashtra Sevika Samiti are also invited to ABPS, it said. The meeting would be conducted by Suresh (Bhaiya ji) Joshi, Sarkaryvah Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, in the presence of Sarsanghchalak Dr Mohan Bhagwat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rss-highest-decision-making-body-to-meet-on-march-1920-101615720989110.html
14-03-2021||India||Budget session of Telangana Legislature from Monday with Covid protocols||The Budget session of the Telangana Legislature would begin from Monday in conformity with the Covid-19 protocols.The session would begin with the address by Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan and the agenda would be decided by the Business Advisory Committee (BAC), official sources said on Sunday.The budget is expected to be presented on March 18.Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, who recently held a meeting with state Finance Minister T Harish Rao and officials on Budget preparation for 2021-22, said there is a possibility of increased allocations in the budget compared to the previous one.Rao had said economic activities revived even as the state suffered a loss of ₹50,000 crore due the Covid-19 pandemic with "its impact reaching ₹one lakh crore".BJP MLA M Raghunandan Rao said on Saturday that his party would raise the recent communal violence at Bhainsa town in Nirmal district, flooding in Hyderabad in October following heavy rains, among other issues in the session.Amid a marginal rise in Covid-19 cases in the state during the last one week, precautions against the infection are being followed in the legislature.Legislative Assembly Speaker Pocharam Srinivasa Reddy held a meeting with officials on March 12 and said sanitisation would be carried out in the assembly premises.He urged the members, staff and others to wear masks without fail.He also requested the members, legislature personnel, mediapersons, staff of ministers and others to undergo Covid-19 test in the premises of the legislature.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/budget-session-of-telangana-legislature-from-monday-with-covid-protocols-101615720693009.html
14-03-2021||India||Upendra Kushwaha returns home to JD (U), merges RLSP with Nitish Kumar’s party||After months of speculation, Upendra Kushwaha merged his Rashtriya Lok Samta Party (RLSP) with the Janata Dal (United) in the presence of Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Sunday.Kushwaha had left the JD (U) in 2013 and formed the RLSP that year.A formal announcement about merger was made by Kushwaha himself after RLSP’s national council meeting Sunday morning. Kushwaha, later drove to the JD (U) office where he was welcomed by Kumar.Soon after the merger, Nitish Kumar announced appointment of Kushwaha as Chairman of National Parliamentary Board of JD (U), with immediate effect.“I am personally very happy with the development. It is a historical decision. We were together earlier and again we are back. He is a big leader and will work together for state’s development,” said Kumar, while welcoming Kushwaha back in JD (U).“We were in talks with the RLSP chief Upendra Kushwaha for quite some time. When I discussed it with my party members, they expressed their joy on his thought of merging the party with ours,” said Kumar.Earlier in the day, Kushwaha, after the meeting of the RLSP national council announced the decision of the party to merge with the JD (U). “The entire RLSP will merge with the JD (U) from today. The decision has been taken in the interest of the state and country. Seeing the people’s mandate and the prevailing political scenario, it was decided that leaders with similar political ideology should come on one platform. This is the demand of the current political situation,” said Kushwaha.“People’s mandate was a clear message that we should go together. This is neither going to benefit me nor Nitish Kumar. It will benefit the state and strengthen Bihar,” said Kushwaha and ruled out that any political bargaining for the merger.Kushwaha, a former Union minister made it clear that his role in the party would be decided by Nitish Kumar. Heaping praise on Kumar, Kushwaha said, “He is my bade bhai (elder brother). I have always respected him. I will continue to serve people and party irrespective of the role assigned to me and strengthen the JD (U).”“JD (U) is the only party which is committed to state’s development whereas some parties are more interested in their own development. I will serve under Nitish Kumar and strengthen the party,” said Kushwaha.JD (U)'s alliance partners, the BJP and the HAM-S welcomed Kushwaha’s homecoming.Former chief minister and HAM-S leader Jitan Ram Manjhi said that Kushwaha’s return to JD (U) is in the interest of the state and country. “He was a Union minister in NDA government. He went to Grand Alliance where he felt insulted,” said BJP spokesperson Nikhil Anand.The RJD took a dig at the merger. RJD national vice-president Shivanand Tiwari said Nitish Kumar should handover the chief minister's position to Kushwaha. "The way BJP insulted Nitish Kumar in Bihar Assembly elections using Chirag Paswan it was obvious that it somewhere niggled Nitish Kumar as well as Upendra Khushwaha. However, it is time that "Luv" should handover the CM position to his brother Kush as 'Luv-Kush' was the base of the JD(U)'s formation, said Tiwari.JD (U) leaders feel that the Luv-Kush unity in Bihar (a term used in reference to Kurmi and Koeri caste) can become a potent factor in revival of the JD (U). The Kushwahas and Kurmis together for nearly 12% of Bihar’s population and had been a major vote bank of Nitish Kumar.The RLSP had exited the RJD-led grand alliance in September last year and fought the Bihar assembly election in partnership with the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and Asaduddin Owaisi’s All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) but drew a blank.Political experts, however, are not excited with the development and feel that it would hardly help JD (U) which is trying to consolidate itself.“The reason is simple. Kushwaha has lost clout. All his community grassroot leaders have joined the RJD. The Kush (Koeri community to which Kushwaha belong) is a divided house. The message has gone loud and clear that Kushwaha is fighting for his survival,” said D M Diwakar, political analyst associated with A N Sinha Institute for Social Studies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/upendra-kushwaha-returns-home-to-jd-u-merges-rlsp-with-nitish-kumar-s-party-101615720259651.html
14-03-2021||India||News updates from HT: New Uttarakhand CM to review predecessor's decisions and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.New Uttarakhand CM to review some big decisions taken by Trivendra Singh RawatUttarakhand chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat has decided to review and possibly reverse some major decisions taken by his predecessor, Trivendra Singh Rawat’s government. Read moreAmitav Ghosh on the astonishing vitality of the SunderbansAmitav Ghosh, as he delves into the vivid and elegiac landscape of the famed Sunderbans, does not shy way from letting the reader know what he’s offering here is a cautionary tale. Read moreBJP announces names for 125 seats in Kerala; Sreedharan to contest from PalakkadThe Bharatiya Janata Party on Sunday announced the list of candidates for the upcoming Kerala assembly elections and said that the party will contest from 115 seats out of the 140 seats. Read moreHero launches BS 6 version of XPulse 200T motorcycle in India at ₹1.13 lakhIndia’s largest two-wheeler manufacturer Hero MotoCorp has launched the BS6 version of its Xpulse 200T motorcycle in India. The new Hero XPulse 200T BS6 is priced at ₹1,12,800 ex-showroom in Delhi. Read moreAditya Tare, Prithvi Shaw lead Mumbai to their fourth Vijay Hazare titleAditya Tare slammed his maiden List A hundred after captain Prithvi Shaw’s blazing fifty as Mumbai beat Uttar Pradesh by six wickets to win the Vijay Hazare Trophy on Sunday in New Delhi. This is Mumbai's fourth Vijay Hazare title. Read moreShanaya Kapoor's little black dress worth ₹6k is Gen Z approved styleThe younger Kapoor sisters are taking the fashion sphere by a storm. Khushi and her cousin Shanaya Kapoor have become the face of Gen Z style and they make headlines whenever they share new images on social media. Read moreGovinda says Krushna Abhishek is 'spoiling' his image: 'I really don't know who is making him do it'Actor Govinda has said that someone is instigating his nephew, Krushna Abhishek, into speaking against him. Krushna and Govinda have been engaged in a feud for quite some time, with both of them refusing to share the stage with each other on The Kapil Sharma Show. Read moreStory of a Bhubaneswar auto driver’s honesty is tugging at people’s heartstringsJagannatha Patra, an auto driver with Ola Cabs, is the Internet’s newest hero whom people can’t stop praising. Patra’s story was shared by Twitter user Susanta Sahoo, who, through a thread narrated his experience involving Patra, a missing wallet and a phone. Read moreWatch: Mamata Banerjee holds roadshow in wheelchair days after injury||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-new-uttarakhand-cm-to-review-predecessor-s-decisions-and-all-the-latest-news-101615718470720.html
14-03-2021||India||Growth of country cannot be done without development of tribal community, forest dwellers: President Kovind||President Ram Nath Kovind said on Sunday that without the development of the tribal community and the forest dwellers, growth of the society and the country cannot be done.He was addressing a gathering here after the inauguration of the newly-constructed building of school and hostel of Seva Kunj Ashram run by Seva Samarpan Sansthan in Chapki."When Lord Ram emerged victorious in the war against Ravan, the 'vanvaasi' (forest dwellers) extended great assistance. In the same way, if the society and the country has to move ahead, then the forest dwellers' community has to be first taken ahead," Kovind said.He also said that Sonbhadra shares borders with four states, and the schools and hostels operating at such a place will benefit students of the forest dwellers' community of Uttar Pradesh and bordering areas of the adjoining states."The soul of India resides in areas of the tribal community and forest dwellers. If anyone wants to get introduced to this culture, then he/she should spend time in districts like Sonbhadra," he said.Kovind also said that for him 'vanvaasi' area is like a pilgrimage place, and if the forest dwellers feels encouraged, then they will make the country proud.Laying stress on the development of the backward castes, Dalits, tribals and forest dwellers, he asked Governor Anandiben Patel and Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath to co-ordinate with the Centre, and contribute in taking the forest dwellers ahead.The president also said, "Without the development of the tribal community, holistic development is incomplete. The Centre and the state governments are running a number of programmes for them. Talented people hailing from the forest dwellers' community have done good things in the country."He also said that work is being done to preserve the memories of the great personalities, folk art and songs.The governor and the chief minister were also present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/growth-of-country-cannot-be-done-without-development-of-tribal-community-forest-dwellers-president-kovind-101615719309890.html
14-03-2021||India||Govt to provide all-India tourist permit to operators in 30 days of applying||In a bid to promote tourism, all-India tourist permits will be provided to operators within 30 days of online application submission, the government said on Sunday.The new rules will be applicable from April 1, 2021.The Ministry of Road Transport and Highways (MoRTH) has announced a new scheme, under which any tourist vehicle operator may apply for an "All India Tourist Authorization/Permit" through online mode.It will be issued, after relevant documents are submitted and fees deposited, within 30 days of submission of such applications, MoRTH said in a statement.The new set of rules, it said, will be known as, "All India Tourist Vehicles Authorization and Permit Rules, 2021". The existing permits shall continue to be in force during their validity."The new rules for permits are expected to go a long way in promoting tourism across States in our country, while simultaneously, growing the revenue of state governments," the statement said.The rules come even as the Ministry is in the pursuit of providing seamless movement to tourist passenger vehicles, after the success of goods carriage vehicles under National Permit Regime, it said."Moreover, the scheme allows flexibility in the form of authorization/permit being granted, for a period of three months or its multiples thereof, not exceeding three years at a time," the statement said.This provision has been incorporated keeping in mind those areas of the country where there is a limited season of tourism and also for those operators who have limited financial capacity, the government said.It will also consolidate a central database and fees of all such authorization/permits, which might give a sense of tourist movements, scope for improvement, promotion of tourism, it added."The step comes in the context of the travel and tourism industry in our country increasing manifold in the last fifteen years," it said.The growth has been contributed by both domestic and international tourists, and there is a trend of high expectation and consumer experience.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-to-provide-all-india-tourist-permit-to-operators-in-30-days-of-applying-101615707073550.html
14-03-2021||India||Barring Assam, BJP will face defeat in elections in 4 other states: Sharad Pawar||NCP chief Sharad Pawar on Sunday claimed that barring Assam, the BJP will face defeat in four other poll-bound states and the election trend in the five states will give a new direction to the country.Speaking to reporters in Baramati town of Pune district in Maharashtra, Pawar, whose party in an alliance partner of the Shiv Sena-led Maharashtra government, also accused the Centre of misusing its power in poll-bound West Bengal.The Assembly elections in West Bengal, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Assam and Puducherry (Union Territory) will be held in March-April this year and votes will be counted on May 2."...It is wrong to talk about results of the five states today as people of these states will take the decision. As far as Kerala is concerned, the Left parties and the NCP have come together and we are sure that we will get aclear- cut majority," he said.In Tamil Nadu, people will support DMK and its chief M K Stalin, and they will come to power in the state after the polls, the former Union minister said."In West Bengal, the Centre, especially the BJP is misusing power and trying to attack a sister (referring to Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee) who is trying to fight for the people of the state," the NCP chief alleged.The entire state has rallied around Trinamool Congress (TMC) chief Mamata Banerjee since it is a matter of Bengali pride and self-respect, he said."I have no doubt that the TMC will retain power under the leadership of Banerjee," he said.Pawar further said he knows the situation in poll- bound Assam, and as per the inputs received from his party people, the BJP, which is currently in power there, is in a "good position" compared to others."In nutshell, the BJP will retain power in Assam, but will face defeat in other poll-bound states, and other political parties in those states will come to power. I am confident this trend will give a new direction to the country," he said.Asked about the arrest of Mumbai police officer Sachin Waze by the NIA in connection with the recovery of an explosives-laden vehicle near the residence of industrialist Mukesh Ambani, Pawar dubbed the issue as "local" and did not comment, saying it is not related to the state's policies.Earlier in the day, when asked if Pawar was upset with Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh and sought his removal, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut in Mumbai said, "Pawar is the guiding light of the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA). It was because of him this (Mahrashtra) government was formed."To a question on Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari not clearing names recommended by the state cabinet for nomination as MLCs under the governor's quota, Pawar said it is the responsibility of the governor to implement the cabinet's recommendation."In the history of Maharashtra, the state has not seen a governor who has not followed the responsibility given by the Constitution. However, the present governor has done that magic, which is unfortunate," he said.Pawar said when Narendra Modi was the chief minister of Gujarat, the latter had complained about hurdles being created by the then governor."Today, the same thing is happening in Maharashtra and the Centre is merely becoming a spectator, which is worrying," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/barring-assam-bjp-will-face-defeat-in-elections-in-4-other-states-sharad-pawar-101615717166359.html
14-03-2021||India||Man accused of duping job seekers arrested from airplane in Mumbai||The Goa Police Cyber Crime Cell, in coordination with the Mumbai Anti Terrorism Squad, have arrested a man accused of running a fake job racket on Sunday from Mumbai after he fled from Guwahati in a plane.The accused, identified as Sumit Upadhyay, allegedly created a duplicate website in the name of Ouvert Marine, mimicking the original, through which, he would issue fake placement letters for jobs on board cruise ships and ask aspirants to pay fees up to 5-lakh for processing each fake placement.The Shipping Company, Ouvert Marine, had filed complaints with the Goa Police as well as the Director General of Shipping.The Cyber Cell immediately took down the fake website and froze all its accounts. Further detailed investigation led the Cyber Cell to the prime accused Upadhyay, who, the Police said, hid his real identity using several fake identities, sim cards and travelled across UP, Delhi, Mumbai and Guwahati.Also Read: State election commissioners have to be independent persons: Supreme Court“Immediately a team was dispatched to Guwahati to apprehend the accused with the help of Crime Branch Guwahati, led by deputy commissioner of police (DCP) Barun Purkayastha. The accused then attempted to abscond to Mumbai, where a joint team of ATS Mumbai under deputy inspector general (DIG) Shivdeep Lande and led by PI Daya Naik, CISF Sahar Airport and Cyber Cell Goa, led by PSI Sarvesh Sawant, apprehended Sumit Upadhyay inside the airplane,” said superintendent of police (Crime Branch) Shobit Saksena.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-accused-of-duping-job-seekers-arrested-from-airplane-in-mumbai-101615715066247.html
14-03-2021||India||Plea in SC seeking strict guidelines to prevent chances of fake Covid-19 vaccine||A petition has been filed in the Supreme Court seeking the Centre to issue strict guidelines and regulations to prevent the chances of fake and counterfeit Covid-19 vaccine.The Public Interest Litigation (PIL) filed by advocate Vishal Tiwari sought a direction to the Centre to enact a strict law against the criminal act committed by selling or circulating the counterfeit vaccine by any organisation or Individual.The pleas asked that the guidelines be made under Disaster Management Act or under any other law by constituting a high powered committee, to be headed and monitored by a retired judge of the apex court, to prevent fake coronavirus vaccine, selling/circulating and advertising by any organisation, online app."The government has to run the awareness program for the safety of the citizens against the danger of counterfeit vaccination of the virus and to regulate and ensure the equitable distribution of the vaccine and also to ensure its affordable pricing for the public," the plea added.The petitioner said that the PIL is filed for protection against Covid-19 spurious vaccine and highlighting the risk and danger of fake vaccine.The plea stated: "Interpol has issued a global alert to law enforcement across its 194 member countries warning them to prepare for organized crime networks targeting Covid-19 vaccines, both physically and online.India is a vast country with having huge population. It can be a big place of profit for criminal organizations and companies as it can be made a market for selling counterfeit and fake vaccine. Such organisations adopt a very smart technique of publicity which can attract several innocent citizens of our nation for buying the vaccine."Online fraud has become a regular criminal act committed and our nation is also facing this challenge," the plea added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/plea-in-sc-seeking-strict-guidelines-to-prevent-chances-of-fake-covid-19-vaccine-101615713570289.html
14-03-2021||India||Mamata Banerjee leads procession in wheelchair on Nandigram Diwas||West Bengal chief minister and Trinamool Congress (TMC) chief Mamata Banerjee made her first public appearance in a wheelchair on Sunday afternoon to pay homage to the 14 villagers of Nandigram, who died in police firing on March 14, 2007, marking the beginning of a long agitation against the acquisition of farmland by the Left Front government.Banerjee was the face of that agitation which played a key role in ending the Left Front’s 34-year-long rule in 2011. She observes March 14 as Nandigram Diwas every year and leads a silent procession in the heart of Kolkata.Nandigram is once again in news as Banerjee is contesting against her protégé-turned-adversary, Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Suvendu Adhikari, at the Nandigram assembly seat in East Midnapore. Nandigram goes to the polls in the second phase of eight-phase state assembly elections on April 1.Adhikari, who hails from East Midnapore, has claimed that it was he, who led the Nandigram agitation which continued till 2009 and witnessed many deaths.Sending a clear message to the BJP before the procession started around 2 pm, Banerjee tweeted, “We will continue to fight boldly! I'm still in a lot of pain, but I feel the pain of my people even more. In this fight to protect our revered land, we have suffered a lot and will suffer more but we will NEVER bow down to COWARDICE!”Also Read: 14 yrs on, Nandigram, cradle of Bengal's anti-land acquisitionBanerjee was injured in Nandigram on Wednesday evening when the door of her SUV slammed against her left foot. She alleged that four or five people in the crowd that had surrounded the vehicle, deliberately pushed the door. Opposition leaders have accused Banerjee of using the incident to gain political mileage.Sitting in a wheelchair that was pushed by her security personnel, the chief minister led the procession along a five kilometre route from Gandhi’s statue in the Maidans to Hazra Road intersection, located close to her home at Kalighat in south Kolkata. She was driven down to the Maidans in a car.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-banerjee-leads-procession-in-wheelchair-on-nandigram-diwas-101615713958121.html
14-03-2021||India||Ambani security scare case: Innova car seized by NIA belongs to Mumbai Police, claims report||The white Innova car which the National Investigation Agency (NIA) seized on Saturday night in connection with its probe into the Ambani security scare incident belongs to the crime branch of the Mumbai Police, news agency ANI reported, quoting a Mumbai Police official. This Innova was seen tailing the explosive-laden Scorpio which was found parked near Antilia on the day of the incident.The white Innova was seen at 1.20am at Mulund toll naka; reached Carmichael road at 2.18am. Around 3.05am, it was seen going back from Mulund toll towards Thane.According to a Mumbai police official, the Innova, having Tardeo RTO's registration number 'MH 01 ZA 403' and 'Police' written on its rear windshield, was brought to the NIA's office on Pedder Road with the help of a towing van, PTI reported.On Saturday night, NIA arrested assistant police inspector Sachin Waze after questioning him for 12 hours about his alleged connection with the Scorpio.Ambani security scare probe: Sachin Vaze remanded to NIA custody till March 25The Innova Car seized & in possession of NIA belongs to Mumbai Police Crime Branch. 4 members of CIU (2 drivers and 2 officers) were also called by NIA. They have come to join the investigation: Mumbai Police officialThe case has been handed over to the NIA after the mysterious death of Mansukh Hiran, who claimed that the Scorpio belonged to him and was stolen a week before February 26. After Hiran was found dead in a creek in Thane on March 6, his wife claimed that Hiran had given the SUV to Waze in November and it was returned to Hiran in the first week of February.NIA taking over the case and the subsequent arrest of Mumbai Police officer Sachin Waze drew severe criticism from Shiv Sena. Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Sunday said the transfer of the probe to NIA amounts to demoralising the Mumbai Police and creating instability in Maharashtra.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ambani-security-scare-case-innova-car-seized-by-nia-belongs-to-mumbai-police-claims-report-101615712578821.html
14-03-2021||India||Covid-19: 7 states contribute nearly 88% of daily new cases, says government||States like Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Karnataka, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu and Madhya Pradesh are showing a steep rise in the daily new Covid-19 cases and have accounted for 87.73 per cent of the new instances of the disease reported in a day, the Union Health Ministry said on Sunday.Maharashtra registered the highest daily new cases at 15,602, followed by Kerala with 2,035 and Punjab 1,510 new cases.India's total Covid-19 active caseload has reached 2.10 lakh, the ministry said adding Maharashtra, Kerala and Punjab account for 76.93 per cent of India's total active cases.The total number of recoveries in the country has surged to 1,09,89,897 with 16,637 people recuperating from the disease in a day. The ministry said 83.13 per cent of the new recovered cases are observed to be concentrated in six states.Maharashtra has reported a maximum number of 7,467 single-day recoveries.The ministry said 161 deaths were reported in a day.Six states account for 84.47 per cent of the new deaths. Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties at 88. Punjab reported 22 fatalities and Kerala 12.Fourteen states and Union Territories have not reported any Covid-19 deaths in the last 24 hours. These are Rajasthan, Jharkhand, Puducherry, Lakshadweep, Meghalaya, Daman and Diu, Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Nagaland, Tripura, Sikkim, Ladakh, Manipur, Mizoram, the Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Arunachal Pradesh.Meanwhile, the country is nearing 3 crore cumulative vaccination doses. A total of 2,97,38,409 vaccine doses have been administered through 5,10,400 sessions, according to a provisional report till Sunday at 7 am.Of these, 73,47,895 healthcare and 11,35,573 frontline workers were given the first dose, while 42,95,201 healthcare and 73,32,641 frontline workers were given the second dose.Also, 14,40,092 beneficiaries aged more than 45 years with specific co-morbidities and 81,87,007 senior citizens have received the first dose of the vaccine so far.As on day 57 of the vaccination drive, more than 15 lakh vaccine doses were given. Out of which, 12,32,131 beneficiaries were vaccinated across 24,086 sessions for the first dose and 2,87,821 healthcare and frontline workers received the second dose of vaccine.Besides, 8,95,291 beneficiaries aged over 60 years and 1,85,624 individuals aged 45 to 60 years with comorbidities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-7-states-contribute-nearly-88-of-daily-new-cases-says-government-101615712757825.html
14-03-2021||India||Terrorism, insurgency on decline in Assam, state on path of progress, says Rajnath Singh||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Sunday said that terrorism and insurgency have declined in Assam, leading to the speeding up of the government's development activities.Singh, while addressing his maiden election rally here, said peace has returned to Assam, with dozens of insurgent groups laying down their arms in the last five years of the BJP rule in the state."When I was asked to come to Biswanath, the 2014 massacre of Adivasis here came to my mind. But now, the situation has improved. There cannot be any better news than prevailing of peace in the region," he said.After Prime Minister Narendra Modi assumed charge in 2014, the Centre had taken a resolve to end terrorism and insurgency, Singh, who was the Union Home Minister during the Adivasi killings, said."The condition in Assam has improved a lot. The state is on the path of progress," the senior BJP leader said.He said the BJP-led government has sealed a major portion of the India-Bangladesh border and installed electronic surveillance along the riverine stretch."We have sealed the international border in Dhubri. Whatever little stretch is left unfenced will be completely seated after the BJP returns to power in Assam," he said.Singh said the BJP government in Tripura is also working towards stopping illegal immigration from the neighbouring country.He was campaigning for sitting BJP MLA Promod Borthakur, who will have a direct contest with Congress nominee Anjan Borah in Biswanath seat that is going to polls in the first phase on March 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/terrorism-insurgency-on-decline-in-assam-state-on-path-of-progress-says-rajnath-singh-101615712413213.html
14-03-2021||India||76-year-old man arrested in Tripura for allegedly raping minor girl||A 76-year-old man was arrested for allegedly raping his neighbour’s nine-year-old daughter at a village in South district of Tripura, police said on Sunday.The accused, identified as Manoranjan Das, used to work as a temporary employee at Rubber Board of India and lives barely 50 metres away from the minor’s home.Police said that the accused summoned the girl on Friday while she was walking in front of his house in search of her mother. As she went inside the house, the accused reportedly raped her in the absence of his family members.The police swung into action after the girl’s mother lodged a complaint on Saturdaabout the incident."The minor girl's mother lodged a complaint with us. Based on the complaint, we arrested him on Saturday evening," said Belonia sub divisional police officer Soumya Debbarma.The police have booked Das under Section 376(AB) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 6 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/76yearold-man-arrested-in-tripura-for-allegedly-raping-minor-girl-101615712287521.html
14-03-2021||India||MK Stalin says DMK would continue to urge Centre to scrap CAA||DMK chief M K Stalin on Sunday said his party would continue to urge the union government to scrap the contentious Citizenship Amendment Act and confer citizeship on Sri Lankan Tamils living in refugee camps in India. In an addendum to the party manifesto unveiled on Saturday, he said DMK had all along opposed the CAA and campaigned against it and he even ran a campaign in Tamil Nadu collecting one crore signatures pressing for scrapping the law. "The Central government will be urged to withdraw the Citizenship Amendment Act, 2019," Stalin said in the addendum. The DMK in its manifesto has said that the Centre would be requested to include Sri Lanka in the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) and give citizenship to Lankan Tamil refugees living in camps in India. Making the addition, Stalin said his party had all along opposed the CAA and campaigned against it and he even ran a signature campaign in Tamil Nadu collecting one crore signatures seeking the scrapping of the legislation. "I would like to reiterate again that a resolution will be passed in the assembly (if DMK is voted to power) and will raise its voice for scrapping CAA," he said in a statement. The DMK top leader also added two more points to the manifesto, an assurance that the "anti-farmer" Chennai-Salem expressway project would not be implemented and the Kattupalli port shall not be allowed here and the draft environment assessment report for it would be rejected. The DMK released its 505-point manifesto featuring a host of highly populist promises. Waiver of crop and jewel loans in cooperative banks and a one-time assistance of ₹4,000 for Covid-19 hit rice ration card holders were among the assurances. Protests were held in various parts of the state against the CAA, which expedites citizenship applications from religious minorities from Pakistan, Afghanistan and Bangladesh. DMK had questioned why Muslims and Tamil refugees of Sri Lanka were kept out of the ambit of the act and alleged it 'divided' people on the basis of religion. The expressway project witnessed several protests by farmers and others over land acquisition and environment concerns. The greenfield corridor was challenged in the Madras High Court which quashed the land acquisition proceedings and Pattali Makkal Katchi (an ally of the AIADMK now) leader Anbumani Ramadoss was among the petitioners against the project in court. However, the Supreme Court had in December last year upheld the notification for land acquisition for the ₹10,000 crore eight lane project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mk-stalin-says-dmk-would-continue-to-urge-centre-to-scrap-caa-101615712418652.html
14-03-2021||India||MP CM seeks help from Centre for hospitals dedicated to Bhopal tragedy victims||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Sunday held a meeting with Union Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan and asked for the supply of more Covid-19 vaccines and help in other health-related issues of the state."We need 81 lakh first dose of the vaccine and we have received 18,84,000 against it, so far. The Union Health Minister has promised to provide the remaining shots very soon. Vaccination drive is being conducted in full swing," Chouhan said while speaking to ANI.The Chief Minister also requested the Union Minister for help in the infrastructural development of the newly-established medical colleges in the state and also for the hospitals dedicated to the treatment of the 1984 Bhopal gas tragedy victims.Expressing concern over the rising trend of Covid-19 positive cases, he appealed to the public for strict adherence to Covid-19 norms."The surge in the number of cases is a serious concern. I don't want to create a situation of panic but people should continue taking preventive measures. Otherwise, we'll be compelled to impose night curfew at places witnessing an increase in Covid-19 positive cases," Chouhan told ANI."We must bear in mind that the virus is still here in our midst. We can not afford to flout the protective measures against the infection. I request to the public to observe strict compliance to mask-wearing, social distancing, and hand-washing norms," he added.Addressing the question about the crop damage due to recent rains, the CM said, "We are surveying the situation and estimating the damages done by recent rains and hail. Officials are doing the survey from the ground. Farmers need not worry as our government is with them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madhya-pradesh-cm-seeks-more-covid-19-vaccines-from-centre-101615711584803.html
14-03-2021||India||Andhra Pradesh municipal elections: YSRCP heading for a big win||The ruling Yuvajana Sramika Rythu Congress party (YSRCP) in Andhra Pradesh is heading for a landslide win in almost all the municipalities, Nagar panchayats and municipal corporations that went to polls on March 10. The counting of votes is taking place on Sunday.In all, elections were held in 12 municipal corporations and 71 out 75 municipalities and Nagar panchayats. The YSRCP won four municipalities – Pulivendula, Punganur, Macherla and Piduguralla municipalities unanimously, as its candidates were elected unopposed.According to the latest reports, the YSRC has won six of the 11 municipal corporations in which counting of votes began at 8 am on Sunday morning. However, in Eluru municipal corporation, the counting has been withheld pending a high court judgement.The ruling party won Ongole, Tirupati, Chittoor, Guntur, Kurnool and Kadapa municipal corporations, where the YSRCP won more than three-fourths of the wards.The YSRC has so far won 50 out of 75 municipalities/nagar panchayats in 13 districts, including the four it had already won unanimously.The main opposition, Telugu Desam Party, put up a poor show in almost all the municipalities and municipal corporations, except in a few places like Tadipatri and Hindupur in Anantapur district, Mydukur in Kadapa and Mandapeta in East Godavari district.Also Read: 6 farm labourers killed, 7 injured as truck rams auto rickshaw in Andhra PradeshThere’s a festive atmosphere at YSRCP central office at Tadepalli in Amaravati as party leaders and cadre celebrated the victory by bursting crackers and distributing sweets.On the other hand, the TDP office in Guntur town wore a deserted look. TDP president N Chandrababu Naidu and his son Lokesh stayed at their Hyderabad residence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-pradesh-municipal-elections-ysrcp-heading-for-a-big-win-101615711330828.html
14-03-2021||India||$5 trillion economy goal more aspirational than carefully computed: Ex-RBI Guv||As the economy slowly comes out of the pandemic blues, former RBI Governor Raghuram Rajan on Sunday cautioned that "drastic changes" in India's monetary policy framework can upset the bond market as the current system has helped in containing inflation and promoting growth.Rajan, also a noted economist, opined that the government's ambitious target to make India a $5-trillion economy by 2024-25 was "more aspirational, rather than a carefully computed one even before the pandemic"."I believe the (monetary policy) framework has helped bring inflation down, while giving the RBI some flexibility to support the economy. It is hard to think of what would have happened if we had to run such large fiscal deficits without such a framework in place," Rajan told PTI in an interview.His remarks were in response to a query on whether he was in favour of reviewing the 2-6% target band for inflation under the monetary policy framework.The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has the mandate to maintain retail inflation at 4% with a margin of 2% on either side. The central bank's six-member monetary policy committee (MPC) headed by RBI Governor decides on policy rates keeping this target in mind.The current medium-term inflation target, which was notified in August 2016, ends on March 31. The inflation target for the next five years starting April is likely to be notified this month.Against this backdrop, Rajan said, "We risk upsetting bond markets if we make drastic changes in the framework"."I think the framework has been beneficial in bringing down inflation, I don't think it has been costly in slowing growth, and this is probably the wrong time to make drastic changes," he pointed out.With the government embarking on substantial borrowing plans to boost the coronavirus pandemic-hit economy, there are concerns among certain quarters about the overall financial health, and bond yields have also been on an upward trajectory.The latter trend indicates that government borrowings could become more costly.About reform measures, Rajan said that while the 2021-22 Budget has placed a lot of weight on privatisation, the history of the government delivering on this is checkered, and he wondered how it will be different this time.He pointed out that in the latest Budget, laudably, there is more transparency about the true extent of spending, as well as a degree of conservatism about budget receipts that has not been seen in recent budgets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-trillion-economy-goal-more-aspirational-than-carefully-computed-ex-rbi-guv-101615710508977.html
14-03-2021||India||No govt communication threatened social media platforms' staff of jail: Ministry||The government has never threatened employees of any social media platform, such as Twitter, of jail term, the IT Ministry has said.Reacting to reports that alluded to Facebook, WhatsApp and Twitter employees being threatened with jail term, the Ministry said social media platforms are "obliged to follow the laws of India and the Constitution of India, just like all other businesses in India have to.""As has been conveyed on the floor of Parliament, users of social media can criticise the government, the Prime Minister or any Minister but promotion of violence, rampant communal divide and stoking the flames of terrorism will have to be reflected upon," it said.The government had ordered Twitter to take down hundreds of posts, accounts and hashtags, that it saw violating rules. Twitter initially did not fully comply but fell in line after the government showed the rule book that contained penal provisions.The IT Ministry went on to state that the recent guidelines pertaining to social media simply require the platforms to put in place a robust grievance redressal mechanism for users."None of the government communications, either written or oral, have ever threatened the employees of any of the social media platforms of jail term," it said."The government welcomes criticism and dissent. However, of late, repeated instances of abuse of social media to foment hate, discord and violence by terrorist groups from outside India and circulation of morphed images of women, revenge porn posing threat to the safety of users especially women users have become grave concerns," it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-govt-communication-threatened-social-media-platforms-staff-of-jail-ministry-101615709399192.html
14-03-2021||India||News updates from HT: YSRC wins 34 of 75 municipalities in Andhra civic polls and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Andhra Pradesh Municipal Election 2021: YSRC sweeps 34 of 75 municipalities, TDP yet to make a markThe ruling Yuvajana Sramika Rythu Congress (YSRC) Party has won 34 out of 75 municipalities and the opposition Telugu Desam Party (TDP) is yet to open its account as results of the civic body elections in Andhra Pradesh started pouring in on Sunday. Read MoreMP needs 8.1 million first doses of vaccine: CM Chouhan as tally nears 268,000Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said on Sunday the state, among those witnessing a surge inch the cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), needs 8.1 million first doses of the vaccine adding that only 1,884,000 were secured so far. Read MoreTrinamool Congress defers manifesto release againThe ruling Trinamool Congress has cancelled the release of its manifesto for the eight-phase assembly election in West Bengal beginning later this month, reports said on Sunday. Read MoreCanada: Armed forces veterans’ body seeks to end rift over India’s farm lawsA group of armed forces veterans in Canada has started a campaign to try to mend a growing rift between various communities in the country over farm laws passed in India last year that have sparked protests. Read MoreMithali Raj creates another huge record, becomes first female cricketer to score 7000 ODI runsIndia Women's ODI team captain Mithali Raj achieved a historic milestone on Sunday as she became the first female cricketer in history to score 7,000 ODI runs. Read MoreLand Rover Defender gets more powerful turbocharged petrol and diesel enginesJaguar Land Rover (JLR) has launched two more powerful engines for the iconic off-roader in India. Read MoreGauahar Khan posts pictures from pre-wedding shoot in beautiful sharara setThe acclaimed TV star Gauahar Khan recently got married to Zaid Darbar. Read MoreRoohi box office day 3: Janhvi Kapoor's film records biggest day so far, collects Rs.8.7 crore totalDay three numbers for Janhvi Kapoor-Rajkummar Rao's film Roohi, are in. After seeing a significant dip in Friday's collection, the film picked up steam again on Saturday, making it its biggest day yet. Read MoreNew OTT rules: Self-regulation or govt overreach? Javadekar answersIs the government tightening the noose around the media? Is undeclared censorship the new normal? What does the government want: absolute control? Muzzling the press? Goodbye to free speech? This and much more in a sharp and incisive interview. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-ysrc-wins-in-34-of-75-municipalities-in-andhra-civic-polls-and-all-the-latest-news-101615704250901.html
14-03-2021||India||Sun Pharma, Dr Reddy's, Aurobindo recall products in the US market||Leading home grown drug makers Sun Pharma, Dr Reddy's Laboratories, Aurobindo Pharma and Jubilant Pharma are recalling products in the US market, the world's largest market for pharmaceutical products, for various reasons.As per the latest Enforcement Report by the US Food and Drug Administration (USFDA), Sun Pharma is recalling Cequa ophthalmic solution, which is used to treat chronic dry eye.The US-based subsidiary of the Mumbai-based drug major is recalling 37,400 cartons (60 vials per carton) of the ophthalmic solution for being "subpotent", the US health regulator said.The Princeton (NJ) based firm initiated the nationwide recall of the affected lot on February 22, this year, it added.Similarly, Dr Reddy's Laboratories is recalling 10,440 (90-count) and 2,24,710 (500 count) bottles of Atorvastatin Calcium tablets in the US market.The Hyderabad-based firm is recalling the drug, which is used to prevent cardiovascular disease, for "failed impurities/degradation specifications", the USFDA said.The US-based unit of the drug major initiated the nationwide recall on February 19, 2021, and the USFDA has categorised it as Class III recall which is initiated in a "situation in which use of, or exposure to, a violative product is not likely to cause adverse health consequences".The drug firm is also recalling 16,449 bottles of Progesterone Capsules (200 mg), used to cause menstrual periods in women who have not yet reached menopause, in the US market for "failed dissolution specifications".The company has initiated the nationwide recall of the lot on February 26, this year and the USFDA has classified it as a Class II recall which is initiated in a situation in which use of, or exposure to, a violative product may cause temporary or medically reversible adverse health consequences or where the probability of serious adverse health consequences is remote.Another Hyderabad-based drug major Aurobindo Pharma is recalling 1,296 bottles of Famotidine tablets, used to treat gastroesophageal reflux disease, in the US market for presence of foreign tablets."Famotidine 20mg and ibuprofen 400mg tablets were found in a lot of famotidine 40mg," the USFDA noted.The company initiated the nationwide recall on January 20 and the USFDA has classified the action as Class II.Besides, Salisbury-based Jubilant Cadista Pharmaceuticals is recalling 6,35,400 cartons of Methylprednisolone tablets, prescribed for its anti-inflammatory and immunosuppressive effects, in the American market due to "Illegible label"."Customer complaint received of misalignment print of the printed dosing instructions on the blister card," the USFDA said.The company initiated the nationwide recall on February 19 and the USFDA has classified the action as a Class III recall.Jubilant Cadista Pharmaceuticals is a subsidiary of Singapore-based Jubilant Pharma, which in turn is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Noida-based Jubilant Life Sciences.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sun-pharma-dr-reddy-s-aurobindo-recall-products-in-the-us-market-101615704872259.html
14-03-2021||India||BJP's Kapil Mishra moves SC seeking strict action against fake complainants||A BJP leader has moved the Supreme Court seeking directions to the Centre for framing guidelines to ensure strict action against fake complainants in criminal cases and for compensating victims of such wrongful prosecutions.The PIL has been filed by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Kapil Mishra in the backdrop of a sensational case in which the Allahabad High Court, on January 28, declared rape convict Vishnu Tiwari innocent, observing that the motive behind the FIR was related to a land dispute.Tiwari was arrested on September 16, 2000 after being booked for rape and atrocities under the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act and was in jail for 20 years.The PIL, filed through advocate Ashwani Kumar Dubey, has also sought "adequate compensation" for Tiwari for his wrongful conviction and life imprisonment in the fake case. "Direct the Centre to fame guidelines and to make a mechanism to take strict action and to prosecute fake complainants as well as to frame guidelines to pay adequate compensation to victims of wrongful prosecutions and implement the recommendations of law commission Report ...on miscarriage of justice," the plea said. The BJP leader has made union ministries of Home Affairs and Law and Justice, the Uttar Pradesh government and the Law Commission as parties to his PIL. It has also sought direct for setting up of a mechanism for speedy disposal of cases pertaining to undertrial prisoners prosecuted in special Acts and to frame guidelines for undertrial prisoners to decide their cases in a time bound manner."Direct the respondents (Centre and others) to frame rules to release poor persons who are victim of malicious and vague prosecution who are facing jail in the absence of not furnishing the adequate sureties/bonds," it said.Mishra, in his PIL, submitted that the SC/ST law is being misused and abused by filing fake and malicious complaints and no action is taken against the culprit in the absence of effective statutory/legal scheme."False cases lead to suicides of innocents who are victims of police and prosecutorial misconduct, who lose hope and lives of their families destroyed after years of delayed trials due to the non-effective machinery...,” the plea said.The PIL has made the Union ministries of Home Affairs, Law and Justice, the Law Commission and state of Uttar Pradesh as parties. On March 11, a similar plea was filed by BJP leader and lawyer Ashwini Upadhyay seeking a direction to the Centre, all states and Union territories (UTs) to frame and implement guidelines to compensate victims of "wrongful prosecution" through government machineries.Upadhyay urged the apex court to "use its plenary constitutional power to frame guidelines for compensation to victims of wrongful prosecutions and direct the Centre and states to implement them till recommendations of the Law Commission on miscarriage of justice are implemented religiously".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjps-kapil-mishra-moves-sc-seeking-strict-action-against-fake-complainants-101615704611834.html
14-03-2021||India||6 farm labourers killed, 7 injured as truck rams auto rickshaw in Andhra Pradesh||Six agriculture labourers were killed and seven others were seriously injured when an overcrowded auto rickshaw in which they were traveling collided with a truck in Andhra Pradesh’s Krishna district early Sunday, the police said.The incident happened at around 6 am at Gollapalli village in Nuzvid block. The deceased were identified as O Ramesh, B Nagaraju, Bhukya Somla, Burmawat Baby, Banavathu Swana and Banavathu Nagu. The ages of the victims have not yet been ascertained.According to Nuzvid deputy superintendent of police B Srinivasulu, the labourers from Layan Tanda, a tribal hamlet, were travelling to Kanumolu village in Bapulapadu block to harvest paddy. The auto rickshaw driver was among the injured.A truck coming from the opposite direction collided head-on with the auto rickshaw as it was approaching Gollapalli. “It is not exactly known how the accident happened as the truck did not stop. We are on the lookout for the truck” the DSP said.On receiving information from the local villagers, the police rushed to the spot and took up rescue operations. “Five persons died on the spot and another person succumbed while being taken to the hospital. The injured have been shifted to Vijayawada government hospital,” Srinivasulu said.The police registered a case of accident due to negligence and are investigating the same.Andhra Pradesh home minister Mekathoti Sucharita expressed shock over the death of six farm labourers in the accident.She called up the district police officials and enquired about the incident. She directed that the best medical care be extended to the severely injured and stringent action be taken against those responsible for the accident. The minister extended her condolences to the bereaved families of the victims.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6-farm-labourers-killed-7-injured-as-truck-rams-auto-rickshaw-in-andhra-pradesh-101615701991250.html
14-03-2021||India||Chhattisgarh health minister says state seriously considering allowing Covaxin||Chhattisgarh health minister TS Singh Deo, who repeatedly asked the Centre, earlier this year, to stop the supply of indigenous Covid 19 vaccine- Covaxin in the state, is now “seriously considering” allowing Bharat Biotech’s vaccine for use by those who opt for it.“Now that DCGI (Drugs Controller General of India) has upgraded Covaxin out of the clinical trials, even though the final data of the 3rd phase trials is yet to be published, we are seriously considering allowing Covaxin for those who wish to opt for it. Initially the vaccination using Covaxin will be implemented only in medical colleges and district hospital premises in a separate facility. As I had stated earlier, as soon as I recover from Covid and I am eligible for vaccination, I will be taking my first dose of it,” said Singhdeo in a tweet. Singhdeo tested Covid-19 positive last week and is in home quarantine.Last month, Chhattisgarh asked the Centre to halt the supply of Covaxin to the state, claiming phase-3 clinical trials for the vaccine had not been completed and the results had not been published. Deo then said he was not in a position to tell people in the state to take Covaxin until its efficacy was proven. Covaxin was recently taken out of the clinical trial mode by the DCGI and its manufacturers claim it showed 81% interim clinical efficacy and significant immunogenicity against Covid-19 variants, in phase 3 trials.Also Read: 5 policemen among 8 arrested for possessing tiger skin in ChhattisgarhDeo said while he was “proud of our indigenous vaccine”, but “strictly” believed that due process as per international norms need to be adhered to before bringing it into general use. “Our primary concern is the well being of our citizens and only implement any vaccine once its efficacy is proven,” he said.He also said that there was no shortage of vaccine supply to the state.“At no point has there been any shortage in supply of vaccines for our people in the state. As a matter of fact, Chhattisgarh has constantly been performing among the top 5 states of the country in terms of vaccination,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-health-minister-says-state-seriously-considering-allowing-covaxin-101615701842559.html
14-03-2021||India||Power consumption grows 16.5% in first 12 days of March||Power consumption in the country grew 16.5% in the first 12 days of this month at 47.67 billion units over the corresponding period a year ago, showing a revival in the economic activities, according to power ministry data.Power consumption during March 1-12 last year was recorded at 40.92 BU.On the other hand, the peak power demand met, which is the highest supply in a day, during this 12-day period of March 2021 remained well above the highest record of 170.16 GW in the entire March 2020.Till March 12, 2021, peak power demand met touched the highest level of 186.03 GW on March 11, 2021, and recorded a growth of 9.3% over 170.16 GW a year ago.The highest daily peak power demand met of 1701.16 was recorded on March 3, 2020.Experts are of the view that the rise in power demand and consumption indicates that the impact of pandemic-induced lockdown and sluggish economic conditions has tapered off.They exuded confidence that power consumption and demand could record a double digit growth during March this year in view of rising mercury and perk-up in commercial and industrial requirement of electricity.They expect power consumption in this entire month to be higher than 98.95 BU recorded in March 2020.The government had imposed a nationwide lockdown on March 25, 2020, to contain the spread of Covid-19.After a gap of six months, power consumption recorded a 4.6% year-on-year growth in September and 11.6% in October.In November 2020, the power consumption growth slowed to 3.12%, mainly due to the early onset of winters.In December, power consumption grew by 4.5% while it was 4.4% in January 2021.Power consumption in February this year recorded higher at 104.11 BU compared to 103.81 BU last year despite the fact that 2020 was a leap year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/power-consumption-grows-16-5-in-first-12-days-of-march-101615697716474.html
14-03-2021||India||No technical link between Israel embassy blast, Ambani security scare: Officials||Counter-terrorism agencies have found no link between the improvised explosive device (IED) blasted outside the Israeli embassy in New Delhi on January 29 and the explosive-laden sports utility vehicle found near the residence of industrialist Mukesh Ambani a month later on February 25. While in both cases, a non-existent organisation called Jaish-ul-Hind has taken responsibility for the cyber message posted in case of Mumbai, the agencies have informed the government that there is no technical link between the two cases. “The posting of the message on February 27 night on Telegram messaging app in the Mumbai case with Jaish-ul-Hind taking responsibility is an after-thought. The Mumbai case has no link with IED blast outside Israel embassy,” said a former Mumbai Police commissioner.Also read | Iran rejects allegations linking it to blast outside Israeli embassyInvestigators have traced the Mumbai message to a phone number used by Indian Mujahideen terrorist Tehseen Akhtar, who is currently lodged in high-security Tihar Jail. While serious questions are being raised as to how a known jihadist had access to a smartphone in Tihar Jail, CT agencies are quite clear that there is no revival of the IM group even though its founders—Riyaz and Iqbal Bhatkal—are active in Karachi. It is not very clear whether another founder member Amir Raza Khan is dead or alive but he was last sighted in Karachi two years ago. Tehseen Akhtar was the head of the Ranchi module of IM, which was responsible for targeting the election rally of then Gujarat chief minister Narendra Modi at Gandhi maidan in Patna on October 27, 2013.According to the agencies, the Mumbai case is a local affair while the Israel embassy bomb blast has cyber markers in Syria and Afghanistan. Even in this case, the so-called Jaish-ul-Hind group is a cyber creation to off-track the investigation with Islamists known to constantly change the name like Jundallah or Ansar-ul-Hind etc.Also read | Govt upgrades probe into Israel embassy blast after Iran link. NIA moves inWhile the IED used in the Israel embassy attack was remotely triggered through a line of sight device, there was no detonator found in the parked SUV in Mumbai. This means that Mumbai was just to scare perhaps part of an extortion racket with incarcerated IM terrorists trying to revive the homegrown terror by taking responsibility for the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-technical-link-between-israel-embassy-blast-ambani-security-scare-officials-101615697498145.html
14-03-2021||India||Army asks CBI to probe alleged malpractices in officers' selection||After detecting malpractices in the officers' selection at its centre in Punjab during a military intelligence operation, the Indian Army has handed over the case to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) for probing the case in detail.The Service Selection Centres (SSCs) carries out the Services Selection Board (SSB) tests. The SSC under the scanner for malpractices is located in the Kapurthala district of Punjab."Based on a proactive operation by Army intelligence agencies, a case of possible malpractice in selection procedures at a centre has come to light. Since the scope of investigation involves multiple agencies including civil entities, the Indian Army has decided to hand over the case to the Central Bureau of Investigation," Army officials told ANI."Indian Army has zero-tolerance towards corrupt practices in the recruitment process for selection of suitable candidates for Indian Army," they added.Sources said the probe started after complaints were received against a junior officer for being involved in malpractices. Later on, it emerged that many other insiders and civilians could be involved including some high ranking officials."That is why it was decided that the investigation should be handed over to the CBI which can prove all entities involved," they said.The initial probe by the military intelligence comes at a time when the force has been probing cases of malpractices in the recruitment of jawans at different centres and two serving officers have been allegedly found involved in the scam.Army Chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane has also clearly told his commanders that there would be zero tolerance towards cases of financial wrongdoings and moral turpitude."The dealing with officers involved in such cases has been very strict in recent times and some of them have been packed home without pension too," sources said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-asks-cbi-to-probe-alleged-malpractices-in-officers-selection-101615697082040.html
14-03-2021||India||Pi Day 2021: What is it and why it is celebrated on March 14?||Every year on March 14, the world celebrates Pi Day to recognise the mathematical constant, Pi. It defines as the ratio of a circle's circumference to its diameter and the value for Pi is 3.14.diameter and its value is 3.14. The day was recognised in 1988 by physicist Larry Shaw as he organised a large-scale celebration at the San Francisco Exploratorium in the United States. In 2019, Unesco’s 40th General Conference decided to observe Pi Day as the International Day of Mathematics.For people who follow the month/date format, March 14 represents the value of Pi. March is the third month of the year, which is also the initial number of the value. The following number is 14, hence the March 14 date. Maths enthusiasts across the world hold fun events on this day to mark the celebrations. They also eat pie as part of the celebrations due to the words being homophones in English (Pi and Pie) and circular shape.Here are some more fun facts about Pi:1) Pi is an irrational number. If calculated the number value can go on forever.2) We can never know the accurate circumference of a circle as the exact value of Pi can also never be calculated.3) Pi Day also coincides with the birth anniversary of scientist Albert Einstein. Widely renowned theoretical physicist Stephen Hawking died on this day in 2018.4) Mathematician Isaac Newton, who is also the father of calculus, calculated the value of Pi to at least 16 decimal places.5) There is an entire language made from Pi. In 2010, software engineer Michael Keith published a book names 'Not a Wake' in Pi language.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pi-day-2021-what-is-it-and-why-it-is-celebrated-on-march-14-101615694651130.html
14-03-2021||India||Ex Food Corporation of India official’s properties attached in graft case||Anti Corruption Bureau (ACB) has attached properties worth crores, belonging to Rakesh Kumar Pargal, the then chief supervisor of a Food Corporation of India (FCI) godown at Udhampur and former incharge, vigilance squad, in Food Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs department. The latest attachments are in addition to earlier seizure by ACB of Dogri Haveli in Udhampur, said an official spokesperson.Pargal is accused of amassing huge assets worth crores of rupees in the form of immovable and moveable properties, disproportionate to his known sources of income, by indulging in corrupt and illegal practices, said the spokesman.During a preliminary enquiry, it was found that Pargal had raised assets, several times higher than his genuine income (salary) during his service period, said the spokesman.Accordingly a case in ACB Udhampur was registered against him. During searches on his properties, 285 grams of gold, incriminating material and documents were seized. Some accounts and lockers were also being probed.Rakesh Pargal is also involved in another case, being followed by ACB Doda, regarding misappropriation of ₹260 crores by claiming cost of wheat grains, transportation charges, labour charges, grinding charges, drawn on the basis of fictitious and false bills. He was also arrested by ACB in this case.Pargal was initially appointed as a daily wager in September, 1984 in Tehsil Supply Office Chenani. He also remained under suspension from 2009 to 2012 for his involvement in case FIR number 06/2009 under sections 109, 409, 468, 471 IPC, section 5(1) (c ), 5 (1) (D), 5(2) J&K Prevention of Corruption Act 2006. The case is still under trial in the court of special judge, anti-corruption Udhampur.Also Read: '250 terrorists in launch pads, 200 active in J-K': DGP Dilbag SinghEven after his suspension from 2009 to 2012, he was posted in the enforcement and vigilance squad in CAPD Department, which indicated his “deep nexus” with other accused officials and private persons, said an official. Further investigation in both the cases is going on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ex-food-corporation-of-india-official-s-properties-attached-in-graft-case-101615695065354.html
14-03-2021||India||India adds 25,317 fresh Covid-19 cases, highest this year; recoveries over 10.9 million||India registered 25,317 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 161 related fatalities in the last 24 hours, which pushed the caseload and death toll to over 11.35 million and 158,607 respectively, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Sunday. The active cases have now climbed to 210,544 and nearly 11 million people have recovered from the viral disease till now.The daily cases reported on Sunday have been the highest since the beginning of 2021 and this is the sixth time that more than 20,000 cases have been reported during the year. Sunday’s cases are also more than 1.7 per cent higher than that of Saturday when 24,882 people tested positive for the disease. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), as many as 864,368 samples were tested for Covid-19 across the country on Saturday and the total number of samples is now at 226,703,641.Covid-19 cases were witnessing an upward trend since early February after they had been declining since late September 2020. The Union health ministry said on Friday that eight states - Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Delhi, Gujarat, Karnataka and Haryana - were seeing an upward trajectory in their daily cases.Also Read| Delhi reports 419 new Covid-19 cases, three deaths in last 24 hoursMaharashtra, which is the worst-hit state across India, added 15,602 fresh Covid-19 disease cases and 88 related deaths on Saturday. It was the second consecutive day daily cases in the western state that went over 15,000. The state’s caseload is nearing 2.3 million and 52,811 people have succumbed to the infection so far, according to the health department’s bulletin. The rising cases in Maharashtra since February 10 has led to the state authorities to impose lockdowns or curbs in several cities and districts in order to curb the spread of the disease.Delhi saw 419 fresh cases on Saturday. This is the third consecutive day that cases in the national capital went above the 400-mark. However, health minister Satyendar Jain said on Friday that this sudden spike in numbers was ‘not alarming’ and added that the positivity rate in Delhi was still lower than 1 per cent.Also Watch| Covid update: India ranking falls; China vaccine discrimination; fake test scamMeanwhile, India has vaccinated 28.2 million people so far with 2.05 million vaccinated on Saturday, the highest single-day figure, according to the health ministry. The nationwide vaccination drive was started on January 16, with doses being given to healthcare and frontline workers. The second phase of the drive was rolled out from March 1, where vaccination is being done for people above the age of 60 and those between the ages of 45-59 with specific co-morbidities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-adds-25-317-fresh-covid-cases-highest-this-year-recoveries-over-10-9-mn-101615694402202.html
14-03-2021||India||Manipur CM allocates agriculture machinery to farmers, financial aid to artisans||Manipur Chief Minister N Biren Singh distributed agriculture machinery and equipment to farmers and financial assistance of ₹10,000 for handicraft tool kits under North East Region Textile Promotion Scheme to 1,500 artisans in Imphal on Saturday."Immensely glad to distribute financial assistance for handicrafts tool kits under North East Region Textile Promotion Scheme to 1500 handicrafts artisans through DBT, and Agriculture Machineries and Equipment under Sub-Mission of Agriculture Mechanization (SMAM) Scheme to farmers of different districts today." the Chief Minister tweeted on Saturday.According to an official release, the distribution function was jointly organised by the Manipur government's Department of Agriculture and Directorate of Handlooms and Textiles. Speaking at the occasion, Chief Minister Singh said that agriculture is an important sector that has largely contributed to the economy of the country.Also read: Incidents of influx of Myanmarese into Manipur not reported so far: CM Singh"As such the State Government had taken up certain measures to save agricultural land with coordination among various departments of the government. Stating that possession of tool kits as a priority for developing any product, he announced that the financial assistance given to handicraft artisans would be increased to Rs. 20,000 from next year," he said.He also informed about an exhibition of the local product "Mai-own 2021" that will be organised from March 16 to March 22 at Hapta Kangjeibung. He also stressed the need for reviving the old food items and culture of the State. He said,"The state has been advancing towards development in different fields due to the contributions and support of the people."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-cm-allocates-agriculture-machinery-to-farmers-financial-aid-to-artisans-101615686045445.html
14-03-2021||India||News updates from HT: Ahead of polls, farmers’ unions embark on anti-BJP campaign and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Ahead of polls, farmers’ unions embark on anti-BJP campaignOn January 18 this year, a prominent leader of the ongoing farmers’ protest against three new agricultural laws, Gurnam Singh Charuni, “clarified” before a platform of farm unions leading the agitation that he would never organise political meets without permission after having done so once. Read moreBengal assembly elections: Amit Shah to hold rallies; TMC may release manifestoWith the first of the eight-phase assembly polls in Bengal to be held in 13 days, the Trinamool Congress (TMC) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) have planned to boost ongoing preparations from Sunday. Read moreEncounter specialist, high-profile cases: Sachin Vaze, cop arrested in Ambani security scare caseSachin Vaze, an assistant police inspector with the Mumbai Police, was arrested late on Saturday by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) for his alleged part in the conspiracy to plant an explosive-laden sports utility vehicle near Reliance Industries Limited chairperson Mukesh Ambani’s house last month. Read moreSC orders probe into alleged threat to judgeThe Supreme Court has ordered Madhya Pradesh’s director general of police (DGP) to investigate into whether a superintendent of police (SP) was threatening a trial court judge to prevent arrest of a murder convict, who is husband of a BSP MLA in Madhya Pradesh. Read more Police detain dozens of opposition leaders, deputies at Moscow conferenceRussian police on Saturday arrested around 200 opposition politicians and municipal deputies at a Moscow conference as authorities tighten the screws on Kremlin critics ahead of parliamentary elections. Read moreNorway sees 3 cases of blood clot post AstraZeneca's Covid-19 shotNorway, among the countries that have suspended the use of AstraZeneca Plc’s Covid-19 vaccine, said three people who received its shot are being treated for severe blood clots and cerebral hemorrhages but that it’s too soon to say if there was a connection. Read morePriyanka Chopra swings off harness with Richard Madden in leaked pics from Citadel setsBollywood star Priyanka Chopra and Game of Thrones actor Richard Madden were spotted filming their upcoming series Citadel in England. The two were spotted in costume, pulling off some daring stunts in the first ever, leaked pictures from the sets. Read more 'Perhaps Kohli, Shastri think he is Dhoni's replacement': Sehwag feels management needs to back Rishabh Pant moreApparently, one questionable shot is all it takes for fingers to start pointing again. On Friday, shortly after Rishabh Pant baffled the on looker with a reverse scoop off Jofra Archer that flew for six, the youngster was questioned for playing a rash shot that led to his dismissal. Read moreVaani Kapoor looks bombtastic in silver sequinned mini dress at new shootThe War actor recently made headlines as she shared pictures of herself in a gorgeous sequinned dress.The images that we are talking about show the actor wearing a silver mini dress by the designer Akanksha Gajria. The sequinned strapless number featured a plunging neckline and its bodycon silhouette flaunted Vaani's enviable curves. Read more Also watch: 'Next target Parliament; who'll stop tractors?': Farmer leader Rakesh Tikait||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-ahead-of-polls-farmers-unions-embark-on-anti-bjp-campaign-and-all-the-latest-news-101615690737036.html
14-03-2021||India||Bengal assembly elections: Amit Shah to hold rallies; TMC may release manifesto||With the first of the eight-phase assembly polls in Bengal to be held in 13 days, the Trinamool Congress (TMC) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) have planned to boost ongoing preparations from Sunday.Union home minister Amit Shah will arrive at Kolkata airport on Sunday afternoon and fly straight to Kharagpur in West Midnapore district in a chopper, the Bengal BJP has announced. He will address a rally at Kharagpur town around 5 pm and meet district and block-level leaders in his hotel in the evening. On Monday, Shah will fly to Jhargram and Bankura districts to address back-to-back rallies. He will fly back to Kolkata on Monday afternoon and leave for Delhi.Polls in these three districts will be held in the first phase on March 27 and second phase on April 1.Kharagpur Sadar is an important seat for the BJP. On Wednesday, the party fielded Bengali actor Hiranmoy Chattopadhyay from the seat, which Dilip Ghosh, the BJP state president, won in 2016. The BJP lost the seat in the 2019 by-election which had to be held because Ghosh contested and won the Midnapore Lok sabha seat earlier that year. Kharagpur Sadar went to the TMC for the first time. The winner, Pradip Sarkar, secured 47% votes against 39.29 % that Ghosh got in 2016. Sarkar has been fielded again by the TMC.For Chattopadhyay, popularly known as Hiran, the contest is a tough one. “I am grateful to the local people for the love they have shown me. They have enormous respect for Dilip Ghosh,” Chattopadhyay said on the sidelines of a rally on Saturday.Jhargram and Bankura districts, that Shah will visit, have a sizeable number of tribal voters who backed the BJP in the Lok Sabha polls.The TMC plans to release its election manifesto on Sunday, party leaders said. The document may include some social welfare measures that Banerjee will promise to implement if she comes to power. “Some of these promises will focus on the public distribution system and employment that the BJP is highlighting in its ongoing campaign,” a TMC leader said on condition of anonymity since Banerjee is supposed to make the announcements.“Though the chief minister is unable to walk, she insists on addressing a rally in the districts either on Monday or Tuesday,” the TMC leader added.Also Read: EC may take a call on Bengal reports todayThe ruling party had planned to release its manifesto on Thursday but it had to be postponed following Banerjee’s ankle injury at Nandigram in East Midnapore on Wednesday evening.On Sunday, the BJP may also release the list of 75 candidates for the third and fourth phase, if the party's central leadership clears it after final scrutiny. Prime Minister Narendra Modi attended the central election committee’s meeting in Delhi on Saturday evening where the list was discussed. Several former TMC leaders and ministers, who joined the BJP recently, are likely to be fielded from the constituencies they represented.Former forest minister Rajib Banerjee, who was elected twice from the Domjur constituency in Howrah district, was among other leaders who were flown to Delhi on Friday. “I told the leadership that I want to contest from Domjur. The party will take the final call,” Banerjee said on Saturday night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-assembly-elections-amit-shah-to-hold-rallies-tmc-may-release-manifesto-101615690111702.html
14-03-2021||India||Encounter specialist, high-profile cases: Sachin Vaze, cop arrested in Ambani security scare case||Sachin Vaze, an assistant police inspector with the Mumbai Police, was arrested late on Saturday by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) for his alleged part in the conspiracy to plant an explosive-laden sports utility vehicle near Reliance Industries Limited chairperson Mukesh Ambani’s house last month. Vaze was arrested by the central agency after questioning him for nearly 12 hours. He was the lead investigator in the explosives case before it was transferred to the Mumbai Police’s Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) and later to the NIA.“Sachin Vaze is part of the group that planted the explosive-laden Scorpio on Carmichael Road (near Antilia) on February 25,” a senior official of the NIA told HT. The officer also alleged Vaze had confessed to his role but declined to share more details at this stage.Mansukh Hiran, an auto parts dealer in Thane, had claimed ownership of the abandoned vehicle and told the police that it was stolen a week earlier. He was found dead in a creek in Mumbai on March 5. Hiran’s wife Vimla blamed Vaze for the murder and claimed that her husband had given the SUV to the police officer in November, which he returned in the first week of February.Also read | Forcible entry not seen on SUV with explosives found near Ambani's house: PoliceVaze joined the Maharashtra police force in 1990 as a sub-inspector and his first posting was in the Maoist-affected area of Gadchiroli. He was moved to Thane city police two years later and came to be known as a good criminal investigator. He was later inducted in the Special Squad of Thane Police’s crime branch, where he gained a reputation as an encounter specialist.Vaze was transferred to the Powai unit of the Mumbai Police’s crime branch in 2000. It was during his stint here when, together with three other policemen, he faced a charge of murdering Khawaja Yunus, an accused in the December 2, 2002, Ghatkopar blast case. Yunus, a 27-year-old software engineer, was arrested by the Mumbai crime branch, and later reportedly died in police custody. The state Crime Investigation Department (CID) charged Vaze and three other police personnel -- Rajendra Tiwari, Rajaram Nikam and Sunil Desai -- with murder and destruction of evidence on March 3, 2004. Vaze was placed under suspension after this.Also read | Bomb threat to death: Decoding the caseVaze resigned from service on November 30, 2007, and joined the Shiv Sena the next year. Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said earlier this week Vaze was a member of Shiv Sena till 2008 but no longer related to the party. "Sachin Vaze was in Shiv Sena till 2008 but he did not renew his membership and has no connection with Sena any longer," Thackeray said while addressing a press conference.He was reinstated in the police force on June 6, 2020. The assistant police inspector was with the Crime Intelligence Unit (CIU) of the Mumbai Police's crime branch. Vaze handled a few high-profile cases, including the television rating point (TRP) manipulation case in which 15 people, including Partho Dasgupta, former chief executive officer of the Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) were arrested. The case pertained to Republic TV, owned by ARG Outlier Media, which had allegedly benefited from purported manipulations of TRPs. The CIU filed a charge-sheet against Vikas Khanchandani, CEO of Republic TV, Dasgupta and Romil Ramgarhia, former CCO of BARC, earlier this year in January.Also read | 'Something fishy': Uddhav after NIA asked to take over Ambani bomb threat probeVaze was also part of the police team that arrested news anchor Arnab Goswami in November 2020, in connection with designer Anvay Naik’s suicide. The police said that Naik and his mother Kumud Naik were found dead in May 2018. According to a suicide note, Naik alleged that he and his mother were forced to end their lives because he was not paid his dues amounting to ₹5.40 crore by Goswami and two others identified as Feroz Shaikh and Nitesh Sarda -- owners of two different firms, they added.He also arrested famous sports car designer Dilip Chhabria on December 28, 2020, in connection with allegations of cheating and forgery to avail loans on sports cars made by his firm, Dilip Chhabria (DC) Designs Pvt Ltd. He was also handling the case registered on the basis of a complaint lodged by Bollywood actor Hrithik Roshan after his exchange of legal notices with actor Kangana Ranaut in 2016.Earlier this week, he was transferred from CIU to the Citizen Facilitation Centre (CFC) of Mumbai Police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sachin-vaze-encounter-specialist-high-profile-arrests-and-stint-with-politics-101615687304609.html
14-03-2021||NA||Highlights: Pune reports 3,267 new Covid-19 cases, active caseload stands at 21,||India on Sunday added 25,317 cases of the coronavirus disease and 161 more related deaths which pushed the caseload and death toll to more than 11.35 million and 158,607 respectively, according to the Union health ministry's dashboard. The active cases have now reached 210,544 while 10,989,897 people have recovered till now. Sunday's Covid disease tally has been the highest since the beginning of 2021.Click here for full coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicThe Union health ministry said on Sunday that seven states- Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Karnataka, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu and Madhya Pradesh- were seeing a sharp rise in their daily cases and accounted for 87.73 per cent of the cases that were recorded on Saturday. Maharashtra, which is currently the worst-hit state in the country, reported more than 15,000 cases for a second consecutive day (15,602). The state's caseload is nearing 2.3 million with 52,811 deaths and 2,125,211 recoveries. Out of the fresh cases in Maharashtra, Nagpur city recorded the maximum (1,828) followed by Mumbai (1,709) and Pune (1,667). The state has been witnessing a surge in the cases since February 10 and several districts have been placed under lockdowns, night curfews, curbs in order to control the spread of the infection.2 million vaccinated in a day, tally reaches 28.2 million: GovtDelhi on Saturday reported 419 fresh cases and three more deaths in the last 24 hours that took the overall tally to 643,289, according to the health department's bulletin. This is the third time that the daily cases went above 400. The last time these many cases were seen on Janaury 3 (424). The total recoveries in the national capital have reached 630,143 while active cases are at 2,207.Meanwhile, over 120 million cases and 2,659,118 deaths have been recorded across the world till now, according to worldometers.info figures.Follow all the updates here:Pune reports 3,267 new Covid-19 cases, 25 deathsPune reports 3,267 fresh COVID-19 cases, 1,830 recoveries, and 25 deaths in the last 24 hours Active cases: 21,730Total recoveries: 4,06,894Death toll: 9,413 pic.twitter.com/gsvaYfLSfbPune reported 3,267 new Covid-19 cases and 25 deaths in taking the death toll in the district to 9,413, reports ANI. Active caseload stands at 21,730 cases and total recoveries reached 406,894 patients.Nashik records over 1,000 new Covid-19 cases for fifth straight dayMaharashtra's Nashik reported 1,356 new Covid-19 cases and two deaths taking the district's tally to 133,590 cases and death toll to 2,170, reports PTI citing an official.Also, with 523 new recoveries, total recoveries reached 123,372 patients.Maharashtra records 16,620 fresh Covid-19 cases, a spike of more than 1,000 cases in last 24 hoursMaharashtra reported 16,620 new Covid-19 cases and 50 related deaths taking the state's tally to 2,314,413 cases and 52,861 deaths. Also, with 1,963 new cases and seven deaths, Mumbai's tally reached 343,692 cases and 11,535 fatalities.Malaysia reports 1,354 new Covid-19 cases, 4 more deathsMalaysia reported 1,354 new Covid-19 infections, bringing the national total to 323,763, the country's health ministry informed on Sunday. Health Ministry Director-General Noor Hisham Abdullah said in a press statement that 14 of the new cases are imported and 1,340 are local transmissions. Another four deaths have been reported, pushing the death toll to 1,210. 1,782 patients have been released after recovery, bringing the total cured and discharged to 306,274, or 94.6 per cent of all cases.Odisha logs 71 new Covid-19 cases; CM sets 'zero infection' targetOdisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik on Sunday set a target of "zero infection" even as the Covid-19 tally in the state mounted to 3,38,192 with 71 fresh cases.In a video message, Patnaik appealed to people to follow health safety protocols so that the state can achieve the goal and requested them not to be complacent with the daily number of new coronavirus cases remaining below 100.Philippines says Covid-19 vaccination drive on track as cases surgeThe Philippines is on track with its Covid-19 inoculation drive, the head of the government's vaccine strategy said on Sunday, addressing criticisms the rollout has been slow as worries grow about a surge in new cases. The Department of Health reported 4,899 new coronavirus cases on Sunday, a day after recording the largest single-day increase in more than six months with 5,000 additional infections. The latest tally brought the country's total confirmed cases to 621,498, among the highest in Asia, with the reported death toll increasing by 63 to 12,829.Delhi's daily Covid cases remain over 400 for fourth straight day; tally at 643,696🏥Delhi Health Bulletin - 14th March 2021🏥#DelhiFightsCorona pic.twitter.com/iVbq3zSZJCThe national capital on Sunday added 407 fresh cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and two more deaths which pushed the caseload and death toll to 643,696 and 10,941 respectively, according to the health department's bulletin. This is the fourth consecutive day that the daily tally went over the 400-mark. Total recoveries are nearing 631,000 while active cases have climbed to 2,262, the bulletin showed.Mandatory to wear masks in Pakistan's Islamabad due to surge in Covid casesThe Islamabad administration on Saturday made it compulsory for residents of the capital city of Pakistan to wear masks in public places due to increase in the country's coronavirus disease (Covid-19) caseload, according to Geo News. The administration further warned that legal action would be taken against those who don't wear a mask adding that the rule will be imposed for the coming two months.Russia registers over 10,000 new Covid-19 cases for a second timeRussia on Sunday added 10,083 new Covid disease cases and 395 more fatalities in the last 24 hours, according to the country's coronavirus crisis centre. This is the second time that the daily cases went over the 10,000-mark during the week.10,790 fresh Cases push Germany's Covid-19 tally to over 2.5 millionGermany recorded 10,790 fresh cases of the coronavirus disease on Sunday that took the caseload to 2,569,245, according to data from Robert Koch Institute for infectious diseases. As many as 70 people succumbed to the disease and the toll stands at 73,371.7 states account for over 87% of new Covid cases in India, says health ministryThe Union health ministry said on Sunday that seven states- Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Karnataka, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu and Madhya Pradesh- were seeing a sharp rise in their daily cases and accounted for 87.73 per cent of the cases that were recorded on Saturday.No new Covid-19 case in Arunachal Pradesh in last 3 daysA health department official told news agency PTI on Sunday that Arunachal Pradesh did not see a single case of the coronavirus disease in the last three days. The overall tally currently stands at 16,840 while 16,781 people have recovered from the disease till now.Need 8.1 million first doses of vaccine, says MP CM ChouhanMadhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said on Sunday the state needed 8.1 million first doses of the vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) adding that only 1,884,000 were secured against it till now. “The union health minister has promised to provide the remaining shots very soon,” Chouhan was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Maharashtra's Thane adds 1,169 new Covid-19 cases, 6 more deathsThane on Saturday recorded 1,169 fresh Covid cases and six more deaths that took the infection count in the Maharashtra district to 275,452, an official told news agency PTI. More than 260,000 people have recovered in Thane so far and the recovery rate stands at 94.47 per cent, while the active cases have climbed to 8,897, the official added.India logs 25,317 fresh Covid-19 cases, highest single day tally this yearIndia on Sunday added 25,317 cases of the coronavirus disease and 161 more related deaths which pushed the caseload and death toll to more than 11.35 million and 158,607 respectively, according to the Union health ministry's dashboard. A total of 10,989,897 people have recovered till now while the active cases stand at 210,544.Mizoram's Covid tally climbs to 4,436; 1 fresh case reportedMizoram on Sunday added one more case of the Covid-19 disease which took the caseload to 4,436, a health official told news agency PTI. The infected person is 53-year-old Border Security Force (BSF) personnel who had come from Maharashtra, the official added. Mizoram currently has 10 active cases, 10 deaths and 4,416 recoveries.Over 864,000 samples tested for Covid-19 in India yesterday, says ICMRA total of 22,67,03,641 samples tested for #COVID19 up to 13th March 2021. Of these, 8,64,368 samples were tested yesterday: Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) pic.twitter.com/I9VIBW7Tb1The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said as many as 864,368 samples were tested for the Covid-19 disease in India on Saturday, which took the total number of samples tested across the country to 226,703,641.Air travel in United States hits highest level since March last yearOn March 12, airports in the United States saw the highest number of passengers since March 2020, when air travel came to a halt due to the ongoing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. According to data by Transportation Safety Administration, a little over 1.35 million passengers were checked in all airports on March 11.Australia reports second local Covid-19 cases after several daysAustralia on Sunday registered its second local case of the Covid-19 disease after many days after a worker who was using two hotels to quarantine those arriving from abroad tested positive for the infection. The country has seen a little over 29,000 cases and 909 deaths till now, according to Reuters.Brazil records 76,178 new Covid-19 cases, 1,997 more deathsBrazil on Saturday added 76,178 fresh cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 1,997 more deaths which pushed the caseload to over 11.4 million, according to the health ministry. Deaths due to the disease have now climbed to 277,102.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-india-world-latest-news-covid-19-death-toll-march-14-2021-101615686774236.html
14-03-2021||India||SC orders probe into alleged threat to judge by SP in Madhya Pradesh||The Supreme Court has ordered Madhya Pradesh’s director general of police (DGP) to investigate whether a superintendent of police (SP) was threatening a trial court judge to prevent the arrest of a murder convict, who is the husband of a BSP MLA in Madhya Pradesh.“The rule of law must be preserved,” held the bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and MR Shah, as it castigated the state government on Friday for failing to arrest Govind Singh despite a first information report (FIR) registered against him in March 2019 and an arrest warrant issued around two months ago.Instead, the bench lamented, the trial court judge in Damoh district was reportedly being intimidated by the district SP for summoning Govind Singh as an accused in a murder case of 2019 and issuing the warrant for his arrest.On Friday, the court was informed by advocate Varun Thakur, who represented the son of the man allegedly killed by Singh, that pressure was mounted on the trial court judge since Singh is the husband of BSP MLA from Pathariya, Rambai.Thakur also told the court that Singh was convicted of murder in two cases and faces charges of murder in two more. Apart from these four cases, he also has 24 other criminal cases pending against him. But the high court, Thakur told the top court, still suspended his sentence and let him out on bail. Thakur said that his client’s father was killed while Singh was out on bail.The bench said that it was startled by the inability of the Madhya Pradesh police to arrest Singh for almost a year despite such grave facts.“The material which has been placed on the record makes startling reading... We take serious note of the manner in which the Additional Sessions Judge, Hata who is in charge of the criminal case has been harassed by the law enforcement machinery in Damoh,” said the court in its order which was released on Saturday.The judges took a grim view that the trial judge had to record his apprehensions in his judicial order on February 8; that he might be subjected to an “unpleasant incident” in the future as the accused are “highly influential political persons”.“We have no reason to disbelieve a judicial officer who has made an impassioned plea that he was being pressurised as a result of his orders under Section 319 of the CrPC. The State, which had moved the High Court for cancellation of the bail which was granted to the second respondent (Singh) as an incident of the suspension of sentence on 3 February 2016, has failed to apprehend Singh who continues to evade arrest,” rued the bench.It ordered the state DGP to “immediately ensure the arrest” of Singh and report compliance by filing a personal affidavit in the court.“The DGP shall also enquire into the allegations levelled by Singh against the Superintendent of Police Damoh by the Additional Sessions Judge in his order dated February 8, 2021,” directed the bench. It has also sought an explanation from the SP while fixing the matter for hearing on March 26.The top court has also ordered for providing adequate security to the trial judge in Damoh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-orders-probe-into-alleged-threat-to-judge-101615673724791.html
14-03-2021||India||‘Pay staff using surplus’: Two govt-funded colleges||Two Delhi government-funded Delhi University (DU) colleges on Saturday passed a resolution directing its administrations to use surplus funds to pay salaries and meet other expenses.The Delhi University Teachers Association (DUTA) saw the move as the Delhi government forcing colleges it funded to change the pattern of financial assistance.The governing bodies (GBs) of Indira Gandhi Institute of Physical Education and the Sports Sciences and Maharishi Valmiki College of Education on Saturday passed the resolution that read, “Special audits show that all 12 colleges have surplus grant aid excess is drawn and available with them. Consequently, the colleges are directed to use the same minus student society fund for the purpose of the salary, allowance and other approved and admissible recurring expenses.” It further said that the colleges cannot undertake any activity that entails financial liability for the government, like creation of posts and infrastructure projects over ₹2 crore, without taking prior approval from the government.The other 10 colleges were yet to pass the resolution.DUTA said in a statement, “It’s shocking that these twelve colleges are being forced to adopt in their GBs a document called ‘Pattern of Assistance’ issued by the directorate of higher education, government of Delhi. The provisions ... are designed to ... divest Delhi government of its funding responsibility by coercing them to gradually become self-sufficient.”GBs have 10 members, both from the college as well as government-nominated .Deepanshu Srivastav, the government-appointed chairperson of Maharishi Valmiki College, said, “The resolution was passed after proper discussion. None was forced to sign it. We know that the 12 Delhi government colleges have enough funds to pay their employees, and that’s why we passed the resolution.”Prabhanjan Jha, a government-appointed GB member at Aditi Mahavidyalaya College, said, “The Delhi government is liable to the deficit only after the utilization of reserves as per the pattern of assistance.”Principal of one of the other 10 colleges, who wished not to be named, said, “Only those colleges having government-appointed GB chairpersons are in favour. We are against it. How can we pay salaries from the money released under different heads for different purposes?”A Delhi government official, who wished not to be named, said, “The pattern of assistance is already applied to all Delhi government fully-funded colleges in DU… Besides, the government has already released pending grants to them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pay-staff-using-surplus-two-govt-funded-colleges-101615672473574.html
14-03-2021||India||Inclusivity and evolution are inherent traits of Indian culture||The term culture is varyingly understood, often encompassing different manifestations of human intellectual and other expressions, particularly of ideas, beliefs, customs and social behaviour. At a more granular level this conception incorporates different art forms, languages and literature, traditions and values and even religious norms and practices. At times, urbane lifestyles and discerning tastes of material subjects are also considered archetypal of what culture embodies.India, with its near continuous history of more than 5000 years as an evolving civilisation, has a dynamic and living culture. It is justifiably proud of this unique heritage which is often considered a key element of its own national identity. However, there are questions as to what is the true Indian culture and which hue in this multitude of cultural-chroma can be said to be quintessential representative of the Indian civilisation. But this begets some more queries, as to what is civilisation, what is the wider domain of culture, how has it evolved in India, how inextricably is it linked to our religious thoughts and practices and most importantly what is nationhood itself. For capturing even a glimpse of the vibrant Indian culture, behoves conceptual appreciation of these integral institutions. But first, what is culture?The connotation of the word culture is vast and cannot be restricted to a singular definition. However, it can be understood as the collective values of a society, manifested through its numerous institutions as well as, in the disposition, attitudes, manners of its individual members. Those in turn find expression in various material objects, abstract ideas and beliefs of individuals and society.Thus, culture includes certain aspects of collective institutions, such as morality, religion, spirituality, law, custom, art etc. which are not restricted to an individual and which are handed over from generation to generation. Evidently, the institutional elements of culture are evolutionary and dynamic.Culture also includes intellectual and knowledge elements pertaining to languages, literature, human learning, social norms, customs and behaviour. Human and social aesthetics are another key aspect of culture, encompassing within it, the numerous manifestations of tangible and intangible art forms, viz, music, dance, sculpture, painting and architecture etc. The new-age theatre and cinema are as much a reflection of the modern culture as are the cave paintings of a prehistoric society, of which we know so little. The Bhakti and Sufi movements were the embodiment of the spiritual elements of the medieval culture, as were the imposing forts and grand palaces of this age, a reflection of its societal and corporeal cultural constituents. The Sangam literature was the manifestation of the human intellectual and socio–ethical elements of a culture at its zenith nearly two millennia ago. Folk art and traditional lifestyles are also as much indicative of the culture of a society as is urbane lifestyle and transient tastes. Thus, our habitat, cuisine, costumes, physical objects, apart from performing arts and architecture, are all reflective of the material or tangible elements of culture, as are religions, customs, festivals, traditions, social practices and ethics, philosophy and law, reflective of non-material or intangible elements.But Culture in itself is never static or an isolated mass of homogenous attributes. It is pervious and dynamic, with fresh waves of socio-cultural influences sprouting pristine cultural milieus. Inclusivity and evolution are its inherent and integral traits. It is this very indispensable characterisitc which is reflected in Mahatma Gandhi’s words, “No culture can live if it attempts to be exclusive.”But given its transient nature, what is that abiding essence which provides continuum and sustenance to a culture, to maintain its integrity over epochs? At the very core of the myriad cultural manifestations, lies the element of goodness of the civilisation and its people. It is the enduring element. Narrow canons of the self, do not restrict it, nor is its domain limited to a specific society. It is all encompassing and its ethos best exemplified in the aspirational Upanishadic hymn, sarve bhavantu sukhinah (may all be happy).Indeed, its universality extends even beyond the human dominion, to all the sentient beings and in its noblest manifestation, endeavouring even for the sustenance of the biotic world and the abiotic realm. Civilisations may somewhat assimilate this element as ethics and law, while religion may perceive it as the principles of morality or the essence of spirituality. But goodness, irrespective of its classification, is the only and truly the eternal soul of any culture, bereft of which, its external trappings no matter how seemingly glorious and glitzy, are a little more than a lifeless mass.The writer is an IRS officer and author of the book, ‘Indian Heritage, Art and culture’. Views expressed are personal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/inclusivity-and-evolution-are-inherent-traits-of-indian-culture-101615671287500.html
14-03-2021||India||2 million vaccinated in a day, tally reaches 28.2 million: Govt||The Union health ministry said on Saturday that India administered record 2.05 million coronavirus vaccine doses a day earlier, taking the total number of shots given so far in the country to 28.2 million.Experts, however, say that the vaccination drive needs to be ramped up quickly to break the chain of transmission of Covid-19 and to control the current surge of infections being reported from certain states. “Although it is heartening to see an increase in pace, it is sort of an under-accomplishment to go at this rate as India has the capacity to cover 7 to 10 million per day,” said Dr Giridhara R Babu, head, epidemiology, Indian Institute of Public Health.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageIndia began the Covid-19 vaccination drive, the world’s largest such exercise, on January 16. “India recorded a significant milestone in its countrywide Covid-19 vaccination drive... More than 20 lakh (20,53,537) vaccine doses were given on Day-56 of the vaccination drive (12th March, 2021) through 30,561 sessions. This is the highest single day vaccine administration so far,” said the Union health ministry.Drugs Controller General of India VG Somani has currently approved two vaccines – Covishield and Covaxin – in the fight against Covid-19. Covaxin is co-developed by Bharat Biotech and the Indian council of Medical’s research and the other vaccine is developed by Oxford-AstraZeneca and is locally manufactured by the Serum Institute of India.First doses have been administered to 1,639,663 health care and frontline workers, and 413,874 health care and frontline workers have received the second dose of vaccines so far, according to government data.Also Read: Hyderabad firm to produce Covid-19 vaccine jabs with US fundingSince the vaccination was opened in the second phase on March 1, 7,291,716 people above 60 years of age and 1,254,468 between 45 and 59 years with specified comorbidities have been vaccinated in the country. Eight states constituted 74% of the 2,053,537 doses administered in last 24 hours, the Union health ministry said. Uttar Pradesh topped the list with at least 330,000 vaccine doses.“Covering 10 million people a day will ensure that we will cover the entire vulnerable population within a month. This will prevent any sort of second wave in India. Given the proactive and strong leadership shown by India so far in tackling Covid-19, the ambitious goal to cover them within 30 days will take us ahead of the virus. This ambition is a necessity, not for any records,” Dr Babu said. India’s caseload stood at 202,022 on Saturday, according to government data. The current caseload is 1.78% of the total positive cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-million-vaccinated-in-a-day-tally-reaches-28-2-million-govt-101615668088816.html
14-03-2021||India||Ahead of polls, farmers’ unions embark on anti-BJP campaign||On January 18 this year, a prominent leader of the ongoing farmers’ protest against three new agricultural laws, Gurnam Singh Charuni, “clarified” before a platform of farm unions leading the agitation that he would never organise political meets without permission after having done so once.Charuni, the firebrand leader of the Bharatiya Kisan Union, an influential farmers’ organisation and key force behind the protests in Haryana, had organised an all-party meeting to rally support for the farmers. The move went against the promise of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, a collective of farm unions, to keep the movement “strictly apolitical”.Also Read | ‘Going to Nandigram…’: BKU’s Rakesh Tikait says ‘BJP has robbed the country’However, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha appears to have dropped its stand of being equidistant from all parties, campaigning against the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party, especially in five states going to the polls in a few weeks.Influential farmer leader Rakesh Tikait, who is spearheading the protest against the contentious farm laws, is in West Bengal, where a fierce election campaign battle between the BJP and Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress is underway. On Saturday, Tikait urged people at Nandigram not to vote for the BJP, while mounting attack on the BJP-led central government. “There are elections ahead in Bengal. You need not come to Delhi. You ensure that the BJP is defeated in the polls. Don’t vote for them. Vote for only that party which can defeat the BJP,” he said.He was addressing a rally attended by a few hundred people at Nandigram, which goes to the polls on April 1. Political experts suggest it could be the fiercest of the constituency battles, with chief minister Mamata Banerjee taking on her protege-turned-adversary Suvendu Adhikari, who has been pitted against her by the rival BJP.“This movement (farmers’ agitation) has to be spread throughout the country across all districts. You will have to break barriers and barricades. This movement will continue till the time the kala-kanoon (contentious farm laws) is withdrawn,” Tikait said, while projecting Nandigram as a citadel of the farmers’ movement. Back in 2007-2008, Nandigram became the epicentre of a farmers’ movement that propelled Banerjee to power in the state in 2011, uprooting the 34 years of the Left Front government.Analysts say that there has seldom been voting on purely farmers’ economic issues, and farmers rather tend to vote along caste and religious lines.However, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha’s call for a campaign against the BJP has opened a new front of challenge for the ruling party, which is looking to unseat Banerjee in West Bengal.In a far cry from being an apolitical body, the SKM last month gave a nationwide call to “teach the BJP a lesson”. “We continue to be equidistant so far as support to any particular party is concerned. But we are against the government and it will be ridiculous to claim that we are not against the party that rules it,” said Avik Saha, national secretary of the SKM.In Nandigram, a “mahapanchayat” spearheaded by Tikait on Sunday is expected to draw large crowds and is being supported by six constituent organisations of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, the Left’s All-India Kisan Mahasabha and a clutch of civil society organisations.“We have been compelled to campaign against the BJP because the government has rejected all out demands and that is the only language it understands,” Saha said.Tens of thousands of farmers are protesting since last year, demanding a scrapping of three agricultural laws to deregulate markets and which promise to offer farmers more market access for farmers to sell their produce.Farm unions, however, say the laws will allow large corporations and supermarkets to dictate terms to growers and leave them at the mercy of big firms.Tikait has been holding a series of “kisan mahapanchayats”, which are respected village institutions of the Jat community in northern states such as Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan, where social decisions taken by elders are considered binding.In these mahapanchayats, leaders such as Tikait and Charuni have built a groundswell of support for the agitation by raising local farm issues such as the problems of sugarcane growers aside from the larger demand of scrapping the farm laws.Analysts say the farmers’ campaign against the BJP may not influence the elections in a big way but it matters. “No state is going to the polls on the issue of farm laws. But the farmers’ agitation comes as an opportunity for the opposition,” says Barun Mitra, a teacher at the Calcutta University.With HTC inputs from Kolkata||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-polls-farmers-unions-embark-on-antibjpcampaign-101615664210457.html
14-03-2021||India||Hyderabad firm to produce Covid-19 vaccine jabs with US funding||The US development bank will assist India’s Biological E to produce one billion doses of Covid-19 vaccines to be rolled out by the end of 2022 under the ambitious new vaccine partnership unveiled at the first Quad Summit.The four Quad countries agreed on Friday to pool their financial resources, manufacturing capacities and logistical strengths to ramp up manufacture and distribution of Covid-19 vaccines across the region as part of efforts to boost post-pandemic recovery. The virtual summit was convened by US President Joe Biden and joined by Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison and Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe initiative will create additional manufacturing capacities in India, the world’s largest producer of vaccines, to make doses developed in the US, including the Johnson & Johnson candidate. This will be done with financing from the US and Japan.Australia will help overcome last mile and logistical delivery issues, and assist in delivering the vaccines to countries in Southeast Asia, the Indian Ocean and the Pacific Islands.The US International Development Finance Corporation (DFC) has announced it will “finance increased capacity to support Biological E’s effort to produce at least 1 billion doses of Covid-19 vaccines by the end of 2022”.This will be done with Stringent Regulatory Authorization (SRA) and the World Health Organization’s (WHO) Emergency Use Listing. The move is part of DFC’s Global Health and Prosperity Initiative, under which it is increasing manufacturing, production and distribution capacity for vaccines.The Quad Vaccine Partnership was seen as the most significant deliverable of the first summit of the leaders of India, Australia, Japan and the US. Observers believe the move will help counter China’s influence across the Indo-Pacific while at the same time signalling that the Quad is evolving from a group that only discusses strategic approaches to cooperating in definite areas.Also Read | Quad makes its first big move: Joint vaccine pushDFC chief operating officer David Marchick said: “It is hard to conceive of an investment with a greater developmental impact than using our financial tools to increase the capacity of vaccine manufacturing to help developing countries in Asia and around the world respond to Covid-19 and other diseases.”He added, “Expanding vaccine manufacturing, especially the Covid-19 vaccine and boosters, will help increase vaccination rates and protect communities around the world.”“The vaccines Biological E plans to produce with the assistance of DFC’s financing complement existing efforts to vaccinate as many people in the world as possible in the shortest amount of time,” DFC’s released said.Partnering with Biological E, which is a woman-run business, will also advance DFC’s “2X Women’s Initiative” to promote global gender equity.Mahima Datla is currently the managing director of Biological E, which was founded in 1953, and became the first Indian private sector company to enter the vaccines business in 1962. The firm launched commercial operations in the US in 2019.DFC is also working to strengthen the vaccine supply chain and last mile logistics for distribution. Under its Global Health and Prosperity Initiative, DFC will invest between $5 million and $500 million on eligible projects, including equity and debt financing, political risk insurance and technical development.The announcement came on a day Union health minister Harsh Vardhan announced that more than six coronavirus vaccines will come up in India.“India has developed two vaccines, which have been given to 71 countries. Many more nations are seeking the vaccines, and these are not little-known nations...Canada, Brazil and other developed countries are using Indian vaccines with a great zeal,” he said. “More than half a dozen vaccines are going to come up,” he said.“Till Saturday morning, 1.84 crore vaccine shots have been given in the country and 20 lakh people were inoculated yesterday (Friday),” the minister added.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hyderabad-firm-to-produce-jabs-with-us-funding-101615659083503.html
14-03-2021||India||Upendra Kushwaha’s Rashtriya Lok Samata Party likely to merge with JD(U) today||The merger of former Union minister Upendra Kushwaha’s Rashtriya Lok Samata Party (RLSP) with his parent party JD(U) seems imminent and could happen as early as Sunday, people familiar with the developments said.A senior JD(U) leader, on condition of anonymity, said the merger would take place on Sunday afternoon after the meeting of JD(U)’s state executive committee. “The state committee of the RLSP has authorised the national executive to take a decision on the merger and its decision will be announced on Sunday morning,” said senior RLSP leader Fazal Imam Malik.A senior RLSP leader confirmed that the announcement was a mere formality, and the merger would take place on Sunday.Kushwaha would be returning to the JD (U), a party which he left in 2013. The same year, he formed the Rashtriya Lok Samata Party (RLSP) and was part of the NDA during 2014 Lok Sabha polls. His party contested on three seats and won all the seats. Kushwaha was made the Union minister of state for the human resource department. His party also contested on 23 seats during the 2015 assembly elections as an NDA ally and won on three seats. He, however, left NDA in 2018.A section of leaders of the RLSP were not pleased with Kushwaha’s decision to become part of the JD (U) and some state and district level office bearers of the party joined the RJD on Friday. The RLSP leaders who joined the RJD in the presence of Tejashwi Yadav included state working president Virendra Kushwaha; state principal secretary general Nirmal Kushwaha and state head of women's cell Madhu Manjari Mehta.The Kushwaha-led party has a sizable support among the Kushwaha voters and its exit from the NDA fold cost JD(U) its traditional votes. Kushwaha had been to assembly and Rajya Sabha on a JD(U) ticket. The RLSP quit the NDA in December 2018 after the BJP refused to offer more than two seats to the RLSP for the 2019 Lok Sabha elections even as it went out of the way to accommodate Nitish Kumar’s JD(U).A JD(U) leader feels that the Luv-Kush unity in Bihar (a term used in reference to Kurmi and Koeri caste) can become a potent factor in the revival of the JD (U). The Kushwahas and Kurmis together account for nearly 12% of Bihar’s population and have been a major vote bank of Nitish Kumar’s party.Post-elections, Nitish Kumar has been busy consolidating his hold over the Kurmi-Koeri-Kushwaha vote bank in the wake of JD(U)’s dismal performance.The RLSP chief is understood to have sensed the mood and sent feelers to the JD(U) camp through emissaries as well as during numerous meetings with Kumar in the recent past. In fact, no less than six meetings took place between the chief minister Nitish Kumar and Kushwaha in last two months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/upendra-kushwaha-s-rashtriya-lok-samata-party-likely-to-merge-with-jd-u-today-101615660822704.html
14-03-2021||India||'Worrying that SC now has just one woman judge': Chandrachud||The Supreme Court’s senior judge DY Chandrachud said on Saturday it was “deeply worrying” that the apex court was left with only woman judge after the retirement of justice Indu Malhotra, adding that the institution “must do better”.Speaking at an event organised by the Supreme Court Young Lawyers Forum to bid farewell to justice Malhotra, justice Chandrachud said the diversity of India must also find reflection in the composition of the Supreme Court.“Justice Malhotra’s retirement means that Supreme Court now has only one female judge on the bench. As an institution, I find that this is a deeply worrying fact and must promptly receive serious introspection and reflection... As an institution whose decisions shape and impact lives of everyday Indian, we must do better. We must ensure the diversity of our country finds reflection in the makeup of our court,” said justice Chandrachud.Justice Malhotra, the first woman lawyer to be elevated to the Supreme Court directly from the Bar and the seventh woman judge to be appointed at the Supreme Court, retired on Saturday following a tenure of about three years. With the retirement of justice Malhotra, the Supreme Court now has only one woman judge, justice Indira Banerjee, who will retire in September next year.Justice Malhotra encouraged young lawyers to keep working hard and keep chasing their dreams as she quoted Michelle Obama: “The only limit to the height of your achievements is the reach of your dreams and your willingness to work hard for them.”Justice Chandrachud is not only in line to become the Chief Justice of India in November 2022 but he is presently also a member of the Supreme Court collegium that picks judges for appointment to the top court.Diversity in judiciary has both intrinsic and instrumental values, said justice Chandrachud during the virtual farewell event, adding that having a more diverse judiciary ensured that diversity of perspectives was fairly considered in decision-making process, instilled high degree of public confidence in decisions, and helped the institution to be more attuned to the people it served.He added that the reason why justice Malhotra adorned the bench was not because she was a woman or because she was one of the best women lawyers of her time but because she had capacity to become the best judge of her time, man, woman or others.Justice Chandrachud also recalled that at an event in October 2020, justice Malhotra spoke about the discrimination she faced even after joining the bench when some of her colleagues doubted her competence, making it necessary for her to work twice as hard.“I can only tell you from bottom of my conscience and with my hand on my soul that I wasn’t one of them... I hope that as we celebrate today, justice Malhotra’s career and accomplishments, we use this opportunity that stories such as hers become more common place and as members of legal fraternity we do our bit to ensure, that it no longer remains as hard as it was for justice Malhotra for women to climb upper echelons of our profession.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/worrying-that-sc-now-has-just-one-woman-judge-chandrachud-101615660423934.html
14-03-2021||India||‘Communal forces will never be welcome in Kerala’: Pinarayi Vijayan||Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan is in the midst of a fierce battle for survival as the state readies for the polls. Vijayan is eyeing a second term, which is against the general political cycle of the state. He spoke to Ramesh Babu on a range of issues. Excerpts:Of late you have repeatedly said the Union government is out to weaken your government and portray it in bad light. It happened when you are sure about a second term; why do you say that?Attacks on the LDF government in Kerala started in July 2020, as we were gearing up for the panchayat elections. Accusations were made on the government by BJP leaders regarding matters which fall under the purview of the Centre. The opposition in the state lapped them up. It translated into a full-fledged media trial and witch-hunt by investigation agencies. That is why I’ve said that there is an orchestrated effort to topple us. However, it needs to be noted that the first person who accused the CMO has now backtracked. I don’t want to name him now.You wrote to the PM for a central agency probe into the gold smuggling case and initially you said the investigation was in the right direction. Where did it go wrong?Yes, I did. Smuggling of contraband articles including gold is a serious offence that adversely affects our economy. So, I had requested for a comprehensive inquiry. But, as soon as a proper investigation seemed to be closing in on the real culprits, it came to a standstill. And then, the focus was shifted towards our government’s policies and projects.You often say the Congress and the BJP talk in the same voice in Kerala. But your party is in alliance with the Congress in West Bengal and neighbouring Tamil Nadu?I do, and that is based on their actions. We have umpteen examples across the country which would justify people perceiving the BJP and the Congress as two sides of the same coin. However, there is no fascist organisation like the RSS to control the Congress, so as to realise their goal of a Hindu Rashtra. Hence, where they are genuinely opposed to the BJP and the Left can use such allies – albeit cautiously – we do.What are your government’s biggest achievements in five years?I would present them in three broad areas. One, development. We aimed at infrastructure projects worth ₹50,000 crore in five years. We are at ₹63,200 crore already. Two, welfare. From ₹600 per month, welfare pension has been hiked to ₹1,600 per month. Plus, we have ensured that nobody went hungry even during this pandemic. Three, saving lives. As you know, Kerala has been battered by disasters one after the other. Yet, in protecting our people we have cut no corners. There are several other specific programmes like LIFE, Aardram and so on. But I’m not getting into the details right now.Unlike West Bengal, the party’s foundation is very strong in Kerala. It is the only Left government in the country. Would you foresee a united move to oust it?As a government, we have been pursuing an alternative to the existing models of development, welfare and governance. You see, we have published a progress report every year and been accountable to the people. We have promoted co-operatives and protected PSUs. For us, food, education, health, pension, housing, connectivity, development and so on are rights of the people, they are not handouts. So, naturally, people would want such an approach to be emulated elsewhere too. And those who have scant regard for the principles of democracy and our Constitution that governs us, they would surely want to oust an alternative that challenges their very existence.The BJP has been trying to get a foothold in Kerala and it used all opportunities including Sabarimala for this. Is Kerala fertile for saffron forces?Kerala is a land known for and committed to secularism. We think in terms of humanity, not in terms of faith. Therefore, communal forces will never be welcome here. I don’t see any future for it.Looking back, do you feel the emotional Sabarimala issue could have been tackled with caution? The party was forced to do a campaign later saying we are with the believers and a minister expressed regret the other day?We have always been with the believers. Just look at the allocation we have made for Dewaswom boards. We have even provided enough funds for temples that ran out of income during the lockdown. In fact, we are implementing the Sabarimala Master Plan with higher allocation than earlier. So, I don’t think anyone can blame us saying that we’ve not been with the faithful. And, as far the government is concerned, we have to abide by the judgments of the highest court; we are constitutionally bound to.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/communal-forces-will-never-be-welcome-in-kerala-vijayan-101615660364017.html
14-03-2021||India||'Pronounced guilty by seekers of TRP': Disha Ravi||Bengaluru: Climate activist Disha Ravi, who was arrested by the Delhi Police in February in relation to a ‘toolkit’, an online document intended to help amplify the ongoing farmers’ protest, on Saturday hit out at the “seekers of TRPs” for “violating” her autonomy, and added that no matter how long it takes, the truth “always reveals itself”.The 24-year-old, who is a part of the Indian wing of Fridays for Future, a global climate change movement founded by Swedish teen climate activist Greta Thunberg, was arrested in Bengaluru on February 13 and charged with sedition, criminal conspiracy and inciting to riot. Police said Ravi, along with two other activists, created a ‘toolkit’ to spread misinformation and incite unrest as part of a global conspiracy. A Delhi court granted her bail on February 13, saying there was “scanty” and “sketchy” evidence to back the charges leveled against her and adding that citizens couldn’t be jailed simply because they disagreed with government policies.In a statement published on her social media accounts, Ravi said: “My autonomy was violated; my photographs were splashed all over the news; my actions were pronounced guilty - not in the court of law, but on flat screens by seekers of TRPs. I sat there, unaware of the many abstractions made of me in order to satiate their idea of me.”Ravi, whose arrest triggered widespread outrage, added that it wasn’t a crime to draw attention to the climate crisis. “At the end of the five days I was shifted to Judicial Custody for 3 days, I wondered when it became a crime to think the most basic elements of sustenance on this planet were as much mine as theirs,” she wrote.She thanked all the people who supported her and added that there were many others who continued to languish between bars without the legal assistance that she had.“Although their physical forms are trapped behind bars because of our collective silence, their ideas continue to live on as will the united resistance of the people. Ideas do not die. And, truth, no matter how long it takes, always reveals itself.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pronounced-guilty-by-seekers-of-trp-ravi-101615660243968.html
