16-03-2021||India||Dasgupta resigns from RS before Bengal polls||New Delhi: Swapan Dasgupta, the Bharatiya Janata Party‘s (BJP) candidate for the Tarakeshwar assembly constituency in West Bengal, tendered his resignation to Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu on Tuesday, after both the Trinamool Congress (TMC) and the Congress raised the issue of a nominated and unaffiliated member of the Upper House contesting the assembly elections as a candidate of a party.Officials from the Rajya Sabha secretariat said they received Dasgupta’s letter on Tuesday. “I have resigned from the Rajya Sabha today to commit myself totally to the fight for a better Bengal. I hope to file my nomination as BJP candidate for the Tarakeshwar assembly seat in the next few days,” Dasgupta tweeted on Tuesday morning.Dasgupta was nominated to the Rajya Sabha by the President in April 2016. According to the 10th Schedule that deals with disqualification of MPs: “A nominated member of a House shall be disqualified for being a member of the House if he joins any political party after the expiry of six months from the date on which he takes his seat after complying with the requirements of Article 99 or, as the case may be, Article 188.”Articles 99 and 188 of the Indian Constitution relate to oath-taking of lawmakers.Dasgupta did not declare his affiliation with the BJP within six months. His name on the Rajya Sabha website is listed in the category of nominated members, unlike some other nominated MPs such as Rakesh Sinha, Subramaniam Swami and Roopa Ganguly who, after being nominated, aligned with the BJP.On March 13, the BJP named him its candidate for the Tarakeshwar seat in Bengal’s Hoogly district. On Monday, Trinamool Congress MP Mahua Moitra tweeted: “Swapan Dasgupta is BJP candidate for WB polls. 10th Schedule of Constitution says nominated RS member to be disqualified if he joins any political party after expiry of 6 months from oath. He was sworn in April 2016, remains unallied. Must be disqualified NOW for joining BJP.”On Tuesday, Congress MP, Jairam Ramesh raised the issue of Dasgupta’s candidature with Rajya Sabha chairperson M Venkaiah Naidu. He sought to know if Dasgupta has resigned.Ramesh said that he personally met Naidu after sending a letter on Dasgupta. “The chairman told me that he had resigned.”A person familiar with the matter who asked not to be named said Dasgupta “has time till March 19 to file his nomination papers for contesting the polls. Had he not resigned from the Rajya Sabha, he could have faced disqualification from the House.” The person added that Dasgupta’s resignation is subject to approval of the chair.Shortly after his nomination on Sunday, several party leaders said they were not sure whether Dasgupta has become a member of the party. One leader said he can become a member after being named as a candidate.Dasgupta has not tried to hide his association with the party. He was a member of the BJP’s delegations to the election commission, and also met President Ramnath Kovind regarding the death of a BJP MLA in July 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dasgupta-resigns-from-rs-before-bengal-polls-101615919042247.html
16-03-2021||India||British PM to visit India in April||New DelhiBritish Prime Minister Boris Johnson will visit India in April as part of his government’s tilt towards the Indo-Pacific under a comprehensive revamp of foreign and security policies in order to unlock new opportunities across the region.The UK on Tuesday unveiled its widely anticipated integrated review of security, defence, development and foreign policy, first announced after the 2019 election as “the most radical assessment of the UK’s place in the world since the end of the Cold War”.The integrated review set out several shifts in foreign policy, including a tilt to the Indo-Pacific, and Johnson will visit India at the end of April to “unlock opportunities in the region”, an official statement said. Presenting the review in Parliament, Johnson said he will travel to India to “strengthen our ties with the world’s largest democracy”. This will be Johnson’s first major international visit following Britain’s exit from the European Union (EU). Johnson was earlier set to be chief guest at India’s Republic Day celebrations in January, but called off the trip to remain in Britain to focus on the response to a new coronavirus variant. At the time, the UK announced Johnson hoped to visit India in the first half of 2021, and ahead of the UK’s G7 Summit in June that Prime Minister Narendra Modi is due to attend as a guest.The British high commissioner to India, Alex Ellis, played a key part in drafting the integrated review in his previous role as deputy national security advisor. The document described India-UK relations as “already strong” and said Britain will “seek transformation in our cooperation across the full range of our shared interests” over the next decade. It referred to India as an “international actor of growing importance” and spoke of the strong cultural links between the two sides, including 1.5 million British nationals of Indian origin. India-UK trade more than doubled between 2007 and 2019, and the investment relationship supports more than half a million jobs in each other’s economies. “The ability to strike our own trade deals will allow us to grow our economic relationship further, including through increased bilateral investment flows,” the integrated review said. “Our vision is for re-energised trade and investment, rooted in S&T and supporting levelling up in the UK and India alike; enhanced defence cooperation that brings a more secure Indian Ocean Region, building on the existing biannual Ministerial Defence Dialogues; and UK-India leadership to tackle global challenges like climate change, clean energy and global health,” it said. A major step towards boosting ties will be the launch this year of the “Enhanced Trade Partnership”, which will act as a road map to a potential comprehensive trade deal.With Britain looking at the Indo-Pacific as “increasingly the geopolitical centre of the world”, the aircraft carrier HMS Queen Elizabeth will undertake its first operational deployment to the region this year. The UK is also applying for partner status at the Association of South East Asian Nations (Asean) as part of its foreign policy shift. The deployment of Queen Elizabeth, the UK’s largest warship, and its strike task group to the Indian Ocean has been described by officials as the country’s “most ambitious deployment for two decades”. The reset of Britain’s international priorities with deeper engagement with the Indo-Pacific is also aimed at creating a democratic counterweight to China. “China’s military modernisation and growing international assertiveness within the Indo-Pacific region and beyond will pose an increasing risk to UK interests,” the integrated review said. The UK will “do more to adapt to China’s growing impact on many aspects of our lives as it becomes more powerful”, and this includes investing in “enhanced China-facing capabilities” and improving Britain’s “ability to respond to the systemic challenge that [China] poses to our security, prosperity and values – and those of our allies and partners”, the document said. The 114-page integrated review, which addressed issues related to national security, foreign policy and the global economy, is meant to implement Johnson’s “Global Britain” agenda.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/british-pm-to-visit-india-in-april-101615918562315.html
16-03-2021||India||Ex-Telangana MP, industrialist Konda Vishweshwar Reddy quits Cong||Prominent industrialist and former parliamentarian from Telangana, Konda Vishweshwar Reddy, resigned from the Congress late on Monday night.Reddy, who represented Chevella parliamentary constituency in Ranga Reddy district close to Hyderabad, sent his resignation letter to Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee president N Uttam Kumar Reddy, after informing him telephonically about his decision in the evening.Reddy was the richest MP from Telangana between 2014 and 2019 with declared assets of ₹528 crore. He is the son-in-law of Apollo Hospitals Group chairman Pratap C Reddy and his wife is Sangita Reddy, managing director of Apollo Hospitals.Also read: 12 teachers of a school in Telangana found positive for Covid-19While thanking all the Congress workers in his constituency who had given him tremendous support, he said he remained committed to the people of Telangana and the development of his constituency and the state. “And so, my fight continues,” he said.Reddy said he would take a break for a few months and concentrate on his business activities before returning to active politics. He did not disclose which party he would be joining later to continue his political journey.A Congress leader close to Reddy said the latter might join the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) soon, as he had been in touch with the BJP leadership for quite some time. During the recent elections to Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation, the BJP leadership attempted to bring Reddy into the party. BJP national general secretary Bhupendra Yadav, who was appointed the party in-charge for the GHMC polls, went to Reddy’s residence and held parleys. However, the former MP issued a statement stating that he would continue in the Congress party and the meeting with Bhupendra Yadav had no political significance.Reddy entered active politics before the 2014 elections by joining the Telangana Rashtra Samithi. He won the Chevella Lok Sabha seat on a TRS ticket but could not adjust to the party for long. He quit the party in early 2018. He later joined the Congress and contested the elections from Chevella again but lost to another industrialist G Ranjith Reddy of TRS by a slim margin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/extelangana-mp-industrialist-konda-vishweshwar-reddy-quits-cong-101615918022699.html
16-03-2021||India||Indian Railways will never be be privatised: Piyush Goyal||New Delhi Union railway minister Piyush Goyal on Tuesday said that the Indian Railways will never be privatized, even as he said that private investment in the sector should be encouraged to enhance infrastructure and passenger services.During a discussion on demands for grants for railways in the Lok Sabha, Goyal said, “Let me make it clear, the Indian Railways will never be privatised, Indian railways is India’s asset and will continue to remain so and belong to the people.” The Lok Sabha later passed the Demands for Grants for Railways for 2021-22.“If a railway line is installed should there not be the need to ensure good services to the passengers and higher speed trains? And in that if any private investment comes, I feel it should be welcomed,” the minister said, adding that the condition of railway stations across the country has improved tremendously. “There are toilets installed across all stations with separate facilities for women. We are also installing toilets for specially-abled as well.”“If we have to make our stations at level with international standards, you can imagine how much investment that would require. We have begun the redevelopment of the Amritsar railway station at a cost of ₹230 crore which will be at par with international standards. We have selected 50 stations for redevelopment… I feel in that if private investment comes for that, it is in the best interest of the country,” Goyal said. There have been no passenger deaths in rail accidents in the past two years, and the railways has put focus on passenger safety, Goyal said. To be clear, rail accidents refer to only train-related accidents such as train derailment while deaths due to trespassing are counted as human error. In 2019, the railways allowed private companies to operate certain stations in a public-private partnership (PPP) model. The move, steered by the Indian Railway Stations Development Corporation (IRSDC), is expected to help significantly modernise parts of a decades-old system. In October 2019, the government decided to set up a committee to draft a blueprint for transferring the operations of 150 trains and 50 railway stations to private firms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-railways-will-never-be-be-privatised-piyush-goyal-101615917602038.html
16-03-2021||India||Four Maoists killed in encounter in Bihar’s Gaya district||Security forces killed at least four Maoists in an encounter on Tuesday noon in forests in Chakarbandha Hill of Gaya district in Bihar, police said. Three AK-47 assault rifles and an INSAS rifle have been recovered from the site of the encounter.The deceased Maoists have been identified as - zonal commander Amresh Singh alias Tuntun Bhokta (Gaya), sub-zonal commanders Shivpujan Yadav alias Pramod, Uday Paswan and Sita Bhuiyan (all from Aurangabad district). ADG (Operation) S M Khopde said the anti-Maoist operation in forests of Chakarbandha Hill was led by the CRPF’s Commando Battalion for Resolute Action (CoBRA) when an encounter broke out at Monwar village.“The encounter started when the CoBRA team reached the jungles. After the firing stopped, the bodies of Maoist were recovered,” said Khopde. He said the gun-battle lasted for about half an hour and forced the rebels to retreat into the forests. Some other Maoists are suspected to have received bullet injuries. There was no report of any casualty or injury among the security forces. Bodies of the four Maoists were found at the site of the encounter along with four weapons including AK-47 and INSAS rifles. The security forces had begun a combing operation on Monday evening following a tip-off that around 15 Maoists were hiding in the forest. The CRPF’s 159 battalion was also involved in the operation.The ADG said that such operations would continue and pressure would be built upon Maoists even more. He also said that local intelligence was also being strengthened.Earlier on February 11, a Maoist was gunned down in an encounter with the Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) in Lakhisarai district while a search operation was being conducted in Chehrone-Kopdashi forest areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-maoists-killed-in-encounter-in-bihar-s-gaya-district-101615917182665.html
16-03-2021||India||PM in B’desh on March 26, 1st foreign visit since Covid||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will make his first foreign visit since the Covid-19 outbreak last year to Bangladesh during March 26-27, highlighting the priority attached by India to the country in its “Neighbourhood First” policy. Modi, who is visiting at the invitation of his Bangladeshi counterpart Sheikh Hasina, will participate in the commemoration of what the external affairs ministry described as “three epochal events” – Mujib Borsho, the birth centenary of Bnagladesh’s father of the nation, Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, 50 years of diplomatic ties, and 50 years of Bangladesh’s war of liberation. The prime minister last visited Bangladesh in 2015 though Modi and Hasina have interacted virtually several times during the pandemic. During the visit, Modi will attend the national day programme of Bangladesh on March 26 as the guest of honour. Besides holding bilateral consultations with Hasina, Modi will also hold talks with President Mohammad Abdul Hamid and foreign minister AK Abdul Momen. “The visit of the prime minister to Bangladesh will be the first visit to a foreign country since the outbreak of the Covid pandemic. This highlights the priority India attaches to Bangladesh,” the external affairs ministry said. The two countries have launched several initiatives amid the pandemic to boost connectivity, including a new cross-border bridge over Feni river that was opened earlier this month to make Agartala, the capital of the northeastern state of Tripura, the Indian city closest to an international sea port. Bangladesh is the largest recipient of Indian-made Covid-19 vaccines, having received nine million doses so far, including two million doses provided as a grant in January. External affairs minister S Jaishankar travelled to Dhaka on March 4 to prepare the grounds for Modi’s visit. Jaishankar held talks with Momen and met Hasina, and the two foreign ministers reviewed the overall relationship and India-backed development projects. Connectivity initiatives between the two sides continued despite the pandemic. The two countries conducted the trial run of container cargo through Chattogram port to Agartala, added two new routes to link Tripura to Bangladesh’s waterways, and India provided 10 railway locomotives and began the movement of container and parcel trains last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-in-b-desh-on-march-26-1st-foreign-visit-since-covid-101615916882097.html
16-03-2021||India||'My mic was switched off in Parliament': Rahul Gandhi on 'assault on India'||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday said all institutions of India are under constant assault. Interacting with Prof Ashutosh Varshney, a faculty of Brown University, Rahul said, "To me, India is many different, diverse viewpoints...Modern India to me is essentially an ongoing negotiation between those ideas and cultures. Our founding fathers created an architecture of that negotiation through various institutions.""What I see is a determined attack on these institutions," he said, as he was asked to explain his earlier comment which he had made during his conversation with Cornell University professKaushik Basu when he said "electoral politics in India is no longer a fight for power, it's a fight for India".Live: My interaction with Prof Ashutosh Varshney, faculty & students of Brown University. https://t.co/1goKjIgp9HElaborating on that, Rahul said, "There is not a single institution which is not under attack. To give you a more nuanced answer, my mic was switched off in Parliament. The essence of Parliament is that I am allowed to speak. But the television doesn't show what is going on in Parliament. BJP MPs can not have an open discussion, they have told me. It is a straightforward top-down thing. Same with the judiciary, press. It's a constant onslaught.""Before 2014, there was an assault on institutions but it was subversive. It was not out in the open. But after 2014, it is legitimised. That's why it's an attack on India," he said.Talking about the 'shrinking' space for debate in India's politics, Rahul said, "Congress represents 20 per cent of our population. Other opposition parties together represent much bigger than what PM Modi and his party represent, but there is no room for negotiation, no room for conversation. But as a politician, I require institutional support."On being asked to comment on the status of 'electoral autocracy' given to India by a US-based organisation recently, Rahul said, "We don't need a stamp from them. The situation is much worse than they imagine."Explaining his point, he said electoral democracy can not be separated from the institutional framework. "Election is not only about people going to vote and pressing a button. It is about narrative, it is about institutions that make sure that the framework of the country is working properly. It is about a judiciary being fair...Saddam Hussein and Gaddafi used to have elections. They used to win them. They were actually voting. It's not like that there was no voting but there was no institutional framework to protect that vote."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/my-mic-was-switched-off-in-parliament-rahul-gandhi-on-assault-on-india-101615915872787.html
16-03-2021||India||Opposition MPs highlight digital divide among students during Covid-19 pandemic||Members in Lok Sabha on Tuesday pointed out that the Covid-19 pandemic has exposed serious digital divide in the country with a section of students not having access either to the internet or even medium of learning aids like tablets and smartphones.Taking part in a discussion on demands for grants of the education ministry, Congress member Shashi Tharoor said as classes shifted online, not only were teachers, who are underpaid, as they were ill-equipped to handle such a significant change and the experience only demonstrated that online learning in its current form is exclusionary and discriminatory."It should be a matter of great shame for us and even in my own state of Kerala, which is supposed to be an education beacon for the country, we had incidents like that of the death of a school topper, a class 10 student who hailed from a Dalit family in dire economic conditions."When classes were shifted online, her father was a daily wager and he had no wages coming in during the pandemic and the lockdown. They were unable to give her a smartphone to follow online classes," Tharoor said.He also pointed out the case of a Lady Shri Ram College student in Delhi who apparently died by suicide as she did not have resources to buy a laptop."She felt she did not wanted to be a financial burden for the family. These are crucial issues. I am sure that the finance ministry will be listening. These two young women were not just bright sparks in their own right but in many ways, represent the future of our country."A future in their cases was destroyed by the inability to provide sufficient safeguards against the disturbances causes by online classes," he said.Tharoor stressed the need both in the new National Education Policy (NEP) and any other government schemes to do better to rise to the challenge of this digital divide.Highlighting the issues faced by students in his constituency, NCP leader Fazil Mohammed said internet connectivity in the Lakshadweep archipelago was very feeble when students took online classes. He said there were many who were deprived of tablets, smartphones and laptops.Shiv Sena MP Arvind Sawant said while learning moved from classroom to homes, many had issues with the internet, power connections and non-availability of essential learning aids like phones, laptops and tablets.Congress MP Santokh Singh Chaudhary said due to the pandemic, digital education has been introduced but children of poor people like rickshaw pullers and labourers do not have laptops and computers.Apna Dal leader Anupriya Patel suggested that the government should ensure that every child in rural areas have access to smartphone so that their education is not impacted.YSRCP MP Sri Krishna Devarayalu Lavu said that the reduction in education budget is "very worrying" and suggested that all efforts should be made by the government to bridge the digital divide in education.BSP leader Danish Ali also said the government should look at issues to bridge the digital divide in education while National Conference leader Hasnain Masoodi asked how many students have access to digital education.Today, there is inadequate infrastructure for the education sector, he said, adding that drop out rates today are increasing and enrolment rate is also coming down.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opposition-mps-highlight-digital-divide-among-students-during-covid-19-pandemic-101615914506933.html
16-03-2021||India||Karnataka records over 1,000 new Covid-19 cases, 1st time in 2021 | Key points||Karnataka records over 1,000 new Covid-19 infections, 1st time in 2021 | Key pointsA day after experts warned of a second wave of Covid-19 waiting to strike Karnataka, the state on Tuesday recorded 1,135 new Covid-19 infections for the first time in 2021. The last time the state had cases over 1,000 was in December — 1,005 fresh cases were recorded on December 24.Given the overall surge of new infections across the country, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will meet the chief ministers/heads of all states/UTs.Here is all you need to know about Karnataka's Covid-19 surge> After Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Karnataka is the fourth state that is contributing the highest to India's daily Covid-19 caseload.> According to the Union health ministry's bulletin on Tuesday, Karnataka contributed 3.97 per cent to India's active caseload.> Bengaluru Urban is reporting the maximum number of fresh infections in the state. On Tuesday, 710 new cases were reported from Bengaluru Urban alone.> Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa recently chaired a meeting with senior officials and members of the Covid-19 technical advisory committee. Experts in that meeting opined that the surge is an indication of a second wave.> Positivity rate has increased in Bidar, Kalaburagi, Bengaluru Urban, Bengaluru Rural, Udupi Tumakuru and Dakshina Kannada.> The chief minister has also urged people to abide by Covid-19 rules if they do not want a lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-records-over-1-000-new-covid-19-cases-1st-time-in-2021-key-points-101615913541288.html
16-03-2021||India||3 teenagers among 5 killed in Agra as septic tank caves in||Three teenagers and their uncle were among five people who were killed when a septic tank they were digging in Pratap Pura village of Agra district caved in on Tuesday evening, the district magistrate said.The fifth person was a neighbour. “The five deceased were involved in digging of septic tank when mud collapsed into the pit that had been dug. One person died on spot while four others were rushed to Emergency Ward of SN Medical College in Agra but were declared dead on arrival,” said District Magistrate of Agra, Prabhu N Singh. “The deceased were identified as brothers Hari Mohan (17), Anurag (14) and Avinash (16). All three were sons of Surendra Sharma. Their uncle Sonu Sharma (32) tried to save these three but died in the process. Yogesh Baghel (20) living in neighbourhood too died after being caught in the pit,” Singh said.“The pit was being dug in house of Surendra Sharma who lost three of his sons and a brother in incident,” he said.Chief Minister Yogi Aditya Nath has expressed grief over the tragedy and declared relief of ₹2 lakh to next kin of each of the deceased. “After instructions from Chief Minister, compensation of ₹2 lakh is declared to next of kin of each of five deceased. The family of Sonu Sharma is to receive 5 lakhs under Kisan Durghatna Bima Yojna because land exists in his name,” the DM said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-teenagers-among-5-killed-in-agra-as-septic-tank-caves-in-101615913342238.html
16-03-2021||India||PM Modi to visit Bangladesh next week, 1st foreign trip since Covid-19 outbreak||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will make his first foreign visit since the Covid-19 outbreak last year to Bangladesh during March 26-27, highlighting the priority attached by India to the country in its “Neighbourhood First” policy. Modi, who is visiting at the invitation of his Bangladeshi counterpart Sheikh Hasina, will participate in the commemoration of what the external affairs ministry described as “three epochal events” – Mujib Borsho, the birth centenary of Bnagladesh’s father of the nation, Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, 50 years of diplomatic ties, and 50 years of Bangladesh’s war of liberation. The Prime Minister last visited Bangladesh in 2015 though Modi and Hasina have interacted virtually several times during the pandemic. During the visit, Modi will attend the national day programme of Bangladesh on March 26 as the guest of honour. Besides holding bilateral consultations with Hasina, Modi will also hold talks with President Mohammad Abdul Hamid and foreign minister AK Abdul Momen. “The visit of the prime minister to Bangladesh will be the first visit to a foreign country since the outbreak of the Covid pandemic. This highlights the priority India attaches to Bangladesh,” the external affairs ministry said. The two countries have launched several initiatives amid the pandemic to boost connectivity, including a new cross-border bridge over Feni river that was opened earlier this month to make Agartala, the capital of the northeastern state of Tripura, the Indian city closest to an international sea port. Bangladesh is the largest recipient of Indian-made Covid-19 vaccines, having received nine million doses so far, including two million doses provided as a grant in January. External affairs minister S Jaishankar travelled to Dhaka on March 4 to prepare the grounds for Modi’s visit. Jaishankar held talks with Momen and met Hasina, and the two foreign ministers reviewed the overall relationship and India-backed development projects. Connectivity initiatives between the two sides continued despite the pandemic. The two countries conducted the trial run of container cargo through Chattogram port to Agartala, added two new routes to link Tripura to Bangladesh’s waterways, and India provided 10 railway locomotives and began the movement of container and parcel trains last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-visit-bangladesh-next-week-1st-foreign-trip-since-covid-19-outbreak-101615911181976.html
16-03-2021||India||Focus on 6G, quantum computing as India and Finland launch digital partnership||India and Finland on Tuesday launched a digital partnership that will focus on collaboration in developing future ICT (Information and Communications Technology) and mobile technologies, including research and development in 6G, and the use of digital tools to transform education. The partnership was announced during a virtual summit between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Finnish counterpart Sanna Marin.Both leaders pledged to work together on bolstering multilateralism and a rules-based international order, promoting sustainable development and tackling climate change.The two leaders also launched a sustainability partnership involving renewable and clean energy, circular economy, and sustainable mobility, and said green growth is an essential element of bilateral cooperation.Also read: PM Modi to meet CMs tomorrow amid rise in Covid cases - Key pointsFinnish firms such as Nokia are among world leaders in the development of mobile technologies and the digital partnership will see the two sides working together in three key areas – future ICT, with a focus on quantum technologies and computing; future mobile technologies, with a focus on 6G research and development; and future education based on the digital transformation of learning, said a joint statement.“Both Finland and India believe in a rules-based, transparent, humanitarian and democratic global order. We have strong cooperation in areas such as technology, innovation, clean energy, environment and education. In the post-Covid period, all these sectors will be very important for global economic recovery,” Modi said in his opening remarks at the summit, speaking in Hindi.Marin called for cooperation in post-pandemic recovery, achieving a rules-based international system, and tackling climate change. “Finland and India are natural partners in the field of new technologies. Mobile technology revolutions such as 3G, 4G and 5G were sparked partially with Finnish know-how and digitalisation is a great opportunity for us,” she said.The Indian Institute of Science Education and Research at Pune and Finland’s Aalto University are already working on jointly developing a quantum computer with the use of artificial intelligence and 5G technology is an important area of collaboration, said Neeta Bhushan, joint secretary (Central Europe), external affairs ministry.“Nokia is working in rural areas for expansion of 5G applications, and Wipro and Tech Mahindra are working with Finnish firms for expansion of 5G and evolution of 6G,” she told a news briefing after the summit.During the virtual summit, which lasted about an hour, the two prime ministers also unveiled a high-level dialogue between the education ministries of both sides and looked forward to the renewal of a memorandum of understanding between a consortium of 10 Finnish universities and 23 IITs for cooperation in higher education.The two leaders also discussed global efforts to speed up development and scaling up of manufacturing of Covid-19 vaccines and the need to promote equitable access to all countries, Bhushan said. They also discussed cooperation at the WTO and backed an open, inclusive and rules-based multilateral trading system. The situation in Myanmar following the February 1 military coup also figured in the discussions.“Both prime ministers expressed concern over recent developments in Myanmar and mentioned that rule of law must be upheld. As a country that shares land and maritime borders with Myanmar, we have the highest stakes in peace and stability in the country. We have traditionally strong cultural, religious and people-to-people ties with Myanmar and the safety of the people remains our top priority,” Bhushan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/focus-on-6g-quantum-computing-as-india-and-finland-launch-digital-partnership-101615911062193.html
16-03-2021||India||Pakistani intruder shot dead in Ramgarh in J-K’s Samba district||The Border Security Force (BSF) shot dead a Pakistani intruder in Ramgarh sub sector along the Indo-Pak international border in Samba district on Jammu and Kashmir on Tuesday evening, an official said. “After the intruder repeatedly ignored warnings by the BSF, he was shot dead near Malluchak post of the BSF in Ramgarh sub sector,” the official said on condition of anonymity. A sum of ₹200 in Pakistani currency was found in possession of the intruder.It was not immediately known if the man was armed or not.His body has been shifted to community health centre in Ramgarh. In another development, an aeroplane shaped balloon with ‘PIA’ written on it was recovered by Jammu and Kashmir Police in the Bhalwal area on the outskirts of Jammu district on Tuesday, officials said. Pakistan International Airlines (PIA) is the national airliner of Pakistan. An investigation has been initiated, said the officials. Earlier on March 10, a similar balloon was recovered by the police from Sotra Chak village of Hiranagar sector in Kathua district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistani-intruder-shot-dead-in-ramgarh-in-j-k-s-samba-district-101615909501288.html
16-03-2021||India||3 new Covid-19 variants reported in India: Government||Three new variants of Covid-19, from the UK, South Africa and Brazil, have been reported so far in India, Minister of State for Health Ashwini Choubey told the Rajya Sabha on Tuesday.As on March 4, 2021, a total 242 samples have tested positive for different variants in India, Choubey said in a written reply to a Rajya Sabha query regarding the total number of people who have been infected with the new strains.On whether the people who have been infected once could get re-infected by the new virus strain,Choubey said as per World Health Organization, in the three countries where the pandemic is being driven by the variant mutants of SARS-CoV-2 virus, namely United Kingdom, South Africa and Brazil, the South African and Brazilian variants have the potential to reinfect persons who have been previously infected with SARS-CoV-2.Recognizing that the mutant variants of SARS-CoV-2 are driving the pandemic in countries of their origin, namely United Kingdom, South Africa and Brazil, Government of India has revised its guidelines for international travel to minimize the risk of importation and further spread of these mutant variants in India, he said.A genomic consortium of 10 regional laboratories with National Center for Disease Control as the apex laboratory has been established to perform genomic sequencing of the samples from positive travellers and 5 per cent of the positive test samples from the community.Such international travellers who test positive are kept in special isolation ward, till such time they test negative. The contacts of such cases are also kept under institutional quarantine, till such time they test negative."No case of re-infection by mutant variants of SARS-CoV-2 virus has been reported from India so far," the minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-new-covid-19-variants-reported-in-india-government-101615908559722.html
16-03-2021||India||News updates from HT: JP Nadda's jab at Mamata Banerjee over Batla House case and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.'When are you quitting politics?': Nadda’s jab on Mamata over Batla House caseBharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president JP Nadda on Tuesday asked West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee when she will be quiting politics as she had earlier said that she would quit politics if the Batla House encounter is proved to be true. Read more'One of the harshest things I have ever seen': Former cricketers express surprise at Suryakumar Yadav's omissionYou’ve got to feel for Suryakumar Yadav. After finally getting to make his India debut in the second T20I against England on Sunday, the batsman was left out of the Playing XI for the third match of the series. Read moreVicky Kaushal on the impact fame has had on his personal life: 'Inauthentic things are written'Actor Vicky Kushal has opened up about the impact fame and stardom have had on his personal life. The actor revealed that fame has changed him in more ways than one. Read moreGiant snake tries to attack zookeeper in video that may leave you shudderingVideos of zoo keepers and snake handlers dealing with scary animals like it’s no big deal are usually incredible to watch. This video, however, may leave you shuddering. Read more‘Hindutva isn’t Hindi’: Tejasvi Surya slams DMK, says BJP promotes all languagesBJP MP Tejasvi Surya lashed out at the DMK while defending the National Education policy in Lok Sabha. Tejasvi Surya said that ‘Hindutva is not Hindi’ and added that no other government has made such effort to promote regional languages. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-jp-nadda-s-jab-at-mamata-banerjee-over-batla-house-case-and-all-the-latest-news-101615907008071.html
16-03-2021||India||Pollution in trans-boundary rivers in India-Bangladesh talks on water-sharing||Top officials of the water resources ministries of India and Bangladesh met here on Tuesday to discuss issues related to river water-sharing and flood forecasting and to enhance cooperation on controlling pollution in trans-boundary water bodies, sources said.The Indian delegation was headed by Jal Shakti Ministry secretary Pankaj Kumar, while senior secretary Kabir Bin Anwar led the Bangladeshi side.The meeting took place ahead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's visit to Bangladesh later this month.Sources said the two sides discussed sharing of waters of the Manu, Muhuri, Khowai, Gumti, Dudhkumar and Dharla rivers.Discussions also took place to further cooperation in the area of flood forecasting, they added. It included talks on cooperation over flood forecasting of the Atrai, Punarbhaba and Tangon rivers that enter India from Bangladesh.A system of transmission of flood forecasting data on major rivers like the Ganga, Teesta, Brahmaputra and the Barak during the monsoon season from India to Bangladesh already exists."Discussions also took place on controlling pollution of trans-boundary rivers. On its part, Bangladesh pointed out the issue of pollution in Akhaura canal," a source added.The Akhura canal takes waste from Agartala city and flows into Bangladesh, sources said.They added that discussions also took place on drawing of water from the Feni river for Sabroom town in Tripura.India and Bangladesh have a robust mechanism in place to address water issues at different levels. An Indo-Bangladesh Joint Rivers Commission (JRC) is functioning since 1972. It was established with a view to maintain liaison in order to ensure the most effective joint effort in maximising the benefits from common river systems.This enables meetings at the levels of ministers, secretaries and technical experts.The next meeting will take place in Dhaka, sources added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pollution-in-trans-boundary-rivers-in-india-bangladesh-talks-on-watersharing-101615907390644.html
16-03-2021||India||Maharashtra Covid-19 'second wave': What state ministers have said on lockdown||The report on the rise of Maharashtra Covid-19 prepared by a central team has highlighted serious lapses in testing, tracking and isolating cases. Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan has written to the state asking it to plan for a "worst-case scenario with sufficient lead time". Several districts have imposed night curfews, lockdown as a measure against the rapid spread of the infection after it appeared to have receded in December-January.The state government is not in favour of imposing a lockdown. But it has not stopped district authorities from taking necessary action to contain the spread, as and when required.Several ministers, including Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, have debated on the scope of a second lockdown in the state in the past few weeks.Here is what ministers have saidChief Minister Uddhav ThackerayUddhav Thackeray has reiterated that he is not in favour of lockdown, but he also dropped hints that in some areas of the state, strict lockdown might be imposed because of 'majboori'. While the decision in this regard remains pending, the chief minister last week believed to have given hotels and restaurants the last waring. "Do not force us to impose a strict lockdown. Consider this as the last warning. Follow all the rules. Everyone has to realise there is a difference between self-discipline and restrictions," Thackeray said.Health minister Rajesh TopeMaharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope on Monday said lockdown is not an answer to the rising Covid-19 cases. "Lockdown is not an option but restrictions will be made more strict," Tope said.Mumbai guardian minister Aslam ShaikhTalking specifically about Mumbai, guardian minister Aslam Shaikh said in the second week of March that night curfew, shutting down of sea beaches, night clubs and other crowded places in Mumbai can't be ruled out.Relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay WadettiwarIn February, the minister said that the government was considering imposing restrictions on local train timing. “We will not completely restrict the general public from commuting on the train, but will reschedule the timings,” he said. Mumbai locals resumed services for the general public from February 1 and the cases started skyrocketing since the middle of the month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-covid-19-second-wave-what-state-ministers-have-said-on-lockdown-101615906470411.html
16-03-2021||India||Covid-19 cases showing upward trajectory after February 2, 2021: Government||After peak of the epi-curve was witnessed in mid-September 2020, Covid-19 cases continued to decline till February 2, 2021, after which the trajectory showed an upward trend, Minister of State for Health Ashwini Choubey told the Rajya Sabha on Tuesday.In a written reply, Choubey said an epidemiological comparison is always made for the corresponding period of previous years. Since the pandemic was only evolving in the first quarter of 2020 and that there were stringent point of entry measures, lockdown imposed by Government of India etc, the first quarter of 2021 has more cases compared to the same period of 2020, he said. "Government of India is actively monitoring the resurgence of Covid-19 cases after a sustained decline that was witnessed since mid-September 2020," Choubey said.On the measures taken to combat the reported second spike of Covid-19 all over India, Choubey said any surge in cases reported and the need for institutionalizing necessary public health measures is taken up with the states concerned through formal communication, video conferences and the deployment of central team. States have been advised to put in place stringent containment measures, on a mission mode, in coordination with all stakeholders, upscale surveillance, contact tracing and testing, further intensify IEC campaign to ensure adherence to Covid appropriate behaviour, ensure adequate hospital infrastructure, focus on minimising mortality by ensuring timely referral and appropriate clinical management, and increase the pace of Covid-19 vaccination, he said.Recognizing that the mutant variants of SARS-CoV-2 are driving the pandemic in countries of their origin, namely the United Kingdom, South Africa and Brazil, Government of India has revised its guidelines for international travel to minimize the risk of importation and further spread of these mutant variants in India. A genomic consortium of 10 regional laboratories with the National Center for Disease Control as the apex laboratory has been established to perform genomic sequencing of the samples from positive travellers and 5 per cent of the positive test samples from the community. Such international travellers who test positive are kept in a special isolation ward, till such time they test negative. The contacts of such cases are also kept under institutional quarantine, till such time they test negative, he said. Government of India adopted a proactive, pre-emptive and graded response to deal with the unprecedented global crisis of Covid-19 pandemic and issued various guidelines to contain its spread in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-cases-showing-upward-trajectory-after-february-2-2021-government-101615904935646.html
16-03-2021||India||Parliamentary panel expresses concerns over vacancies in high courts||A parliamentary panel on Tuesday expressed concerns over rising vacancies in high courts and strongly recommended that vacant posts of judges be filled up immediately."The committee is of the view that justice delivery system in the country is moving towards a stage where both vacancy positions of judges and pendency of cases are increasing year after year, and this state of affairs may erode the trust of public on the justice delivery system," the department-related standing committee on law and personnel said in its report on demands for grants for the law ministry.It was tabled in Parliament on Tuesday.The committee said there are still a large number of vacancies of judges in the high courts, and it "strongly recommends" that the vacant positions be filled up immediately.Vacancies arising in the future should be filled strictly as per the extant guidelines, it added.The committee also suggested the Department of Justice in the law ministry to request all stakeholders, including high court collegiums, to expedite the process of initiation of recommendations so that appointments are not delayed.According to the Department of Justice website, as on March 1, there are 419 vacancies in 25 high courts. While the approved strength of judges is 1,080, the working strength is 661.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliamentary-panel-expresses-concerns-over-vacancies-in-high-courts-101615905880704.html
16-03-2021||India||Mumbai's daily Covid-19 case tally nears 2k-mark, Maharashtra sees 17,864 cases||A day after Mumbai's daily infection tally dropped to 1,712, the city on Tuesday again recorded as many cases as 1,922 — the second-highest single-day spike of the year. According to the bulletin of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), 246 buildings in the city are sealed as there are more than five positive cases in these buildings, while 34 areas have been identified as containment zones. On March 14, the city recorded its highest spike of the year with 1,963 fresh infections.The BMC has asked schools under its jurisdiction to switch to online classes from March 17.Maharashtra on Tuesday recorded a spike of 17,864 fresh Civid-19 infection, which is an increase of over 2,000 cases recorded on Monday when the state reported 15,051 new cases. The state reported 87 new deaths in the last 24 hours, taking the overall toll to 52,996.The Nagpur district added 2,587 fresh infections in the last 24 hours after a strict lockdown was imposed in the district on March 15.The central team which probed into the sudden spike of Maharashtra cases has, in its report, pointed out massive laxity in tracking and testing of cases. Based on the report, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan wrote a letter to the state, asking it to plan for "a worst-case scenario with sufficient lead time".#CoronavirusUpdates16-Mar, 6:00pm#NaToCorona pic.twitter.com/sDuzcTYl2RAs several districts of Maharashtra are already under restrictions and the state government is balking at imposing statewide restrictions, cinema halls, hotels, restaurants have been given a warning. Seating arrangement in theatres, hotels has again been capped at 50 per cent of the total capacity.Despite this continuous spike in the number of cases, instances of social distancing rules being flouted abound in Mumbai and elsewhere. For example, a massive crowd was reported in Mumbai's Dadar market on Tuesday. On the first day of the week-long lockdown in Nagpur , hundreds were fined for violating social distancing norms.The central team found similar instances and observed that the administration did not trace the high-risk contacts of one infected person with due diligence which resulted in the sudden surge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbais-daily-covid-19-case-tally-nears-2-000-mark-246-buildings-sealed-101615903485211.html
16-03-2021||India||Parliament passes bill to raise upper limit for abortions to 24 weeks in special cases||Rajya Sabha on Tuesday passed a bill to raise the upper limit for permitting abortions from the present 20 weeks to 24 weeks for "special categories of women" including rape survivors, victims of incest, minors and the differently-abled.The Medical Termination of Pregnancy (Amendment) Bill, 2020 to amend the Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act, 1971 was passed by voice vote. The bill was passed by Lok Sabha about a year ago.A demand to send the bill to a select committee of Rajya Sabha was defeated by voice vote, along with some other amendments proposed by members."The bill as amended is passed," Rajya Sabha deputy chairman Harivansh Narayan Singh said.Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said the amendments in the bill have been made after studying global practices and wide consultation within the country."Under the leadership of the Prime Minister Narendra Modi, we will not frame any law which harms women. This is to preserve and protect dignity of women," he said.The minister said the suggestions and objections made to the bill by some members were symbolic in nature and aligned with their party ideology.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-passes-bill-to-raise-upper-limit-for-abortions-to-24-weeks-in-special-cases-101615904183709.html
16-03-2021||India||Parliamentary panel asks Centre to explore feasibility of amending Lokpal Act||A parliamentary committee on Tuesday asked the government to explore the feasibility of amending relevant laws so as to confer powers on the Lokpal to reconsider and review its orders.The Lokpal has informed the committee that it received requests for reconsideration of its orders, but the same were not considered as it does not have statutory powers to review an order passed by it, the panel said.Further, the Lokpal has also apprised the committee that it has requested the Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT) to take necessary action to amend the Lokpal and Lokayuktas Act at an appropriate stage for including the power to review the orders passed by it, the panel said in a report tabled in Parliament on Tuesday."The Committee recommends DoPT to explore the feasibility of amending the Lokpal and Lokayuktas Act so as to confer on Lokpal the Power to reconsider and review its orders. The Committee recommends DoPT to apprise its views on the proposed amendment in three months," the report said.The recommendation was made by the Department-Related Parliamentary Standing Committee on Personnel, Public Grievances, Law and Justice in its 106th report on Demands for Grants (2021-22) of the Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions.A committee comprising three Lokpal members -- Justice Abhilasha Kumari, D K Jain and I P Gautam -- was constituted to look into the aspect of recommending a policy regarding requests for a review of an order passed by the bench.The committee, which was formed by Lokpal chairperson Justice Pinaki Chandra Ghose, submitted its report on October 6, 2020.In its report, the committee had said that the central government may be requested to consider the inclusion of power of review in the Lokpal and Lokayuktas Act.The institution of Lokpal and Lokayuktas has been established under the Lokpal and Lokayuktas Act, 2013 to inquire into allegations of corruption against certain public functionaries.The three-member committee, in its report, had said that it is a settled position of law that the power of review cannot be exercised by a statutory body unless the statute specifically confers such power."The Act, as it stands, does not confer the power of review. In the absence of any statutory provision in the Act empowering the Lokpal of India to entertain an application for review, any such exercise under the garb of reconsideration/ clarification/ modification/correction of the order, would not be permissible in law,” it had said.The jurisdiction of review can only be derived from the statute and thus, if any order of review is passed, in the absence of any statutory provision empowering the same, it would be a nullity, being without jurisdiction, the panel had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliamentary-panel-asks-centre-to-explore-feasibility-of-amending-lokpal-act-101615903078674.html
16-03-2021||India||By-polls to 2 Lok Sabha seats, 14 assembly seats across various states on April 17||The Election Commission of India (ECI) on Tuesday announced that the by-elections for the Tirupati parliamentary constituency in Andhra Pradesh and Belgaum in Karnataka would be conducted on April 17, 2021. The by-elections for 14 assembly constituencies in various states would also be conducted on the same date.The 14 legislative assembly constituencies are Sahara, Sujangarh and Rajsamand in Rajasthan, Basavakalyan and Maski in Karnataka, Morva Hadaf in Gujarat, Jharkhand’s Madhupur, Damoh in Madhya Pradesh, Pandharpur in Maharashtra, Serchhip in Mizoram, Noksen in Nagaland, Pipili in Odisha, Salt in Uttarakhand and Nagarjuna Sagar in Telangana.Also read | BJP to contest by-polls to Tirupati Lok Sabha seat, Jana Sena drops outOf these, the Tirupati Lok Sabha constituency and the Sujangarh assembly constituency are reserved seats for scheduled castes. Also, Noksen, Serchhip, Maski and Morva Hadaf assembly constituencies are reserved for the scheduled tribes.According to the announcement, the last date for filing nominations for all the by-polls is March 30, 2021, while the counting of votes would be done on May 2, 2021. The ECI also said that the dates have been finalised “after taking into consideration various factors like local festivals, electoral rolls, weather conditions, movement of forces, pandemic etc.,” in its statement announcing the dates.Balli Durga Prasad of the YSR Congress party and Suresh Angadi of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) won from the Tirupati and Belgaum seats, respectively, in the 2019 parliamentary elections. However, in September 2020, both the MPs died of the Covid-19 disease leaving their seats vacant.Also read | Tamil Nadu assembly polls: Which way will Dravidian politics swing in 2021?Earlier on March 12, Minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan announced that a BJP candidate backed by the Jana Sena Party would contest in the Tirupati by-poll, after meeting with Jana Sena Party leader and actor turned politician Pawan Kalyan. “@BJP4India's victory march will begin from TPTY. @BJP4Andhra & @JanaSenaParty will expose the shady designs of @YSRCParty & @JaiTDP that undermine the beliefs of devotees. These satraps self-serving & partisan approach deprived people of TPTY. Time to put an end to such trends,” Muraleedharan tweeted. However, the BJP is yet to announce its candidate for the Belgaum seat, which has been a stronghold of the party.(With inputs from Srinivasa Rao Apparasu and Sharan Poovanna)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bypolls-to-2-lok-sabha-seats-14-assembly-seats-across-various-states-on-april-17-101615902152730.html
16-03-2021||India||No conclusive data shows direct correlation of death from air pollution: Govt||There is no conclusive data available to establish a direct correlation of death and disease exclusively due to air pollution, Minister of State for Health Ashwini Choubey told the Rajya Sabha on Tuesday.He was responding to a question on whether the government has undertaken any study about the ill effects caused by pollution on asthma patients, lungs of children and pregnant women in the country during the last three months of year 2019.In a written reply, Choubey said air pollution is one of the many factors affecting respiratory ailments and associated diseases. Health is impacted by a number of factors which includes food habits, occupational habits, socio-economic status, medical history, immunity, heredity of the individuals apart from the environment, he said. "There is no conclusive data available to establish a direct correlation of death/disease exclusively due to air pollution," he said.The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) under the Ministry of Health along with Public Health Foundation of India (PHFI) and Institute of Health Metrics and Evaluation (IHME) has conducted the study 'India State-level Disease Burden Initiative'. The report, titled 'India: Health of the Nation's States- The India State-Level Disease Burden Initiative' was published in 2017. "The study report provided the distribution of diseases and risk factors across all states of the country from 1990 to 2016. The five leading risk factors for Disability-Adjusted Life Years (DALYs) in 2016 includes child and maternal malnutrition, air pollution, dietary risks, high systolic blood pressure, and high fasting plasma glucose. "The study reported that the DALYs due to air pollution decreased by 23.6% in India from 1990 to 2016," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-conclusive-data-shows-direct-correlation-of-death-from-air-pollution-govt-101615902049111.html
16-03-2021||India||Ambani security scare: NIA searches Vaze's office at crime branch||The NIA which is probing the case related to the recovery of an SUV with explosives near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's house has searched the Crime Intelligence Unit's (CIU) office here, a police official said on Tuesday.It is also questioning a police official attached to the CIU, he said.Suspended police official Sachin Vaze, arrested in the case on March 13, was attached to the CIU of city police's crime branch. The office is located in the police commissioner's office compound in south Mumbai.The National Investigation Agency team recovered some "incriminating" documents and electronic evidence such as laptop, I-pad and mobile phones from Vaze's office there, the official said.The searches started around 8 pm on Monday and were going on till 4 am on Tuesday, he said.The NIA has so far recorded statements of seven officials of Crime Branch including an Assistant Commissioner of Police, the official said.The agency also questioned, on the third consecutive day, CIU unit Assistant Police Inspector (API) Riyazuddin Kazi, he added.Kazi had collected Digital Video Record (DVR) of CCTVs from the housing society in Saket area of Thane where Vaze lived on February 27, two days after the explosives-laden Scorpio was found on Carmichael Road near Ambani's house.The DVR was not mentioned in the list of Muddemal' (seized evidence), and the probe agency suspects that it was collected to destroy evidence which could implicate Vaze himself, the official said.The wife of businessman Mansukh Hiran, who had claimed the Scorpio was stolen from his possession and who died mysteriously, has alleged that the SUV was being used by Vaze for some time.API Kazi had also allegedly procured fake number plates found in the SUV, the police official claimed.His presence at many places related to the crime brought him on the NIA's radar and his questioning was underway, the official said.The person seen in the CCTV footage of Carmichael Road on February 25 was also the "police official" involved in the crime and it will be further ascertained by forensic analysis, the official added.The Innova car used in the crime was assigned to a CIU unit and was found with Motor Transport section of Mumbai police the day after Vaze's arrest on March 13. It was parked in the MT section for two days and before that at the police commissioner's office compound, the official said.The SUV case was taken over by the NIA following Mansukh Hiran's death. A special court has remanded Vaze in the custody of the central agency till March 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ambani-security-scare-nia-searches-vaze-s-office-at-crime-branch-101615901674136.html
16-03-2021||India||SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal tests positive for Covid-19||Punjab's Shiromani Akali Dal president, Sukhbir Singh Badal tested positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Tuesday, the senior opposition leader announced on Twitter. Badal said he has isolated himself according to government-mandated protocol."I would like to inform everyone that I have tested Covid positive. My health is fine and as per protocol, I have isolated myself. I request those who came in contact with me during the last few days to isolate themselves & get tested for Covid - 19," Badal wrote on the micro-blogging site.Badal is the second senior Punjab politician to have tested positive over the last week. In a tweet on Friday, Punjab finance minister Manpreet Badal had announced on Twitter that he had tested negative before the Punjab assembly session but appeared to have contracted the infection subsequently.On March 15, the SAD chief addressed a rally in Jalalabad town in the Fazilka district and launched a political programme "Punjab Mangda Jawab". During the rally, Badal announced that he will contest the forthcoming state elections from the Jalalabad constituency. It was the first major political programme after Punjab witnessed a surge in Covid-19 cases.During the event, people were seen flouting pandemic norms as hardly any leader or people in the audience were seen wearing a face mask. Social distancing rules were also seen flouted during the event.In August last year, Badal's residence at Badal village was declared a macro containment zone after a large number of his security officials and personal staff tested positive for the Covid-19. Badal, his wife Harsimrat Kaur Badal, their daughter Gurleen Kaur and son Anantveer Singh had tested negative.Punjab is one of the six states that are accounting for 78.41 per cent of the new cases in India, the other five being Delhi, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Gujarat and Tamil Nadu. India's cumulative Covid-19 tally on Tuesday was pushed above 11,409,800 after 24,492 people tested positive for Covid-19 in the last 24 hours. The death toll was increased to 158,856 after 131 people succumbed to the disease in the last 24 hours. The country's total active caseload has reached 2,19,262 comprising 1.93 per cent of the total infections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sad-chief-sukhbir-singh-badal-test-positive-for-covid19-101615897251111.html
16-03-2021||India||Simultaneous elections will reduce voters apathy of frequent polls: Parl panel||Batting for holding of simultaneous elections in the country, a parliamentary committee on Tuesday said this will reduce the burden on the exchequer, expenditure of political parties and also ensure that human resources are optimally utilised."The committee also believes that simultaneous elections will reduce voters apathy of frequent elections and will enthuse general population and voters in particular which will ultimately enhance voters participation in the electoral process," the department-related standing committee on law and justice, and personnel ministries said in its report on demands for grants for the law ministry.The report was tabled in both Houses on Tuesday.The committee said it is of the view that the idea of 'One Nation, One Election' or simultaneous elections is not new to the country as the first three Lok Sabha elections in 1952, 1957 and 1962 were held simultaneously only and it can be brought into the mainstream with suitable amendments to the Constitution."In view of this, certain provisions of the Constitution may be amended to have fixed terms for local bodies, legislative assemblies and the Lok Sabha for holding simultaneous elections. The terms of legislative assemblies and Lok Sabha are also required to be synchronised with one another and the mechanism in this regard requires to be evolved with political consensus as the term of the respective state assemblies need to be reduced or increased," the report said.It said having continuous elections around the year whether it is for local bodies, state assemblies or Lok Sabha, put a big strain on the state machinery which further causes hurdles in governance."Our country remains in election mode throughout the year," the report observed.The first, second and third elections after promulgation of the Constitution were held simultaneously. However, premature dissolution of some legislative assemblies in 1968 and 1969 caused discontinuation of holding simultaneous elections, it noted."The renewed emphasis on the concept of simultaneous elections was made in 1983 when the Election Commission brought out its first annual report and recommended for holding simultaneous elections for Lok Sabha and state legislative assemblies as it will reduce expenditure and ensure effective use of manpower and human resources," the report noted.The then Law Commission headed by Justice B P Jeevan Reddi in its 170th Report in 1999 on Reform of Electoral Laws also favoured holding of simultaneous elections to Lok Sabha and state legislative assemblies as it will ensure stability in governance, the panel said.A couple of years ago, the Law Commission, this time under Justice B S Chauhan (retd), had recommended holding simultaneous elections to Lok Sabha and state assemblies to save public money.The draft submitted to the law ministry had, however, cautioned that holding simultaneous elections is not possible within the existing framework of the Constitution.It had recommended amendment to the Constitution and electoral laws.The Centre has been toying with the idea for quite some time now. The government think-tank, NITI Aayog, had suggested synchronised two-phase Lok Sabha and assembly polls from 2024 to ensure minimum campaign-mode disruption to governance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/simultaneous-elections-will-reduce-voters-apathy-of-frequent-polls-parl-panel-101615897458937.html
16-03-2021||India||TN chief secretary asks officials to 'strictly implement' Covid-19 SOPs as cases surge||With a surge in fresh Covid-19 cases of late, Tamil Nadu Chief Secretary Rajeev Ranjan on Tuesday instructed various government department officials to ensure that Covid-19 standard operating procedures were strictly implemented.At a review meeting, the chief secretary also instructed officials to fine those violating the guidelines.An official release said the spread of virus has been increasing once again in various states including Maharashtra, Kerala, Karnataka, Gujarat, New Delhi and Punjab. The release said though Tamil Nadu was able to bring down daily fresh cases below the 500 mark in January and February, since March it has witnessed an upward trend, registering over 800 new infections a day.The Covid-19 virus positivity rate has increased to two per cent in places like Chennai and Coimbatore while in districts like Chengalpet, Thiruvallur, Tiruppur,Kancheepuram, Thanjavur and Nagapattinam it is over one per cent.Noting that the active cases, which was below 4,000 cases in the first week of March, has also increased, the release said the meeting discussed steps to be taken to control the virus spread.A major reason for the the rise in new cases was attributed to the non-wearing of masks by members of the public and not following the Covid-19 protocol while taking part in functions, the release said.People who were either 'asymptomatic' or with 'mild' symptoms were not following the home quarantine norms, thereby spreading it to other members of the family.New cases have been reported in places like banks and other financial and educational institutions which have not adhered to the protocol laid down by the government, the release said.Ranjan asked officials to ensure that the norms were strictly followed and also collect fines from those individuals who violate the regulations.Proper sanitation should also be done at places like offices, companies and industries and where people throng in large numbers like public water taps and at public toilets.An officer may be nominated to monitor places which has cluster formation of the virus besides stepping up the number of fever camps, he said.Adequate steps should be taken to ensure eligible individuals receive their vaccine shots.Patients who are in home quarantine should be monitored regularly similar to the practice followed last year, while departments concerned must give approval with the condition that the protocol should be strictly followed to hold any election campaign or religious and cultural events.District collectors and Greater Chennai Corporation Commissioner should strive to ensure that the virus sread is curtailed to ensure smooth conduct of election related works.People should wear masks and maintain social distancing while going out and sanitise their hands regularly. If they have any virus symptoms, they should visit the nearest government hospital, the release added. Officials of revenue department, health and family welfare, Greater Chennai Corporation, DGP, district collectors and Greater Chennai police commissioner, among others, took part in the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tn-chief-secretary-asks-officials-to-strictly-implement-covid-19-sops-as-cases-surge-101615896171007.html
16-03-2021||India||Two Chinese nationals caught with ‘fake’ Aadhaar card at Bagdogra airport||Two Chinese nationals, who were allegedly travelling with fake Aadhaar cards, were detained at Bagdogra Airport in West Bengal’s Siliguri on Tuesday morning, police said.The Aadhaar cards had Uttar Pradesh addresses. The two men who were detained by Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) personnel said they were going to Ghaziabad in Uttar Pradesh. Officials did not say which flight they were trying to board. The men were identified as Zhang Jun (39) and Kaileng (42). Officials who checked the travel documents said they had travelled between Karachi from Kathmandu on March 3 and March 14. Kunwar Bhusan Singh, deputy commissioner of police (west), Siliguri, said, “Two Chinese nationals have been detained as there were discrepancies in their documents. We are verifying the documents. After a thorough enquiry we will start a case under relevant sections of the law.” The men reached Kathmandu on March 14. They came to Siliguri on Monday (March 15) where they checked into a hotel. The hotel rooms were reserved in the names of two Nepali nationals who were travelling with them, officials said. The Nepalese nationals, however, left for their country. The CISF handed the Chinese men to the local police. They are being interrogated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-chinese-nationals-caught-with-fake-aadhaar-card-at-bagdogra-airport-101615894192957.html
16-03-2021||India||'His daadi would...': Nirmala Sitharaman slams Rahul's 'spit-and-run technique', mentions Indira Gandhi||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Tuesday criticised Rahul Gandhi for his Twitter two-liners and said this does not behove the leader of the opposition party. Replying to Rahul Gandhi's accusation that the government is privatising profit and nationalising loss, Sitharaman said, "I would want him to engage in serious discussions rather than throw these two-liners every now and then.""Why is he suddenly concerned about loss and profit? Over the decades, his government tried to privatise tax payerss' money. You all know how. This is what the UPA government did, privatising tax payers' money for the betterment of one family," Sitharaman said.Terming Rahul Gandhi's technique as 'spit-and-run', Sitharaman said, "His daadi would have nationalised banks but nationalising of loss in banks took place during the UPA time. And nationalising corruption in what they did."There should be some more intense homework before Rahul Gandhi speaks up, the minister said, adding, "What is this spit-and-run? Stand there and be ready for discussion."Earlier in the day, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi tweeted in solidarity with the bank employees who are observing a two-day nationwide strike under the banner of the United Forum of Bank Unions, protesting the government's policy to privatise lenders. "GOI is privatising profit & nationalising loss. Selling PSBs to Modicronies gravely compromises India’s financial security. I stand in solidarity with the striking bank employees," he tweeted.Assuring that this move is only to ensure that these banks continue contributing to the country's economy, Sitharaman said the interest of the workers will remain fully protected.Referring to Indira Gandhi's decision of nationalising banks in the '70s, Sitharaman said, "Yes, Indira Gandhiji nationalised banks. There was a purpose. I am not getting into whether it was served — fully or partially."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/his-daadi-would-nirmala-sitharaman-slams-rahul-gandhi-s-spit-and-run-mentions-indira-gandhi-101615893267945.html
16-03-2021||India||News updates from HT: India's air quality improved in 2020, says report and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.India's air quality improved in 2020, says reportAir quality improved in India last year as compared to the previous years owing to the coronavirus induced lockdown, a report said on Tuesday. Air quality improved in major cities in India but 22 cities featured among the top 30 most polluted cities in the world, showed new data from IQAir’s global air quality data platform in its World Air Quality Report 2020. Read morePM’s principal adviser, PK Sinha, steps downThe Prime Minister’s principal adviser, PK Sinha, stepped down from his position on Monday. His office confirmed that Sinha had submitted his resignation,but there were no immediate details behind the reason for his exit from the country’s top office. Read moreBank employees' salary, pension will be protected in case of privatisation, says Nirmala SitharamanFinance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Wednesday said the merging of banks or privatisation of financial institutions will not hurt the interest of the employees as these are not rushed decisions and the Centre is committed to taking care of the workers. Read more'It’s Rahul now, could be Ishan or Pant next': Chopra slams KL Rahul's criticsIndian wicketkeeper-batsman KL Rahul has been subjected to heavy criticism after returning with scores of one and zero in the first two T20Is against England, respectively. The right-hander, who occupied the 2nd position in the ICC T20I batsmen's rankings before the start of the series, has now slipped to the third. Read moreCitroen C5 Aircross SUV India launch date revealedCitroen India has announced that it will launch its maiden C5 Aircross SUV in the country on April 7. The pre-bookings on the SUV have already commenced since last month and interested customers can get their car booked for a token amount of ₹50,000 at the company's new La Maison dealership or the official website. Read moreSonu Sood has a witty response for man asking him to sponsor his wedding: 'Mantra bhi padh dunga'Sonu Sood gets hundreds of requests from people across the country to sponsor their medical bills, their education fees, their house rent, among many other things. Read more6-year-old kid’s gesture to calm down his 4-year-old brother is incredibleA video involving two siblings is Twitter’s new love and there is a chance that the clip will win you over too. It shows how a 6-year-old kid helped his 4-year-old brother to calm down and stopped him from throwing a tantrum. Read moreWatch: ‘Mamata accusing BJP for her leg injury out of desperation…’: Rajnath SinghDefence Minister Rajnath Singh said West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s leg injury occurred due to security lapse. Singh said Banerjee in her desperation to win the upcoming Assembly elections in the state is blaming the BJP for her leg injury. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-india-s-air-quality-improved-in-2020-says-report-and-all-the-latest-news-101615891070047.html
16-03-2021||India||Gland Pharma inks pact to supply 252 million doses of Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccine||Drug firm Gland Pharma on Tuesday said it has entered into an agreement with the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) to supply up to 252 million doses of Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccine.The company "will be leveraging its manufacturing capabilities for the production of Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccine," Gland Pharma said in a regulatory filing.The agreement will see the company utilising its Drug Substance and Drug Product facilities at its sites in Hyderabad. The production is expected to commence from the third quarter of 2021 for estimated delivery starting from the fourth quarter of 2021, it added."Under the terms of the agreement, Gland Pharma will first undertake technology transfer of the drug substance to its manufacturing facilities," the filing said.After successful technology transfer, the company will then undertake manufacturing of drug substance and drug product filling into vials under aseptic conditions, it added.The company's expertise in manufacturing sterile injectables at a significant scale will support in establishing a stable supply of Covid-19 vaccine, Gland Pharma said.Earlier in November 2020, Russia's sovereign wealth fund had said in a statement that RDIF and pharma firm Hetero have agreed to produce over 100 million doses per year in India of the Sputnik V vaccine against Covid-19.Pharma major Dr Reddy's Laboratories in February this year had said that it has approached Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) for emergency use authorisation (EUA) for Covid-19 vaccine Sputnik V.Shares of Gland Pharma closed at Rs 2,718.65 per scrip on BSE, up 6.95 per cent from its previous close.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gland-pharma-inks-pact-to-supply-252-million-doses-of-sputnik-v-covid-19-vaccine-101615892937605.html
16-03-2021||India||Guilty in Antilia bomb scare case will be punished, says Ajit Pawar||Under fire from the opposition BJP in the Antilia bomb scare case and the death of Mansukh Hiran, Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said on Tuesday that the state government would not shield anyone involved in the case and the guilty would be punished.The Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government also distanced itself from the controversial police officer Sachin Vaze, who was arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) as Pawar insisted that that the state government took action against Vaze immediately after his name appeared in the case.Pawar’s comments came after a meeting of senior ministers from all three coalition partners — Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress — held by Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray at his official residence, ‘Varsha’ in South Mumbai. “Since the beginning the government took a stand that the investigation should be completed and the guilty will have to face the consequences. No one is going to be shielded and there is no reason to take any such step. I want to make it clear as the deputy chief minister,” Pawar told reporters.“The law and order of Maharashtra has to be the best. Whoever is found guilty will have to face action, irrespective of the party he belongs to. If there is a mistake then action will be initiated… The chief minister and all of us are of the same opinion… No interference was made in the ongoing investigation,” he added.The change in the MVA stand is being seen as an attempt to control the damage done over the past week in the case that has dented the government’s image.“The MVA government took action in the case without any delay and Vaze was removed as soon as his name appeared in the case. The case was also transferred to the anti-terrorism squad (ATS) immediately. NIA came in picture because of explosives found in the car… Now both the investigation agencies — NIA and ATS — are probing the case at their own level,” the deputy chief minister said. Assistant Police Inspector Sachin Vaze was suspended by Mumbai police on Monday following his arrest by the NIA in connection with the recovery of explosives from an SUV parked near billionaire Mukesh Ambani’s residence last month.His brother Sudharm Vazehas filed a habeas corpus petition in the Bombay high court against the arrest, claiming that Vaze was being made a “scapegoat” by “certain political powers”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/guilty-in-antilia-bomb-scare-case-will-be-punished-says-ajit-pawar-101615891615377.html
16-03-2021||India||PM’s principal adviser, PK Sinha, steps down||The Prime Minister’s principal adviser, PK Sinha, stepped down from his position on Monday. His office confirmed that Sinha had submitted his resignation, but there were no immediate details behind the reason for his exit.“He has relinquished charge on March 15,’’ said a top official, not wanting to be named.Another top official said the reason for Sinha’s exit is his health. “He’s having some issues and it was considered that it was better to be away from such a high-pressure job that he is in now. Mr Sinha has been an exemplary officer who is a top performer.”Sinha’s exit is the latest in a series of changes at the top level PMO. In April last year, Tarun Bajaj moved out to join North block as economic affairs secretary. He was later also given charge of the revenue ministry. Another senior officer, AK Sharma, who had been with the Prime Minister since 2001 in Gujarat, moved to the ministry of micro, small and medium enterprises before voluntary retirement in January. Two officials who retired, Bhaskar Khulbe and Amarjeet Sinha, have now been appointed advisers to the Prime Minister.“We can perhaps expect some major changes and fresh blood in the PMO,’’ said another official on the condition of anonymity.Also Read | PM Modi to meet CMs tomorrow amid rise in Covid cases: Key pointsSinha is a former 1977 batch Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer of the Uttar Pradesh cadre. In the first tenure of the Narendra Modi government, he served as the cabinet secretary, taking over from Ajit Seth. Before that, he was secretary in the ministry of power and shipping. When he retired in 2019, a special post was created for him at the Prime Minister’s office (PMO) as Officer on Special Duty.After Nripendra Misra moved out of the PMO, Sinha was appointed the principal adviser. According to a September 2019 order, Sinha oversaw policy issues and matters relating to all ministries, departments, agencies and bodies.There is no official comment from the government on Sinha’s exit so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pms-principal-adviser-pk-sinha-steps-down-101615890532896.html
16-03-2021||India||India surpasses single day record with over 3 million Covid-19 vaccinations in one day||As the world's largest Covid-19 vaccination drive is underway in the country, India has administered a total of 3,29,47,432 vaccinations so far, informed the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare on Tuesday.A total of 30,39,394 vaccine doses were administered during the last 24 hours in the country making it the highest coverage in a single day.More than 1 crore beneficiaries aged over 60 years have been covered in the vaccination drive in just 15 days.A total of 3,29,47,432 vaccine doses have been administered through 5,55,984 sessions, as per the provisional report till 7 am today, the Health Ministry informed."These include 74,46,983 healthcare workers who received their 1st dose, 44,58,616 health care workers who received their 2nd dose, 74,74,406 Front Line Workers (1st dose) and 14,09,332 Front Line Workers (2nd Dose), 18,88,727 beneficiaries aged more than 45 years with specific co-morbidities (1st Dose) and 1,02,69,368 beneficiaries aged more than 60 years," read the statement."As on Day 59 of the vaccination drive on March 15, a total of 30,39,394 vaccine doses were given. Out of which, 26,27,099 beneficiaries were vaccinated across 42,919 sessions for 1st dose (HCWs and FLWs) and 4,12,295 HCWs and FLWs received 2nd dose of the vaccine," said the ministryAccording to the Indian Council of Medical Research, 22,82,80,763 samples have been tested up to March 15, including 8,73,350 samples tested on March 15.As many as 24,492 new Covid-19 cases and 131 deaths were reported in India in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of active cases in the country to 2,23,432, stated the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-surpasses-single-day-record-with-over-3-million-covid-19-vaccinations-in-one-day-101615889649139.html
16-03-2021||India||Gujarat imposes night curfew in 4 cities till March 31 as Covid-19 cases surge||Gujarat extended the night curfew in four major cities of the state by two hours and said it will be in place till the end of this month in an attempt to stop the rising cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The government said in a statement the curfew will now remain in force in Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot between 10pm and 6am from March 17 to March 31. The night curfew was in place in these cities till March 15 but the restrictions on people’s movement were between 12pm to 6am.The government also said that a ‘pre-night curfew’ system will be maintained in these four metros till March 16 from 12pm to 6am. The decision to impose the curfew was taken in the core committee meeting of the state’s coronavirus task force which is headed by chief minister Vijay Rupani. "The state government has decided to impose a curfew from 10 pm to 6 am in view of the increasing cases of coronavirus," the government said in the statement.Under the new rules, markets, restaurants, shops, malls, showrooms will have to shut down after 10pm. This is the sixth extension of the night curfew, which came into force in November last year after a spike in Covid cases in these cities after Diwali.On Monday, the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation also asked eateries, restaurants and malls in eight wards of the city to close down at 10pm. Commercial establishments in the wards of Jodhpur, Navrangpura, Bodakdev, Gota, Paldi, Thaltej, Maninagar, and Ghatlodia will have to follow these new rules.Among the major cities, Surat has been reporting the highest number of Covid-19 cases in the state, followed by Ahmedabad, Vadodara and Rajkot. Gujarat reported 890 new Covid-19 cases on Monday which took the state’s tally to 279,097. The recovery count in the state is at 269,955 and the death toll stands at 4,425.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-imposes-night-curfew-in-4-cities-till-march-31-as-covid-19-cases-surge-101615888595979.html
16-03-2021||India||Congress, government engage in war of words in Lok Sabha over sedition cases||The Congress and the government engaged in a war of words in Lok Sabha on Tuesday over sedition cases with the opposition party alleging the stringent law is being misused, drawing a sharp retort from Union minister G Kishan Reddy who asked it not to lecture others on democracy.During the Question Hour, Congress member from Telangana Anumula Revanth Reddy sought the number of cases registered under the offence of sedition across the country during the last 10 years, the conviction rate and the steps taken for their speedy trial.The focus of his question was on climate activist Disha Ravi who was arrested in the farmer protest toolkit case earlier this year and later granted bail, and cases registered against farmer union leaders after the January 26 violence in the national capital.Reddy, the minister of state in the home ministry, tabled a written response to the question in the House.The minister said 47 cases of sedition were registered in 2014; 30 in 2015; 35 in 2016; 51 in 2017; 70 in 2018 and 93 in 2019."There is no direct involvement of the Centre in sedition cases," the minister said.However, Anumula was not satisfied with the response. He said he had sought details for 10 years but the information was provided only from 2014-2019.Anumala said, "Giving half information is taking the house towards a wrong direction."He added that after 2014, anyone who criticises the government's policy, the person is charged with sedition."In 2019, the conviction rate (for sedition) was 3.3 per cent. This means these are politically motivated cases. If a youth leader is booked for sedition and the cases drags for 4-5 year, he/she is not in a position, they won't get a job, passport, visa. Activists like Disha Ravi are charged, but they are not able to prove anything in the court," Anumala said.He also asked whether there is a proposal to drop the "false charges" against farmer union leaders protesting against the Centre's three farm laws.In response, the minister said the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) data is based on the information received from all the states.Attacking the Congress, the minister said, "The member (Anumala) asked as to why the information was not provided before 2014. In case of sedition cases, when the Congress was in power it did not maintain any separate data on this. They clubbed it with all the IPC crimes," he said.The minister added that after the Modi government took charge, it started presenting a separate data on the sedition charges."...After the rise of social media, after the media awareness...they also give big speeches on democracy. But even after that the cases of sedition are very less," the minister said.Manish Tewari, another Congress member, had questions on similar lines. He said Section 124A of the Indian Penal Code which deals with sedition was being misused and used to suppress freedom of expression.Hitting back, the minister said the Congress need not lecture on misuse as it had used the Maintenance of Internal Security Act (MISA) against opposition leaders such as Jayaprakash Narayan and Atal Bihari Vajpayee.Anumala and Tewari also asked whether the government was planning to narrow the scope of sedition. The minister said a committee on Criminal Law Reforms under the chairmanship of the vice-chancellor, National Law University, Delhi was formed in February 2020.Home Minister Amit Shah has written to the chief ministers of all states, judicial officers, various varsities and law universities, law institutes seeking suggestions on the proposed amendments.After the report is prepared, it will be discussed in Parliament, the minister added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-government-engage-in-war-of-words-in-lok-sabha-over-sedition-cases-101615887886105.html
16-03-2021||India||Privatisation of public sector banks another way to benefit few people: Kharge||Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge on Tuesday alleged that privatisation of public sector banks is another attempt by the government to benefit a few people."Indira Gandhi nationalised 14 banks. It was intended that the poor should get benefits from the bank. But today these banks are merging one by one. The private sector is being admitted into it. This is another attempt to benefit a few people," said Kharge."We always helped the poor. We brought MGNREGA, nationalised banks, carried out land reforms," he added.Congress leader has also given a zero hour notice in the Upper House over the strike and agitation of bank employees against the proposed privatisation."Around 13 lakh employees are associated with the 9 bank unions that are going on strike. There is also a strike on the 18. It is not a good sign for such a large number of workers to go on strike. Around 75 lakh people who are accountable will also be troubled," said Kharge."People are upset with the unilateral policy of the government. When there was an economic crisis in the world, India did not get affected because the national banks were doing great work. They were also giving loans to the poor," he added.United Forum of Bank Union which is an umbrella body of nine bank unions, with over 10 lakh bank employees and officers called a two-day nationwide strike on March 15 and 16, against the privatisation of Public Sector Banks and 'retrograde banking reforms'.The strike came after Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman's Budget announcement where she announced the privatisation of two public sector banks (apart from IDBI Bank) as part of the government's disinvestment drive to generate ₹1.75 lakh crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/privatisation-of-public-sector-banks-another-way-to-benefit-few-people-kharge-101615886777012.html
16-03-2021||India||Pune, Nagpur, Mumbai, Thane have highest active Covid-19 cases, says health ministry||The districts of Pune, Nagpur, Mumbai have over 12,000 active Covid-19 cases each, contributing the maximum to the active caseload tally of the country, which on Tuesday crossed 2.2 lakh. In the last week of February, India's active caseload was below 1.5 lakh.According to Union health ministry data released on Tuesday, 77 per cent of the active Covid-19 cases in India in the last 24 hours came from Maharashtra, Punjab and Haryana. Karnataka, which is also seeing a steady spike in daily Covid-19 infections, contributed 3.97 per cent to active cases, while Tamil Nadu contributes 2.30 per cent.The ministry has given a district-wise break-up of the number of active Covid-19 cases.With 26,468 active Covid-19 cases, Pune tops the chart, followed by Nagpur (18,114), Mumbai (13,309), Thane (12,680) and Nashik (8,035). About 59 per cent of active cases are from Maharashtra. The numbers of active Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra districts portray a sharp spike in a short span of time. According to the health ministry's March 11 data, Pune had 18,474 active cases, while Mumbai had 9,973 and Nagpur had 12,724.Kerala's contribution to India's active cases is 12.24 per cent. The top five districts with the maximum caseload are Ernakulam (3,282), Pathanamthitta (2,564), Kannur (2,483), Thrissur (2,299) and Kozhikode (2,205).In the last few days, Punjab has emerged as a hotspot of Covid-19 infections, with the state reporting over 1,000 infections daily. While the state's contribution to India's active case tally is 5.34 per cent, the worst-hit districts are Jalandhar (1,585), SAS Nagar (1,338), Hoshiarpur (1,301), Patiala (1,201) and SBS Nagar (1,173).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pune-nagpur-mumbai-thane-have-highest-active-covid-19-cases-says-health-ministry-101615887422877.html
16-03-2021||India||RBI strengthening institutional mechanism to prevent bank frauds: FM||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Tuesday informed Parliament that the Reserve Bank of India is taking measures to strengthen its regulatory and supervisory capacity, and expressed hope that these steps will ensure no regulatory mishaps take place in the future."We have been engaging with the RBI to ensure that the regulatory functions and supervisory function of the RBI are strengthened. I am assured by the RBI Governor that internally an institutional mechanism is being further strengthened," Sitharaman said during Question Hour in the Rajya Sabha.She was responding to a query asked by SAD leader Naresh Gujral that if the government is contemplating taking additional steps to strengthen the regulatory regime if banks have to thrive and people to be protected, given the recent banking frauds.The finance minister said the capacity of the RBI's regulatory and supervisory staff is being strengthened with specially tailored courses."I hope this will make a difference in order that no such further regulatory mishaps happen," she said.Responding to another query addressing gaps in bank guarantees, the minister said this aspect will be looked into as the RBI is engaging with the ministry on this matter also.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rbi-strengthening-institutional-mechanism-to-prevent-bank-frauds-fm-101615887634147.html
16-03-2021||India||UK PM Boris Johnson to visit India in April as part of tilt towards Indo-Pacific||British Prime Minister Boris Johnson is set to visit India in April as part of his government’s tilt towards the Indo-Pacific in order to unlock new opportunities in the region, his office announced on Tuesday. London will on Tuesday unveil its widely anticipated integrated review of security, defence, development and foreign policy, which was first announced after the 2019 election in Britain as “the most radical assessment of the UK’s place in the world since the end of the Cold War”. A statement issued by the Prime Minister’s Office in London said the integrated review will set out some shifts in foreign policy, including a “tilt to the Indo-Pacific”, and that Johnson will visit India at the end of April to “unlock opportunities in the region”. This will be Johnson’s first major international visit following Britain’s departure from the European Union (EU). Johnson was earlier set to be the chief guest at the Republic Day celebrations in January, but called off the visit to remain in Britain to focus on the response to a new Coronavirus variant. At the time, the UK had announced that Johnson hoped to visit India in the first half of 2021, and ahead of the UK’s G7 Summit in June that Modi is due to attend as a guest. Also Read | Johnson says UK will become a global activist after BrexitThe British high commissioner to India, Alex Ellis, played a key role in drafting the integrated review in his previous role as deputy national security advisor. The statement described the Indo-Pacific as “increasingly the geopolitical centre of the world”, and noted that aircraft carrier HMS Queen Elizabeth will undertake its first operational deployment to the region this year. The UK is also applying for partner status at the Association of South East Asian Nations (Asean) as part of this foreign policy shift. The deployment of the HMS Queen Elizabeth, the UK’s largest warship, and its strike task group to the Indian Ocean has been described by officials as the country’s “most ambitious deployment for two decades”. The 100-page integrated review, which addresses issues related to national security, foreign policy and the global economy, is meant to implement Johnson’s “Global Britain” agenda. It will also set out his vision for the UK in 2030 and how international policy can be shaped to achieve this. The reset of Britain’s international priorities with a tilt to the Indo-Pacific is also aimed at creating a democratic counterweight to China, The Guardian reported last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uk-pm-boris-johnson-to-visit-india-in-april-as-part-of-tilt-towards-indopacific-101615887893029.html
16-03-2021||India||India’s air quality improved in 2020 amid coronavirus pandemic: Report||Air quality improved in India last year as compared to the previous years owing to the coronavirus induced lockdown, a report said on Tuesday. Air quality improved in major cities in India but 22 cities featured among the top 30 most polluted cities in the world, showed new data from IQAir’s global air quality data platform in its World Air Quality Report 2020."The year 2020 brought an unexpected dip in air pollution. In 2021, we will likely see an increase in air pollution due to human activity, again. We hope this report will highlight that urgent action is both possible and necessary to combat air pollution, which remains the world's greatest environmental health threat," said Frank Hammes, CEO of IQAir.Read more: Air pollution caused 12,000 deaths, ₹12,000 crore loss in Bengaluru: ReportThe report is based on PM2.5 data from 106 countries and uses ground-based monitoring stations operated by governmental agencies, local residents, non-profit organisations and companies.Here are the key findings of the report:1. In 2020, all Indian cities which were monitored observed air quality improvements of 63 per cent compared to 2019.2. The most polluted capital cities in 2020 were New Delhi (84 mcg/m3) and Dhaka (77). Jakarta, Kathmandu, Islamabad, Hanoi and Beijing and were all ranked in the top 20.Read more: Rising air pollution led to 41,090 deaths in Punjab in 2019: Report3. Air quality in 84 per cent of all the monitored countries improved largely due to the measures taken to curb the spread of the coronavirus pandemic.4. Major cities in the world in 2020 saw improvements compared to 2019. The concentration of life-shortening particles decreased by 15 per cent in New Delhi while Beijing witnessed 11 per cent less pollution. Other major cities like Chicago, London, Paris and Seoul also saw 13%, 16%, 17% and 16% less pollution, respectively.5. South Asia remained the most polluted region of the world with Bangladesh, India and Pakistan sharing 42 of the 50 most polluted cities worldwide. Bangladesh, Pakistan, India, Mongolia and Afghanistan had average annual PM2.5 concentrations between 77 and 47 microgrammes per cubic metre (mcg/m3) of air.Read more: India, UK to host global meet on disaster risk, resilience this week6. In 2020, 86 per cent of the cities in China experienced cleaner air and Hotan in northwestern China was ranked as the world's most polluted city.7. Half of all European cities in 2020 exceeded the World Health Organization’s (WHO’s) target of annual PM2.5 pollution. The highest levels were found in eastern and southern Europe.8. In the United States, average particle pollution increased by 6.7 per cent despite the coronavirus pandemic due to wildfires in US cities. 38 per cent of cities in the US did not meet the WHO guidelines in 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-air-quality-improved-in-2020-amid-coronavirus-pandemic-report-101615878183571.html
16-03-2021||India||INS Dhruv that can track satellites, strategic missiles, to join navy soon||With India at the centre of the Indo-Pacific pushback to China’s rapidly-expanding People’s Liberation Army Navy (PLAN), India is set to commission INS Dhruv to track satellites, strategic missiles and map the Indian Ocean bed later this year, people aware of the developments said on Wednesday.The 15,000-tonne ship, part of a classified project, will not only create maritime domain awareness for India in the Indian Ocean but also act as an early warning system for adversary missiles headed towards Indian cities and military establishments. “Final checks are going on the vessel at Vizag before the commissioning, which is expected in the first half of 2021 but neither the date nor the month is decided,” said a senior official familiar with the strategic project.INS Dhruv has been developed with the help of the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) and Indian Navy with India’s Strategic Force Command and National Technical Research Organisation (NTRO) as main intelligence consumers. The indigenously-developed surveillance ship has been built by Hindustan Shipyard Ltd at its Visakhapatnam facility under the Atma Nirbhar Bharat Abhiyan initiative.INS Dhruv is equipped with the active electronically scanned array radars, or AESA, considered a game-changer in radar technology, and can scan various spectrums to monitor satellites of adversaries that are watching over India. It can also, as one official in South Block put it, understand the range and true missile capability of adversary nations that it finds in the Indo-Pacific.Once the vessel is commissioned, India will be the only country outside the P-5 - the US, the UK, China, Russia and France - to have this capabilityOfficials said INS Dhruv will act as a major force multiplier to India’s ocean surveillance capabilities. The Indian Navy already monitors the region from the Gulf of Aden to all the ingress routes from the South China Sea with long-range unmanned aerial vehicles, surveillance aircraft and Boeing P8I anti-submarine warfare.Also Read: The rationale and future of QuadIt will be able to provide the Indian Navy with an “ECG of the Indian Ocean”, a defence ministry official said, a reference to the electrocardiogram that is used to diagnose problems in the heart. INS Dhruv will help Indian Navy plan better offensive operations in all three dimensions — sub-surface, surface and aerial.Strengthening the Indian Navy’s capabilities is key to countering China’s influence in the Indian Ocean given how Beijing’s sea doctrine has taken priority over its land forces. Experts believe the Indo-Pacific will be the front-line of the future as PLAN’s nuclear submarines try to avoid detection before crossing the first island chain in the South China Sea.Although China has claimed that the Quad will never have tangible deliveries - in 2018, China had even called it a seafoam before describing it a security threat two years later - the security grouping is already monitoring the Indo-Pacific and sharing real-time intelligence to check Beijing creation of military leverage over the busiest shipping lanes in the world and carrying billions of dollar worth of cargo.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ballistic-missile-tracking-ins-dhruv-to-join-india-s-strategic-assets-in-2021-101615886801327.html
16-03-2021||India||Maharashtra in beginning of second wave, need to step up contact tracing: Centre||Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan wrote to Maharashtra Chief Secretary after the central team's visit last week and observed that the state is undergoing the second wave of Covid-19 while urging for focus on containment strategies."Maharashtra is in the beginning of a second wave of Covid-19 pandemic. Efforts to track, test, isolate cases and quarantine contacts are limited there with no adherence to Covid-19 appropriate behaviour among people both in rural and urban areas," Bhushan wrote in the letter.Pointing towards contact tracing, the Health Secretary's letter mentioned that the case-contact ratio is more than 1:20 in the state."Though it appears high, a deep dive into the methodology of contact tracing revealed that the main concept of contact tracing was not clearly understood by the field level staff, who were mainly listing the immediate family and neighborhood contacts," he added.The Health Ministry Central team in its observation had written that night curfew, partial lockdowns and weekend lockdowns have a limited impact on curbing the virus transmission.According to the Central team, some districts were found implementing/contemplating to implement measures such as night curfew, partial lockdowns, weekend lockdowns etc. (Aurangabad, Nashik and Jalgaon)."These measures may have only very limited impact on containing/suppressing the transmission. Hence, the District Administration should focus on containment strategy as per the guidelines laid out by the Centre," the letter said, expressing its views on covid management.While the positivity rate in Maharashtra stands at 13.21 per cent, the recovery rate is 92.21 per cent. The fatality rate in the state is 2.28 per cent.The Latur district administration has already imposed a night curfew between 8 pm and 5 am to contain the spread of the virus in the district. According to the order released by the officials, all weekly markets will remain shut till March 31. However, emergency services have been exempted.A complete lockdown has already been announced in the Nagpur city area from March 15 to March 21 in view of the rising infections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-in-beginning-of-second-wave-need-to-step-up-contact-tracing-centre-101615886184012.html
16-03-2021||India||No information on leaked Arnab chats in TRP scam, MHA tells Parliament||The Centre has no information on the purported WhatsApp chats of Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami related to confidential and sensitive information, which surfaced during the investigation into the television rating point (TRP) scam by the Mumbai Police, minister of state for home G Kishan Reddy informed the Lok Sabha on Tuesday.Reddy’s written response to at least six members of Parliament seeking details on the leaks said, “No such information has come to the notice of the government.”Ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi and Congress leader Rahul Gandhi have demanded a probe in the purported chats between Goswami and former Broadcast Audience Research Council head Partho Dasgupta, saying that the leak of sensitive information was a breach of the country’s security.The 500-page plus transcript of the purported WhatsApp conversations – containing details of the Balakot airstrike in retaliation to the February 2019 Pulwama attack and the Centre’s move to strip of Jammu & Kashmir of its semi-autonomous status – was part of the charge sheet the Mumbai police submitted in January before a court in the TRP scam. The leak created a political storm.The Congress Working Committee sought a joint parliamentary committee probe into what it called a breach of national security.Gandhi has said that leaking such top secret information is a criminal act and those responsible for it as well as the recipient should both be booked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-information-on-leaked-arnab-chats-in-trp-scam-mha-tells-parliament-101615886332835.html
16-03-2021||India||MHA cites protocol for denying Sikhs permission to visit Nankana Sahib in Pak||The Union home ministry on Tuesday said it last month denied permission to a group or Jatha of 600 Sikh pilgrims to travel to Pakistan for the 100th anniversary of the 1920 Nankana Sahib massacre as it was not covered under the 1974 Bilateral Protocol on Visits to Religious Shrines between the two countries. It earlier refused permission for the visit on February 17 citing security concerns and a threat to Indians visiting Pakistan.Around 200 people were in February 1920 killed in Nankana Sahib, the birthplace of Sikhism’s founder, Guru Nanak Dev, during agitation to take control of gurdwaras from British-backed mahants.The ministry said under the Protocol, Sikh Jathas visit Pakistan annually on four occasions--Baisakhi, Martyrdom’s Day of Guru Arjan Dev Ji, Barsi of Maharaja Ranjit Singh Ji, and Birth Anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev Ji. It added that “no such Jatha had gone to Pakistan in the past on such occasion”.In a written reply in Lok Sabha on Tuesday, Union minister of state for home G Kishan Reddy also reiterated the increasing number of Covid-19 cases in Pakistan was also one of the reasons for the denial of permission.“Keeping in view the increasing number of cases of Covid-19 in Pakistan, [the] threat to the safety and security of [a] large number of Indian citizens during the visit and the ongoing suspension of cross-border traffic due to Covid-19 pandemic, permission was not accorded to the said Jatha,” Reddy said.Also Read | Highlight Centre’s denial of permission to Jatha to Nankana Sahib, Akal Takht tells SikhsIn response to Congress member Jasbir Singh Gill’s question on why permission was granted to last Jatha to travel to Pakistan in November when the pandemic was at its peak, Reddy said: “...from November 28, 2020, till December 1, 2020, ... a Jatha of Sikh pilgrims visited Nankana Sahib on [the] 551st birth anniversary of Sri Guru Nanak Dev Ji... [the travel] was allowed under 1974 Bilateral Protocol. However, due to [the] Covid-19 pandemic, the number of pilgrims was restricted.”Sikh religious organisations and politicians have condemned the Centre’s denial of permission.In a video message last month, Giani Harpreet Singh, a top Sikh priest, said: “The Indian government is extremely wrong in denying the Sikh Jatha permission to attend the main event in Pakistan.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mha-cites-protocol-for-denying-sikhs-permission-to-visit-nankana-sahib-in-pak-101615886093264.html
16-03-2021||India||'Property of every Indian': Piyush Goyal says no plan to privatise railways||Railways minister Piyush Goyal said on Tuesday the government does not plan to hand over the railways sector to private players and said that Indian Railways will never be privatised, adding private investment should be encouraged for more efficient functioning. The country, Goyal said, can progress towards high growth and create more employment opportunities only when the public and private sectors work together."Indian Railways will never be privatised. It is a property of every Indian and will remain so,” the minister said while addressing the ongoing Parliament session in the Lok Sabha, adding that it will remain with the government of India.The railways minister also said no passenger has died in any rail accident after March 2019. "We are focusing on passenger safety. I am happy to say that there has been no passenger death in the past two years (2019-2021). The last death due to train accident happened in March 2019," the minister told the Lok Sabha, reported PTI.Goyal said the central government has hiked investment in railways to ₹2.15 lakh crore in 2021-22 fiscal, from ₹1.5 lakh crore in 2019-20 fiscal.Last week, HT reported that the railways is considering having private companies operate 90 train stations and is exploring several options – including looking at the arrangements at India’s privately-run airports – to determine how best to set up the security infrastructure at these.Railways, which runs the fourth-largest such network in the world, set the ball rolling in 2019 on letting private companies run and operate certain stations in a public-private partnership (PPP) model. The move, steered by the Indian Railway Stations Development Corporation (IRSDC) is expected to help significantly modernise parts of a decades-old system.The Railway Board, in a letter reviewed by HT, sought the opinion from all principal chief security commissioners of the Railway Protection Force (RPF) and all zonal railways on how the security infrastructure for the 90 stations should be set up.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/property-of-every-indian-piyush-goyal-says-no-plan-to-privatise-railways-101615883272440.html
16-03-2021||India||TN assembly polls: Movable assets of O Panneerselvam, TTV Dhinakaran go up||Tamil Nadu Deputy Chief Minister O Panneerselvam has declared total assets valued at ₹61.19 lakh, up from the ₹33.20 lakh in 2016, according to his election affidavit submitted as part of the nomination for the April 6 Assembly polls in the state. Panneerselvam, AIADMK Coordinator, is seeking a third term from Bodinayakkanur in Theni district. All of the assets were movable and he had no immovable assets in his name, which was the case in 2016 as well, Panneerselvam said. The assets included three four-wheelers and he declared his source of income as salary earned as deputy CM and from his wife's agricultural income. His liabilities were ₹65,55,411 he owed to his wife. His wife's immovable assets were valued at ₹4.57 crore while the immovable property was ₹2.63 crore, he stated in his affidavit. Similarly, the assets of Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) leader TTV Dhinakaran also went up, from the ₹16.73 lakh in 2017 to ₹19.18 lakh in 2021. The AMMK leader had fought and won the December 2017 Radhakrishnan Nagar bypoll here as an independent, upsetting the ruling AIADMK which had earlier expelled him along with his aunt and late chief minister J Jayalalithaa's confidante VK Sasikala. Dhinakaran has shifted to Kovilpatti in Tuticorin district this time, taking on ruling AIADMK Minister and local strongman Kadmabur Raju. According to Dhinakaran's poll affidavit, the value of his immovable assets remained at ₹57.44 lakh which he had declared in 2017. His dues included ₹28 lakh to the central government on account of imposition of penalty under FERA and liabilities in dispute included ₹34.46 crore from AY 1989-96 pending before the IT Appellate Tribunal here. His liabilities were ₹14.25 lakh. The movable and immovable assets of his wife were ₹7.66 crore and ₹2.43 crore, respectively while her liabilities stood at ₹5.82 crore, Dhinakaran stated in the affidavit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tn-assembly-polls-movable-assets-of-o-panneerselvam-ttv-dhinakaran-go-up-101615884173615.html
16-03-2021||India||8 states contributing the most Covid-19 cases to India's surging tally||Eight states have been 'displaying an upward trajectory' in the daily cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Tuesday, even as the country reported more than 20,000 infections for the sixth day in a row. The health ministry said that Maharashtra remained the biggest contributor of Covid-19 cases in the tally followed by Punjab, Karnataka, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh and Haryana.Here’s a look at the eight states which were the biggest contributors to India’s Covid-19 tally on Monday:Maharashtra: Maharashtra on Monday recorded 15,051 new Covid-19 infections which took the state’s tally to 2,329,464, while active cases rose to 130,547. The surge in Covid-19 cases has led the government to impose lockdown or partial lockdown in several districts and cities of the state.Punjab: Punjab added 1,843 fresh infections on Monday which pushed the tally to 199,573, while the death toll rose to 6,099 with 27 more fatalities. The number of active cases in the state also increased from 11,550 on Sunday to 11,942 on Monday.Read more: '50 people for weddings, 20 for funerals': BMC revises Covid-19 restrictionsKarnataka: The state logged 932 fresh Covid-19 cases and seven related fatalities which took the number of infections to 9.61 lakh and the toll to 12,397.Gujarat: The number of coronavirus disease cases in Gujarat rose to 279,097 with 890 new infections on Monday. The death toll in the state stands at 4,425 and the active cases in the state are at 4,717.Tamil Nadu: The state logged 836 fresh Covid-19 infections on Monday which took the caseload to 8.60 lakh, while four more fatalities took the death toll to 12,551.Read more: Allowed limited Covid vaccine export: GovtChhattisgarh: Chhattisgarh's Covid-19 count rose to 317,974 on Monday as the state added 645 new cases, while the death toll mounted by seven to reach 3,897.Madhya Pradesh: The state reported 797 Covid-19 cases on Monday which took its tally to 269,391, while the death toll rose to 3,890 after three deaths.Haryana: There were 420 new cases of Covid-19 in Haryana, which took its tally to 275,557 on Monday. Three coronavirus-related deaths pushed the northern state's death toll to 3,077.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/8-states-contributing-the-most-covid-19-cases-to-india-s-surging-tally-101615883553631.html
16-03-2021||India||Covid-19 vaccines not being exported at the expense of Indians: Health Minister Harsh Vardhan||Union health minister Harsh Vardhan on Tuesday said that the central government is not exporting vaccines to foreign nations at the expense of the people of India. This comes after Congress opposed the Centre's move to export the coronavirus vaccines, reasoning that the government should not export vaccines without immunising the entire population of the country.At the Rajya Sabha today, the Union health minister said that "experts at the highest level" and a "committee of the government" are keeping a check on vaccine requirement in the country."Vaccines aren't being sent to other countries at the expense of the people of India. Experts at the highest level and a committee of the government are maintaining a sensible balance about it. 30,39,394 people were vaccinated yesterday. We have touched a total vaccination figure of Rs. 3 crore," news agency ANI quoted Union minister Harsh Vardhan as saying.Congress has been urging the central government to accelerate the vaccine drive in the country for a while now. Yesterday, the party demanded that the government must disclose if it has a clear roadmap to complete the nationwide vaccination process in the span of one year.Congress spokesperson Shaktisinh Gohil raised concerns yesterday over the rising coronavirus cases and said experts have stated that another wave of Covid-19 is starting. Citing Chhattisgarh's demand for more Covishield doses, the party urged the government to decentralise the vaccination drive and provide adequate vaccines to the states.Gohil also accused the government of "hiding facts" by providing a 'maze' of vaccination figures."If you look at the 11 days of March, it [the total number of vaccinations] is 95,90,594. Of the over 135 crore people in the country, only 1.5 per cent have got vaccines, including those who have got just the first dose," news agency PTI quoted Gohil as saying.According to the Union health ministry, the number of people who have recuperated from the disease in India has surged to 1,10,27,543, while the case fatality rate dropped to 1.39 per cent.India recorded 24,492 new COVID-19 cases today, registering more than 20,000 cases for the sixth day in a row, taking the infection tally past 1.14 crore. The total cases in the country rose to 1,14,09,831, while the death toll increased to 1,58,856 with 131 fresh fatalities.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-vaccines-not-being-exported-at-the-expense-of-indians-health-minister-harsh-vardhan-101615882065095.html
16-03-2021||India||Bihar govt working on ₹866 crore integrated campus for ministers, officials||The Bihar government was working on the integrated residential campus for ministers, officers and staff in Gardanibagh to ensure vertical growth to free land for use in other projects of public importance, said state building construction minister Ashok Choudhary on Monday. The campus would cost ₹866.71-crore.The minister said it was chief minister Nitish Kumar who thought about inclusive growth and translated his vision into reality with a slew of measures through well-crafted 7-Resolves.Replying to his government’s budgetary demand of ₹5321.40-crore, which was passed by the Bihar assembly amid Opposition walkout, Choudhary said work on some mega projects, including construction of ₹633-crore international cricket stadium-cum-sports academy in Rajgir, ₹145-crore Mahabodhi Cultural Centre, ₹397-crore APJ Abdul Kalam Science City in Patna and ₹301-crore Budha museum in Vaishali, etc, is underway.Besides, he said the work on ₹186.42-crore new Collectorate building, ₹158-crore project for expansion and development of Patna museum and campus of animal science university has also started.“The government plans to have engineering colleges in 31 districts. While 13 of them have their buildings now, the work on another 16 would be completed by December 2021. The 31 polytechnics have also been completed. The work on industrial training centres are also underway and a large chunk of work has been completed.The minister said that the Bihar state building construction corporation limited had so far got 2770 schemes with administrative approval of ₹7509 crore from 35 departments of the government and 2080 (82%) had already been completed. Along with the budget of the building construction department, the budgets of ₹8159.14-crore of social welfare department, ₹2970-25-crore of the public health engineering department and ₹406.41-crore of the transport department were also passed applying guillotine, which allows demands for grants to be put to vote at once whether they have been discussed or not.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-govt-working-on-rs-866-crore-integrated-campus-for-ministers-officials-101615882252920.html
16-03-2021||India||India hands over training aids to Lankan Navy for capacity building||India's envoy in Sri Lanka has underlined the importance of close cooperation between the navies of the two countries as an essential part of the overall bilateral engagement, as he handed over training aids worth 22 million LKR (about ₹81,00,000) to the island nation's Navy for capacity building.High Commissioner Gopal Baglay, during a visit to the Northern and Eastern Provinces of Sri Lanka, formally handed over the training aids to the Commander Eastern Naval Area of the Sri Lanka Navy at a ceremony held on Sunday at the prestigious Naval and Maritime Academy (NMA) Trincomalee.Pursuing the commitment of the Indian Navy in assisting the regional navies in capacity building, during his visit in December 2019, Chief of the Naval Staff Admiral Karambir Singh had committed to providing a number of training items to the Sri Lankan Navy, the Indian High Commission in Colombo said in a statement.With a focus on supporting specialisation courses being conducted at NMA, Sri Lanka Navy model of indigenously developed Varunastra heavy-weight torpedo, working model of Light Weight Torpedo, Underwater Telephone, Gas Turbine cut Model, a model of HMS Trincomalee and Bathythermograph were delivered in Sri Lanka in 2020 and were operationalised with joint efforts of Indian Navy, Sri Lankan Navy and the OEMs from India.While formally handing over the training aids, the High Commissioner reiterated the importance of close cooperation between the two navies as an essential part of the overall bilateral engagement. He also handed over Kindle e-book readers and books to the library of the Naval and Maritime Academy.The Indian Navy and the Sri Lankan Navy have always maintained a functional relationship and several training facilities of the Indian Navy are availed by the Sri Lankan Navy, the High Commission said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-hands-over-training-aids-to-lankan-navy-for-capacity-building-101615877834039.html
16-03-2021||India||Amid furore over his candidature, Swapan Dasgupta resigns from Rajya Sabha||Swapan Dasgupta, the Bharatiya Janata Party‘s candidate for the Tarakeshwar assembly constituency in West Bengal, has tendered his resignation letter to Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu.Officials from the Rajya Sabha secretariat told HT that they have received Dasgupta’s letter. A senior BJP leader also confirmed that Dasgupta has resigned.Dasgupta tweeted, “I have resigned from the Rajya Sabha today to commit myself totally to the fight for a better Bengal. I hope to file my nomination as BJP candidate for the Tarakeshwar Assembly seat in the next few days.”I have resigned from the Rajya Sabha today to commit myself totally to the fight for a better Bengal. I hope to file my nomination as BJP candidate for the Tarakeshwar Assembly seat in the next few days.A person aware of the details said, “He has time till March 19 to file his nomination papers for contesting the polls. Had he not resigned from the Rajya Sabha, he could have faced disqualification from the House.” The person said Dasgupta’s resignation is subject to approval of the chair.Dasgupta was nominated to Rajya Sabha by President of India in April 2016. According to the 10th Schedule that deals with disqualification of MPs, “A nominated member of a House shall be disqualified for being a member of the House if he joins any political party after the expiry of six months from the date on which he takes his seat after complying with the requirements of article 99 or, as the case may be, article 188.”Also Read | In BJP’s list of candidates, 5 key Bengal constituencies to look out forArticles 99 and 188 of the Indian Constitution relate to oath-taking of lawmakers.Dasgupta, BJP’s candidate for the Tarakeshwar seat in Bengal’s Hoogly district, faced scrutiny from two Opposition leaders after his name was announced as a candidate.On Monday, Trinamool MP Mahua Moitra had tweeted, “Swapan Dasgupta is BJP candidate for WB polls. 10th Schedule of Constitution says nominated RS member to be disqualified if he joins any political party AFTER expiry of 6 months from oath. He was sworn in April 2016, remains unallied. Must be disqualified NOW for joining BJP.”Earlier today, Congress MP, Jairam Ramesh raised the issue of Dasgupta’s candidature with Rajya Sabha chairperson M Venkaiah Naidu. He sought to know if Dasgupta has resigned.Dasgupta’s name on the Rajya Sabha website is listed in the category of nominated members, unlike some others nominated MPs such as Rakesh Sinha, Subramaniam Swami and Roopa Ganguly who, after being nominated, aligned with the BJP.Jairam Ramesh told HT that he personally met Naidu after sending a letter on Dasgupta. “The chairman told me that he had resigned.”Shortly after his nomination on Sunday, several party leaders who spoke to HT said they were not sure whether Dasgupta has taken formal membership of the party. One leader said he can become a member after being named as a candidate.Even as Dasgupta did not join the BJP formally, he has continued to associate with the party. He was a member of the BJP’s delegations to the election commission and also met then President Pranab Mukherjee to seek a probe into the death of a BJP MLA from Hemtabad, Debnath Rai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-furore-over-his-candidature-swapan-dasgupta-resigns-from-rajya-sabha-101615879793801.html
16-03-2021||India||News updates from HT: Rahul Gandhi extends support to bank employees' strike and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Rahul Gandhi extends support to bank employees' strikeCongress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday accused the government of selling public sector banks to "cronies”, which he said is compromising the country's financial security, as employees of public sector banks (PSBs) held protests against the Centre’s proposal to privatise two lenders. Gandhi also backed the protesting bank employees, who are on their second day of the strike. Read moreRuckus in Odisha assembly, politicians spar over BJP MLA's 'suicide attempt'The Odisha assembly once again witnessed unruly scenes on Tuesday, as opposition parties, both the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Congress, created a ruckus in the House over the alleged non-procurement of paddy in the state. Read moreAmit Shah, Nadda hold meetings as protests break out in BJP over candidate listUnion home minister Amit Shah and BJP’s national president JP Nadda have meetings since Monday evening as hundreds of party workers protested against the fielding of a large number of former TMC leaders as party candidate. Read moreControversy around AstraZeneca’s Covid-19 vaccine explained. What WHO saysThe World Health Organization (WHO) has ruled out any link between AstraZeneca’s vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and reported blood clots even as several European countries, including France, Germany, and Italy, suspended its use. Read more'He's a star player': Jason Roy says he was not surprised to see Ishan Kishan's exploits on debutEngland opener Jason Roy said that he was not surprised to see Ishan Kishan taking the game away from the visitors in the 2nd T20I at Motera in Ahmedabad on Sunday. Kishan made his debut in India jersey, and smashed 56 runs in 32 balls despite his opening partner KL Rahul getting out for 0 in the first over. Read moreThe Big Bull teaser: Abhishek Bachchan's film will give you Scam 1992 flashbacks. WatchAbhishek Bachchan has shared the first teaser for his upcoming film, The Big Bull. The film is set in the late 1980s-early 1990s and stars Abhishek as a stock broker who rocks the Dalal Street like no one before. Read moreHyundai Alcazar 7-seater SUV to break cover soonHyundai Motor is all set to take the covers off its new 7-seater SUV for the Indian market soon. According to reports, the global debut of the Creta-inspired SUV will take place on April 6. Read moreRakul Preet Singh serves perfect fitspiration to ‘kick a**’ of Tuesday bluesFor all those lazy bones who want to whip up in shape but procrastinate hitting the grind, Rakul Preet Singh’s kickboxing video serves as the perfect Tuesday fitspiration to kick some ass. Read moreWatch: India urges UNHRC to pay attention to Pakistan's deplorable human rights recordIndia said on Monday that it is high-time that Pakistan is held accountable for its state-sponsored terrorism. India urged the UN Human Rights Council to pay urgent attention to its deplorable human rights records and discriminatory treatment of its ethnic and religious minorities. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-rahul-gandhi-extends-support-to-bank-employees-strike-and-all-the-latest-news-101615876983364.html
16-03-2021||India||To fight for a better Bengal, says Swapan Dasgupta after quitting Rajya Sabha||Swapan Dasgupta, the Bharatiya Janata Party’s candidate for the Tarakeshwar assembly constituency in West Bengal, said on Tuesday he resigned from the Rajya Sabha to work for the state. The Rajya Sabha lawmaker sent his resignation letter to chairman M Venkaiah Naidu’s office, secretariat officials confirmed on Tuesday after a row broke out over the BJP naming him as a candidate in the West Bengal assembly elections to be held in eight phases from March 27.“I have resigned from the Rajya Sabha today to commit myself totally to the fight for a better Bengal. I hope to file my nomination as BJP candidate for the Tarakeshwar Assembly seat in the next few days,” Dasgupta, whose name was announced as the BJP candidate from the assembly constituency on Sunday, said in a tweet.I have resigned from the Rajya Sabha today to commit myself totally to the fight for a better Bengal. I hope to file my nomination as BJP candidate for the Tarakeshwar Assembly seat in the next few days.Also read | Congress seeks clarification on Swapan Dasgupta’s candidature for assembly pollsEarlier, the Congress party wrote to Naidu seeking clarification about nominated MP Dasgupta contesting in the March-April West Bengal assembly polls. Congress chief whip Jairam Ramesh pointed out that Dasgupta has neither resigned from the House before contesting the election nor has he joined any party.“Can a nominated member of the Rajya Sabha who has not formally joined a political party within six months of nomination and continues as a non-party, nominated member contest elections to Parliament or the assembly without first resigning as a nominated member?” Jairam asked in his letter.Also read | Union minister and 3 sitting MPs mark BJP’s Bengal nominees for 3rd, 4th phasesThe Congress’ letter came after Trinamool Congress lawmaker Mohua Moitra alleged that Dasgupta has violated the 10th Schedule of the Indian Constitution and called for his disqualification from the Upper House. The name of Dasgupta, a senior journalist who was nominated to the Upper House in April 2016, is listed under the category of nominated members on the Rajya Sabha website, unlike some others nominated MPs such as Rakesh Sinha, Subramaniam Swami and Roopa Ganguly who after being nominated aligned with the BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/to-fight-for-a-better-bengal-says-swapan-dasgupta-after-quitting-rajya-sabha-101615878314115.html
16-03-2021||India||Centre plans mechanism to address cyber bullying of women, children||Union minister Smriti Irani has said the Centre is planning a mechanism for targeted and customised responses to cyber bullying in each district by mapping police stations and providing each with forensic kits as part of measures to ensure the safety and security of women and children.“We will conduct a mapping of the police stations in the country and identify the ones that require forensic kits. These can be provided under the Nirbhaya Fund,” the women and child development minister said on Monday.The Nirbhaya Fund was created in 2013 to ensure women’s safety after the rape and murder of a Delhi woman on a moving bus in December 2012 that sparked protests across the country.Irani said among the suggestions they have received included the expediting of investigations.Her comments came after a seminar for representatives from districts including 100 with the highest rates of crimes against women and children. Officials from Union home, education, and skill ministries were among others who attended the seminar.Irani said financial assistance will also be provided to women victims of cybercrimes along with legal fees.Another major project could include the setting up of digital One Stop Centres (OSCs) as part of the ministry’s flagship scheme to provide support to the women affected by violence, in private and public spaces, within the family and community. Irani said OSCs have assisted over 30,00,00 women and 1.4 million have used helplines.The government is also planning to integrate emergency helpline numbers 112 and 181 to bring them under law enforcement agencies. “...the helpline numbers are answered by NGOs [non-governmental organisations], but under the new system, police will directly answer,” Irani said. “It will reduce the response time.”Ram Mohan Mishra, the women and child development ministry secretary, said they were working to institutionalise a review system to ensure last-mile delivery of services. “We have to leverage technology to create a grid at the district level where crucial gaps in the scheme can be identified and corrected.” Mishra added an appraisal system was required to ensure the schemes are implemented.VS Kaumudi, special secretary, home ministry, said training has been provided to police officers to effectively collect forensic evidence. “Last year, we sent out 4,000 forensic evidence kits for training and further sent 11,000 kits to police stations for use.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-plans-mechanism-to-address-cyber-bullying-of-women-children-101615878592648.html
16-03-2021||India||'Nationalising loss': Rahul Gandhi backs bank employees' strike||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday accused the government of selling public sector banks to "cronies”, which he said is compromising the country's financial security, as employees of public sector banks (PSBs) held protests against the Centre’s proposal to privatise two lenders. Gandhi also backed the protesting bank employees, who are on their second day of the strike."Government of India (GOI) is privatising profit and nationalising loss. Selling PSBs to Modicronies gravely compromises India's financial security," Gandhi said in a tweet. "I stand in solidarity with the striking bank employees," he said.Several banking services such as cash withdrawals, deposits, cheque clearances, remittance services have been hit during the two-day strike. Government transactions related to the treasury as well as business transactions have also been impacted.Unions claimed about 20 million cheques/instruments worth about ₹16,500 crore were not cleared across the country. Many ATMs were also out of cash on the first day itself.The two-day nationwide strike of bank employees and officers, which started on March 15, has been called by the United Forum of Bank Unions (UFBU), an umbrella body of nine unions, to protest against the government's decision to privatise two more state-run banks.Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman's announcement last month of privatisation of two public sector banks as part of the government's disinvestment plan in the Union Budget for the next fiscal has provoked discontentment among the bank employees.Members of UFBU include All India Bank Employees Association (AIBEA), All India Bank Officers' Confederation (AIBOC), National Confederation of Bank Employees (NCBE), All India Bank Officers' Association (AIBOA) and Bank Employees Confederation of India (BEFI). Others are the Indian National Bank Employees Federation (INBEF), Indian National Bank Officers Congress (INBOC), National Organisation of Bank Workers (NOBW) and National Organisation of Bank Officers (NOBO).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nationalising-loss-rahul-gandhi-backs-bank-employees-strike-101615875181703.html
16-03-2021||India||Centre tells Maharashtra to ramp up testing amid second Covid-19 wave||Maharashtra is beginning to see a second wave of the pandemic and limited efforts have been made to actively track, test, isolate cases and quarantine contacts, said the central team sent to study the Covid-19 situation in the state. The team has suggested that at least 20 to 30 close contact – family members, friends, colleagues – need to be tracked for every positive case.“There is no adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour among people both in rural and urban areas. The central team inferred that the administrative mechanism should be reinstated to the level witnessed in August-September 2020 to contain or suppress the Covid transmission,” the team said in its report, a copy of which HT has seen.In a letter to the state, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan has said the high case fatality ratio – the proportion of deaths among total positive cases– among those admitted at Nashik’s Vasant Rao Pawar Medical College needs to be investigated and that their samples be sent for genome sequencing.Also Read | Covid-19: First patient with S Africa variant confirmed in DelhiEarlier researchers from Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomic Consortia found the E484K mutations in less than 10% of samples from the state. The mutation helps the Sars-CoV-2 virus in dodging the body’s immune response.The letter also said night curfews and weekend lockdowns have a limited impact on transmission. “Containment strategy needs to be reintroduced; containment zones must be better defined based on contact listing, digital mapping of cases and contacts...”The state has also been asked to ramp up testing, especially the more accurate RT PCR.There was no immediate response from the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ramp-up-testing-centre-tells-maharashtra-as-state-begins-to-see-a-second-covid-19-wave-101615878352915.html
16-03-2021||India||Karnataka-Maharashtra border row: Shiv Sena wants Belgaum to be declared Union Territory||The Shiv Sena on Tuesday said Belgaum should be declared as a Union Territory, alleging that atrocities on Marathi-speaking people by pro-Kannada outfits were continuing there.An editorial in the Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana' alleged that a pro-Kannada organisation recently beat up Marathi people in Belgaum, removed Marathi boards from shops there and also targeted pro-Marathi social media users.The Karnataka police were also harassing Marathi people, it claimed."If the atrocities are not going to stop, then the Centre should declare Belgaum as a Union Territory," it said.Maharashtra claims certain areas, including Belgaum, Karwar and Nippani which are part of Karnataka, contending the majority of the population in these areas is Marathi-speaking.The dispute between the two states over Belgaum and other border areas is pending before the Supreme Court for many years.The editorial in 'Saamana' requested Maharashtra BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis to take up the issue with the Centre and Karnataka chief minister.There are Marathi people in Indore (Madhya Pradesh) and Vadodara (Gujarat) also. But, they never had any clashes with locals, the publication said.It also said people speaking different languages have been residing in Maharashtra for so many years and that Marathi people never treated them badly."The way the BJP government in Karnataka is handling the atrocities committed on the Marathi community by locals, it seems to be encouraging such miscreants," the Sena alleged.It is "illegal" to treat Marathi-speaking people in such a way when the boundary dispute issue is pending before the Supreme Court, the editorial said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnatakamaharashtra-border-row-shiv-sena-wants-belgaum-to-be-declared-union-territory-101615877238045.html
16-03-2021||India||Chhattisgarh begins use of Covaxin, month after voicing concern over efficacy||Chhattisgarh has begun administering Bharat Biotech’s Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin from Monday, this comes after the state health minister TS Singh Deo had requested the Centre in February to halt the vaccine’s supply over inhibitions regarding its incomplete third phase trials.Two days ago, the minister had said that the government is seriously considering using Covaxin.“From Monday after withdrawal of clinical experiment mode, the government started using Covaxin in the state,” said TS Singh Deo.Total 80 people were vaccinated with Covaxin on Monday in Raipur and from Tuesday it will start at other medical colleges of the state, said an official.The official claimed that Covaxin is voluntary and will be administered to only those who are willing.Last month, Chhattisgarh asked the Centre to halt the supply of the Covaxin to the state till its efficacy was proven and claimed that that the vaccine’s final data of third phase trial was yet to be published. The minister on Saturday said, “We are proud of our indigenous vaccine but strictly believe that due process as per international norms need to be adhered to before bringing it into general use. Our primary concern is the well being of our citizens and only implement any vaccine once its efficacy is proven.” “At no point has there been any shortage in supply of vaccines for our people in the state. As a matter of fact, Chhattisgarh has constantly been performing among the top 5 states of the country in terms of vaccination,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-begins-use-of-covaxin-month-after-voicing-concern-over-efficacy-101615877992884.html
16-03-2021||India||WATCH: Ruckus in Odisha assembly, politicians spar over BJP MLA's 'suicide attempt'||WATCH: Ruckus in Odisha assembly, politicians spar over BJP MLA's 'suicide attempt'The Odisha assembly once again witnessed unruly scenes on Tuesday, as opposition parties, both the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Congress, created a ruckus in the House over the alleged non-procurement of paddy in the state. Shortly after, ruling Biju Janata Dal (BJD) legislators demanded an apology over a BJP MLA's 'suicide attempt' inside the assembly.In a video posted by news agency ANI, legislators could be seen huddling around the podium of the Odisha Vidhan Sabha Speaker, Surjya Narayan Patro, as he requests the House to calm down. The Question Hour session, for which the House assembled at 10:30am, was overrun with MLAs leaving their designated seats and lodging protests before the Speaker. Both the Treasury and Opposition benches shouted slogans in the well of the House.#WATCH Odisha: BJP & Congress MLAs create ruckus in Assembly over pending paddy procurement by the govt It was followed by BJD MLAs demanding apology from BJP MLA Subash Panigrahi, who earlier attempted suicide in State Assembly by consuming sanitiser(Source: Odisha Assembly) pic.twitter.com/XeqU4mT6PSThe BJP and Congress legislators demanded that the state government provide concrete assurance regarding paddy procurement from all farmers. The BJP has also demanded that Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik expresses regret for his government's "inability" to ensure smooth procurement of paddy from farmers despite assurances.BJD members, on the other hand, demanded an apology from Subash Panigrahi, the BJP MLA who tried to ingest sanitiser in protest over the issue last Friday. Panigrahi had tried to take his life by consuming sanitiser in the House while protesting against the state government's alleged apathy towards farmers who are reportedly not being able to sell their paddy in mandis across the state.The BJD members led by party general secretary (organisation) P P Das are demanding an apology from the Deogarh lawmaker for setting a bad precedent by attempting suicide inside the House.This is the fourth consecutive day that the Odisha assembly faced difficulty in transacting any business over ensuing chaos regarding the issue. The House faced turmoil on Monday as well and Patro was unable to conduct the proceedings of the day. He announced five adjournments in the wake of noisy protests by the legislators of the ruling BJD and opposition Congress and BJP.Patro had said outside the House on Sunday that the BJP MLA should tender an apology for committing a mistake by making a suicide bid in the House. He had also said that Panigrahi should apologise to bring back normalcy in the House.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/watch-ruckus-in-odisha-assembly-politicians-spar-over-bjp-mla-s-suicide-attempt-101615872839908.html
16-03-2021||India||China says it will issue visas in India, makes it impossible to get||Beijing will start issuing visas to foreigners who need to travel to China but only after they have taken a Chinese-made Covid-19 vaccine, a statement by the Chinese Embassy in New Delhi said on Tuesday. The rule, however, will not make it any easier for Indians to get visas since New Delhi has not approved use of China-made vaccines in the country. Also, there are no direct flights between the two countries.The statement suggested the Chinese-vaccine rule - the embassy called it “facilitating measures” - was applicable for people intending to travel to China for business, work or to meet relatives.The Chinese embassy statement did not specify whether the easing of the process applies to students: The largest chunk of Indians – more than 22,000 students – are stranded in their home country as China is yet to allow foreign students back into the country. Or if Beijing is in talks with New Delhi to make its vaccines available as the Chinese embassy or consulates cannot offer the vaccines in India without authorisation from the Indian government.Also Watch: PM Modi’s QUAD gambit and why China is rattledThe new provisions come at a time China has been promoting its vaccine shots across the world. It has administered 65 million vaccine doses at home and has been pushing its vaccine in emerging economies.But given the lack of transparency about the clinical trial data of its vaccines, Beijing has found the response from many countries to be less than enthusiastic. China has, however, been more successful in introducing its vaccines in Africa and Latin America, a Bloomberg report said.Asked if China would consider accepting WHO-approved vaccines also, foreign ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian told reporters on Monday that foreign vaccine producers could file a request with the authorities concerned in China for a decision. So far, China has not allowed vaccines made in other countries to be used in the country.The China-made vaccine provision in the visa regulations comes against the backdrop of the United States, India, Australia and Japan announcing an ambitious plan to distribute vaccines in Asia under the Vaccine Initiative signed off by leaders of the four countries under the aegis of Quad, or Quadrilateral Security Dialogue.The four Quad countries on Friday decided to pool their financial resources, manufacturing capacities and logistical strengths to ramp up manufacture and distribution of Covid-19 vaccines across the region as part of efforts to boost post-pandemic recovery.The US development bank will assist India’s Biological E to produce one billion doses of Covid-19 vaccines to be rolled out by the end of 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-says-it-will-issue-travel-visas-in-india-makes-it-impossible-to-get-101615874453725.html
16-03-2021||India||Covid-19: First patient with S Africa variant confirmed in Delhi||A 33-year-old man from Kerala has become the first person with the South African variant of the Sars-CoV-2 virus, which causes Covid-19, to be admitted to a city hospital. He is currently the only person admitted to the special ward at Lok Nayak Hospital. He is asymptomatic and does not need any medical care at the moment.The person was brought to the Delhi government-run hospital after his RT-PCR test came positive at the airport. As he was travelling from South Africa, the officials suspected that it could be the new variant.“He was brought to the special ward created for people suspected to have the South Africa variant. His genetic sequencing report came back positive... for the new variant. He does not need any oxygen support, he is asymptomatic. He will be kept in isolation to ensure that the infection does not spread to others,” said a doctor.Several people with travel history were found to have the UK variant earlier in the city. The Brazil variant has also been reported in at least one traveller in India.All three variants of the virus have mutations in the spike protein – used by the virus to enter the human cells – and are more infectious. The N501Y mutation that is found in all three variants helps the virus spread easily, whereas the E484K mutation in the South African and Brazilian variants helps the virus evade the body’s antibody response that can lead to more infections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-first-patient-with-s-africa-variant-confirmed-indelhi-101615873672590.html
16-03-2021||India||India’s arms imports drop 33%: All you need to know about Sipri report||India’s arms imports fell 33% between 2011-15 and 2016-20, said a report released by the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute (Sipri) on Monday. Here is all you need to know about the report:• It has come at a time the country has taken measures to cut dependence on imported military hardware.• The report on international arms transfers attributed the drop in India’s arms imports mainly to an attempt to reduce its dependence on Russian arms and complex procurement processes. • “Russia was the most affected supplier, although India’s imports of US arms also fell 46%,” the report said.• It added India is planning large-scale arms imports in the coming years. • India’s top three arms suppliers during 2016-20 were Russia (accounting for 49% of India’s imports), France (18%) and Israel (13%), the report said.• According to Sipri, India accounted for 0.2% of the share of global arms exports during 2016-20, making the country the world’s 24th largest exporter of major arms.Also Read | 5 Lt Colonels among 17 Army personnel booked by CBI in recruitment scam• This represents an increase of 228% over India’s export share of 0.1% during the previous five-year period - 2011-15. • Myanmar, Sri Lanka and Mauritius were the top recipients of Indian military hardware, the report said.• Arms exports by Russia, which accounted for 20% of all exports of major arms in 2016–20, dropped by 22%, the report said. • “The bulk -- around 90% -- of this decrease was attributable to a 53% fall in its arms exports to India,” Sipri said. • India was the biggest importer of Russian military hardware during the last five years, accounting for 23% of Russia’s total exports.• The report also said that exports by China, the world’s fifth-largest arms exporter in 2016-20, fell 7.8% between 2011-15 and 2016-20. • China accounted for 74% of Pakistan’s military imports during the last five years, up from 61% in 2011-15. • But the US, the world’s largest arms exporter, saw its exports rise. Its global share of arms exports went up from 32% to 37% between 2011-15 and 2016-20. • The five largest arms exporters in 2016-20 were the US, Russia, France, Germany and China, while the top importers were Saudi Arabia, India, Egypt, Australia and China.• India has set aside ₹70,221 crore - 63% of the military’s capital budget for 2021-22 - for buying locally produced weapons and systems to boost defence indigenisation.• Sipri said India’s military imports are likely to grow over the next five years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-arms-imports-drop-33-all-you-need-to-know-about-sipri-report-101615871392473.html
16-03-2021||India||Kerala HC says transpersons entitled to be admitted to NCC: Key points||The Kerala high court on Monday ruled that a transgender person is entitled to be admitted to the National Cadet Corps (NCC). Here is all you need to know about the order:• It directed the Union government to amend section 6 of the National Cadet Corps Act, 1948, which effectively allowed only “males” or “females” to enrol as cadets with the youth wing of the armed forces.• The judgment came on a plea by Hina Haneefa, a 23-year-old transgender person, who wanted to join the NCC but was rejected due to her gender.• Justice Anu Sivaraman ruled that Haneefa was entitled to enrolment in the senior girl’s division of the NCC in accordance with her self-perceived gender identity and that the rejection of her request was unsustainable.Also Read | ‘Over 1,100 schools identified for NCC training in border, coastal areas’• The court said that the Nalsa judgment of 2014 and the Transgender Persons (Protection of Rights) Act, 2019, overrides the argument of the defence ministry that there were no provisions to enrol transgender persons.• The Supreme Court in the National Legal Services (Nalsa) judgment declared transgender people as the third gender and affirmed that the fundamental rights granted under the Constitution will be equally applicable to them. • The Transgender Persons (Protection of Rights) Act recognises their right to a life of dignity and prohibits discrimination.• In her plea, Haneefa contended that she had joined the NCC at the age of 13 when she was in school. At that time, she was enrolled as a boy cadet. • Two years back, she had undergone gender affirmation sex transformation surgery. She tried to enrol in the NCC but was denied admission saying it was against the NCC Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-hc-says-transpersons-entitled-to-be-admitted-to-ncc-key-points-101615870612681.html
16-03-2021||India||Bill in Lok Sabha to give Delhi L-G more power: Here’s what it means||The Union government on Monday introduced in Parliament a bill that seeks to give overarching powers over Delhi’s daily functions to the Centre-appointed Lieutenant Governor (L-G). Here is all you need to know about the bill and why it has prompted protests from the Delhi government and revived the power tussle for control of the Capital:• Union minister of state for home G Kishan Reddy introduced the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Bill, 2021, in the Lower House, where the government has a comfortable majority. • The bill says the “government” in Delhi will mean the L-G in the context of all legislation passed by the city-state’s assembly.• It makes it mandatory for the city government to seek the L-G’s opinion before any executive action.Also Read | NCT Bill to have ‘dangerous’ consequences on India’s federal structure: Sisodia• “The said bill will promote harmonious relations between the legislature and the executive, and further define the responsibilities of the elected government and the lieutenant governor, in line with the constitutional scheme of governance of National Capital Territory of Delhi, as interpreted by the Hon’ble Supreme Court,” read a statement of objects and reasons, attached with the draft legislation, attributed to Union home minister Amit Shah.• Shortly after the bill was introduced, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of seeking to drastically curtail the powers of an elected city government.• “After being rejected by people of Delhi (8 seats in assembly, 0 in MCD bypolls), BJP seeks to drastically curtail powers of elected government through a Bill in LS today. Bill is contrary to Constitution Bench judgement. We strongly condemn BJP’s unconstitutional n anti-democracy move,” he said.• On July 4, 2018, the Supreme Court ruled that the L-G could not interfere in every decision of the Delhi government and must act on the aid and advice of the council of ministers.• Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia called the bill unconstitutional and undemocratic. “After this bill is implemented, the elected government of Delhi will mean nothing. This is a dangerous amendment.”• Delhi holds a unique position in India’s administrative framework. • As a Union Territory, it is governed by the 1991 Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi Act that provides for both an elected assembly and an L-G appointed by the Union home ministry. • But unlike full states, many important departments such as land, police, and personnel appointments do not come under the purview of the city government and report directly to the L-G. • In July 2018, the top court ruled the L-G was bound to listen to the city’s elected government and could not act independently, prompting the Aam Aadmi Party government to claim victory. • All decisions by Delhi’s council of ministers must be communicated to the L-G but his concurrence was not required, the five-judge bench headed by then Chief Justice of India Dipak Misra ruled.• The amendment introduced on Monday decisively tilts the balance of power in favour of the L-G. It bars the Delhi government from making any rule to enable itself or its committees to consider the matters of day-to-day administration of the Capital or conduct inquiries in relation to the administrative decisions. • Any rule made till this act comes into effect will be void, according to the bill. It further says that the Delhi assembly won’t be able to make rules for regulating, its procedure and the conduct of its business which are inconsistent with the Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Parliament. • According to the Centre, the amendments seek to clarify the expression of government in order to give effect to the interpretation made by the Supreme Court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bill-in-lok-sabha-to-give-delhi-l-g-more-power-here-s-what-it-means-101615868932401.html
16-03-2021||India||Congress seeks clarification on Swapan Dasgupta’s candidature for assembly polls||The Indian National Congress—the largest Opposition party in the Rajya Sabha—has sought clarification from chairman Venkaiah Naidu about nominated MP Swapan Dasgupta contesting in West Bengal assembly polls. In a letter to the Rajya Sabha chairman, Congress chief whip Jairam Ramesh pointed out that Dasgupta has neither resigned from the House before contesting election nor has he joined any party. Dasgupta’s name was announced as the BJP candidate from Tarakeshwar assembly constituency on Sunday. The Congress’ move comes after Trinamool MP Mohua Moitra alleged that Dasgupta has violated the 10th Schedule of the Indian Constitution. Congress chief whip in the Rajya Sabha Jairam Ramesh’s letter to Naidu said, “Can a nominated member of the Rajya Sabha who has not formally joined a political party within six months of nomination and continues as a non-party, nominated member contest elections to Parliament or the assembly without first resigning as a nominated member?” Also Read | Don’t try to stifle me: Mamata fires fresh salvo against BJPHe added, “You did not announce any such resignation in these past few days. I need not say any more”. Dasgupta was nominated to Rajya Sabha by President of India in April 2016. According to the 10th Schedule that deals with disqualification of MPs, “A nominated member of a House shall be disqualified for being a member of the House if he joins any political party after the expiry of six months from the date on which he takes his seat after complying with the requirements of article 99 or, as the case may be, article 188.” Articles 99 and 188 of the Indian Constitution relate to oath-taking of lawmakers. On Monday, Moitra had tweeted, “Swapan Dasgupta is BJP candidate for WB polls. 10th Schedule of Constitution says nominated RS member to be disqualified if he joins any political party AFTER expiry of 6 months from oath. He was sworn in April 2016, remains unallied. Must be disqualified NOW for joining BJP.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-seeks-clarification-on-swapan-dasgupta-s-candidature-for-assembly-polls-101615868812871.html
16-03-2021||India||PM Modi to meet CMs tomorrow amid rise in Covid cases: Key points||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has called a meeting of all chief ministers on Wednesday to discuss a spike in Covid-19 infections. Here is all you need to know about the meeting and what prompted it:• The meeting has been called as the daily cases crossed the 26,000-mark on Sunday for the first time since December 19 and sparked fears of a new wave of Covid-19.• On Monday, India reported 24,434 cases.• The meeting will be the first such since India launched the world’s largest immunisation drive against the disease on January 16. Also Read | India saw 24,492 Covid-19 cases in last 24 hours, tally soars past 11.4 million• It will be held virtually from noon on Wednesday. • Modi is also expected to reiterate that the states must ensure strict adherence to health protocols, including social distancing and wearing of masks.• The meeting assumes significance as some parts of the country have resorted to local lockdowns and travel restrictions. • Cinema halls, hotels, restaurants, and offices in Maharashtra will function at 50% capacity till March 31, the state government said on Monday.• Modi is also expected to discuss the vaccination drive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-meet-cms-tomorrow-amid-rise-in-covid-cases-key-points-101615867132477.html
16-03-2021||India||Delhi airport: New terminal, runaway to increase passenger handling capacity||The Indira Gandhi International (IGI) airport in Delhi, the 17th busiest in the world and the sixth busiest in Asia, is all set for a major expansion. The expansion plans include a new terminal, additional runway, state-of-the-art facilities and enhanced passenger handling capacity. Once the expansion project is completed, the Delhi airport will become the first one in India to have four runways. The expansion program is set to increase the airport’s passenger traffic handling capacity as well from 20 million passengers a year to 40 million.Here’s everything you need to know about Delhi airport’s expansion plans:1. The expansion plan includes the development of a new terminal, T4, which is expected to be completed by 2025, according to a report in Live Hindustan. The terminal will be used only for international travellers and will help in the reduction of traffic at the airport.2. New taxiways will also be added to the existing T1 and T3 terminals.3. The plan also incorporates the construction of a fourth runway by 2022. The fourth runway is expected to increase the per hour flight handling capacity of the airport and also cut down the waiting time for approaching as well as departing flights.4. The airport will also have a first of its kind ‘dual elevated cross taxiway’ which is aimed at reducing the taxiing time of the aircraft.5. Terminal 1 will also be expanded under the plan to increase its total area after which additional lanes will be added to the departure ramp of T1 which will help in improving traffic circulation. A corridor for cargo movement in and out of the airport will also be constructed to segregate heavy vehicle movement from passenger vehicles.6. The international transfer area of T3 will also be increased and a seventh check-in island will be added in the terminal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-airport-new-terminal-runaway-to-increase-passenger-handling-capacity-101615866787067.html
16-03-2021||India||With 24,492 Covid-19 cases in last 24 hours, India’s tally over 11.4 million||India on Tuesday recorded 24,492 cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), pushing the cumulative tally past 11,409,831, the Union ministry of health and family welfare said.Witnessing a sharp rise in Covid-19 cases after a relatively controlled January and February, India has recorded more than 20,000 infections for the sixth day in a row.The fatalities due to the viral disease also increased to 158,856 after 131 deaths were recorded in the last 24 hours, data updated by the health ministry at 8am showed.The active cases also soared to 223,432 after a downward trend since January 20, as 4,170 new infections were added between Sunday and Monday morning, comprising 1.93% of the total cases seen so far. The health ministry data also showed that 11,027,543 patients were discharged as 20,191 recovered from the viral disease in the last 24 hours, it also showed. The national recovery rate stands at 96.64 per cent.In what has been termed as India's second wave amid the spike in positivity rate and active cases this month, the surge in the country's tally is being driven by five states which account for 78.41 per cent of the cases, the health ministry said on Monday. These five states include Maharashtra, Punjab, Karnataka, Gujarat and Tamil Nadu, with Maharashtra alone accounting for 63.21 per cent of the cases.A rising trajectory of daily new cases has also been observed in eight states - Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Delhi, Gujarat, Karnataka and Haryana - the health ministry also said.Additionally, authorities in India marked a feat with vaccination coverage of 3.17 crore, data on Monday showed as 3,17,71,661 vaccine doses were given, as per the provisional report till 7pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-saw-24-492-covid-19-cases-in-last-24-hours-tally-soars-past-11-4-million-101615865206149.html
16-03-2021||India||Ladakh hamlet gets satellite phone for connectivity||Authorities in the Union Territory of Ladakh have handed over a satellite phone to the villagers of Hanamure-Zangla to address the problems communication in the far-flung areas of Zanskar, an official spokesman said on Monday.Zanskar Sub-Divisional Magistrate Sonam Dorjay took a hard trek of five hours to reach the remote village on Sunday and handed over the satellite phone to local resident Tsewang Rangdol to connect the village through telecommunication services especially in case of any emergency, the spokesman said.He said Rangdol was explained how to use the phone and its recharging process.The people of Hanamure expressed immense happiness and conveyed their heartfelt thanks to the government for sanctioning a satellite phone for their convenience, the spokesman said.He said the SDM Zanskar took an on-spot appraisal of the grievances and issues raised by the villagers. PTI TAS AB TIR TIR||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ladakh-hamlet-gets-satellite-phone-for-connectivity-101615861041575.html
16-03-2021||India||News updates from HT: Isro to attempt solar mission by end of 2021 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Isro to attempt solar mission by end of 2021India is likely to attempt its first solar mission at the end of the year after the Covid-19 pandemic delayed the launch of the Aditya L-1 mission, earlier slated for the first half of 2020, according to people in the national space agency. Read moreParliament panel questions new OTT guidelinesThe Parliamentary panel on information technology on Monday quizzed officials from the ministry of information and broadcasting on the new digital media rules for intermediaries, online news entities and over the top platforms, a person familiar with the matter said. Read moreIn Maharashtra, Uddhav Thackeray’s repeated encounters with crisesIn November 2019, Shiv Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray formed a coalition government with the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and the Congress after parting ways with long-time ally Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Read more'He doesn't repeat his mistakes, he learns from them': VVS Laxman on Virat Kohli's match-winning knock in 2nd T20IIn the first T20I against England, Virat Kohli was dismissed for a duck after playing 5 balls. In the 2nd T20I, he played till the end as he hammered an unbeaten 73 runs in 48 balls to help his side chase down the total of 165 in 17.5 overs with 7 wickets still in hand. Read moreAlia Bhatt thanks everyone for their love on her birthday, Neetu Kapoor gives her a hug in new picActor Alia Bhatt, who celebrated her birthday on Monday, took to Instagram to share a picture of herself, and also thank fans for all the love they showered on her. Read moreIn debut overseas trip, Biden's secretary of state visits Japan, KoreaUS Secretary of State Antony Blinken and Defence Secretary Lloyd Austin were set to meet counterparts in Tokyo on Tuesday, highlighting a focus by the new Washington administration on alliances in Indo-Pacific in the face of assertive China. Read moreAustralia to proceed with AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine despite halt in EuropeAustralia has no plans to halt the use of the AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine, Treasurer Josh Frydenberg said on Tuesday, as several European countries paused administering the vaccine after reports of possible serious side-effects. Read moreDeepika Padukone’s bold look in one-shoulder bodycon dress sets Internet ablazeHighlighting her curves in a flattering manner, Bollywood diva Deepika Padukone left the Internet heart-eyed as she flaunted a monochromic look in a one-shoulder bodycon dress. Read more8-year-old from Bengaluru solves 3 Rubik’s Cubes using his hands and feet. WatchA video showing an eight-year-old from Bengaluru creating an incredible record with a Rubik’s Cube has left people in awe. A video shows Atharva R Bhat using his hands and feet to solve three cubes in a little over a minute. Read moreAlso watch: Batla house verdict: Javadekar demands apology from Sonia, Mamata, Kejriwal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-isro-to-attempt-solar-mission-by-end-of-2021-and-all-the-latest-news-101615862813876.html
16-03-2021||India||Rain, thunderstorms likely over western Himalayas during next 5 days: IMD||Rain and thunderstorms are likely to impact the western Himalayan region, including parts of the northwestern plains during the next five days, according to India Meteorological Department.A Western Disturbance as a trough (area of low pressure) in mid and upper tropospheric westerlies is affecting the western Himalayan region. Isolated rainfall is likely over the western Himalayan region during the next five days except over Jammu & Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan and Muzaffarabad where scattered to fairly widespread rainfall is likely on March 16 and 17. Very light rainfall is likely over the northwestern plains during March 18 to 19 and isolated thunderstorms with lightning are likely over the region on March 18. Also Read | India only G-20 country implementing Paris accord commitments: JavadekarDue to the interaction of mid-level westerlies and lower level easterlies, thunderstorm and hailstorm activity is likely over Madhya Pradesh, Madhya Maharashtra, Marathwada, Vidarbha during March 18 to 20.Widespread rainfall is also likely over Arunachal Pradesh during the next three days which will decrease thereafter; isolated rain or thundershower is likely over Arunachal Pradesh, Assam and Meghalaya during March 15 to 19.Saurashtra qnd Kutch are likely to record heatwave conditions during the next two days.Meanwhile, Delhi weather has been warm. On Monday, the maximum temperature in the national Capital settled three notches above the season’s average at 32 degrees Celsius (°C), IMD said.IMD also predicted a partly cloudy sky on Tuesday and the maximum and minimum temperatures to hover around 33°C and 16°C respectively. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rain-thunderstorms-likely-over-western-himalayas-during-next-5-daysimd-101615864012263.html
16-03-2021||India||Parliament panel questions new OTT guidelines||The Parliamentary panel on information technology on Monday quizzed officials from the ministry of information and broadcasting on the new digital media rules for intermediaries, online news entities and over the top platforms, a person familiar with the matter said.The panel, headed by Congress MP Shashi Tharoor, asked the officials several questions regarding the new guidelines and their implementation, this person added, asking not to be named. The government, on February 25 notified an expansive framework to govern online content , titled Information Technology (Guidelines for intermediaries and digital media ethics code) Rules, 2021. It gave online content providers between 30 to 90 days to comply with the same.“It was a good meeting between the Parliamentarians and the officials,” the person mentioned above said. “The officials assured the MPs that a process was followed before the new rules were implemented.”Among the questions asked were whether the ministry consulted stakeholders before rolling out the guidelines.Another key point raised was whether the rules are in conformity with the existing framework. Experts have flagged that extending the ambit of takedown powers under section 69(A) of the Information Technology to news and over the top platforms goes against the parent act, which only covers only intermediaries. NS Nappinai, Supreme Court Advocate and founder of Cyber Saathi, had earlier told HT that the proposed rules have to be evaluated for sustainability under the parent Act ie the IT Act. “A rule can only be framed within the ambit of the parent provision,” she said. “In case 69(A) is extended to cover online news agencies then the rule will have to be analyzed in context of the law enacted by Parliament.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-panel-questions-new-ott-guidelines-101615860398633.html
16-03-2021||India||Boris Johnson to visit India in April-end, Indo-Pacific ties in focus||Marking his first major international trip after Brexit, British Prime Minister Boris Johnson will visit India at the end of April as part of efforts to boost the UK’s opportunities in the region, Reuters reported citing his office on Tuesday.The confirmation from the UK PM comes two months after he had to cancel his visit to India due to rising Covid-19 infections in his country. Johnson, who was invited by India as a Republic Day chief guest, had planned the trip in January as part of efforts to speed up trade talks between the two nations.Downing Street had announced that Johnson will travel to India in January 2021 to strengthen a key strategic relationship that supports jobs and investment across the United Kingdom as part of his first major bilateral visit since taking office, and the first since the UK’s departure from the European Union.Also read: India makes its move, invites Boris Johnson to be Republic Day chief guestOn the upcoming visit, Johnson's office said, "...it would 'tilt' its focus towards the Indo-Pacific region as part of its Integrated Review of government policy for the coming years, saying the area increasingly represented the geopolitical centre of the world."Britain made a formal request to join the Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership (CPTPP) last month, seeking membership of the 11-country bloc to open new avenues for post-Brexit trade and influence. The country has also applied to become a dialogue partner of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN). "We are pursuing trade deals from Australia to the US and around the world – particularly in the Indo-Pacific region, a huge growth market for the future," foreign minister Dominic Raab wrote in December.Also read: India will take up incidents of racism with UK, says S JaishankarThe UK and India are significant investors and markets for each other’s economies with growing trade and investment relationship worth around £24 billion a year, supporting more than half a million jobs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/boris-johnson-to-visit-india-in-april-end-to-mark-his-1st-major-foreign-trip-101615857765008.html
16-03-2021||India||Replace judge in coal scam: SC to Delhi HC||The Supreme Court on Monday decided to replace the special judge in Delhi trying the coal block allocation scam cases over delay in deciding the matters.The bench, headed by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde, took note of a letter received by the registrar general of the Delhi high court last month to appoint some other judge in place of Bharat Parashar who was designated as a special judge by the apex court in 2014.The registrar general sought permission of the SC to nominate another suitable officer as special judge in place of Bharat Parashar, “in the matter which is pending for about six years when the law contemplates the disposal of such matters in two years, which may be extended up to 4 times by periods of six months each”.“We find that Mr Bharat Parashar, who has acted as a special judge, Patiala House Court, New Delhi, needs to be replaced, as he has now completed more than 6 years in the post after having been posted as special judge in the above mentioned court since August 19, 2014,” said the court.The CAG’s report tabled in Parliament in August 2012 had pegged the losses due to irregularities in allocation of coal blocks at ₹1.8 lakh crore.Subsequently, the SC ordered a CBI probe into the case and designated a special court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/replace-judge-in-coal-scam-sc-to-delhi-hc-101615859137936.html
16-03-2021||India||Taj Mahal ticket prices likely to increase for tourists||Agra administration has decided to raise the entry ticket prices for both domestic and foreign tourists.The Indian tourists, who are currently paying Rs. 50 to enter the monument, will now have to pay Rs. 80, while foreign tourists will have to shell out Rs. 1200, instead of Rs.1100 to enter the Taj.Apart from that, the ADA will also charge Rs. 200 from tourists who wish to enter the main dome, which is separate from the Rs. 200 already being charged by the ASI.Agra Divisional Commissioner Amit Gupta told ANI, "Agra Development Authority (ADA) has proposed to charge ₹200 to enter the main dome, separate to ₹200 already charged by Archaeological Survey of India (ASI)."With the new charges in place, domestic tourists wishing to enter the main dome will have to pay Rs. 480, while foreign tourists will be charged Rs. 1600.Responding to the new proposal of hiking entry tickets to the Taj, a tourist Saurabh Mishra said, "If prices surge, it would cause inconvenience to Indian tourists to see their own heritage. We used to pay ₹50 to visit the main dome. If it increases again, footfall of Indian tourists will decrease."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/taj-mahal-ticket-prices-likely-to-increase-for-tourists-101615857101527.html
16-03-2021||India||Parliamentary panel questions legality of new OTT, social media guidelines||The Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information and Technology (IT) on Monday headed by Congress leader and Lok Sabha MP Shashi Tharoor questioned the legality of new rules framed by the government to regulate OTT (Over the top) and social media platforms.Articulated by the central government to regulate OTT and social media platforms, certain members of the Parliamentary Standing Committee questioned the officials whether these rules are in conformity with the legal framework.The panel held a meeting on Monday under the chairmanship of Tharoor in which committee members grilled officials of the Information and Broadcasting Ministry and the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology."Who were consulted before making guidelines for OTT, from where the opinions were taken, whether the judiciary, intellectual people, civic society and the professionals were contacted, or are these rules made by bureaucrats only," the committee members asked the officials of Information and Broadcasting Ministry and the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, a committee member told ANI.Briefing the members of the panel, government officials justified the need for such rules in changing times and also explained the rationale behind them.On February 25, Union minister Prakash Javadekar and Ravi Shankar Prasad announced the new policies for the OTT platform and digital media.This comes as the content on OTT platforms had recently fuelled controversy, leading to public outcry and the booking of makers of some programs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliamentary-panel-questions-legality-of-new-ott-social-media-guidelines-101615854725535.html
16-03-2021||India||Split in OBC quota may help most backward from next year||Reservations for people from other backward classes (OBCs) in central government jobs and educational institutions may start including a component for the most backward among these as early as 2022 should the government accept proposals being evaluated by the Justice Rohini Commission, which hoped to submit its findings by July. It was recently granted an extension till July 31.“We submit it as soon as we return from our state consultations and if accepted, it could be implemented within the year. The President of India also has to issue the gazetted list of OBC castes that has been pending for a while,” said Jatinder K Bajaj, member of the commission.Two members of the commission confirmed that they will recommend that the current 27% quota for OBCs be broken up into four, even five sub-categories, so that the most deprived comprising 983 sub-castes of the total 2,633 castes have a quota of at least 2%. “It is a game-changing idea,’’ said JK Bajaj, member of the commission, explaining the plan to split the 27% into a combination of 2%, 6%, 9% and 10%, or a similar combination split into five categories with 2-4% for the most deprived who were not getting any benefits till now and the most empowered sub-castes like the Yadavs being limited to just 10%. “The lowest category will start getting four to five times what they have got in Central government jobs, and admissions in central educational institutions... .’’Bajaj’s reference is to the number of people from the lowest strata who currently make it to these institutions or qualify for jobs through UPSC examinations. It has found, for instance, that most beneficiaries in the last three years, belong to just 10 sub-castes .“There is a high level of inequity in the distribution of the benefits across different communities,” a consultation paper by the commission said. “The inequity across different States and UTs is almost as acute as across different castes and communities in the central list.”The commission was appointed by the President of India in October 2017. If accepted, the recommendations are also likely to have a major impact on politics, especially in north India where the rise of powerful OBC groups such as Yadavs defined the 1990s.“BJP has seen maximum expansion in the OBCs. That’s where hindutva-isation has maximum scope. That’s the space that the BJP has got maximum dividends... The OBCs also look upward as a process of sanskritisation and so politically it makes sense for the party to cultivate them,’’ said SS Jodhka, sociology professor at the Jawaharlal Nehru University.The commission is also recommending a complete digitisation of all OBC records and a standardised system of issuing OBC certificates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/split-in-obc-quota-may-help-most-backward-from-next-year-101615851402456.html
16-03-2021||India||‘Ready for more talks’: Rajnath on farmers’ stir||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Monday urged a dialogue between protesting farmers and the Centre, after the inauguration of the day-long state working committee meeting of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) here.Making an appeal to farmers upset over the new agri-marketing laws, Singh said any problem can be resolved through talks and the government was ready to hold as many rounds of talks with the farmers. “These agitations must end. We want to double income of farmers. The minimum support price (MSP) won’t end. No question about it. I too am from farmers’ family. If any amendment is required in those laws, we will do that too. We are ready to hold as many rounds of talks as they want in order to find a solution,” he said.Rajnath’s comments came shortly after Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati reiterated her demand for recall of three farm laws and kisan mahapanchayats being held across the state in which several top opposition leaders have been participating.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ready-for-more-talks-rajnath-on-farmers-stir-101615850798371.html
16-03-2021||India||Modi to meet all CMs again amid rise in Covid infections||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has called a meeting of all chief ministers on Wednesday to discuss a spike in Covid-19 infections in several parts of the country, and is expected to review India’s vaccination drive that began two months back, people aware of the matter said on Monday.The move comes at a time when new infections have been rising, with daily cases crossing the 26,000 mark on Sunday, the first time since December 19, sparking fears of the start of a new wave of Covid-19 cases.On Monday, India reported 24,434 cases.Wednesday’s meeting will be the first such discussion between the PM and the CMs since India launched the world’s largest immunisation drive against the infectious disease on January 16. An official said the meeting will be held virtually from noon on Wednesday. The PM is expected to discuss the vaccination drive and rising Covid-19 cases in some parts of the country, the official added on condition of anonymity. Modi is also expected to reiterate that the states must ensure strict adherence of health protocols, including social distancing and wearing of masks, another official said.The scheduled meeting assumes significance as some parts of the country have resorted to local lockdowns and travel restrictions. Cinema halls, hotels, restaurants and offices in Maharashtra will function at 50% capacity till March 31, the state government said on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-to-meet-all-cms-again-amid-rise-in-covid-infections-101615845615696.html
16-03-2021||India||Congress leader denied ticket to go it alone||Thiruvananthapuram: Kerala Mahila Congress president Lathika Subhash on Monday said she will contest in the upcoming assembly polls as an independent candidate, a day after she tonsured her head in protest against the denial of a ticket, even as dissent over candidate lists brewed among major parties in the state. Subhash announced her candidature from Ettumanoor constituency in Kottayam district, saying that she took the decision respecting the sentiments of her followers. Her decision invited the ire of senior party leaders, who said that the 56-year-old leader closed all avenues for discussion. “We have sympathy for her. But she should have taken it to the party forum instead of an open defiance. Her action was in bad taste and it damaged the party’s image,” said PCC vice-president Lali Vincent. Reacting to reports that the party might initiate action against her, Subhash said, “I have cut all my ties with the party. Let leaders take any action, I am least bothered. I will go by the decision of my followers.” She said she will file her papers on Tuesday. Leaders in other parts of the state also protested against the candidates list. Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala rushed to Kalpetta in Wayanad on Monday to quell dissent among local leaders who opposed the candidature of T Siddique. In Kannur, senior party leader K Sudhakaran said seats were distributed on factional lines and winnability criteria was not considered. Disgruntled Congress leaders have called a convention in Kannur on Tuesday. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) suffered a setback after tribal candidate, C Manikandan, said his name was announced without his consent. “Even if I am hanged upside down, I will not betray my people,” Manikandan wrote in a Facebook post, quoting BR Ambedkar. In Kuttiyadi in north Kerala, the CPI(M) has announced it will field party leader Kunahamad Kutty after party workers took to streets protesting the party’s decision to hand over the seat to the Kerala Congress (Mani).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-leader-denied-ticket-to-go-it-alone-101615833051636.html
16-03-2021||India||33% dip in India’s weapon imports: Sipri||India’s arms imports fell 33% between 2011-15 and 2016-20, said a report released by the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute (Sipri) on Monday, at a time the country has taken a raft of measures to cut dependence on imported military hardware.The report on international arms transfers attributed the drop in India’s arms imports mainly to an attempt to reduce its dependence on Russian arms and complex procurement processes. “Russia was the most affected supplier, although India’s imports of US arms also fell 46%,” the report said, adding that India is planning large-scale arms imports in the coming years. India’s top three arms suppliers during 2016-20 were Russia (accounting for 49% of India’s imports), France (18%) and Israel (13%), the report said.According to Sipri, India accounted for 0.2% of the share of global arms exports during 2016-20, making the country the world’s 24th largest exporter of major arms. This represents an increase of 228% over India’s export share of 0.1% during the previous five-year period - 2011-15. Myanmar, Sri Lanka and Mauritius were the top recipients of Indian military hardware, the report said.The latest import data is a clear indicator that the country’s drive towards atmanirbharta (self-reliance) is showing results, said Air Marshal Anil Chopra (retd), director general, Centre for Air Power Studies. “India is finally at an inflection point and the Indian defence industry is coming of age,” he said.Arms exports by Russia, which accounted for 20% of all exports of major arms in 2016–20, dropped by 22%, the report said. “The bulk -- around 90% -- of this decrease was attributable to a 53% fall in its arms exports to India,” Sipri said. India was the biggest importer of Russian military hardware during the last five years, accounting for 23% of Russia’s total exports.The report also said that exports by China, the world’s fifth largest arms exporter in 2016-20, fell 7.8% between 2011-15 and 2016-20. China accounted for 74% of Pakistan’s military imports during the last five years, up from 61% in 2011-15. “Pakistan is now firmly in China’s hold for its arms requirements,” Chopra said.But the US, the world’s largest arms exporter, saw its exports rise. Its global share of arms exports went up from 32% to 37% between 2011-15 and 2016-20. The five largest arms exporters in 2016-20 were the US, Russia, France, Germany and China, while the top importers were Saudi Arabia, India, Egypt, Australia and China.India has set aside ₹70,221 crore - 63% of the military’s capital budget for 2021-22 - for buying locally produced weapons and systems to boost defence indigenisation.But Sipri said India’s military imports are likely to grow over the next five years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/33-dip-in-india-s-weapon-imports-sipri-101615832811050.html
16-03-2021||India||Six new bills introduced as parliament gets back to business||As many as six legislations were introduced in Parliament on Monday as normalcy returned in both Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha after last week’s spell of disruption over rising fuel prices and the three agricultural laws.A bill to amend the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act was introduced in Lok Sabha by Union minister of women and child development Smriti Irani. The bill allowed district magistrates and additional district magistrates to authorize adoption orders which are at present only done by the courts.The bill was opposed by Congress MP Shashi Tharoor who said it violated the constitutional principle of separation of powers and resulted in a disproportionate dependence on a single authority for the protection of children.Irani told the Thiruvanthapuram MP that several states, including Kerala, were in favour of the bill.The other bills that were introduced today included the NCT of Delhi (Amendment) Bill, 2021, giving more power to the Lieutenant Governor.The Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Amendment Bill was introduced by mines minister Prahlad Joshi to bring mega reforms in the mines sector with resolution of legacy issues, and making a large number of mines available for auctions.Besides these, the National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research (Amendment) Bill, 2021 and the Marine Aids to Navigation Bill, 2021 were also introduced in Parliament today.The Rajya Sabha approved the National Institutes of Food Technology, Entrepreneurship and Management Bill to declare two institutes of the sector as institutions of national importance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/six-new-bills-introduced-as-parliament-gets-back-to-business-101615830890845.html
16-03-2021||India||UK minister on India visit may raise Michel detention||UK minister Tariq Ahmad is expected to raise the issue of Christian Michel, the alleged middleman in the AgustaWestland VVIP helicopter deal, during his ongoing visit to India, people familiar with the matter said on Monday.Ahmad, the minister of state in the foreign office responsible for South Asia, the Commonwealth and the UN, began a five-day visit of India on Monday, days after a panel of UN experts called on India to immediately release Michel as his detention was arbitrary and violated the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.A British official was granted consular access to Michel, who is a UK citizen, at Delhi’s Tihar Jail on March 10 after a gap of almost a year, the people cited above said on condition of anonymity.Ahmad, who is seen as the lead UK minister for Michel’s case, is expected to raise the matter during his meetings with interlocutors in New Delhi, the people said. The UK side is also expected to discuss Michel’s case at an upcoming dialogue of senior officials of the two countries, the people added.There was no official word from Indian or British officials on the development. At his maiden news briefing earlier this month, UK’s new high commissioner Alex Ellis said Britain acknowledged that a final decision in Michel’s case depends on the Indian judicial process, though Britain is hoping the matter will be resolved as speedily as possible. “We hope and want to have...a swift resolution of the case. It’s for the Indian judicial process to work out what should happen. That’s not our business, but obviously we want things to move as quickly as they can,” Ellis said.Michel has been held in India since December 2018 after he was extradited from the UAE.The Working Group on Arbitrary Detention (WGAD), which operates under the office of the UN high commissioner for human rights, was very critical in its evaluation of the handling of Michel’s case by the governments of the UAE and India in findings formally released in Geneva on Friday. Besides calling for Michel’s release, the WGAD said India and the UAE should “accord him an enforceable right to compensation and other reparations, in accordance with international law”.Michel was living in Dubai when India sought his extradition for involvement in alleged irregularities in the 2010 deal to acquire 12 helicopters worth 556.2 million euros.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uk-minister-on-india-visit-may-raise-michel-detention-101615830890343.html
16-03-2021||India||‘Will discuss racism issue with UK when required’: Jaishankar||India will take up incidents of racism in the UK with the country’s government when required, external affairs minister S Jaishankar said on Monday against the backdrop of strains caused by a debate on the farmers’ protest in the British parliament.Jaishankar made the remarks while responding to concerns raised in the Rajya Sabha by BJP lawmaker Ashwini Vaishnaw, who contended that racism and cyberbullying forced Rashmi Samant, the first Indian woman elected president of the Oxford University Student Union, to quit her post.“What I do want to say is that we have strong ties with the UK, we will take up such matters with great candour when required. We will monitor these developments very, very closely,” Jaishankar said in his response after Vaishnaw brought up the matter through a zero hour mention.“We will raise it when required and we will always champion the fight against racism and other forms of intolerance,” Jaishankar said.He further said: “I do want to say that as the land of Mahatma Gandhi, we can never ever turn our eyes away from racism, wherever it is, particularly when it is in a country where we have such a large diaspora. As a friend of the UK, we also have concerns about its reputational impact.”Vaishnaw also referred to the issue of alleged racism within the UK royal family that was brought up in a recent interview by Meghan Markle, the wife of Prince Harry. Noting that the behaviour of a society is a reflection of its beliefs and value systems, Vaishnaw said: “If such practices of racial discrimination are followed at the highest level in a society, what would be the following at the lower levels?” He also contended migrants were poorly treated and segregated in the UK and this was a matter of concern in India because of the large diaspora in Britain.Vaishnaw also claimed a recent report had said the death rate among people of Asian origin because of Covid-19 was higher than the death rate of other communities in the UK.Samant quit as president of the Oxford University Student Union after the emergence of old social media posts that were deemed to be “racist” and “insensitive” by groups representing Asian and Jewish students. She also upset others by comparing imperialist Cecil Rhodes to Adolf Hitler in a student union debate and separating “women” and “transwomen” in an Instagram caption.She initially offered an apology for the social media posts, some dating back to 2017, but later stepped down as president-elect after facing continued criticism. Since returning to India, Samant has claimed she was unfairly targeted.The remarks in the Rajya Sabha came about a week after the foreign secretary summoned British envoy Alex Ellis to protest against what it said was an “unwarranted and tendentious” debate in the UK Parliament that saw lawmakers criticising the Indian government’s handling of the farmers’ protest.Efforts on to send back citizens abroad: GovtIndia has been working with countries around the world, especially in West Asia, to facilitate the return of citizens working or studying there and more than a million people have travelled abroad on Air India flights, Jaishankar said on Monday. The process of facilitating the return of Indians to their jobs or studies abroad was part of post-pandemic recovery efforts, and India has been actively urging “partner governments to look sympathetically at the employment of our citizens as they chart their own recovery pathway”, the minister said in similar statements in Parliament.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-discuss-racism-issue-with-uk-when-required-jaishankar-101615830770390.html
16-03-2021||India||3 feet just as safe as 6 for physical distancing: Study||Maintaining six feet of social distancing is unlikely to be more or less safe than keeping a distance of 3 feet, especially in schools, according to a study covering over 500,000 students and close to 100,000 staff in the United States, which recommends that the lower requirement could help bring more children back to school.In a study published in the Clinical Infectious Diseases last week, researchers from Boston-based medical research institutes compared infection trends in 251 school districts in Massachusetts. They found that the risk of being infected with Covid-19 did not show any statistical difference when rules mandated three-feet social distancing or six-feet social distancing.“Increasing physical distancing requirements from 3 to 6 feet in school settings is not associated with a reduction in SARS-CoV-2 cases among students or staff, provided other mitigation measures, such as universal masking, are implemented,” said the study, published on March 10. The findings are significant in a country like India where authorities are slowly opening up schools. Schools in India were shut for one of the longest stretches of time compared to anywhere in the world, with learning moving online for those who had the means and access.“Our study adds to the literature as we were able to directly compare the impact of different physical distancing policies while controlling for other important mitigation measures, notably universal masking among staff and near universal masking among students, including close in younger grades,” said the study, while adding that “lower physical distancing recommendation can be adopted in school settings without negatively impacting safety”.The authors also noted that this could help where school infrastructure is not adequate to ensure 6 feet distancing. “The practical implication of a 6 feet of distancing recommendation is that many schools are unable to open for full-in person learning, or at all, due to physical limitations of school infrastructure. This is particularly true in public school districts, which are unable to limit the number of students enrolled, compared to private schools, which have been able to more successfully open with 6 feet of distance between individuals,” they said.While there were large differences in the absolute numbers of infections seen in the two different types of social distancing settings, they were not statistically significant when the researchers adjusted for community transmission levels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-feet-just-as-safe-as-6-for-physical-distancing-study-101615830470354.html
16-03-2021||India||'Blood clotting events not related to vaccine': Astrazeneca||Following concerns over thrombotic (blood clotting) events in certain beneficiaries after receiving vaccine shots, pharmaceutical major AstraZeneca said Monday that a review of at least 17 million individuals, who have been administered its Covid-19 vaccine, suggested that the vaccine was safe for use.In a statement, the company said that the blood clotting events were not related to the vaccine, AZD1222.“AstraZeneca would like to offer its reassurance on the safety of its Covid-19 vaccine based on clear scientific evidence. Safety is of paramount importance and the Company is continually monitoring the safety of its vaccine,” the statement said.After blood clotting events and one death were reported in Denmark, eight countries — Norway, Iceland, Austria, Estonia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Italy, and Latvia —temporarily suspended use of the Oxford-AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine as a precautionary measure.“A careful review of all available safety data of more than 17 million people vaccinated in the European Union (EU) and UK with Covid-19 Vaccine AstraZeneca has shown no evidence of an increased risk of pulmonary embolism (pulmonary artery blockage due to blood clotting, deep vein thrombosis (blood clot in vein) or thrombocytopenia (low platelets), in any defined age group, gender, batch or in any particular country,” the company statement said.According to the data reported to the company as on March 8, across the EU and the UK, there have been 15 events of deep vein thrombosis and 22 events of pulmonary embolism among those administered the vaccine. According to AstraZeneca, this is much lower than the expected occurrence in a population of this size and is similar across other licensed vaccines.“Around 17 million people in the EU and UK have now received our vaccine, and the number of cases of blood clots reported in this group is lower than the hundreds of cases that would be expected among the general population...,” said the AstraZeneca’s chief medical officer Ann Taylor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/blood-clotting-events-not-related-to-vaccine-astrazeneca-101615830410357.html
16-03-2021||India||Allowed limited Covid vaccine export: Govt||Only such quantity of Covid-19 vaccines that is beyond the manpower and infrastructural facilities available in India for the administration of doses was being sent to foreign countries, the Union government submitted in the Supreme Court on Monday.The government also defended its decision to vaccinate those above 60, and between 45 and 59 with 20 identified comorbidities, holding that the prioritisation was based on a legitimate pandemic response system and to minimise mortality in the most vulnerable groups. The simultaneous vaccination of all the citizens without any priority classification, the government told SC, would lead to “commotion” and “flouting of the social distancing guidelines” which would defeat the purpose of the entire exercise.In an affidavit filed in response to a public interest litigation (PIL), the government said that the vaccination drive needed sufficient number of medical staff, as well as infrastructural facilities such as hospitals and primary health centres across various states.Maintaining that number of vaccines at India’s disposal would never be equal or proportionate to the available manpower and infrastructural facilities in the country, the affidavit stated: “The produced vaccine, which is beyond the manpower and infrastructural facilities available, is exported.”It highlighted that “the Government of India has allowed only limited export of vaccines while according high priority to domestic needs”, in response to a contention in the PIL that vaccines were being sent to other countries while restricting the jabs for the citizens of India by creating subgroups.A total of 7.6 crore vaccines have been provided by the Centre to states and UTs till date.Stressing that any subclassification based on profession or trade would not be in the interest of the nation and the vaccination drive, the government rejected a demand by petitioner Arvind Singh to include judges, judicial staff, and lawyers, in the priority category for the administration of Covid-19 vaccines.It noted that lawyers could not be classified as “frontline workers” only because they work for others because there were several other classes of citizens who could also be contributing to the society in similar ways. About 2.1 crore people have been vaccinated in India between January 16 and March 6.On February 16, the court had issued a notice to the Centre on Singh’s petition.Transfer all cases to SC: SII and Bharat BiotechSenior advocates Harish Salve and Mukul Rohatgi also appeared in the matter on behalf of the Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech Ltd respectively, to complain against a similar case being heard by the Delhi high court.Salve told the bench, which also included justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, that the high court had been seeking various details as regards to production of the vaccines etc. He said that it would be in the fitness of things that the SC transferred to itself the proceedings pending before the high court so that the issues could be examined at one forum. Fixing the matter on March 18, the bench said that it would also consider the transfer petitions by the vaccine manufacturers on that day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/allowed-limited-covid-vaccine-export-govt-101615830351632.html
16-03-2021||India||In Maharashtra, Uddhav Thackeray’s repeated encounters with crises||In November 2019, Shiv Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray formed a coalition government with the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and the Congress after parting ways with long-time ally Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). In his 15-month tenure as chief minister of Maharashtra, Thackeray has faced many crises, the latest being the arrest of police officer Sachin Vaze in connection with an explosive-laden SUV found parked outside billionaire Mukesh Ambani’s house last month. The case, which is also related to the mysterious death of a Thane-based businessman linked to the SUV, led to ruckus in the House while it was in session with leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis seeking Vaze’s arrest. Meanwhile, the National Investigation Authority (NIA), a central agency that falls under the Union home ministry, took over the investigation of the explosives case. This situation follows close on the heels of the Covid-19 healthcare crisis.Here’s a look at some of the fires that Thackeray-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) coalition government has had to face:Covid-19 pandemicBarely four months after he took over as chief minister, Thackeray had to face an unprecedented health crisis in the form of the Covid-19 pandemic. With international travellers coming in large numbers through Mumbai airport, it did not take much time for Mumbai to see a significant rise of Covid-19 cases. By May 2020, Mumbai and Maharashtra emerged as major hot spots of Covid-19. With limited administrative experience and limited resources at his disposal, Thackeray faced an uphill task.The first few months of the pandemic saw the situation worsen as droves of migrant workers left the city despite a nationwide lockdown imposed by the Centre on March 25. Inadequate health infrastructure meant that the sharp spike in cases began to stretch the hospitals and the healthcare workers to their limit. The Covid-19 trajectory in the city peaked at an average of 2,268 new cases a day for the week ending October 3, but by then, the city and the state had a game plan in place. Jumbo Covid centres were built; a three-tier system of hospitals and care was created; testing numbers increased and remained consistently high at a state-level. Mumbai gradually began to lift curbs since June 2020 under its “Mission Begin Again”, even amid the first wave. On February 1, Mumbai resumed local train services for all, its biggest unlock measure, but since then, fresh cases have been on the rise, causing authorities to bring back a slew of measures, including sealing buildings and tightening quarantine norms.Thackeray’s election to state legislatureIt was something never seen in state politics. Thackeray, who was not a member of either House of the state legislature, needed to get elected to the assembly or the council within six months of taking oath as chief minister. When he took over, Thackeray had planned to enter the upper house of state legislature by way of election in which legislators were to elect nine members of the council. Since the election could not be held due to Covid lockdown and Thackeray had to get elected by May 27, 2020, the state cabinet requested Governor BS Koshyari to nominate the chief minister as a member to legislative council as one such position was vacant. Koshyari, however, did not accept the recommendation despite two requests by the state cabinet. Failure to get elected could have become a political crisis for Thackeray.Finally, he had to put in a request with Prime Minister Narendra Modi after which Koshyari asked the Election Commission to hold pending election for nine vacant posts in the upper house. Thackeray was elected unopposed along with others on May 14, 2020.Run-ins with the GovernorFriction between Raj Bhavan and the Thackeray government has been a constant feature of this government’s tenure. It began with Koshyari’s position on Thackeray’s election. In the past year, Koshyari has publicly expressed his unhappiness over the state’s action against journalist Arnab Goswami and actor Kangana Ranaut. There was also a bitter exchange of letters between Thackeray and him over a delay in reopening temples in the state. The Governor wrote to the CM on October 12, asking why temples were not being reopened and even asked him: “Have your turned secular?” Thackeray wrote back saying he would do what was in the interest of the people. The state government allowed reopening of temples after a little over a month, from November 16.Also Read | Maharashtra CM announces a memorial at August Kranti MaidanKoshyari also rejected state government’s decision not to hold university examinations due to Covid-19. Last month, Thackeray’s office did not give Koshyari permission to use state government’s plane to fly to Uttarakhand. Koshyari had to take a commercial flight. The Governor has still not cleared a list of 12 persons to be nominated to the Upper House of the state legislature despite repeated requests by the government. The list was submitted to the Governor on November 6, 2020, and the issue remains a contentious one.Palghar and Sushant Singh Rajput Two cases became major controversies for the Thackeray government. In April 2020, a mob in a village in Palghar district lynched two religious figures and a man driving them, on the suspicion of being child-lifters, according to the local police. The BJP, however, alleged that the attack was communally motivated. The government handed over the case to Criminal Investigation Department of the state police. Home minister Anil Deshmukh also announced that 101 persons were arrested in the case. Action was also taken against 18 police personnel for dereliction of duty and their departmental inquiry is on.In case of actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death in June 2020, BJP MP and former CM Narayan Rane said Rajput was murdered and the government was trying to save the culprits. BJP legislator Ram Kadam alleged that the government was ignoring the drug mafia that had links to Bollywood which could be a significant aspect of mystery surrounding Rajput’s death. The apex court handed over the investigation to the Central Bureau of Investigation, which has not reached any conclusion as yet. Both cases saw a social media offensive against Thackeray.Sena minister forced to resignSena leader Sanjay Rathod became the first minister of the MVA government to resign February 28, following a controversy. It was over the death of a 23-year old woman who allegedly died by suicide in Pune on February 8. Soon, a bunch of audio clips went viral and BJP leader Chitra Wagh demanded that the police find out if one of the persons in the tapes was forest minister Rathod.Also Read | Spate of criminal cases puts Maharashtra govt in tight spot, leaders wary of imageThough Thackeray was not keen to take action against his minister initially, he had to order the latter to step down as the issue became bigger and NCP chief Sharad Pawar advised the CM to take action to minimise damage to the MVA government’s image. Rathod comes from Banjara community which has strong presence in some parts of the state. The delay on part of Thackeray to take action against Rathod gave enough ammunition to the Opposition to target him.The Munde matter Dhananjay Munde, the nephew of late Gopinath Munde, joined the NCP after his uncle picked cousin Pankaja as the political heir. He was made the social justice minister in the Thackeray government. On January 11, in a letter to the city police commissioner, a woman accused him of rape. Denying the allegations, Munde said that he was in a relationship with the woman’s sister with whom he also had two children. He escaped the axe as two leaders, from BJP and Maharashtra Navnirman Sena, came forward and alleged that the same woman had blackmailed them in the past. The woman eventually withdrew her allegations.Speaker’s electionThackeray faces another challenge — the election of the Speaker of the Assembly. Following Congress’s decision to make former Speaker Nana Patole its state unit president, the post is now vacant. On February 16, Governor Koshyari asked the government to hold the election. Thackeray chose not to hold the same during the crucial budget session that was held between March 1 and 10. His alliance partner Congress — which has the Speaker’s post — is not happy and wants the election early while NCP is not keen on the same. There is no time limit to hold the election.Aarey Colony and Metro car shedOn October 11, 2020, Thackeray announced that he was scrapping the controversial car shed for Metro 3 line of Mumbai Metro network at Aarey Milk Colony, one of the few remaining green spaces in Mumbai. Instead, the Metro depot would be built at Kanjurmarg, he announced. On December 17, the Bombay high court stayed the state’s move to transfer 102 acres of land at Kanjurmarg for the construction of car shed. The court stayed the transfer on a petition by the Central Government which claimed the ownership of the land. Not only has this delayed the project, it is also an embarrassment for the governmentAlso Read | ‘Local issue,’ says Sharad Pawar on Vaze’s arrest; criticises Governor KoshyariThe state government had declared that the plot belongs to it and it made more sense to have an integrated car shed for multiple Metro lines at Kanjurmarg. Thackeray had announced that the plan was better than the Devendra Fadnavis-led government’s move to build a car shed at Aarey Colony. The government is yet to solve the tangle.Economy contraction The Covid lockdown has affected Maharashtra’s economy. The revenue of the state is expected to fall sharply by ₹57,959 crore, while the estimated revenue in 2020-21 was ₹347,457 crore. The state’s economic survey has predicted a negative 8% fall of state economy in 2020-21. The industry and services sectors that contribute heavily to state’s revenue are expected to show negative growth at -11.3% and - 9% respectively. The state’s debt is estimated to be ₹538,304 crore in 2020-21. Meanwhile, the state government is awaiting about ₹50,000 crore from the Centre on account of GST compensation, devolution in central taxes and allocation for centrally funded schemes. Reviving the state’s economy will be a tough challenge for Thackeray. Since the central government is not exactly friendly with the MVA government, there will be more trouble for Thackeray if he doesn’t get Central funding in time.Antilia scare An abandoned vehicle with 200 gelatine sticks found outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s house Antilia has turned into a political fight, with the BJP accusing the MVA of shielding a police officer who is implicated in the case. The MVA government responded by creating a Special Investigation Team (SIT) to probe the death by suicide of a Dadra and Nagar Haveli legislator, who named a former BJP legislator in a suicide note. In the current case, Thane businessman Mansukh Hiran who was linked to the vehicle found outside Antilia on February 25, was found dead 10 days later. Sachin Vaze, the cop, has been defended by Shiv Sena leaders. On Sunday, he was remanded to NIA custody. BJP leaders are demanding that Vaze’s links with Shiv Sena leaders should be probed. Former chief minister Narayan Rane has demanded President’s rule in the state. Chief minister Thackeray has maintained silence on the issue for the past couple of days. This issue may turn into one of his biggest challenges yet.Political analyst Hemant Desai said: “Rarely any chief minister of the state has faced one crisis after another as faced by Uddhav Thackeray. He has not shown the political acumen needed to counter an aggressive opposition like BJP. Besides, there is a clear lack of coordination among the three partners of the ruling MVA which is seen in the government’s scattered response to different problems.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-maharashtra-uddhav-thackeray-s-repeated-encounters-with-crises-101615797530112.html
