17-03-2021||India||Bypolls a chance for CM to recover lost heft: Experts||Bengaluru After spending most of his term in office fighting internal discontentment, the bypolls to three constituencies on April 17 come as a fresh opportunity to Karnataka chief minister B S Yediyurappa to not only silence the opposition but also reestablish his image as the undisputed leader of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the state. On Tuesday, the Election Commission had announced that polling for the parliamentary seat of Belagavi (Belgaum) and two assembly constituencies in Maski and Basavakalyan will be held on April 17.“The expectations will be high because the government (party in power) is expected to win the bypolls,” Narendra Pani, political analyst and faculty at the National Institute of Advanced Studies (NIAS) said. “If he (Yediyurappa) wins, he will certainly know how to use the victory as it will become difficult for the dissident to go against him,” he added.In 2017, then chief minister Siddaramaiah had asserted his leadership and silenced calls to replace him after he won the Gundlupet and Nanjangud bypolls which the Congress had lost in previous elections. However, demands for Siddaramaiah’s removal were only raised within the state unit. For Yediyurappa, the challenges lay at both the state and the Centre with whom his relations have soured in recent years. Ever since he came to power, Yediyurappa has gone out of his way to fulfil his obligation towards the turncoats, fueling dissent among his core-party legislators in the process. To ensure his victory in the bypolls, the chief minister will have to get his party and divided government behind him. Of the three seats, Maski in Raichur district is a crucial one. In 2018, the Congress’s Pratapgouda Patil had won the seat with a margin of just 2013 votes against Basanagowda Turviha of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Yediyurappa will be required to convince his party leadership and its earlier candidate to lend their support to Patil who was among the 17 legislators who had resigned from the former H D Kumaraswamy-led Janata Dal (Secular) government and joined the saffron camp in November, 2019. The Basavakalayan seat was held by Congress B Narayana Rao but fell vacant after his demise last year. Similarly, the parliamentary seat in Belagavi fell vacant after the death of Union Suresh Angadi last year. Though Angadi had won this seat with over 63% of the vote share in 2019, analysts believe that the revival of the Belgaum border dispute by BJP’s ally-turned-rival Shiv Sena in Maharashtra is likely to play a significant factor in the bypolls. There were 58 candidates in the fray from this seat last year, a tactic used by the Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti (MES) to split the votes of both the national parties whom they have accused of ignoring their pleas pertaining to the region.The MES, an umbrella organisation created to integrate Marathi speaking majority districts of Karnataka with Maharashtra, has decided to neither support the Congress nor the BJP in the by-polls this year.While Yediyurappa may have reconciled with the fact that this could possibly be his last stint as chief minister, analysts believe that his reservation-based politics in recent weeks and months is in the direction to cement his legacy as the ‘sole leader’ of the party and possible face of the next assembly elections as well.With no second-rung leadership to match the chief minister’s stature, the BJP is digging deep to find a credible replacement or lose a state which is key to its plans of penetrating deeper into Tamil Nadu and Kerala where it has little or no presence at all.Yediyurappa is also the leader of the dominant and politically-influential Lingayat community and any efforts to unseat him before his term is likely to trigger a backlash like it did in 2013. A disgruntled Yediyurappa had quit the BJP in 2012 (just before the elections in 2013), bringing the party down from 110 seats in 2008 to just 40 in 2013, thereby giving an edge to the Congress led by Siddaramaiah. Besides, the bypolls are also crucial for Yediyurappa to placate his second son B Y Vijayendra. “His son has been given the responsibility of the Maski assembly constituency and the intentions of Yediyurappa are very clear,” a north Karnataka-based political analyst said on condition of anonymity. Vijayendra has been accused of running a parallel administration with the Yediyurappa government, earning the ire of ministers and several seniors within the party fold. A senior office bearer of the state BJP, Vijayendra had registered his first victory during the KR Pete bypolls in December 2019. Meanwhile, the bypolls also pose a challenge to the opposition, mainly the faction-hit Congress, which had two of the three seats in the previous elections. “The Congress has to win at least one of the three bypoll seats for D K Shivakumar (state party chief) to be counted as a leader,” the analyst said. The infighting within the Congress in the state has dented the party’s chances of cornering a government which is already facing pressure from its dissidents. While Siddaramaiah has refused to cede control of the Congress in Karnataka, Shivakumar is battling to assert himself and his plans to switch from a caste-based support to mass-based support like the BJP. Both assembly seats are also in the Kalyana-Karnataka (formerly Hyderabad-Karnataka) area, one of the most backward regions in the country. This region has not received much attention and it remains to be seen if the Congress can iron out its internal differences and cash in on these weaknesses. The role of the JD(S) will also be crucial as regional outfit led by former prime minister H D Deve Gowda and former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy share an on-and-off partnership with the BJP. While the JD(S) does not have a strong presence in all the three constituencies, it remains to be seen which way the supporters will swing since the outfit has so far skirted the possibility of contesting any of the three seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bypolls-a-chance-for-cm-to-recover-lost-heft-experts-101616005750107.html
17-03-2021||India||Jan Shatabdi train runs in reverse for over 20 km in Uttarakhand as brakes fail||In a bizarre incident, the Purnagiri Jan Shatabdi express train ran backwards between Tanakpur-Pilibhit railway line on Wednesday evening for over 20 km, a railway official said. The train which was on its way to Tanakpur in Uttarakhand from Delhi was finally stopped near Khatima in US Nagar district.Rajendra Singh, public relation officer, North Eastern railway division Izzatnagar, Bareilly said, “A cow had been killed near home signal in Tanakpur by the Purnagiri Jan Shatabdi train while heading to Tanakpur in the evening on Wednesday. The train was stopped due to an accident but suddenly it started running towards Pilibhit due to slope and the pilots’ effort to stop the train went in vain.” The train’s brakes failed due to leakage in the pressure pipe which left the pilots helpless to stop it and sparked panic among the passengers, said an official. Railway crossings were shut to avoid any untoward incidents on the track. The train crossed Banbasa and Chakarpur railway stations before railway officials managed to stop it close to Goshikuaon village near Khatima of US Nagar district at about 5 pm.Singh said, “The train was stopped by putting soil and aggregates on the track between Banbasa and Khatima. All passengers were safe and were sent to Tanakpur by roadways buses. Railway officials are repairing the fault and the train will be sent to Tanakpur.” He said, “A committee of three senior officers has been constituted to ascertain the cause of the incident. Action will be taken against those responsible accordingly.” The Purnagiri Jan Shatabdi train service between Tanakpur and Delhi was flagged off on February 26. It leaves from Tanakpur at 11.25 am for Delhi and another train arrives at Tanakpur railway station from Delhi at 4.15 pm daily.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jan-shatabdi-train-runs-in-reverse-for-over-20-km-in-uttarakhand-as-brakes-fail-101616005450655.html
17-03-2021||India||CPI(M) took right approach in Sabarimala case: Yechury||Thiruvananthapuram: Communist Party of India (Marxist) general secretary Sitaram Yechury’s remarks on Wednesday that the party, the head of the incumbent LDF government in the state, adopted the right approach to the Sabarimala temple row in 2018, triggered a political storm with the party’s rivals in the state pointing out that this comment, and the “regret” expressed by a state minister on the government’s response to the controversy exposed the party’s “double standards”. Speaking to a news channel in New Delhi, Yechury wondered why Kerala temple affairs minister Kadakampally Surendran expressed ‘regret’ over the “incidents” at the Sabarimala shrine in 2018 over the entry of women of all ages, as decreed by the Supreme Court that year. “I don’t know in which context Surendran said this. As far as the party is concerned, its position on the issue remains the same. We believe in equality. The elected government was duty-bound to implement the verdict of the highest court of the country,” he said. “The Supreme Court verdict upheld equality. The government had no other option but to implement it,” he added.Last week, Surendran said that the protests over the entry of women devotees “pained everyone” and “shouldn’t have happened”. Surendran said he did not want to respond to Yechury’s comments. The minister is seeking another term from Kazhakootam, on the outskirts of the state capital. Surendran’s main opponent and BJP leader Shobha Surendra, however, emphasised that the temple would be an important poll issue. “How can he shed tears now? He presided over the brutal attack on the devotees,” she said. Accusing the ruling party of having “double standards”, state BJP chief K Surendran told reporters: “The party’s double standards are exposed yet again. Several devotees are making regular rounds to the court for chanting hymns during the protests. Yechury has now made it clear that the party does not stand with the devotees. The devotees cannot be deceived in this manner.” Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala said Yechury’s remarks showed that the minister’s regret was only aimed at garnering votes. “The party has insulted the devotees again. The state minister’s regret was only aimed at some votes.” In a 4-1 verdict on September 28, 2018, the Supreme Court overturned the decades-old norm of not allowing women in the 10-50 age group from entering the shrine of the bachelor God. The court noted that the rule had violated the women’s right to equality and right to worship. The state witnessed high drama and violence after at least 18 women belonging to the age group were prevented from entering the temple by protesting devotees. Kerala also witnessed five shutdowns during the three-month pilgrimage season that year. In 2019, the court referred several revision petitions to a nine-member bench which is yet to begin hearings. The judgement itself has not been stayed, although the protests have died down because of an informal understanding that no woman will try to break the norm.Ahead of the assembly polls, the Left Democratic Front government in the state withdrew close to 5,000 cases registered in connection with the Sabarimala agitation, last month. Its handling of the temple issue was one of the reasons behind its drubbing in the 2019 Parliamentary elections where it lost all but one of the 20 Lok Sabha seats. The Congress, its main rival in the state and the head of the UDF was the biggest beneficiary. The party had recently instructed its leaders to refrain from making any comments on the issue. Reacting to the comments of the minister, former chief minister Oommen Chandy of the Congress asked the government to withdraw its affidavit in the court, saying that this was one of the main reasons that led to the verdict in 2018.“If the government is sincere enough, it has to withdraw its affidavit and ask for status quo at the temple. The affidavit filed during the regime of the last government was the main cause of all troubles.” Polling for the 140-member assembly will be held on April 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cpim-took-right-approach-in-sabarimala-case-yechury-101616004790066.html
17-03-2021||India||Man sentenced to death for raping 5-yr-old||Jaipur A local court for Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) in Jhunjhunu district on Wednesday completed trial in a rape case in record 16 days and awarded death penalty to a 20-year-old man who had raped a five-year-old girl last month.The entire process was completed in 26 days, police said. While pronouncing the judgment on Wednesday, justice Sukesh Kumar Jain told the accused: “During the course of hearing, the court did not see repentance in your eyes. Your punishment could have been different had it seen the repentance in your eyes.” The court also lauded the efforts of the Jhunjhunu police for its speedy investigation. “The investigation done by the police is an example of a very good investigation in which every evidence, including scientific, electronic and physical evidence were corroborated very well… it could be considered as an idol investigation. The senior officials of the police department should use this investigation as a case study,” the judgment read. The statement of more than 40 witnesses was collected and around 250 documents were submitted as evidence, inspector general of police (Jaipur range) Hawa Singh Ghumariya said. According to the police, the minor was playing outside her house with her cousins when she was abducted and raped on February 19. She was later found around 27 kilometres away from her home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-sentenced-to-death-for-raping-5yrold-101616003711667.html
17-03-2021||India||Cancellation of ration cards a serious issue: SC||The Supreme Court on Wednesday sought a response from the Central government on a plea regarding cancellation of around 30 million ration cards across India between 2013 and 2016, leading to alleged denial of rations and starvation deaths. “It is a very serious issue. We expect you not to treat it as adversarial,” the bench, headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde, told the counsel for the Centre. The public interest litigation (PIL), filed by a woman from Jharkhand, has alleged starvation deaths following denial of food after her ration card was cancelled. Appearing for petitioner Koili Devi, senior advocate Colin Gonsalves claimed that around three crore [30 million] ration cards of poor people were cancelled by authorities across the country as they were not linked with Aadhaar cards and the petitioner’s 13-year-old girl died of starvation in September 2017 after they were denied ration. When the bench, which also included justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, suggested that the issue could be heard by respective high courts, Gonsalves pointed out that the proceedings before the top court were justified since ration cards were cancelled at the central level due to the Aadhaar linkage process initiated by the Centre. Representing the Centre, additional solicitor general (ASG) Aman Lekhi opposed the plea and stated that the PIL was based only on newspaper reports and that there were no reliable statistics adduced by Gonsalves to corroborate his contentions. “There is a grievance redressal system under the Food Security Act. This court has already sought responses from the state governments on this. The plea, as being pressed, is completely misconceived because there is an absolute clarity that if Aadhaar is not available, alternative documents can be submitted. We have clearly said Aadhaar or no Aadhaar, it will not deny right to food,” said Lekhi. Attorney General KK Venugopal, also appearing for the Centre, supported Lekhi’s arguments. After hearing the counsel, the court said it would hear the PIL in detail after three weeks. In November 2019, the court had called upon all states to apprise it of steps taken by them to put in place the grievance redressal mechanism, as provided under the National Food Security Act. Venugopal had then cited Sections 14, 15, 16 and 40 of the Act that mandate every state government to have internal grievance redressal mechanism and nodal officers for effective and expeditious redressal of food grievance. During a hearing on February 24, the Centre had denied allegations of starvation deaths in Jharkhand and arbitrary cancellation of ration cards across the country, pointing out the cancellation between 2013 to 2016 pertained to ‘ghost’ ration cards. Venugopal had said that the statistics referred to in the petition were completely wrong and that the Centre was ready to prove the averments as incorrect.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cancellation-of-ration-cards-a-serious-issue-sc-101616003649939.html
17-03-2021||India||India must take first step to improve ties: Imran Khan||New DelhiPakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan said on Wednesday that India will have to take the first step for improving bilateral relations by addressing Kashmir, which is the only issue standing in the way of better ties between the two sides. “There is one issue that is stopping us [from improving relations] at this time. We will make our efforts but India must take the first step because after August 5, till they take the first step, then unfortunately we cannot move forward,” Khan said, referring to India’s decision on August 5, 2019 to scrap Jammu and Kashmir’s special status and to split the region into two Union Territories. “Our issue basically is Kashmir and it is the only issue – how we can settle it through dialogue and establish a relationship as civilised neighbours,” he said, speaking in Urdu. These were Khan’s first public comments on relations with India since the Indian and Pakistani armies recommitted themselves to the 2003 ceasefire on the LoC in Jammu and Kashmir from the midnight of February 24 – an apparent outcome of behind-the-scenes contacts between the two countries.Khan made the remarks while addressing the first edition of the Islamabad Security Dialogue, a two-day summit organised by Pakistan’s National Security Division in collaboration with the country’s leading think tanks.Khan noted that he had attempted to settle all issues with India after forming government in 2018. “Unfortunately, there was August 5 and that was a big blow and there was a total breakdown between the two countries,” he said. “We still hope that they [India] give the Kashmiris the rights they were given by the UN Security Council to decide their own lives. It will be as beneficial for India as for Pakistan,” Khan said. “If there is movement towards the resolution of Kashmir through dialogue, the whole region will change and there will be big benefits to both countries – benefits for India because there is great poverty there. So if poverty is to be removed then our trading and economic ties must be strong and our regional connectivity should increase. India will benefit from being connected to Central Asia,” he added. Khan’s remarks reflected a change from his strident criticism of India and the Narendra Modi government over the past year. On Monday, foreign secretary Harsh Shringla said the onus was on Pakistan to create a conducive atmosphere for a meaningful dialogue. Shringla listed India’s relations with Pakistan as one of the challenges in the neighbourhood. “India desires good neighbourly relations with Pakistan and is committed to addressing issues, if any, bilaterally and peacefully,” Shringla said.During his speech, Khan said Pakistan’s national security was not just about the armed forces, but included vulnerability to climate change, food security and economic matters. “As long as there is no regional peace and our relations with our neighbours and trading ties are not good, Pakistan won’t be able to take full advantage of its geo-strategic location. If there is peace in this region, Pakistan will be the biggest beneficiary because we are connected in all four directions,” he said. “We are connected to the world’s two largest markets – I mean we are connected with China and we can be connected with the other, India,” he added. Khan also spoke of Pakistan’s role in the troubled peace process in Afghanistan, saying: “After a long time, there is hope for peace in Afghanistan...No one should underestimate how difficult this is, there are big challenges in this.” He added, “We are making all efforts, I am very happy that Pakistan has done as much as it could for peace in Afghanistan but there are challenges. The (U.S President Joe) Biden administration understands the war shouldn’t continue. We are trying and we hope that once Afghanistan is settled, there will be a big shift in this region.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-must-take-first-step-to-improve-ties-imran-khan-101616003590436.html
17-03-2021||India||Allahabad Univ V-C complains over ‘loud’ azaan at nearby mosque||The management committee of a mosque near Allahabad University on Wednesday changed the direction of one of its two loudspeakers and reduced their volume. The move came after Sangita Srivastava, the university vice-chancellor, wrote a letter to officials seeking a ban on Muslim calls for prayer via loudspeakers from the mosque saying it disturbs her sleep in the morning.Kaleem-ur-Rehman, the caretaker of the Lal Masjid, said after police informed them about the problem, the committee immediately took steps to address the issue. “The volume of the system, which was already a decibel less than the norm set by the [Allahabad high] court, has been further reduced by half and direction of one of the loudspeakers has also been changed, so that it points away from the vice chancellor’s home,” he said.Rehman said had she spoken to the members of the management committee, they would have ensured that there was no inconvenience to anyone living near the mosque..Earlier in her letter dated March 3 to district magistrate Bhanu Chandra Goswami complaining about noise pollution, Srivastava said every day at around 5.30 am, her sleep gets disturbed due to the call from the mosque. Copies of the letter were also marked to other top officials.“The sleep so disturbed does not resume even after trying very hard. This also results in a headache throughout the day, causing losses in work hours,” said the letter, a copy of which HT has seen.The letter went viral on social media.Srivastava attached a copy of the Allahabad high court’s May 2020 judgement on azaan, or the call for prayer. The court held that azaan may be an essential part of Islam, but its amplification cannot be said to be integral to the religion, warranting protection of the fundamental right enshrined under Article 25 of the Constitution, which is even otherwise subject to public order, morality or health, and other provisions. Thus, under no circumstances, sound amplifying devices can be permitted to be used between 10pm and 6am, the order said.Goswami said the letter was received and necessary action as per the law would be taken.Prayagraj’s senior police superintendent Sarvashresth Tripathi said orders have been issued for a probe in light of the complaint.Former Allahabad University Students’ Union vice-president Akhilesh Yadav said the concept of communal harmony lies at India’s core and unfortunately speaking against religions has become fashionable. He demanded strict action against Srivastava.The call for prayers is made five times a day. Their timings wary depending on sunrise and sunset and each call does not last more than three minutes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/allahabad-univ-v-c-complains-over-loud-azaan-at-nearby-mosque-101616003591138.html
17-03-2021||India||Eye on Covid-19 surge, CM Nitish Kumar says Bihar to hike testing||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Wednesday said that the state government was keeping a watch on the recent spurt in cases of Covid-19 in various states and will hold a high-level meeting soon to plan strategies to curb the outbreak.Kumar was addressing the media in the state legislature premises after participating in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s meeting with CMs to assess their preparedness in the wake of a possible second wave of Covid-19 across states.The Bihar CM said that the situation in the state was not alarming yet, as the state was witnessing about 20 to 48 cases of Covid-19 infection on a daily basis. “Yet, the health department has decided to ensure testing of nearly 70,000 people daily for the disease. Arrangements are being made to conduct the maximum testing through the RT-PCR mode,” said Kumar, adding that vaccination against the disease was also being conducted properly.Regarding the ruckus in the assembly, the CM said that he got to know that some of the members acted against the dignity of the House, after he got free from the PM’s meeting. “We will discuss the issue. The members shall also ensure that business of the house shall not be disrupted. All of them, whether of the treasury or in the opposition, should cooperate with the chair to conduct the proceedings,” said Kumar.About the opposition’s demand to sack his cabinet minister Ram Surat Rai over recovery of liquor from the school of his brother, Kumar said that the minister had clarified his position in the case. “Rai had stated that his family got separated with his brother. Rai never said that those responsible for breach of the prohibition law would be spared,” the CM said.Kumar said that he had been reviewing the issues of law and order and cases of violation of liquor law regularly. “The home department in its reply in the House yesterday categorically stated that the incidence of crime has come down. People should remain alert for violation of the liquor law. I assure that those involved in illegal trade of liquor will not be spared,” said the CM.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eye-on-covid-19-surge-cm-nitish-kumar-says-bihar-to-hike-testing-101616003351160.html
17-03-2021||India||Tamil Nadu reports over 900 new Covid-19 cases, 8 deaths||Tamil Nadu on Wednesday recorded 945 new Covid-19 infections and eight deaths. With this, the caseload to 8,62,374 while the fatalities took the toll to 12,564, the Health Department said.The state has been reporting new infections above 500 since March 5 while recoveries have been remaining low. Recoveries were lesser today as against the new infections with 576 patients being discharged, taking the cumulative number to 8,43,999 leaving 5,811 active cases, a health bulletin said.Chennai accounted for most of the new infections with 395 cases being reported, aggregating 2,39,878 till date.The metropolis also leads in the number of fatalities with 4,187.Among the eight fatalities, Chennai accounted for five while Chengalpet, Vellore and Thiruvannamalai recorded one each.A 30-year-old woman ailing with diabetes mellitus was among the deceased due to Covid-19 pneumonia, the bulletin said.A total of 71,888 samples were tested today, taking the cumulative number of specimens examined so far to 1,84,85,460.Chengalpet and Coimbatore reported new cases in triple digits with 103 and 107 people contracting the contagion respectively.Perambalur was the lone district to clock nil fresh cases while active infections were at seven.Seven individuals, who returned from the West Bengal, Kerala and Bihar were among those who tested positive today, the bulletin said.Earlier in the day, Chief secretary Rajeev Ranjan and senior officials representing health and family welfare, revenue and police, among others, took part in an online video conference with Prime Minister Narendra Modi to review the pandemic situation and ongoing vaccination drive.Later talking to reporters after reviewing the Covid-19 ward at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital in Chennai, Health secretary J Radhakrishnan said the government has requested the Centre to decrease the vaccination age- limit from the current 60 and above to 50 years and above to cover a larger section of people."We have requested the Centre to reduce the age-limit from 60 to 50 years to get vaccination. We appeal to those engaged in public activity and are above the age of 45 with co- morbidity to get vaccinated", he said.What medical experts have identified is that there is a laxity among the public since the fresh cases have come down while fatality was also below 10 a day, he said."In February, there were weddings, birthdays and funerals and in March there is increased political activity. However, people while taking part in those functions tend to avoid wearing masks and maintaining social distancing," he said.The appeal from the government is that it is a virus and can affect anyone.People who are part of gatherings should follow the government laid down standard operating procedures, he said.Districts like Chennai, Coimbatore, Chengalpet, Thiruvallur, Kancheepuram, Tiruppur, Thanjavur were posing a challenge in containing the spread of virus, he said in reply to a query.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-reports-over-900-new-covid-19-cases-8-deaths-101616001557332.html
17-03-2021||India||Watch: Purnagiri Jan Shatabdi train runs backwards, passengers safe||A video of the Purnagiri Jan Satabdi train running in the opposite direction has emerged on social media while the reason for this strange incident remains unknown. There was a cattle runover incident between Khatima and Tanakpur section in Uttarakhand, news agency ANI reported, after which the train started running in the reverse direction. According to the report, the incident took place early on Wednesday.#WATCH | Purnagiri Jansatabdi train runs backwards due to cattle run over b/w Khatima-Tanakpur section in Uttarakhand. Incident happened earlier today.There was no derailment & passengers were transported to Tanakpur safely. Loco Pilot & Guard suspended: North Eastern Railway pic.twitter.com/808nBxgxsaIn the video, it can be seen that the train was running in the opposite direction. From the video, the train doesn't appear to be crowded, but it has been confirmed that all 64 passengers have been transported to Tanakpur safely by the road. The loco pilot and guard have been suspended, ANI reported quoting north eastern railway sources.In other videos that are doing the rounds on social media, local people can be seen shouting in an attempt to raise an alarm over the train moving in the reverse direction.According to a report of Live Hindustan, the train (05326) was going from Delhi to Tanakpur via Pilibhit. It reached Tanakpur when a cow got hit by the train. The driver applied the brakes and after that when the vacuum was drawn to move the train ahead, the train started running in the opposite direction.The train could not be stopped before Khatima. It is not yet clear how the train could be stopped there either.All the gates of the train were closed and all regional officers were alerted. Railway doctors too came to the spot after the train finally stopped at Khatima, but there was no untoward incident. Izzatnagar railway division's public relations officer told Live Hindustan that an inquiry committee has been constituted to look into the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/watch-purnagiri-jansatabdi-train-runs-backwards-passengers-safe-101616002119266.html
17-03-2021||India||As Covid-19 cases rise, bus services in Ahmedabad suspended till further orders||Officials in Ahmedabad said on Wednesday that due to rising cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the city, bus services of the Ahmedabad Municipal Transport Service (AMTS) and Ahmedabad Bus Rapid Transit System will remain suspended from Thursday, till further orders, according to news agency ANI.“In wake of the increasing number of Covid-19 cases, Ahmedabad Municipal Transport Service and Ahmedabad Bus Rapid Transit System buses’ operation to remain suspended from tomorrow until further orders,” reported ANI.Gujarat: In wake of the increasing number of #COVID19 cases, Ahmedabad Municipal Transport Service (AMTS) and Ahmedabad Bus Rapid Transit System buses operation to remain suspended from tomorrow until further orders.On Wednesday, Ahmedabad contributed 271 of Gujarat’s 1,122 new infections of the viral disease. The city also saw one related death, of the three fatalities reported in the western state. Wednesday also marks the first time since December last year that Gujarat logged more than 1,000 new daily coronavirus cases. Its caseload stands at 281,173, including 271,433 recoveries, 5,310 active cases and 4,430 deaths.Surat reported the highest number of Covid-19 cases on the day, 353, followed by Ahmedabad, Vadodara (114) and Rajkot (112).Earlier, the Gujarat government extended night curfew in these four major cities till March 31; the curfew was first imposed in November last year and has, since then, witnessed six extensions. However, this time, the night curfew will be in place from 10pm to 6am, as against the earlier 12am-6am.Also Read | Covid-19: Commercial activity to cease in 8 wards of Gujarat’s Ahmedabad post 10pm“The state government has decided to impose a curfew from 10pm to 6am,” the government had said in an official statement.The last three matches of the ongoing India vs England T20I series in Ahmedabad were also ordered to be played behind closed doors; initially, crowds up to 50% were allowed in the Narendra Modi Stadium for the five-match series. The third match was played on Tuesday, while the remaining two will be played on March 18 and 20.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/as-covid-10-cases-rise-bus-services-in-ahmedabad-suspended-till-further-orders-101616001788001.html
17-03-2021||India||MP police announce cash reward for arrest of BSP MLA’s husband in murder case||After a rap from the Supreme Court, Madhya Pradesh police have announced a cash reward of ₹50,000 for the arrest of BSP MLA Rambai Parihar’s husband Govind Singh, who is wanted in connection with a murder of a local Congress leader in Damoh, director general of police (DGP) said on Wednesday. The police swung into action after the Supreme Court pulled up the state government last week for failing to arrest Govind Singh in connection with the murder of a local Congress leader Devendra Chaurasiya of Hata town of Damoh district. Govind Singh has been absconding since January 20.The apex court reprimanded the state government for poor law and order situation in the state after additional session judge RP Sonkar, who is conducting the trial in the murder case, alleged the police were supporting Govind Singh and maligning his image by making false accusations. The Supreme Court also asked DGP to hold an inquiry in the matter. Following the reprimand by the top court, additional director general of police, special task force (STF) Vipin Maheshwari reached Damoh to lead the search operation. Maheshwari also met additional session judge RP Sonkar on Tuesday night to inquire into the matter, said a police officer on condition of anonymity.The MP police has formed 15 teams to nab Singh. The police on Wednesday also raided the residence of Rambai Parihar at Damoh town. Additional superintendent of police, Shiv Kumar Singh said police arrested Govind’s elder brother Mahendra Singh and nephews Jai Pakash and Ved Prakash for helping him flee. “We are interrogating them to know about the possible location of Govind Singh.” Meanwhile, a heavy police force has also been deployed at Rambai Parihar’s residence as the district administration has started demolishing the part of her house built on encroached land. DGP Johri said, “A technical team is helping the police in the search operation. We will nab him soon.” Govind Singh and four others are accused of killing Chaurasia in front of his son in March 2019. Criminal charges were earlier dropped against Govind Singh after a police investigation in August 2019 while the four others were arrested the same month. He was again named accused in January this year on the orders of additional session judge Sonkar who also issued an arrest warrant against Govind Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-police-announce-cash-reward-for-arrest-of-bsp-mla-s-husband-in-murder-case-101616001550440.html
17-03-2021||India||CM Mamata promises minimum earning guarantee for families in TMC manifesto||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee announced a minimum income guarantee for every family in the state if the Trinamool Congress is voted to power for the third time. The TMC chief released the party’s manifesto for the upcoming assembly polls which begins from March 27. The manifesto promises a slew of other schemes and developmental measures including credit cards for students, free ration at door-step, reducing unemployment by half, generating five lakh jobs every year, hiking assistance to farmers from ₹6,000 to ₹10,000 annually, setting up a task force to bring some caste groups under the Other Backward Classes among others. “This is not a political manifesto. This is a developmental manifesto. This is a manifesto of the people, by the people and for the people,” Banerjee said while speaking to the media at her Kalighat residence. Under the minimum income guarantee scheme the government will provide a monthly assistance to the senior-most female member of a family. If the family belongs to the general category it would get assistance of ₹500. SC, ST and OBC families would get assistance of ₹1000. This is in line with the Congress’s Universal Basic Income scheme which was promised by Rahul Gandhi, former Congress president ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. The manifesto also promises a student credit card through which a student could avail a loan of up to ₹10 lakh at four per cent interest and the government would become his guarantor. Buoyed by its success in the Duare Sarkar (government at doorsteps) scheme where camps were set to deliver benefits of 11 state-run welfare schemes, the TMC has promised in the manifesto to introduce Duare Ration to provide free ration at people’s doorsteps. The manifesto speaks of promises in 10 sectors including economy, social justice and security, youth, food for all, farming and agriculture, industries, health education, housing and electricity, roads and water. The BJP, however, criticized the manifesto saying that the TMC lacks vision.“The TMC manifesto proves why a double engine government is needed in West Bengal. Most of the announcements are central projects. Just their names have been changed. These would not materialize without the Centre’s help. There is no proper measure to increase employment. This government has no roadmap and it only depends on announcements without any base,” said Samik Bhattacharya, BJP spokesperson. Political experts said that it is a very populist model which has been earlier adopted by political parties in Delhi and Tamil Nadu. “This is an extreme form of populist politics without ensuring substantial job opportunities for voters. We have seen such populist models earlier being followed by the ruling parties in Delhi and Tamil Nadu. This is bound to have some effect on the voters because the TMC will use its strong ground-level machinery to reach out to the voters with this. The BJP lacks this machinery at the grass root level,” said Biswanath Chakraborty, a professor of political science at Rabindra Bharati University. The chief minister who was sitting in a wheel chair with her leg in a cast also mounted an attack on the BJP. “The BJP is a high-loaded virus. It is playing a dirty game. Khela Hobe (A game will be played) and the BJP will get its first jolt from Jangalmahal when the game starts from March 27,” she said. The BJP which had made deep inroads in the state winning 18 of the 42 seats in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls had won all the five seats in Jangalmahal area in the western parts of the state. The eight-phase election starts from Jangalmahal on March 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cm-mamata-promises-minimum-earning-guarantee-for-families-in-tmc-manifesto-101616000950366.html
17-03-2021||India||EC orders transfer of Tamil Nadu IG, South Zone, to non-election post||The Election Commission on Wednesday ordered the transfer of Tamil Nadu's Inspector General, South Zone S Murugan to a non-election post with immediate effect.It also asked the state government to send a list of names of officers for appointment as IG, South Zone in place of Murugan, official sources said.Also, based on the inputs of the special police observer, the commission has ordered the transfer of various ACPs and DSPs in the southern state with a direction to attach them with the DGP, Headquarters. It has also directed the Tamil Nadu government that these officers should not be assigned with any election-related duty.The Tamil Nadu Assembly polls are scheduled to be held on April 6 and the results will be declared on May 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ec-orders-transfer-of-tamil-nadu-ig-south-zone-to-non-election-post-101615997168350.html
17-03-2021||India||Stop vaccine wastage, increase RT-PCR tests: What Centre told states on 2nd Covid peak | 10 points||Prime Minister Narendra Modi reviewed the current Covid-19 situation of the country and interacted with the chief ministers of states and Union territories on Wednesday. The Union health ministry too on Wednesday presented a report assessing the situation between March 1 and March 15. What came up in both discussions is that there has been negligence in testing, tracking of cases, which has worsened the Covid-19 situation in the country. The states’ reliance on the rapid antigen test37 per cent hike in Covid deaths, 150 per cent increase in cases in 70 districtsUnion health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said there has been a 43 per cent week-on-week increase in the number of daily cases. The death toll has also registered a 37 per cent week-on-week increase. A total of 70 districts across 16 states recorded a 150 per cent spike in new cases since March 1. These states include Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Himachal Pradesh, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh. Some districts have reported around a 200 per cent hike in the last 15 days.Western and northern India most affectedPresenting the overall case graph of the last 15 days, the secretary noted that the rise of daily infections is concentrated in western and northern India.'We have to stop Covid-19 second wave': PM Modi's 5-point plan to states, UTsPositivity rateIndia’s current Covid-19 case positivity rate is 5 per cent and the weekly positivity rate is 3 per cent. But Maharashtra’s positivity rate is significantly higher than the national average. From the 11 per cent positivity rate a few weeks ago, it has now increased to 16 per cent. Punjab’s positivity rate has also doubled from 3.4 per cent to 6.8. These rates are worrying, the ministry said.Laxity in testing, trackingUnlike last year, when local administrations were rigorously following up with the close contacts of an infected person, now only family members are being tested. “Close contact are not family members. Close contacts are people with whom an infected person have interacted in the previous days,” Bhushan said adding that states have been asked to track, test and isolate at least 30 close contacts of an infected person within three days.Vaccine wastage: Telangana, Andhra Pradesh topAccording to health ministry data, Telangana’s vaccine wastage is 17 per cent, while Andhra Pradesh has wasted 11 per cent of the vaccines. Uttar Pradesh has also reported some vaccine wastage. “Vaccines are public health goods and hence they are to be optimally used. Vaccine wastage needs to be drastically reduced. Any reduction means you end up inoculating more people. That is the advice to states,” Bhushan said.PM Modi too emphasized this point and said vaccine wastage can be reduced if the vaccines that have come before are used first.70 per cent of tests should be RT-PCRCiting the instances of Kerala, Odisha, Uttar Pradesh, PM Modi said many states are primarily depending on rapid antigen tests. The ministry too quoted data of Chandigarh, Chhattisgarh where RT-PCR percentage is below 40 per cent and urged all states and UTs to take the number to 70 per cent.Focus on small towns—referral systemsThe second peak of the disease is mostly affecting tier-2, tier-3 cities, which indicates that villages need extra protection from the spread, PM Modi said in his meeting. “We need to pay special attention to referral systems and ambulance networks in small towns. The virus is being spread in a dispersed manner right now. This is because the whole country has opened up for travel, the number of people coming from abroad has also increased," PM Modi said.Local containmentSeveral states have identified outbreak areas and imposed local lockdowns. PM Modi encouraged the district administrations to increase surveillance and not to relax the option of creating micro-containment zones under any circumstances. “The option of creating a micro containment zone should not be relaxed under any circumstances. The Pandemic Response Teams working in the districts can also go for a re-orientation of containment and surveillance SOPs," he said.No shortage of vaccineHealth secretary Rajesh Bhushan said there is no vaccine shortage in the country. On being asked to comment on West Bengal seeking more vaccines from the Centre, Bhushan said, “I can’t comment on what a chief minister has said. But there is no shortage of vaccines. Every day we check our supplies to the states and what the states have utilised so far.”No fear-mongeringThe Covid-19 situation in some states is worrying, the health ministry has noted but PM Modi emphasised that there is no need to panic. “Our confidence should not become over-confidence, our success should not lead to carelessness. There is no need to push people into panic mode," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stop-vaccine-wastage-increase-rt-pcr-what-centre-told-states-on-2nd-covid-peak-101615995203919.html
17-03-2021||India||Parliamentary panel says budget allocation to MEA inadequate considering foreign policy objectives||The budgetary allocation to the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) is inadequate, considering the extent and magnitude of India's diplomatic outreach and foreign policy objectives, a parliamentary committee said in a report on Wednesday.The panel said the budgetary resources will play a "determining role" in India's pursuit of a permanent seat at the United Nations Security Council (UNSC) as it requires adequate global presence and expansion of diplomatic outreach.The report of the committee on external affairs was tabled in both houses of Parliament.It mentioned that the rise of China is a major geostrategic development of the current time and it has caused a rearrangement of the global balances of power and capacity that developed after World War II and during the Cold War.The committee said the nature of threats has changed and the conventional war has been supplemented by the rising security challenges from terrorism, social violence, climate change and other biological and non-traditional threats.The international polity is characterised by extraordinary rates of change and India's diplomatic strategy is adjusting to it with agility and flexibility, and building capacities to maintain "decisional autonomy", it added.Referring to resource allocation to the MEA, the panel noted that against the ministry's demand for ₹22,888 crore for 2021-22, it has been given a budgetary outlay of ₹18,154 crore, which is merely 0.52 per cent of the government's overall budget."Keeping in view the extent and magnitude of India's diplomatic outreach and foreign policy objectives, the committee strongly feel that the allocation is incommensurate and inadequate," it said.The committee said the provisioning of adequate finances is critical to ensure that India's global footprint and diplomatic outreach is "not circumscribed"."The committee, therefore, strongly recommend that the allocation to the Ministry of External Affairs, mandated with managing India's external relations, should further be suitably and appropriately enhanced from what is being provisioned now," it added.The panel said the MEA should also make a strong case for the same.The 30-member committee, headed by BJP MP P P Chaudhary, includes Meenakashi Lekhi, P Chidambaram, Kapil Sibal, Harsimrat Kaur Badal, Preneet Kaur, Abhishek Banerjee and Poonam Mahajan.Referring to the outlay to the MEA for 2021-22, the committee, however, mentioned that the allocation is the highest ever to it and is 4.66 per cent more than the budgetary estimate in 2020-21 and 21 per cent more than the revised estimate of allocation in the year."Notwithstanding these figures, the percentage of MEA's budget during 2021-22 as a percentage of the government's budget is merely 0.52," it said."While the increased allocation to MEA in absolute term is a fine development, however, it is continuously slipping down as a percentage of the government's total expenditure," the panel said.Recognising the significance of a focussed budgetary planning process, the committee emphatically stressed upon the need to develop a well-defined and focused budgetary planning process by the MEA.It criticised the MEA for its "casual approach" towards the panel's earlier recommendation for conducting a cross-country comparative study of the budgetary allocations of the ministries and departments entrusted with the task of managing foreign affairs.The report said the MEA informed the committee that a preliminary report of a study conducted is under examination and that its comprehensive assessment has been completed. The MEA also informed the panel that more comparative study variables are being included in the report.The committee strongly recommended that the findings of the preliminary report should be furnished to it "instantly" and the final report should be compiled within three months."The ministry should also ensure that the comparative data and figures are used to bolster its case for enhanced budgetary allocation in the next financial year," it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliamentary-panel-says-budget-allocation-to-mea-inadequate-considering-foreign-policy-objectives-101615994840557.html
17-03-2021||India||4 passengers deboarded from Alliance Air flight for not heeding Covid-19 protocols||In a first, four passengers on board Alliance Air flight 91 614 from Jammu to New Delhi on Tuesday were deboarded for not following Covid-19 protocols inside the flight, according to Director General of Civil Aviation (DGCA). The passengers were charged as ‘unruly/disruptive passengers’ and handed over to security agencies at Delhi Airport.“It was observed during Alliance Air flight 91 614 from Jammu to Delhi on 16 March 2021 that four (04) passengers … were not wearing their masks. Repeated instruction requests were made by the crew including the Pilot In Command through PA system. They were not following the Covid-19 related protocols irrespective of repeated instructions,” the airline said in its communication to the DGCA on Wednesday. “These four passengers were treated as unruly passengers as per CAR Section 3 Series M Part VI and all the recommended procedures were followed by the crew. All the four unruly passengers were handed over to security agencies on arrival at Delhi Airport,” it added.This is the first such instance following DGCA’s order issued last week directing airport authorities and airlines to take strict action against those not complying with Covid-19 protocols at airports and inside planes.The government on Saturday directed airport authorities and airlines to take strict action against those not complying with Covid-19 protocols at airports and inside planes. Those found flouting rules may be offloaded and handed over to security agencies, the Director General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) said. “The Airport Director/Terminal Manager, as applicable, must ensure that passengers are wearing masks properly and do maintain social distance at all times within the Airport premises. In case, any passenger is not following “Covid-19 Protocol”, they should be handed over to security agencies after proper warnings. If required, they may be dealt as per law,” the DGCA said in an order issued on Saturday.This also comes days after the Delhi high court issued a set of guidelines that empower airline crew to offload any passenger not wearing their mask properly and to be put on the no-fly list if they exhibit “stubborn reluctance”. The judge had taken note of the callous attitude of passengers at airports and passed directions to the DGCA.“Alliance Air briefs passengers at every touch point, makes regular in-flight announcements. However, on constant request, when the passengers did not adhere to the laid down guidelines and could have endangered other fellow passengers, we apprised the concerned authorities,” the airline said in a statement on Wednesday.On Wednesday the DGCA also informed the Delhi High Court that action is being taken against passengers not wearing masks properly despite repeated warnings and they will be de-boarded from planes before departure and treated as “unruly passengers”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-passengers-deboarded-from-alliance-air-flight-for-not-heeding-covid-19-protocols-101615994829992.html
17-03-2021||India||News updates from HT: EAM S Jaishankar says vaccine maitri initiative created global goodwill and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Vaccine Maitri created great global goodwill’: S Jaishankar in ParliamentThe Vaccine Maitri initiative, which has so far supplied Made-in-India Covid-19 vaccines to 72 countries, demonstrated the quality of the country’s products and generated great international goodwill, external affairs minister S Jaishankar said on Wednesday. Read more'His failure is pushing the entire team into a whirlpool': Ramiz Raja expects better from India batsmanIn the three T20Is, Rahul has registered scores of 1, 0 and 0, and although he has received the backing from captain Virat Kohli, even he is aware that he cannot take his place in this Indian team to be granted. Read moreNavya Naveli Nanda on Uttarakhand CM's 'ripped jeans' statement: 'Change your mentality before changing our clothes'Amitabh Bachchan's granddaughter Navya Naveli Nanda has expressed her disappointment with Uttarakhand Chief Minister Tirath Singh Rawat's comment on ripped jeans. Read moreSamsung launches Galaxy A52, Galaxy A52 5G, Galaxy A72 smartphonesSamsung today hosted its second Galaxy Unpacked event of the year. At the event that was held virtually owing to the pandemic, Samsung launched three new Galaxy A-series smartphones. Read moreFitness addict Bhagyashree schools fans about Omega 3 health benefits, sourcesFans can vouch that no health enthusiast makes vitamins and minerals talks’ sound fun and interesting like the way Bhagyashree does which is why her weekly “Back to Basics” videos are eagerly anticipated. Read moreWatch: Encroachment at Nepal border, India sends strict message amid map rowAmid differences between India and Nepal over the latter's 'artificial' territorial claims, authorities found encroachment near the two countries' border. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-eam-s-jaishankar-says-vaccine-maitri-initiative-created-global-goodwill-and-all-the-latest-news-101615993929540.html
17-03-2021||India||Maharashtra closes all hostels, school and colleges in Palghar as Covid spikes||The district administration in Maharashtra’s Palghar has ordered the indefinite closure of all schools and colleges in the Vasai-Virar civic jurisdiction from Thursday and government and private hostels in the district from March 23 till further notice amid a spike in Covid-19 cases.District Collector Dr Manik Gursal’s order came after 31 staffers and children of a Nandore ashramshala (government hostel) tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. On Saturday, 79 people in three ashramshalas in Hiradpada, Dabhosa and Vinwal areas in Jawhar taluka had tested positive for the virus.The Nandore ashramshala is run by the Integrated Tribal Development Project (ITDP) Dahanu and houses around 193 boys and girls studying in Class 9 to Class 12. “Thirty students including 24 girls and 6 boys have tested positive. A tutor at the ashramshala also tested positive. We have also sealed the hostel. Nine girls have been kept in an isolation ward of a government hospital while the rest are in quarantine in the hostel itself,” said Dr Abhijit Khandare, Taluka Medical Officer,Palghar.Meanwhile irate parents of the tribal inmates gheraoed the staff of the Nandore ashramshala and blamed them for the lapses in not controlling the spread of the virus.Palghar Tehsildar Sunil Shinde pacified the angry parents and assured them that all medical help for the students as well as the teaching staff will be provided following which the gherao was called off.As of Wednesday, there are a total 46,967 positive cases in Palghar district with 30,959 cases in Vasai-Virar civic area,and 16,008 in Palghar rural areas. The pandemic has claimed 1,207 lives in the district so far. Nine hundred of the deaths were in Vasai-Virar civic area alone and 307 in Palghar rural said an official of the District Information Office (DIO) Palghar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-closes-all-hostels-school-and-colleges-in-palghar-as-covid-spikes-101615994529952.html
17-03-2021||India||No signal of concern so far: Govt on Oxford Covid vaccine side-effects||There is no signal of concern regarding the use of Oxford-AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine in the country, said Dr VK Paul, Member (Health) of the Niti Aayog, on Wednesday amid speculations and subsequent review of possible side-effects of the vaccine."There are reports on AstraZeneca's vaccine relationship with thrombotic events in people who received the vaccine. But the European Medicines Agency (EMA, Europe's top drug agency) says that it (suspension of the vaccine) is only a precautionary measure," Paul said while addressing the weekly press briefing here.Paul added, "There is no data to believe, as of now, that there is a causal relationship, and part of the assessment is still being done. The World Health Organisation (WHO) has said that the investigation should go on but they have said categorically that the vaccine scale-up and implementation should not be suspended in general."This comes days after several European countries, including Spain, Germany, France, Italy, Netherlands, suspended the use of the Oxford-AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine over blood clot concerns.Paul further informed that India's group, which looks at the adverse effects of Covid-19 vaccines, is aware of the issue and is tracking the information in a systematic matter."I assure you that we have no signal of concern in this regard," he said, adding that the inoculation of Covishield, AstraZeneca's vaccine produced in India by the Serum Institute, will go on with full vigour, but will be mindful of developments in this regard.Regarding the issue, Emer Cooke, executive director of the EMA, had earlier said that the agency remains "firmly convinced" the benefits of AstraZeneca's Covid-19 vaccine outweigh the risks of side effects, reported The Hill.As of March 10, the EMA had received 30 reports of blood clotting events from about five million vaccinated people. The safety committee was also looking at "serious thromboembolic events" from the UK, she said.Sweden and Latvia on Tuesday joined Spain, Germany, France, Italy, Netherlands, Ireland, Denmark, Iceland, and Norway in the suspension of the use of AstraZeneca's Covid-19 vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-signal-of-concern-so-far-govt-on-oxford-covid-vaccine-sideeffects-101615991927353.html
17-03-2021||India||Massive Covid-19 spike in Maharashtra: 23,179 cases in 24 hours; 2,377 in Mumbai||Breaking all the records of this year, Maharashtra on Wednesday reported the highest single-day spike of Covid-19 cases as it recorded 23,179 cases in the last 24 hours. Mumbai's daily infection tally too breached the 2,000-mark as the city recorded 2,377 new infections on Wednesday. On Tuesday, the state reported 17,864 new cases and Mumbai’s single-day hike was 1,922. Against Tuesday’s tally, Wednesday’s figures register a sharp spike. The Covid-19 situation in Maharashtra is worrying, the health ministry reiterated in its weekly briefing.While Maharashtra's daily infections have been on the rise for quite some time, the state's toll is also emerging as a cause for fresh concern. On Wednesday, the state reported 84 deaths. On Tuesday, the toll was 84.This is the sixth-highest one-day spike of infection in Maharashtra since the outbreak of the pandemic. All the previous highest daily cases were recorded in September. On September 11 last year, the state had reported 24,886 cases; on September 17, the single-day tally was 24,619 cases were added. The third, fourth and fifth-highest figures were reported on September 9 (23,816), September 6 (23,350) and September 10 (23,446), according to news agency PTIPrime Minister Narendra Modi held a video conference with state chief ministers to review the Covid-19 situation of the country. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray was present at the meeting where the state's Covid-19 situation came up for a special mention.Maharashtra, UP, Telangana: What PM Modi observed about Covid-19 in these statesCompared to India’s case positivity rate of 5 per cent (weekly rate of 3 per cent), Maharashtra’s positivity rate of 16 per cent is worrying, health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said. Some districts of Maharashtra have recorded even over 200 per cent spike in the number of cases between March 1 and March 15, the health secretary said.Maharashtra’s Nanded has recorded a 385 per cent rise in the number of cases, followed by Nandurbar (224%), Beed (219%), Dhule (169%), Jalgaon (147%), Bhandara (140%), Nagpur (122%), Chandrapur (95%), Ahmednagar (72%), Buldhana (65%), Aurangabad (58%) and Akola (20%)According to city-wise daily infection data, Pune on Wednesday recorded 1,954 cases, Nagpur city 1,951, Buldhana 435, Navi Mumbai 251 and Thane 373. Nagpur district, on the other hand, accounted for 3,370 fresh cases -- in the highest single-day spike in 2021.Several districts of Maharashtra, including Nagpur, Pune, have imposed restrictions, but no decision has been taken on whether the entire state should bring back lockdown in some form. While Maharashtra ministers have dismissed a statewide lockdown at this moment, PM Modi has advised states and UTs to give district authorities a free hand to create micro-containment zones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/massive-covid-19-rise-in-maharashtra-23-179-cases-in-24-hrs-2-377-in-mumbai-101615991528301.html
17-03-2021||India||Nagpur district adds 3,370 new coronavirus cases, highest since the start of the pandemic||Maharashtra’s Nagpur district on Wednesday added 3,370 fresh cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 16 related fatalities, 1,216 recoveries which took the caseload to 1,78,756, news agency ANI said quoting a district official. More than 4,500 people have succumbed to the disease while recoveries have climbed to 1,53,133. Wednesday’s case count in Nagpur has been the highest since the start of the pandemic last year. The new cases are also 783 (23.23 per cent more) more than that of Tuesday’s- when 2,587 people tested positive for the infection- which was the highest single-day spike earlier. This is also the fifth time the district’s daily breached the 2,000-markCases in Nagpur have been increasing since mid-February leading to the imposition of a week-long complete lockdown in the district which started from Monday, to curb the spread of the infection. An order issued by the district administration stated that shops selling essential items such as fruits, vegetables along with milk booths are allowed to be open during the week. All private offices have been closed while the government ones are functioning at a capacity of 25 per cent. Hospitals are operating and residents are allowed to take vaccines against the disease.Also Read| Covid-19: In Maharashtra’s Aurangabad, gatherings banned till April 4As the lockdown started on Monday, some residents were seen venturing outdoors for several reasons and in a few cases were also seen arguing with police personnel, according to a report by Hindustan Times on March 15. Speaking to HT, Nagpur police commissioner Amitesh Kumar said all Covid-related curbs would be implemented in an effective manner adding those found violating them will not be spared. Nearly 3,000 police personnel have been deployed in the district to ensure that lockdown restrictions are adhered to.Maharashtra on Wednesday reported 23,179 fresh Covid-19 disease cases-- the highest single-day spike since mid-September last year, and 84 more deaths taking the caseload and death toll to 23,70,507 and 53,080, respectively. Nearly 21.7 lakh of the state’s residents have recovered so far while active cases are over 1,38,000-- with the Union health ministry pointing out that 60 per cent of all active cases are coming from the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nagpur-district-logs-highest-single-day-spike-of-3-370-new-cases-101615989743882.html
17-03-2021||India||Rail employees advised to convert their debit, ATM cards to RuPay-based cards||The railways has advised its over 12 lakh employees to convert their existing debit or ATM cards to RuPay-based cards, a move aimed at giving fillip to the 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat' campaign and the 'Digital India initiative', Parliament was informed on Wednesday.The railways was also facilitating promotion of this move, Union Minister Piyush Goyal said in a written reply in Lok Sabha.Asked whether the railways has advised its 12.54 lakh workforce to convert their debit/ATM cards to RuPay-powered cards, the minister replied,"Yes, sir.""The zonal railways and production units have been asked to facilitate conversion of existing Debit/ATM cards issued to railway employees by banks to the RuPay-based cards in order to give boost under 'Atmanirbhar Bharat' and 'Digital India initiative'."All railways are facilitating the banks in their promotional activities and setting up camps to give wide publicity in this regard to encourage the employees to opt for RuPay cards. Apart from this, State Bank of India has also been advised to replace all existing imprest cards issued to Railway Imprest holders to RuPay-based imprest cards," Goyal said.RuPay is a Indian multinational financial and payment service launched by the National Payments Corporation of India, an umbrella organisation for operating retail payment and settlement systems in the country.RuPay was created to fulfil the Reserve Bank of India's vision of establishing a domestic, open and multilateral system of payments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rail-employees-advised-to-convert-their-debit-atm-cards-to-rupay-based-cards-101615988829198.html
17-03-2021||India||Active Covid cases cross 1,000 mark once again in Jammu and Kashmir||Active Covid-19 cases in Jammu and Kashmir crossed 1,000 again on Wednesday for the first time since January 27 after 126 fresh infections, the highest daily count in two months.The new infections took the number of active cases to 1,008 while the tally since the pandemic began went up to 1, 27,957.The death toll reached 1,977 with one casualty in Kashmir division.In the past 36 days, the union territory has added 415 active cases taking the total active cases to 1,008 on Wednesday from 593 on February 9, which was the lowest since May, 2020. Since the first Covid-19 cases were detected in Jammu and Kashmir in March 2020, the active cases had crossed 1,000 mark in the last week of May 2020 when the pandemic was wreaking havoc across the globe.By the end of the year, the cases had started to decline. The New Year ushered a constant decline in cases coupled with an increasing number of recovery of patients that pushed the active cases to plunge below the 1,000 mark again on January 28.The decline of active cases had continued till February 9 when the number of active cases reached the lowest point of 593 patients.Then the cases started marginally increasing again and the recoveries of patients started to reduce. Over 80% of the total Covid-19 infections in Jammu and Kashmir in the month of March so far have been reported in Kashmir valley, official data shows.“There has been an increase but many of these are travellers. We are taking precautions and increasing testing,” said director health, Kashmir Samir Mattoo.Officials said as many as 20 positive cases of novel coronavirus were reported from Jammu division and 106 from Kashmir division, including 29 travellers.Moreover, 90 more Covid-19 patients recovered and, including 10 from Jammu division and 80 from Kashmir.The officials said that 1,24,972 people have recovered in the UT so far, taking the recovery rate to 97.69%. There are now 1,008 active cases while the total number of tests conducted in the UT has crossed 56.34 lakh.A total of 1,246 people have succumbed to the disease in Kashmir and 731 in Jammu.In Kashmir, the highest jump in fresh cases was witnessed in Srinagar where 62 more people tested positive, including 23 travellers, while 23 more cases were reported in Baramulla.In Jammu division, 15 cases were recorded in Jammu district and four in Doda.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/active-covid-cases-cross-1-000-mark-once-again-in-jammu-and-kashmir-101615988829729.html
17-03-2021||India||‘Vaccine Maitri created great global goodwill’: S Jaishankar in Parliament||The Vaccine Maitri initiative, which has so far supplied Made-in-India Covid-19 vaccines to 72 countries, demonstrated the quality of the country’s products and generated great international goodwill, external affairs minister S Jaishankar said on Wednesday.While making similar statements on the initiative in both houses of Parliament, Jaishankar also appeared to reject criticism from the West about the government’s handling of certain issues and the status of democracy in the country by saying Indians are “naturally internationalist by virtue of our culture, traditions, heritage and history”.The planning and execution of Vaccine Maitri was guided by a “determination to make a difference at a difficult moment for global society”, he said. “Our reputation as the ‘pharmacy of the world’ has been reinforced in that process. So indeed has the faith in ‘Make in India’,” he added.“But more than the vaccines themselves, our policies and conduct have emerged as a source of strength for the stressed and vulnerable nations of the world. They can see that there is at least one major nation that truly believes in making vaccines accessible and affordable to others in dire need,” Jaishankar said.Vaccine Maitri began in India’s immediate neighbourhood, starting with the Maldives, Bhutan, Bangladesh, Nepal, Sri Lanka and Myanmar, Mauritius and Seychelles, and this was followed by the extended neighbourhood, especially West Asia. India then reached out to smaller and vulnerable countries by sending vaccines to African and Caribbean nations, and also fulfilled contracts with other countries or through the Covax initiative.“The House should recognise the enormous feeling for India that our initiative has generated...In the truest sense, this has been people-centric diplomacy at work,” Jaishankar said.“The world sees not just the selfless outlook of India but also of the quality of our products and capabilities...the Prime Minister’s initiative of such deep friendship has raised India’s standing and generated great international goodwill for us,” he added.All vaccine supplies abroad are based on an assessment of adequate availability at home. “This is continuously monitored and takes into account the requirements of our domestic vaccination programme as it unfolds in different phases,” he said.Jaishankar said Indians are “naturally internationalist” and have “never seen a contradiction between this internationalism and the nationalism that was the driver of our independence struggle”. He added: “In recent years, as democracy struck deeper roots, we have found our own cultural expressions and identities that define us in a diverse world. In fact, drawing from our heritage, we have become even stronger voices for international cooperation and solidarity.”Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s vision provided a framework for practical initiatives and activities such as humanitarian assistance and disaster responses over the past few years, and India developed a reputation as the “first and reliable responder in the region”, he said. This approach of human-centric cooperation is the driving force of Vaccine Maitri, he added.Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, India ramped up its capabilities and met the growing demands for hydroxychloroquine, paracetamol and other drugs across the world. India supplied 150 nations with medicines, 82 of them as grants, and also provided PPE and diagnostic kits to other countries.India’s move to start helping its neighbours within days of rolling out its domestic vaccination programme in January has its basis in the prime minister’s assurance in his address to the UN General Assembly last September, when Modi declared that India’s vaccine production and delivery capacity will be used to help all humanity.“We also offered to enhance cold chain and storage capacities for the delivery of vaccines...As a prominent nation in an increasingly multi-polar world, the international community has greater expectations of us, and we, in turn, are prepared to demonstrate our willingness to shoulder greater responsibilities,” Jaishankar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaccine-maitri-created-great-global-goodwill-eam-jaishankar-in-parliament-101615988589742.html
17-03-2021||India||No decision yet on nationwide NRC, govt tells Rajya Sabha||The Centre on Wednesday said it has not taken any decision on the nationwide roll-out of the National Register of Citizens (NRC).Union Minister of State for Home Nityanand Rai was replying to a question in the Rajya Sabha on whether the central government had any plans to implement the NRC throughout the country."Till now, the government has not taken any decision to prepare the National Register of Indian Citizens at the national level," Rai said in a written reply.The NRC was updated in Assam under the supervision of the Supreme Court. When the final NRC was published on August 31, 2019, a total of 19.06 lakh people were excluded out of the total 3,30,27,661 applicants, which created a ripple across India.The NRC is an Assam-specific data of bonafide Indian citizens living in the state.Replying to another question, Rai said there is no provision of detention centres under the Citizenship Act, 1955 and the National Register of Indian Citizens.He said the Supreme Court on February 28, 2012 had directed that foreign nationals who completed their sentence shall be released from jail immediately and be kept in an appropriate place with restricted movement pending their deportation or repatriation.Following that directive, Rai said, the Ministry of Home Affairs issued instructions on March 7, 2012 to state governments and UT administrations to comply with the directions of the Supreme Court.The minister said detention centres are set up by the state governments and UT administrations as per their local requirements to detain illegal immigrants and foreigners, some of whom may have completed their sentence and their deportation to their native country may be pending for want of proper travel documents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-decision-yet-on-nationwide-nrc-govt-tells-rajya-sabha-101615987832453.html
17-03-2021||India||Parliamentary panel suggests use of ‘officials of the Union of India’ in place of central government officials||A parliamentary committee has suggested the use of the term “officials of the Union of India” in place of “central government officials” for those serving in all the three organs of governance – the executive, the legislative and the judiciary.In its report, the panel observed that the executive, the legislature and the judiciary have well defined roles and they all function under the Constitution.The Committee is of the considered opinion that these three organs of governance, by and large, constitute the Union government, it said.“The Committee feels that it is inappropriate to use the term ‘Central Government Officials’ to those serving the executive wing alone,” the Department-Related Parliamentary Standing Committee on Personnel, Public Grievances, Law and Justice said in its 106th report on Demands for Grants (2021-22) of the Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions, tabled in Parliament on Tuesday.The Committee desires the term ‘Central Government’ to be substituted by ‘Union of India’ and the officials of the three organs of governance of the Union government, henceforth, be referred to as “Officials of the Union of India”, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliamentary-panel-suggests-use-of-officials-of-the-union-of-india-in-place-of-central-government-officials-101615987649298.html
17-03-2021||India||Centre says Covid-19 vaccine wastage in India at 6.5 %, calls for optimal usage||The average of Covid-19 vaccine wastage in India is 6.5 per cent, with Telangana and Andhra Pradesh recording 17.6 and 11.6 per cent wastage respectively, the Centre said on Wednesday as it called for optimal utilisation of the jabs.Addressing a press conference, Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said that 3.51 crore vaccine doses have been administered till now in the country, which include 1.38 crore beneficiaries aged 45-60 years with specific co-morbidities and those above 60 years who have been given the first dose.On March 15, 8.34 million Covid-19 vaccine doses were administered worldwide, of which India alone administered 36 per cent of doses, he said.Bhushan said Covid-19 vaccine wastage in five states -- Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka and Jammu and Kashmir -- is higher than 6.5 per cent, which is the national average."The message we have shared with states is that vaccines are invaluable commodities. They are public health goods and therefore vaccines have to be optimally utilised. Vaccine wastage has to be drastically reduced. Any reduction in wastage means that you end up inoculating more people and therefore the chances of disrupting the chain of infection grow that much more," he said.On the increase in daily Covid-19 cases from March 1-15, he said about 70 districts in 16 states have registered more than 150 per cent increase in active cases, while 55 districts in 17 states have registered 100-150 per cent rise in cases.Most of these districts are in west and north India.Elaborating on the rise in cases in states, he said, "If we look at Maharashtra, 60 per cent of all active cases are concentrated in Maharashtra and 45 per cent of new deaths are concentrated in Maharashtra.""On March 1, an average of 7,741 new cases were being reported. By March 15, the number increased to average 13,527.The positivity rate on March 1 used to be 11 per cent which rose to 16 per cent by March 15," he said.Noting that the high positivity rate is a matter of concern, he said the tests numbers are not increasing at the same rate as the positivity rate is increasing."So our advice to the states, specially Maharashtra, is that there is a need to increase the testing rate, specially the RT-PCR rate," he said.In Punjab on March 1, an average of 531 new cases were being reported. By March 15, the number increased to average 1338. The positivity rate has doubled and RT-PCR share is 89 per cent, he said.In Chandigarh on March 1, an average of 49 new cases were being reported. By March 15, the number increased to average 111. The positivity rate has increased from 3.5 per cent to 7.5 per cent and RT-PCR share is 40 per cent."We would want a distinct increasing trend of tests in which RT-PCR share is substantially higher than the current 40 per cent share," he said.In Chattisgarhh on March 1, an average of 239 new cases were being reported. By March 15, the number increased to average 430. The positivity rate increased from 1.4 per cent to 2.4 per cent and RT-PCR share is 34 per cent. So, again, we would want the RT-PCR tests to increase to up to 70 per cent and also an overall increase in testing.In Gujarat on March 1, an average of 398 new cases were being reported. By March 15, the number increased to average 689. The positivity rate increased from 2.4 per cent to 4 per cent and RT-PCR share is 50 per cent.In Karnataka, on March 1, an average of 443 new cases were being reported. By March 15, the number increased to average 751. The positivity rate increased from 0.8 per cent to 1.3 per cent and RT-PCR share is 93 per cent.To handle the increasing cases especially in 12 states, states have been advised to ensure strict adherence to mask wearing, physical distancing and hand hygiene along with greater vigilance and monitoring at the highest levels for all potential events where crowds gather.They have asked to ensure clinical management in districts reporting higher deaths and efficient implementation of 'test, track and treat' strategy.There should be significantly increased testing in all districts and an increase in the proportion of RT PCR tests to a minimum of 70 per cent."We are advising the states to ensure all close contacts of any positive person are traced, isolated and tested in 72 hours. They have asked to identify clusters, focus on surveillance and stringent implementation of containment zone approach and undertake priority vaccination of identified groups in districts reporting higher cases," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-says-covid-19-vaccine-wastage-in-india-at-6-5-calls-for-optimal-usage-101615986583744.html
17-03-2021||India||Lok Sabha passes Appropriation Bill, completing two-thirds of budget exercise||The Lok Sabha on Wednesday passed the Appropriation Bill 2021-22, authorising the government to draw funds from the Consolidated Fund of India for its working as well as implementation of its programmes and schemes.This completes two-thirds of the exercise for approval of the Budget for 2021-22.The Appropriation Bill authorising payment and appropriation of specified sums from the Consolidated Fund of India for 2021-22 was introduced by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman.The bill was later approved by voice vote.The Lok Sabha earlier discussed demands for grants of different ministries, including railways, education and health.Speaker Om Birla later applied the guillotine, after which all the outstanding demands for grants, whether discussed or not, were put to vote at once and passed.After that, the Appropriation Bill was taken into consideration and passed by the lower house of Parliament.The Lok Sabha will now discuss the Finance Bill, which essentially contains the government's tax proposals.Once the Finance Bill is passed, the budget exercise is complete.Both appropriation and finance bills are classified as money bills which do not require the explicit consent of the Rajya Sabha. The upper house only discusses them and returns the bills.After passing the Finance Bill, it enters the statute as the Finance Act. Thus, the final Budget gets approved.While guillotine literally is a large, weighted blade used for executing a condemned person, in legislative parlance, to ''guillotine'' means to bunch together and fast-track the passage of financial business.It is a fairly common procedural exercise in Lok Sabha during the Budget Session.After the Budget is presented, Parliament goes into recess for about three weeks, during which the House Standing Committees examine demands for grants for various ministries, and prepare reports. After Parliament reassembles, time is allotted for discussions on the demands for grants of some ministries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lok-sabha-passes-appropriation-bill-completing-two-thirds-of-budget-exercise-101615987070578.html
17-03-2021||India||No concern regarding AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine, says govt||The Centre on Wednesday said that the adverse effects surveillance group is aware of the concerns raised by many countries over AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccines and is tracking the information available on the events. Assuring that there is nothing to be concerned about, Dr VK Paul member (health) in Niti Aayog said, "I assure you that we have no signal of concern in this regard."The vaccine against Covid-19 developed by Oxford University is being produced by AstraZeneca in Europe and Serum Institute of India in India.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19"Therefore, our programme with Covishield implementation, vaccination will go on with full rigour, but at the same time, we are mindful of the fact to address this concern as an ongoing activity based on the data available to us as well as we are watching the information being made available from other sources. But as of today, there is no concern at all with regard to Covishield," Paul added.Noting the reports on AstraZeneca's vaccine relationship with thrombotic events in people who received the shot, Paul, during the health ministry's press conference, said while ten countries have paused the AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccination programme, the European medical agency (EMA) has said it is just a precautionary measure and there is no data to believe, as of now, a causal relationship and part of the assessment is still being done.He also cited the World Health Organisation (WHO) that has said the investigation, precaution in the matter should go on but vaccination programme, scale-up and implementation should not be suspended.Reports about adverse effects like blood clotting after receiving AstraZeneca vaccine came to light recently, as a result of which countries like Denmark and Norway paused the vaccine as a precautionary measure. Other EU members like Germany, France and Italy also followed the suit and suspended the use of the vaccine.Along with the WHO and EMA, the UK has also said the AstraZeneca shots are safe and there is no link between the vaccines and blood clots.The EMA has said that it is investigating 30 cases of blood disorders out of 5 million recipients of AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine, reported Reuters."A careful review of all available safety data of more than 17 million people vaccinated in the European Union (EU) and the UK with Covid-19 Vaccine AstraZeneca has shown no evidence of an increased risk of pulmonary embolism, deep vein thrombosis (DVT) or thrombocytopenia, in any defined age group, gender, batch or in any particular country," AstraZeneca said last week on the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-concern-regarding-astrazeneca-covid-19-vaccine-says-govt-101615982047477.html
17-03-2021||India||Parliamentary committee calls for uniform flight cancellation charges across airlines||A parliamentary committee on Wednesday expressed anguish over the lack of uniformity in cancellation charges levied by airlines and said there is a need to prescribe an upper limit."Time and again, the committee's attention has been drawn towards the high cancellation charges levied by the private airlines operating in the country," the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Transport, Tourism and Culture said in a report tabled in Rajya Sabha."The committee underlines the need for rationalising the cancellation charges and prescribing an upper limit of cancellation charges that can be collected from the passengers," the report noted.The committee reiterates its recommendation in this regard made in its 276th report, requiring the airlines to restrict not more than 50 per cent of the base fare as cancellation charges, it stated."The tax on fuel surcharge collected should be refunded to the passengers on cancellation of tickets. The committee hopes that the ministry would be able to persuade the airlines for such rationalisation in the interest of the passengers," the report stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliamentary-committee-calls-for-uniformity-in-flight-cancellation-charges-101615986214873.html
17-03-2021||India||Jagan names his physio as YSRC nominee for by-poll to Tirupati Lok Sabha seat||Maddila Gurumoorthy, the personal physiotherapist of YSR Congress party president and Andhra Pradesh chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy, will be the candidate for the by-elections to the Tirupati parliamentary constituency. The 35-year-old physiotherapist from Manna Samudram village in Chittoor district, accompanied Jagan Reddy all through the latter’s marathon 3,600-km-long padayatra between November 2017 and January 2019. He conducted regular physiotherapy sessions for him during the walkathon. On Wednesday, Gurumoorthy met the chief minister at the latter’s camp office in Tadepalli in Amaravati and accepted the party ticket for the by-polls to the Tirupati parliamentary seat, scheduled to be held on April 17. The nomination process will begin on March 23 and the results will be declared on May 2. The by-election was required due to the death of sitting YSRCP MLA Balli Durgaprasada Rao, who died of Covid-19 in September 2020. Gurumoorthy, who pursued his Bachelor’s degree in physiotherapy and Certified Manual Therapy, had been a close follower of former chief minister Y S Rajasekhar Reddy since 2006 and later became an associate of Jagan. He campaigned for the YSRCP in 2014 and 2019.“Jagan has chosen Gurumoorthy for the Tirupati seat because of his dedication and loyalty to the party since the beginning,” a statement from the party said. The Telugu Desam has already announced the candidature of former Union minister Panabaka Lakshmi for the Tirupati by-poll. The Bharatiya Janata Party announced that it would contest the elections in alliance with Jana Sena--- the party of actor Pawan Kalyan, but is yet to announce its candidate. In Telangana where by-election to the Nagarjunasagar assembly constituency will also be held on April 17, the Congress announced the name of veteran leader and former home minister K Jana Reddy as its nominee. The seat fell vacant due to the death of sitting Telangana Rashtra Samithi MLA Nomula Narasimhaiah in December..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jagan-names-his-physio-as-ysrc-nominee-for-by-poll-to-tirupati-lok-sabha-seat-101615985950741.html
17-03-2021||India||No proposal to appoint regulator for social media, says Union minister Prasad||The government on Wednesday informed Parliament that there is no proposal with the IT ministry to set up a regulator for social media. Union IT and Communications Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, however, said that the government has released Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021, under the IT Act that specifies the due diligence to be followed by all the intermediaries, including the social media intermediaries. "The social media platforms are enjoined to develop a robust grievance redressal system. Presently, there is no proposal with the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology to appoint a regulator for social media," Prasad informed the Lok Sabha. The government in February had announced sweeping regulations for social media firms like Facebook and Twitter as well as OTT players such as Netflix, requiring them to remove any content flagged by authorities within 36 hours and setting up a complaint redressal mechanism with an officer being based in the country. The guidelines also make it mandatory for platforms such as Twitter and WhatsApp to identify the originator of a message that authorities consider to be anti-national and against security and sovereignty of the country. The new rules related to social media platforms are to be handled by the IT ministry while the Information and Broadcasting ministry will look after content related issues on entertainment apps and online news portals. Prasad said under provision of section 69A of the Information Technology Act, 2000, the government blocks unlawful and malicious online content including social media account, in the interest of sovereignty and integrity of India, defence of India, security of the State, friendly relations with foreign states or public order or for preventing incitement to the commission of any cognizable offence relating to above. "Under this provision, 9,849 URLs/accounts/webpages, mostly on social media platforms, were blocked during the year 2020," Prasad said. In response to question whether the government has conducted any study regarding the impact of government's control over social media vis-a-vis right to freedom of expression enshrined in the constitution, Prasad denied any such study undertaken by the government. He said that the government welcomes criticism, dissent and also the rights of people to ask questions on social media. "However, this needs to be acknowledged that the fundamental right of speech and expression under article 19(1) is also subject to reasonable restrictions under article 19(2) of the Constitution which can be imposed in the interest of security, safety and sovereignty of India, public order, friendly relations with foreign countries etc," Prasad said. The minister said it is equally important that social media should not be abused or misused to defame, promote terrorism, rampant violence and compromise the dignity of women.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-proposal-to-appoint-regulator-for-social-media-says-union-minister-prasad-101615985503740.html
17-03-2021||India||Man raped 5-yr-old last month. Judge fast-tracks trial, orders death penalty||A Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) court in Jhunjhunu district completed trial in a rape case involving a five-year-old in 16 days and awarded death penalty to the 20-year-old accused on Wednesday. He was held guilty a day ago. The entire process was completed in 26 days, police said.The POCSO court judge Sukesh Kumar Jain, while pronouncing the sentence on Wednesday, said, “During hearing, the court didn’t see repentance even once in your eyes. If there had been repentance in your eyes, your punishment could have been different.” According to police, on February 19 around 6.25pm, a minor was allegedly abducted from her house when she was playing with her cousins. The accused identified as Sunil Kumar (20) had abducted the minor and then raped her at an isolated place, said police. The court lauded the police for speedy investigation. “The investigation done by the police is an example of a very good investigation in which every evidence, including scientific, electronic and physical, was corroborated very well which could be considered as an ideal investigation. The senior officials of the police department should use this investigation as a case study,” the judgment read. Hawa Singh Ghumariya, inspector general of police (IGP), Jaipur range, said statements of more than 40 witnesses were collected and around 250 documents were submitted as evidence. “In order to present the chargesheet at the earliest, the police worked in this case for 12 to 13 hours daily and presented it within 10 days. The death punishment was also pronounced within 16 days. This is the first case of rape with a minor where death sentence was announced so quickly,” he said. Ghumariya added that the verdict will send out a strong message in the society.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-20-given-death-penalty-for-raping-minor-in-rajasthan-101615985529379.html
17-03-2021||India||Uttarakhand CM Tirath Singh Rawat’s possible candidature spices up Salt bypoll||Both the ruling BJP and the opposition Congress have expressed confidence of winning the April 17 bye-election in Salt constituency of Almora district amid speculation that Chief Minister Tirath Singh Rawat could be a candidate.The seat had fallen vacant after BJP MLA Surendra Singh Jeena died of Covid-19 last year. The state election commission on Tuesday declared that the bye-election would be held on April 17 and the result would be declared on May 2. The bypoll is seen as the first major test ahead of next year’s assembly election in 2022. The importance of the bypoll has increased because of the possibility of the BJP nominating the CM as its candidate to become a member of the state assembly. He is now a Member of Parliament from Pauri Garhwal constituency. The Congress has already appointed observers for the bypoll including its MLA from Ranikhet and deputy leader of opposition in the assembly Karan Mahara. On Wednesday, he along with the other observer Harendra Sharma held meetings with party members in Salt to decide on the party’s candidate. “The party will fight the bye-election with all its might despite the fact that the government and system would be with BJP as they are ruling the state,” Mahara said.“It would be a very important election for us because it would be an opportunity for us to test the waters before next year’s state assembly elections. We would come to know the tilt of the public considering the burning issues of unemployment, corruption, price rise and the recent incident of lathi charge against the women in Gairsain during the budget session which was an insult to our mothers and sisters,” said Mahara. He said that the observers are meeting the local leaders and party workers before taking any decision on the party’s candidate. “After filtering out the names, we would inform the high command which will take the final decision,” said Mahara.He also claimed that it would make no difference if chief minister Rawat contests from Salt.“It will hardly matter if CM Rawat decides to contest from Salt, because he would have to answer the public on the misdeeds of previous CM Trivendra Singh Rawat,” he said.The BJP is also equally confident of winning the bye-election. The party’s state president Madan Kaushik said, “Our government has done many development works in the past four years and the public knows that. In Salt, we are confident of winning because the public is supporting us and have completely rejected the Congress.” Political experts however, said that the Salt bye-election would not be a cakewalk for the BJP. MM Semwal, political expert who is also a professor of political science at Garhwal Central University in Srinagar, Pauri Garhwal district said, “It will not be easy for the BJP. They will have to fight hard as it is a very tricky seat because people there are well-read and aware of the present political scenario.” “At the same time, it will also be an actual test for Congress’ unity before the 2022 assembly elections. If they fight unitedly then they can give a tough fight to the BJP and even win it,” said Semwal. The BJP has 56 members in the 70- member House while the Congress has 11. There is one independent MLA and a nominated member from the Anglo Indian community.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-cm-tirath-singh-rawat-s-possible-candidature-spices-up-salt-bypoll-101615985469474.html
17-03-2021||India||Key sectors must be made disaster resilient, says PM Modi at global conference||The world community must review the performance of key sectors such as health and digital infrastructure during the Covid-19 pandemic and come up with ways to make them more resilient in future, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Wednesday. Inaugurating an international conference on disaster resilient infrastructure, Modi cited the example of a winter storm knocking out a third of electricity generating capacity in the US state of Texas and said countries making large investments in infrastructure, such as India, must ensure such investments are resilient and not at risk. Systems such as digital infrastructure, shipping lines and aviation networks cover the globe and the effect of a disaster in one part of the world can quickly spread across countries, he said. Cooperation is a must for ensuring the resilience of the global system, he said. “We must take stock of the performance of some of the key infrastructure sectors particularly health infrastructure and the digital infrastructure, that played a central role during the pandemic. What are the lessons from these sectors?” Modi said “And how can we make them more resilient for the future,” he added. The Coalition for Disaster Resilient Infrastructure (CDRI), which is co-chaired by India and the UK, must embody the central promise of the Sustainable Development Goals, which is “leave no one behind”, and put the concerns of most vulnerable nations and communities first, Modi said. The small island developing nations, which are already experiencing the impacts of worsening disasters, must have easy access to technology, knowledge and assistance they consider necessary, and CDRI must harness the full potential of geo-spatial technologies, space-based capabilities, data science, artificial intelligence and material sciences, and combine them with local knowledge for resilience, he said. British Prime Minister Boris Johnson, who addressed the event virtually, said he and Modi have a shared vision for a sustainable future for the global community, and he was looking forward to discussing such issues during his upcoming visit to India in April. “If our battle with Covid-19 has taught us anything over the past year, it is that we must be ready for whatever challenges may be coming next,” he said. Since the launch of CDRI in 2019, a total of 28 countries and organisations have signed up with the coalition that is supporting those particularly at risk from climate change, such as small island nations, Johnson said. The UK is investing £5.2 billion in bolstering its own flood defences and working to help other countries adapt to the effects of climate change, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/key-sectors-must-be-made-disaster-resilient-says-pm-modi-at-global-conference-101615982649390.html
17-03-2021||India||'Within 3 days': Centre's order to states on tracking contacts of Covid patients||The Union health ministry has asked all states and Union territories to step up their tracking and testing mechanism and said at least 30 close contacts of a Covid-19 infected person should be tested, isolated within 72 hours. This is nothing new, but states have been lagging in contact tracing, health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said on Wednesday. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday held a video conference with the heads of states and Union territories and urged the authorities that this second peak needs to be stopped.“Close contacts do not mean only family members. Close contacts are people with whom we are counteracting daily. They may be our officer workers, our newspaper vendor, our vegetable vendor. This was done last year. But now district administrations have become lax and are only testing family members just for the sake of it. As a result, other close contacts are moving freely spreading the infection to more people,” Rajesh Bhushan said.'We have to stop Covid-19 second wave': PM Modi's 5-point plan to states, UTs“We are also asking states if the number of cases is on the rise, then why the number of containment zones is not going up,” the secretary said.Urging states to minimise reliance on antigen test and increase RT-PCR tests, the secretary said at least 70 per cent of tests should be RT-PCR, but states have even less than 40 per cent of RT-PCR share.In his meeting with state and UT heads, PM Modi too emphasised the point of increasing RT-PCR tests and said states like Kerala, Odisha, Uttar Pradesh are largely dependent on rapid antigen tests, but it is not the ideal scenario, as the country has adequate infrastructure for RT-PCR tests.“PM Modi's meeting with the states has been the most significant development of the day. Emerging second peak has to be addressed with confidence. There is no need to panic. We have tools. It is time to combine all these tools and find a way out. This is what PM Modi said,” Niti Aayog (health) member VK Paul said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/track-test-30-close-contacts-of-covid-19-infected-person-in-3-days-centre-101615982161559.html
17-03-2021||India||General insurance, LIC employees observing strike on March 17, 18. All you need to know||The two-day nationwide bank strike ended on Wednesday while the employees of public sector insurance companies went on a strike on March 17, which will continue on March 18 as well.The unions of the insurance companies are observing the strike on different dates. The Joint Front of Unions in public sector general insurance companies decided to go on a one-day strike on March 17 against privatisation and FDI hike in insurance. The unions of Life Insurance Corporation of India (LIC) have decided to go on a one-day strike against the initial public offer (IPO) of the public insurance giant on March 18. The National Federation of Insurance Field Workers' of India (NFIFWI) has decided to go on a two-hour walk-out strike on the same day.Also Read | Vaccine stock to last 10 days: Maharashtra health minister Tope to JavadekarServices like claim settlement, premium collection, payments at the offices of these insurance companies and underwriting of policies are likely to get affected due to the strike.The joint strike called by public sector general insurance companies unions and LIC unions was announced by the All India Insurance Employees Association (AIIEA) on March 5."It is a matter of great satisfaction that all the Unions in LIC have decided to go on One Day Strike against the IPO of LIC on the 18th of March 2021. The NFIFWI has decided to go on a two hours walk-out Strike on the same day. Similarly, the Joint Front of Unions in PSGI Companies has decided to go on One Day Strike on 17th March 2021 against privatisation and FDI hike in insurance," the AIIEA circular signed by joint secretary Shreekant Mishra read.Farmers' umbrella union Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) has also pledged support to the strike of LIC and PSGI employees during a joint meeting with the central trade unions."The alliance between insurance employees and the central trade unions on the one hand and the farmers on the other is a classic display of peasants’-workers’ alliance in the cause of public sector and self-reliant economic development of India," the union said.The AIIEA representatives had also met with Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman and other MPs last month to oppose the IPO of LIC.The Joint Front Union comprising of AIIEA, Federation of Class I Officers’ Associations, NFIFWI and All India LIC Employees’ Federation, on March 8, wrote a letter to the Lok Sabha speaker requesting him to advise the government of delinking the amendments to the LIC Act 1956 as part of the Finance Bill that facilitates the listing of LIC on stock markets.Also Read | Uttarakhand CM’s statement on ‘ripped’ jeans draws flak"The listing of LIC will have far-reaching consequences to the interests of its 40 crore policyholders and the national economy as a whole. The proposed amendments through a Finance Bill will escape close scrutiny of a very important economic decision," the letter read.During the Union Budget presentation, Sitharaman said that the government will privatise two more public sector banks and list LIC on bourses. The government has merged 14 public lenders in four years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/general-insurance-lic-employees-observing-strike-on-march-17-18-all-you-need-to-know-101615975382146.html
17-03-2021||India||60% of all Covid-19 active cases concentrated in Maharashtra: Health ministry||The Union health ministry on Wednesday said that 60% of all Covid-19 active cases are concentrated in Maharashtra. "60% of all active cases are concentrated in Maharashtra. Mortality Rate is less than 2% even when certain States/UTs are seeing a surge," Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said.The health ministry said that the lowest point of new Covid-19 cases was on February 9. "Today, nearly 43% week-on-week increase in new Covid-19 cases and nearly 37% week on week increase in new deaths," it added.Earlier in the day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said in states like Maharashtra, Punjab and Madhya Pradesh the number of Covid-19 cases has seen a rise while nearly 70 districts in the country have seen an increase in the positivity rate by over 150 per cent of late."If we do not stop it here, then a condition for a nationwide outbreak may emerge," he said.The Maharashtra government has admitted that it is witnessing a second wave of Covid-19 infections and has begun taking measures to contain the spread of the disease.Maharashtra recorded 17,864 new Covid-19 cases on Tuesday which took the state’s toll to 2,347,328. The ctive cases rose to 138,813. With 87 deaths, the death toll reached 52,996. The state government said that 264,897 people were administered the coronavirus vaccine, which was the highest since the state began the inoculation drive.Maharashtra is among the five states listed by the union health ministry that continue to report a high number of daily fresh Covid-19 cases. Nagpur, Mumbai, Pune, Aurangabad and Thane are the top five districts of Maharashtra that contribute most to the active cases of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/60-of-all-covid-19-active-cases-concentrated-in-maharashtra-health-ministry-101615979393531.html
17-03-2021||India||Covid-19: PM Modi asked Karnataka to focus on 3 areas bordering Maharashtra, says BS Yediyurappa||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has asked the Karnataka government to pay special attention to Bengaluru, Kalaburagi and Bidar in the wake of the rising number of cases in the state, Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa told reporters on Wednesday after the Prime Minister held a meeting with the chief ministers of states and Union territories to discuss the Covid-19 (coronavirus) situation in the country.“PM Narendra Modi has asked Karnataka to focus on Bengaluru, Kalaburagi and Bidar in view of rising coronavirus cases in these regions,” said news agency PTI quoting Yediyurappa.Yediyurappa also told reporters that the reason the Prime Minister emphasised on these three areas is because of their proximity to Maharashtra as all three places are located at the Maharashtra-Karnataka border. As Maharashtra has been witnessing a recent resurgence of Covid-19 cases, Karnataka made RT-PCR tests mandatory for passengers arriving from Maharashtra and Kerala.Also Read: Karnataka will conduct 1 lakh Covid-19 tests daily to stop '2nd wave'"As cases are going up in Bengaluru, Kalaburagi and Bidar which are located at the border of Maharashtra, Prime Minister Narendra Modi asked us to focus on these three districts," Yediyurappa told PTI.News agency ANI reported that the chief minister apprised PM Modi during the meeting about Karnataka’s preparedness to vaccinate three lakh individuals every day, and the decision to open three Covid care centres in Bengaluru.“We have decided to open three Covid care centers in Bengaluru. We'll be vaccinating 3 lakh people every day, in the state,” ANI said quoting Yediyurappa.On Tuesday, Karnataka reported the highest number of daily Covid-19 cases in the last three months. The state recorded 1,135 new cases of Covid-19 and 6 fatalities. Bengaluru urban recorded 710 cases, leading the count. Kalaburgi reported 46 new cases. The total number of cases is currently over 962,000 with 12,403 fatalities till date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-pm-modi-asked-karnataka-to-focus-on-3-areas-bordering-maharashtra-says-bs-yediyurappa-101615979953237.html
17-03-2021||India||News updates from HT| Cancellation of ration card not linked to Aadhaar a serious issue: SC and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Cancellation of ration card not linked to Aadhaar a serious issue: SC tells govtThe Supreme Court on Wednesday sought a response from the Central government on a plea regarding cancellation of around 30 million ration cards across India between 2013 and 2016, leading to alleged denial of rations and starvation deaths. Read moreBHU, Reliance rebut reports that Nita Ambani was invited to be visiting facultyReliance Industries Limited (RIL) on Wednesday refuted news reports on a proposal to make Nita Ambani a visiting faculty at Uttar Pradesh's Banaras Hindu University, reported news agency ANI. Read moreUttarakhand CM’s statement on ‘ripped’ jeans draws flakWomen rights activists and the opposition Congress on Wednesday criticised Uttarakhand chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat’s comments a day earlier that wearing ripped jeans is not Indian culture but aping of the West. Read moreUS pinpricks China over strings attached ‘vaccine diplomacy’, packs in a warningUS secretary of state Antony Blinken has set the tone for the first face-to-face meeting with senior Joe Biden administration officials and their Chinese counterparts to be held in freezing Alaska this week. Read moreIs Virat Kohli the best T20 batsman in the world?In a fickle format where 4-5 balls can change the entire course of a match and a number of top-rung contenders like Rohit Sharma, David Warner, Martin Guptill or Aaron Finch in the fray, that may seem like a tough question to answer. Read moreWhen Twinkle Khanna revealed Karan Johar was in love with her in school: 'He found my moustache hot'Twinkle Khanna and Karan Johar might be cracking up viewers with their hilarious banter, courtesy of their recent television commercial. Read moreSkoda Kushaq to make world debut on Thursday: Five things to expectThe much-awaited Skoda Kushaq is going to be revealed for the very first time on Thursday (March 18th, 2021). It is going to be the production-spec version of the Vision-IN SUV which was revealed for the first time at the Auto Expo 2020. Read moreKajal Aggarwal channels hot vibes, promotes Mosagallu in sequins top-slit skirtMaking jaws drop in awe with one sartorially elegant look after another, Kajal Aggarwal has set Mosagallu promotions on fire ahead of the film’s grand release that co-stars Vishnu Manchu. Read moreLittle girl has meltdown at parents’ wedding. What happens has everyone laughingWhen it comes to a wedding, a whole lot of meticulous planning is done to ensure the ceremony goes through without a hitch and the day is the most special for the bride and groom. Read moreWatch | ‘If we don’t stop Covid right now…’: PM Modi’s warning after meet with CMs||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-cancellation-of-ration-card-not-linked-to-aadhaar-a-serious-issue-tells-sc-to-govt-and-all-the-latest-news-101615978160049.html
17-03-2021||India||Covid-19: 70 districts across 16 states saw cases spike by over 150% between March 1 and 15||Covid-19 cases increased by over 150 per cent in 70 districts spread across 16 states in the country in the 15-day period starting March 1, the government said on Wednesday. In addition, 55 districts in 17 states witnessed a spike of anywhere between 100 and 150 per cent, the Centre also observed. Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan, addressing a press conference on Wednesday evening, said that most states and districts, where the increasing trend has been observed, are located in the central and western parts of India.#IndiaFightsCorona:📍India: Percentage change on new COVID cases as on 16th March, 2021.#Unite2FightCorona #IndiaWillWin pic.twitter.com/cHIZ4L4wWQDuring his presentation, the health secretary also said that the number of daily new cases reported in India was at its highest in September 2020 with 97,894 cases reported on a single day. However, the cases started to decline until February 2021, after which it again witnessed an upward trend, calling it a “matter of concern".The health secretary’s remarks came after India, earlier in the day, reported its highest daily new cases this year. With 28,903 cases and 188 deaths, the country’s Covid-19 tally reached 11,438,734 cases and the death toll climbed to 159,044, as per the Union health ministry’s data.Also read | Covid-19 positivity rate in Punjab has doubled, says health ministryIn Maharashtra, which remains the worst-affected state by the pandemic so far, Nanded district witnessed an increase of 385 per cent in the number of cases reported between March 1 and 15, followed by Nandurbar with a 224 per cent increase and Beed with a 219 per cent increase. In the same period, Dhule, Nashik, Jalgaon, Bhandara and Nagpur districts, the increase was less than 200 per cent, while in Chandrapur, Ahmednagar, Buldhana, Aurangabad and Akola, it was less than 100 per cent.According to data from the health secretary, among other states, cases increased by 500 per cent in Ratlam in Madhya Pradesh, by 425 per cent in Surajpur in Chhattisgarh and by 367 per cent in Himachal Pradesh’s Sirmaur districts in the mentioned period. Rupnagar in Punjab also reported a spike of 256 per cent, the ministry’s noted.Earlier in the day, the ministry also said that an upward trajectory of cases is being observed in Delhi, Gujarat, Karnataka, Haryana, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Punjab and Madhya Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-70-districts-across-16-states-saw-cases-spike-by-over-150-between-march-1-and-15-101615979738538.html
17-03-2021||India||With BJP’s steady rise in Odisha, CM Patnaik turns to religion, culture||On February 27, Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik tabled a resolution in the state assembly seeking the support of the House for early completion of the ₹3200 crore Jagannath Heritage Corridor project. He called Lord Jagannath the symbol of Odiya esteem and pride.“The greatest identity of Odiya community is Lord Jagannath. Our history, culture, tradition, and belief system are all centered around the Almighty. Visiting the Jagannath Temple once in a lifetime and getting a glimpse of the Lord is the only prayer of millions of devotees. All devotees, who come to the Jagannath Temple in Puri to see the Lord, have a desire in their hearts to see deities in a calm, beautiful and spiritual environment. This plan is not only for the government or for the temple administration, but also the plan of 4.5 crore [45 million] Odiyas,” said Patnaik before the resolution was unanimously approved with support from opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Congress.Also Read | Odisha CM plans to counter BJP’s Jagannath temple donation driveThe project seeks to create a buffer zone around the 12th century Jagannath Temple and to build pilgrim centres, multi-level car parking, integrated command, and control centre, and parks.Patnaik, 74, who has been the chief minister since 2000 and has never been known as overtly religious, has been busy seeking divine help of late. His visits to the Jagannath Temple would mostly be during the launch of poll campaigns and after winning elections. But since 2019, his politics has evolved to keep pace with the BJP’s ambitions. His focus on religion and culture is seen to be part of his attempt to keep the BJP’s ploy of painting opponents as insensitive to Hindu aspirations in check.Patnaik also announced a ₹200-crore package for the development of Sambalpur’s Maa Samaleswari Temple in February. In the 2021-22 Budget, his government announced a ₹742 crore allocation for the development of Jagannath and Lingaraj Temple (Bhubaneswar). There have also been announcements of support for temples in Mayurbhanj and Kendrapara.Communist Party of India (Marxist) leader Ali Kishore Patnaik said Naveen Patnaik is practising soft Hindutva. “By pitching Jagannath Temple as a symbol of Odiya pride and esteem and using state’s budget for the development of temples, he may be trying to upstage the BJP’s plan of using religion for political gains. But he is treading a dangerous path.” Hindus constitute an overwhelming 93.6% of Odisha’s 42 million population. Christians and Muslims form a mere 2.77 and 2.17% of the population. There has never been any large-scale mobilisation based on religion in the state barring a handful of constituencies. There has not been overt political mobilisation on the basis of caste or class either. The politics of three major parties— Patnaik’s Biju Janata Dal (BJD), BJP, and Congress— has revolved around leadership and local issues.BJD has been a dominant force on the back of social welfare schemes and Patnaik’s incorruptible image. Ahead of the 2019 polls, it announced Kalia Scheme for cash assistance to 5.7 million small and marginal farmers. The state runs around 60 social assistance programmes for tribals, youths, slum dwellers, farmers, women, weavers, and artisans.Also Read | Warehouses in Odisha running out of space as FCI slows down lifting riceThe BJP’s steady rise has had the BJD worried. It won 9 out of the 30 zilla parishads in 2017; 8 of the 21 Lok Sabha seats; and 23 of 147 assembly seats in 2019. The BJP’s vote share rose to 38.37% in 2019.The BJP is expected to focus on Odisha once the Bengal elections are over. “Hindutva forces have been active in Odisha for more than two decades and Naveen Patnaik realises that the BJP would use the religion card. He has the women voters firmly behind him and now probably hopes that soft Hindutva turn would stop any erosion in his vote base,” said Rabi Das, a journalist.The beautification drive of temples has earned Patnaik praise among middle-class Odiyas as commercial and several crumbling structures around them have been bulldozed. The families, who have lost their homes to the demolition around the temple, have supported the drive after getting lucrative rehabilitation packages.Sociologist Rita Ray said in the name of religion, people are being distracted from real issues. “There are other pressing issues such as rising unemployment... The increasing focus on religion would serve no purpose other than making them more obsequious.”State Congress chief Niranjan Patnaik questioned whether beautification was absolutely necessary when the economy is in a shambles? “If BJD wanted to save the cultural heritage, why did not it do it a few years earlier when the state’s finances were in better shape? The beautification drive is just for votes.”BJD lawmaker Amar Patnaik said the beautification should be seen in the context of the state’s cultural traditions. “Jagannath culture is the identity of Odisha since times immemorial and includes the Odiya identity of Muslims, Jains, Buddhists. More than the religious part, we are celebrating the cultural traditions of Bhubaneswar and Puri,” he said. He added money has been given for the development of mosques and churches too.But will the temple beautification drive appeal to the state’s tribals, who account for the state’s 22% population? Anthropologist Jayant Nayak of Central University, Koraput, said there is no difference between the Hindus and tribals. “During Rathyatras in tribal-dominated Koraput and Mayurbhanj districts, maximum participation is from tribal communities. The Hindu and tribal identities are interchangeable.”Union minister and BJP’s most prominent face in Odisha, Dharmendra Pradhan, has proposed a donation drive for the beautification. “The magnificent Sri Mandir was constructed 1,000 years ago with people’s participation... The role of state and administration is secondary. Today, people have to come forward to collaborate and participate in promoting our rich culture and age-old traditions,” said Pradhan at a webinar with Odiyas in 35 countries and Puri king Gajapati Dibyasingh Dev.The state government plans to counter BJP’s plan by installing donation boxes at major airports and railway stations across the country.For BJP, Puri and Jagannath temple are key to their scheme of things. The party has been trying to blend the Jagannath culture with Hindutva. BJP leader Sambit Patra lost the Puri seat to BJD’s Pinaki Mishra in the 2019 national polls. In June last year, when it seemed the annual Rath Yatra festival of Lord Jagannath would not happen due to Covid guidelines, the Centre facilitated it by moving the Supreme Court that allowed it with some restrictions.The National Monument Authority brought draft heritage by-laws for Jagannath, Ananta Basudeva and Brahmeswar temples under the provisions of the Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains (Amendment and Validation) Act, 2010. The draft proposed to prohibit construction activities within the 100-metre radius of the monuments, effectively derailing Patnaik’s plans of development of the corridors around Jagannath and Lingaraj temples. After much protest, the byelaws were put on hold.Also Read | Odisha told to enforce prohibition of fishing around turtle nesting sitesGyana Ranjan Swain, a political science professor, said the BJP is aware that BJD is trying to snatch its religious card through the development of old temples in a deeply religious state like Odisha.The BJP does not want to be publicly seen to be opposing the temple beautification drive. It cannot also let the BJD use the religion card a year before the panchayat polls. The BJP has started a debate on the demolition of old Hindu mutts and monuments in Puri and Bhubaneswar. Last month, BJP lawmaker Aparajita Sarangi wrote to Naveen Patnaik asking him who advised him on demolishing sacred Emar, Mangu and Languli mutts.“It is painful to learn that mutts associated with the most revered saints have been razed to the ground. People are left with a sense of disbelief that Mathas/heritage monuments which were so closely associated with our religious belief system, integral to the daily and special rituals of Lord Jagannath have been demolished,” she wrote.Sarangi demanded the setting up of a committee to assess the scale of destruction.Pradhan on Sunday proposed devotees of Lord Jagannath should unite to preserving the rich heritage. “I proposed the development of a Nidhi Samarpan Abhiyan (funds collection) like mechanism for galvanising the spirit, emotion, and devotion of the entire Hindu Samaj and facilitating large-scale participation in spearheading the pious work of promoting Lord Jagannath’s culture,” Pradhan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-bjp-s-steady-rise-in-odisha-cm-patnaik-turns-to-religion-culture-101615979708999.html
17-03-2021||India||Maharashtra, UP, Telangana: What PM Modi observed about Covid-19 in these states||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday virtually interacted with the chief ministers of states and Union territories and reviewed the Covid-19 situation of the country. This is the first meeting between the PM and the state authorities after India began its vaccination drive. During his interaction with the CMs which comes in the backdrop of a sudden spike in the number of Covid-19 cases, the prime minister mentioned certain states in various regards.'We have to stop Covid-19 second wave': PM Modi's 5-point plan to states, UTsMadhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, PunjabPM Modi mentioned Maharashtra, Punjab as a few states where cases have been increasing. “In many states, cases are increasing after coming down briefly. Some names were mentioned like Maharashtra, Punjab,” he said. Then he said the case positivity rate is very high in Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh. The number of cases is also increasing, he said.Kerala, Odisha, Chhattisgarh, Uttar PradeshThe contacts of every infected person have to be tracked as soon as possible. Taking the name of Kerala, Odisha, Chhattisgarh and Uttar Pradesh, PM Modi said that these states are mostly depending on an antigen test, instead of RT-PCR tests. This needs to be changed. RT-PCR tests must be 70 per cent of all tests, PM Modi said.Telangana, Andhra Pradesh“Over 10 per cent vaccines of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh have been wasted. Uttar Pradesh too has similar figures. Vaccine wastage should be reviewed. It should be monitored every evening,” PM Modi said urging states to concentrate on local planning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-up-telangana-what-pm-modi-observed-about-covid-19-in-these-states-101615978734790.html
17-03-2021||India||Covid-19 taught us no nation is immune to global disasters: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said that coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has taught that no country is immune to effect of global disasters. "We are witnessing an event that is being termed a once-in-a-hundred-year disaster. Covid-19 pandemic has taught us that in an interdependent and interconnected world, country-rich or poor, in the east or west, north or south- is immune to the effect of global disasters," PM Modi said at the International Conference on Disaster Resilient Infrastructure.PM Modi addressed the opening ceremony of International Conference on Disaster Resilient Infrastructure t video conference. Prime Minister of Fiji, Italy and the United Kingdom were also present on the occasion.Terming the current situation "unprecedented", the Prime Minister noted that the Covid-19 pandemic has shown how the world can come together. “The pandemic has shown us that innovation to address global challenges can come from anywhere."PM Modi called for fostering a global ecosystem that supports innovation in all parts of the world, and its transfer to places that are most in need. "The year 2021 promises to be a year of swift recovery from the pandemic," he added.The Prime Minister cautioned that the lessons from the pandemic must not be forgotten. "They apply to not only public health disasters but other disasters as well. It will take sustained and concerted efforts to mitigate climate change," PM Modi said.PM Modi said that countries that are making large investments in infrastructure, such as India, must ensure that this is an investment in resilience, and not in risk."Many infrastructure systems- digital infrastructure, shipping lines, aviation networks- cover the entire world and the effect of disaster in one part of the world can quickly spread across the world. Cooperation is a must for ensuring the resilience of the global system," he added.PM Modi said 2021 is particularly an important year. "We are approaching the mid-point of the Sustainable Development Goals, the Paris agreement and the Sendai Framework. The expectations from COP-26, to be hosted by the UK and Italy later this year, are high. This partnership on resilient infrastructure must play its important role in helping meet some of those expectations," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-taught-us-no-nation-is-immune-to-global-disasters-pm-modi-101615977318210.html
17-03-2021||India||Inter-state gang selling PG medical seats busted; scores of students cheated||Madhya Pradesh police busted a high-profile, inter-state, Delhi-based gang involved in duping MBBS pass outs on the pretext of getting them admission in post graduate (PG) courses in different medical colleges. Management of some colleges and even police officials are believed to be part of the gang, which used to charge up to ₹1.5 crore to offer admissions, according to initial investigation by the police.“Employees of government and private medical colleges in Delhi, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan Police are also part of the gang. Police are trying to identify the employees with the help of doctors,” said Rewa inspector general of police, Umesh Joga.The gang of 12-14 persons cheated more than 150 students of amounts ranging from ₹80 lakh to 1.5 crore in the past four years across 15 states, said police. Rewa police arrested a manager of a consultancy company from its Bali Nagar office in Delhi in the case and was trying to nab the alleged kingpin, Vishal Kumar, a resident of Dwarka in Delhi.The lid was blown off the elaborate network in March first week, when Dr Raghvendra Tiwari from Rewa lodged a police complaint claiming he was duped of ₹42.50 lakh by a Delhi-based consultancy company named Royal Immigration and Students Consultancy.Tiwari told police he was approached in January 2020 by the firm, promising help in securing admission to PG courses in prestigious medical colleges in exchange for ₹80 lakh. Tiwari, who completed his MBBS degree in 2013, said he paid an advance of ₹9.50 lakh and was told to appear in Medical Education Common Entrance Examination (MECEE) for PG courses in Nepal.“The admission process was delayed due to the Covid-19 lockdown in April last year. In January this year, I appeared in MECEE in Kathmandu, Nepal and the consultancy manager told me in February that I had qualified and will get admission to Maulana Azad Medical College in Delhi. They called me in Delhi and introduced me to two employees of the medical college. They explained allotment details and also provided a receipt and an allotment letter. Later, I gave ₹33 lakh to the consultancy. After this, the consultancy manager stopped taking my calls and when I contacted the medical college in March, they told me that the receipt and the allotment letter were fake,” said Tiwari.The investigating officer Shivpooran Sharma said a team of police contacted the consultancy posing as a dummy candidate.“We told them that we wanted to fix the deal, the office staff called a manager, Lalit Gupta, a resident of Rohtak, Haryana. He explained to us that they have connections at many prestigious colleges in India and will ensure 100% admission to the colleges. We raided the office immediately and arrested him on Sunday,” said Sharma.Sharma said details of several students, who were in touch with the agency were obtained in the raid and the name of the kingpin, one Vishal Kumar was revealed. Lalit Gupta also confessed to have duped at least 150 students, mostly from small cities of states like Odisha, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Bihar, Telangana, Rajasthan and others. He also confessed to have got some students admitted through management quota with the connivance of the management of some medical colleges, Sharma added.“Gupta made startling revelations, but we can’t share it without proof,” Sharma said.The police have seized 16 accounts opened in the name of the consultancy and found a list of 35 students, who made a deal with the firm to procure admissions in exchange for money. “We will take Tiwari and other students to the colleges to identify the employees involved in the racket, said the police officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/interstate-gang-selling-pg-medical-seats-busted-scores-of-students-cheated-101615977429564.html
17-03-2021||India||YSR Congress confident of winning Tirupati Lok Sabha seat in by election||Buoyed by the landslide it secured in the just-concluded elections to urban local bodies in Andhra Pradesh, the ruling YSR Congress seems to be taking success in the coming bypoll to the Tirupati Lok Sabha seat for granted and only betting on the victory margin. The YSR Congress on Sunday swept the elections to the ULBs, literally burying the main opposition Telugu Desam party in 75 municipalities and 11 municipal corporations."We hope to win Tirupati by a majority of at least three lakh votes. It will be higher than the last time (2019), going by the people's mood that has reflected in the ULB elections," state Panchayat Raj Minister P R C Reddy, who hails from Chittoor district, said.Notification for the by-election will be issued on March 23 and the last date for filing nominations is March 30.Polling is scheduled to be held on April 17 and counting of votes on May 2.The YSRC won the Tirupati Lok Sabha (Scheduled Caste reserved) seat in 2014 and again in 2019, improving its vote share from 47.84 per cent to 55.03 per cent.Balli Durga Prasad Rao, who won in 2019 by a record margin of 2.28 lakh votes, died of COVID-19 on September 16 last year, necessitating the bypoll.The YSRC nominated party chief Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy's physiotherapist M Gurumurthy as its candidate for the bypoll.The TDP chose former Union Minister of State Panabaka Lakshmi again.Lakshmi lost the election in 2019 to Durga Prasad Rao.The BJP is jumping into the fray in alliance with the Jana Sena and is seeking to reclaim the seat it won only once in 1999, then in the company of the TDP.In the 2019 general election, the BJP polled a mere 16,125 votes.In fact, the BSP polled 20,971 votes here.Names of former IAS officers K Ratna Prabha and Dasari Srinivasulu are being tipped as the BJP's prospective candidates.Ratna Prabha retired as Chief Secretary of Karnataka while Srinivasulu retired as a Principal Secretary in the AP government.The Congress is expected to field former Union Minister Chinta Mohan yet again, the old warhorse who previously represented Tirupati for five terms in the Lok Sabha.Tirupati Lok Sabha constituency is spread over seven Assembly segments in Chittoor and Sri Potti Sriramulu Nellore districts.Over 25 per cent of the 15.75 lakh voters in the parliamentary segment belong to the Scheduled Castes while there are about five lakh electors belonging to the backward classes.Sullurpeta (SC), Sarvepalli, Guduru (SC) and Venkatagiri Assembly segments fall in SPS Nellore district and Tirupati, Satyavedu (SC) and Srikalahasti are in Chittoor district.The YSRC, by and large, appears to be in a comfortable position in all the segments but it is said to be facing some internal trouble in Guduru, where former MP from Tirupati V Varaprasad is now the MLA.The ruling party is, however, unperturbed, given the current political trend in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ysr-congress-confident-of-winning-tirupati-lok-sabha-seat-in-by-election-101615974294851.html
17-03-2021||India||Polygraph test can only be conducted with consent of the accused: Karnataka HC||The Karnataka High Court on Wednesday ruled that polygraph tests, popularly known as 'lie-detector tests', can only be conducted after the accused concerned has provided their consent for the same. The court noted that the silence of the accused does not amount to consent, according to a report by Bar and Bench.A polygraph or a lie detector test is a procedure to record physiological indicators like blood pressure, pulse, respiration, and skin conductivity while a person is asked to answer a series of questions.In its judgment, a single bench of the Karnataka High Court detailed the set of circumstances under which authorities were permitted to conduct a polygraph test. As per a copy of the judgment posted by the legal portal, it reads:
17-03-2021||India||Received complaints citing violation of FDI against some e-comm firms: Goyal||The government has received complaints against certain e-commerce companies alleging violation of foreign direct investment (FDI) policy and necessary actions have been taken for investigation by the Enforcement Directorate, Parliament was informed on Wednesday.In a written reply to the Lok Sabha, Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal said no representation from All India Chamber of Commerce and Industry (AICCI) was received regarding banning of some big e-commerce companies from operating in India."The government has received complaints against certain e-commerce companies alleging violation of FDI policy and necessary actions under the provisions of Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 have been taken for investigation by the Enforcement Directorate," he said.Replying to a separate question, Minister of State for Commerce and Industry Hardeep Singh Puri said there are 1,569 tea gardens in the country covering total area of 4,20,671 hectares.He said the Tea Board has provided financial assistance of ₹217.77 crore to tea companies from 2017-18 till February 1, 2021.In another reply, Singh said the top five countries from where India has imported goods during 2020 (January- December) include China, the US, UAE, Saudi Arabia and Iraq.India has imported goods worth USD 143.5 billion from these five nations during the period, which is about 39 per cent of India's total inbound shipments."The major items of import from China are products such as telecom instruments, computer hardware and peripherals, fertilizers, electronic components/instruments, project goods, organic chemicals, drug intermediates, consumer electronics, electrical machinery," he added.To a separate question, Singh said the government has received representations regarding under invoicing and smuggling of raw human hair."The matter has been referred to the Ministry/Agencies concerned for necessary action," he said.To a question on exports, he said ₹43,493 crore has been refunded to exporters on account of export of goods with payment of Integrated Goods and Services Tax (IGST) as on March 11, 2021 this fiscal year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/received-complaints-citing-violation-of-fdi-against-some-e-comm-firms-goyal-101615969450733.html
17-03-2021||India||Hit by pandemic, gig workers plan to create umbrella union||Following the job losses during the lockdown and an increase in instances of harassment from employers and customers, multiple gig worker groups are planning to create an umbrella union of gig workers across the country.Tanveer Pasha, president of the Ola-Uber Drivers Association in Bengaluru, said on Tuesday that a meeting will be held next week to finalise the plan for the new platform. He said the new union will include those employed in courier services, food delivery, cabs aggregators and other services.“We have a core team for now and we are looking at creating a network across India. We believe that it is time to look beyond individual unions and create a union for the gig workers, where everyone comes under one umbrella as gig workers,” Pasha told Hindustan Times.Even though this is an informal economy without enough data on various jobs, once a union is established, it will attract those working across the industries to the union, Pasha said. “We are aware of the harassment delivery boys and others are facing from police, customers and companies. But (those issues) don't come out in the public,” he said.Pasha said a verdict of the UK Supreme Court on February 19, classifying ride-hailing app Uber’s drivers as its employees and not self-employed, has been a wakeup call. “A similar order was passed by a court in California (USA) last year. We have been asking for such a law here, but the government is not responding. At the same time, we realised these issued are faced by other gig workers as well,” he said.In a 2019 report, human resources firm TeamLease estimated that 1.3 million Indians joined the gig economy in the second half of 2018-19, registering a 30% growth compared to the first half of the fiscal year. According to the report, between the first half of 2019 and the end of its second half, the number of gig workers in Bengaluru increased from 194,400 to 252,300.At the same time, as per the ‘Impact of COVID-19 on Livelihoods of informal sector workers and vulnerable groups in Bengaluru’ report released by the Azim Premji University on 21 February, 15% of informal sector workers in Bengaluru are still unemployed after losing their previous jobs during the Covid-19 pandemic.The study report added that 23% of informal sector workers experienced a break in employment during the pandemic, and about 46% are currently engaged in the same job but with less pay. Only around 6% are in the same job with either the same or more income.The study was conducted by over 10 civil society organisations in association with Azim Premji Foundation. The study arrived at the conclusions through a combination of personal interviews, secondary data and surveys, comparing the situation of the informal sector workers and vulnerable groups of the city now to that of before the lockdown beginning March 2020.Around 50% or more migrants (including those from Karnataka) left Bengaluru in the first few months. “They were mainly from Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Assam, Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha, West Bengal and other districts of Karnataka. Of the approximate 50% of migrants who left Bengaluru, around 32% are still not back. Half of this 32% who have not returned indicated that they will come back by January 2021 the study revealed.In principle, gig workers are independent contractual workers who are into flexible agreements with companies or through platforms for on-demand work completion. However, Kaveri Madappa, a researcher on gig economies, said workers in the informal sector are not exactly gig workers. “They are not doing a gig for a company and moving on. Most of these workers depend on these jobs for their livelihood. To call them gig workers is in fact problematic,” she said.“The industry claims that it is up to the workers to choose how long they want to work and there is no limit on how many hours they can work. When the income and perks start to fall, they have no option but to extend their work to learn little over ₹1,000,” Madappa said.She added that the aggregators and other app-based companies offload the risk of the business on the workers. “Even though industry experts claim the gig economy is formalising the informal sector through technology, the fact is that it is a digitally enabled informality,” said the researcher.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hit-by-pandemic-gig-workers-plan-to-create-umbrella-union-101615974515141.html
17-03-2021||India||Cancellation of ration card not linked to Aadhaar a serious issue: SC tells govt||The Supreme Court on Wednesday sought a response from the Central government on a plea regarding cancellation of around 30 million ration cards across India between 2013 and 2016, leading to alleged denial of rations and starvation deaths. “It is a very serious issue. We expect you not to treat it as adversarial,” the bench, headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde and also comprising justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, told the counsel for the Centre and the Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI). UIDAI is the authority that issues Aadhaar cards. The public interest litigation (PIL), filed by a woman from Jharkhand, has alleged starvation deaths following denial of food in the absence of ration card. Appearing for petitioner Koili Devi, senior advocate Colin Gonsalves claimed that around three crore [30 million] ration cards of poor people were cancelled by authorities across the country as they were not linked with Aadhaar cards and the petitioner’s 13-year-old girl died of starvation in September 2017 after they were denied ration. Representing the UIDAI and the Centre, additional solicitor general (ASG) Aman Lekhi opposed the plea and stated that the PIL was based only on newspaper reports and that there were no reliable statistics adduced by Gonsalves to corroborate his contentions. Also Read | ‘Old consumer cases won’t be transferred,’ says Supreme Court“There is a grievance redressal system under the Food Security Act. This court has already sought responses from the state governments on this. The plea, as being pressed, is completely misconceived because there is an absolute clarity that if Aadhaar is not available, alternative documents can be submitted. We have clearly said Aadhaar or no Aadhaar, it will not deny right to food,” said Lekhi. Attorney General KK Venugopal, also appearing for the Centre, supported Lekhi’s arguments. After hearing the counsel, the court said it would hear the PIL in detail after three weeks. In November 2019, the court had called upon all states to apprise it of steps taken by them to put in place the grievance redressal mechanism, as provided under the National Food Security Act. Venugopal had then cited Sections 14, 15, 16 and 40 of the Act that mandate every state government to have internal grievance redressal mechanism and nodal officers for effective and expeditious redressal of food grievance. During a hearing on February 24 last year, the Centre had denied allegations of starvation deaths in Jharkhand and arbitrary cancellation of ration cards across the country, pointing out the cancellation between 2013 to 2016 pertained to ‘ghost’ ration cards. Venugopal had said that the statistics referred to in the petition were completely wrong and that the Centre was ready to prove the averments as incorrect.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cancellation-of-ration-card-not-linked-to-aadhaar-a-serious-issue-sc-tells-govt-101615975448932.html
17-03-2021||India||PM Modi meets CMs to discuss resurgence of Covid-19: Here’s what he said||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday held a meeting with the chief ministers of states and Union territories as alarm grows over the resurgence of Covid-19 cases in India. Here are the key points he made at the meeting:• Modi said India needs to take quick and decisive steps soon to stop an emerging second peak of Covid-19 infections.• He added the world is talking about how India has tackled the disease with 96% recoveries.• Modi said in Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh, positivity rates are suddenly increasing.Also Watch | ‘If we don’t stop Covid right now…’: PM Modi’s warning after meet with CMsAlso Read | PM Modi holds key meet on Covid-19 with CMs; Mamata, Bhupesh Baghel skip• He added in 70 districts, there has been an over 150% increase in new cases. “If we do not stop the second wave quickly, we will face troubles.”• He highlighted some local administrations were not very strict in ensuring the wearing of masks. The issues must be resolved, he underlined.• Modi said it is also to be seen why in some places, testing and vaccination rates are low.• He added the fight against Covid-19 has given the country some confidence. Modi cautioned it should not turn into overconfidence or laxity. “We have to be proactive in this phase. We have to focus on creating micro-containment zones and [ensure] there is no laxity.”• Modi said over 3 million people have been vaccinated and underlined vaccines should not be wasted. “There should be daily monitoring. More beneficiaries should be mobilised to stop wastage. States must target zero wastage of vaccines.”• Modi said in some states, the emphasis is on rapid antigen tests. It must be changed immediately to RT-PCR, he added.• Modi warned tier 2 and 3 cities are getting affected. “If this spreads to rural India, our resources might fall short.”• He underlined the need for both vaccination and strictness. “There is also a need to increase the number of centres for vaccination. If more centres can work on a mission mode, we will reduce the wastage of vaccines. Also, keep in mind the expiry date of the vaccines. Use the earlier batches first.”• He also called for the need to maintain social distancing.• Modi said people have always cooperated. “India is winning [the fight against Covid-19] because of the cooperative spirit.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-meets-cms-to-discuss-resurgence-of-covid-19-here-s-what-he-said-101615975268863.html
17-03-2021||India||Passengers not wearing masks properly to be de-boarded, treated as unruly: DGCA to Delhi HC||The DGCA informed the Delhi High Court on Wednesday that action is being taken against passengers not wearing masks properly despite repeated warnings and they will be de-boarded from planes before departure and treated as “unruly passengers”.The high court expressed satisfaction over the steps being taken by the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) and said it hoped that the action would continue in the same spirit considering the safety of passengers from Covid-19 infection.A bench of Justices Navin Chawla and C Hari Shankar observed that the court was initially planning to keep the suo motu case open to continue monitoring the implementation of directions issued by the court earlier.However, after noticing the proactive action by the DGCA, the court decided to close the case and observed that initiation of punitive action against the violators is a welcome step, the bench said.Justice Shankar had on March 8 taken suo motu cognisance of the situation after witnessing passengers not wearing masks properly during transportation from airport to the flight and their stubborn reluctance to wear masks properly.The court, which had issued various guidelines to DGCA and all other airlines for immediate compliance, said it was constrained to pass the order because of an alarming situation which was witnessed by the judge himself during the Air India flight from Kolkata to New Delhi on March 5.DGCA, represented through Additional Solicitor General (ASG) Chetan Sharma and advocate Anjana Gosain, informed the court that following its directions, it issued a circular on March 13 relating to strict guidelines to be followed in the airports."On board the aircraft, in case any passenger does not adhere to wearing of mask properly even after repeated warning, he/ she should be de-boarded, if need be, before departure," the circular stated."In case, any passenger on board an aircraft refuses to wear mask or violates the ‘Covid-19 Protocol for passengers’ even after repeated warnings, during the course of the fight, such passenger may be treated as ‘Unruly Passenger’ as defined... Civil Aviation Requirements (CAR)...and the procedure in respect of handling such unruly passenger, as provided in above mentioned CAR, shall be followed by the concerned airlines,” it said.Advocate Gosain also informed the court that in a Jammu to Delhi flight, on March 16, four passengers were declared unruly for not properly wearing masks and were handed over to the security officials.She said the authorities have also decided to conduct surprise checks.To this, the bench said, “You have done a wonderful job. We are really impressed”, and asked the ASG to ensure that such steps are also taken in respect of railways and buses.When the counsel for Air India said they have also issued a circular with necessary guidelines, the bench asked the DGCA to ensure that other airlines also follow the guidelines.“This court is not interested in seeing passengers de-boarded,” the bench said, adding that their concern was that passengers adhere to Covid-19 guidelines which are necessary for their safety as well as for the safety of co-passengers.The DGCA has also said in its circular that passengers shall wear masks and maintain social distancing norms at all times during air travel. The mask shall not be moved below the nose except under exceptional circumstances, it said.“CISF or other police personnel deployed at the entrance of the airport shall ensure that no one is allowed to enter the airport without wearing a mask,” it said.The circular said that the Airport Director/ Terminal Manager, as applicable, must ensure that passengers are wearing masks properly and do maintain social distance at all times within the airport premises.In case, any passenger is not following ‘Covid-19 Protocol’, they should be handed over to security agencies after proper warning. If required, they may be dealt as per law, it said.DGCA had issued another circular on March 15 where directions have been issued for strict compliance by all stakeholders.It also informed the court that DGCA website has been suitably modified and a separate button in respect of ‘Covid Protocol for passenger’ has been created wherein all the relevant guidelines and circulars in respect of ‘Covid-19 Protocol’ have been uploaded.The high court had earlier taken strong note of an “alarming situation” of passengers not properly wearing masks in flights and issued guidelines to all domestic airlines and DGCA for strict compliance, including penal action for offenders and periodical checks of the aircraft.The court had said a situation when the country is seeing a resurgence of Covid-2019 cases, after they had shown signs of ebbing, is completely unconscionable.“Passengers in a flight are in a closed air-conditioned environment, and, even if one of the passengers suffers from Covid-19, the effect on other passengers could be cataclysmic. It is a matter of common knowledge that being within arm’s length distance of a Covid-19 carrier, even if he is asymptomatic and is merely speaking, is more than sufficient to transmit the virus,” it had said.If despite being reminded, he or she refuses to follow the protocol, action should be taken against the passenger in accordance with the guidelines issued by the DGCA or Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, including placing him or her on a 'no-fly' regimen, either permanently or for a stipulated, sufficiently long, period, it had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/passengers-not-wearing-masks-properly-to-be-de-boarded-treated-as-unruly-dgca-to-delhi-hc-101615973457422.html
17-03-2021||India||Government says India's engagement with China is 'complex'||India on Wednesday said its engagement with China is "complex" and the two countries agreed that the future direction of ties should be built upon respecting each other's sensitivities, concerns and aspirations.Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan also said in the Lok Sabha that India will continue discussions with China to resolve the remaining issues along the Line of Actual Control in eastern Ladakh to achieve the objective of disengagement from all friction points.His written response came when asked whether India-China relations are being affected due to violation of negotiations made in the past by China and "unfruitful efforts" to cross the LAC again and again.Referring to the eastern Ladakh row, Muraleedharan said the Chinese side, since April/May last year, undertook several attempts to unilaterally alter the status quo along the LAC in the region and India's armed forces responded to them appropriately."It has been made clear to the Chinese side that such unilateral attempts are unacceptable. These actions have seriously disturbed the peace and tranquillity along the LAC in the western sector," he said.The government often refers to eastern Ladakh as western sector."India's engagement with China is complex. The two sides agree that the future direction of India China relations should be built upon respecting each other's sensitivities, concerns and aspirations," he said on the overall ties."The two sides have also agreed to manage their differences and not allow differences on any issue to become disputes," Muraleedharan added.On the border row, the minister said the two sides have maintained communication through both diplomatic and military channels to ensure complete disengagement from all friction points and full restoration of peace and tranquillity in the border areas."The two sides were able to reach an agreement on disengagement in the North and South Bank of the Pangong Lake, which has been completed. There are however still some outstanding issues with regard to deployment and patrolling at some other points along the LAC in eastern Ladakh," he said.The border standoff between the Indian and Chinese militaries erupted on May 5 last following a violent clash in the Pangong lake areas and both sides gradually enhanced their deployment by rushing in tens of thousands of soldiers as well as heavy weaponry.As a result of a series of military and diplomatic talks, the two sides completed withdrawal of troops and weapons from the North and South banks of Pangong lake in line with the agreement on disengagement last month."Government will continue discussions with the Chinese side to resolve the remaining issues along the LAC in eastern Ladakh and achieve the objective of disengagement from all friction points and restoration of peace and tranquillity in the India-China border areas at an early date," the minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/government-says-india-s-engagement-with-china-is-complex-101615971809094.html
17-03-2021||India||Enact law to make Facebook, Google pay for news: BJP MP in Rajya Sabha||Taking a cue from Australia, India should enact a law to make tech giants such as Facebook and Google pay local publishers of news content, senior BJP leader Sushil Kumar Modi demanded in Rajya Sabha on Wednesday.Raising the issue through a Zero Hour mention, the former deputy chief minister of Bihar said, "The government must make Google, Facebook and YouTube pay to print and news channels for the news content they are using freely."The Indian government should take a cue from the Australian parliament that passed the world's first law last month to ensure news media businesses are fairly remunerated for the content they generate, he said."I would urge the government of India that the way they have notified Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code to regulate social media and OTT platforms, they should enact a law on the pattern of Australian Code so that we can compel Google to share its revenue with traditional media," he added.India, Modi said, should take the lead in making Google and Facebook pay a fair share of their earnings from domestically produced news content on the internet to the publishers.Rajya Sabha Chairman and Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu remarked that the suggestion is "worth considering".Modi said the traditional print and news broadcast media, whose content is freely available on platforms run by the tech giants, are passing through their worst phase in recent history as advertisements have shifted to tech platforms."They are in deep financial crisis. Earlier, it was because of the pandemic and now it is because of tech giants like YouTube, Facebook and Google," he said.The traditional news media, Modi said, make heavy investments employing anchors, journalists and reporters who gather information, verify it and deliver credible news.But advertisement, which is their main source of revenue, has in the past few years shifted away from them with the advent of tech giants like Google, Facebook and YouTube, he said."Advertising earnings are going to these tech giants (and) because of this print media, news channels are passing through a financial crisis," Modi said."I would urge (that) we should follow a country like Australia which has taken the lead by enacting a law -- News Media Bargaining Code -- by which they have compelled Google to share advertisement revenue with the news media," he said.Google threatened to blackout news from its portal but ultimately surrendered, the BJP leader said."Australia has set a precedence and now France and other European countries are making laws for advertisement revenue sharing," Modi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/enact-law-to-make-facebook-google-pay-for-news-bjp-mp-in-rajya-sabha-101615971199635.html
17-03-2021||India||BHU, Reliance rebut reports that Nita Ambani was invited to be visiting faculty||Reliance Industries Limited (RIL) on Wednesday refuted news reports on a proposal to make Nita Ambani a visiting faculty at Uttar Pradesh's Banaras Hindu University, reported news agency ANI.A company spokesperson said that the reports were fake and "no proposal or invitation to make her a visiting lecturer of BHU has been received", ANI reported.The university too issued a clarification in this regard. "Many media houses approached the university for details after reports on a proposal to make Nita Ambani a visiting faculty at BHU began doing the rounds. For one to be appointed as a visiting lecturer at the university, approval of the authority is mandatory and this is to clarify that no such proposal was made in front of the authority," a notification issued by the BHU read.Several media houses had reported that students staged a demonstration at the university on Tuesday opposing a proposal to make Nita Ambani a visiting professor.(with ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhu-reliance-rebut-reports-that-nita-ambani-was-invited-to-be-visiting-faculty-101615969784539.html
17-03-2021||India||ED, IT teams raid Haryana Congress MLA Chhokar’s properties||Joint teams of officials of the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and Income Tax Department (IT) raided Congress’ Samalkha MLA Dharam Singh Chhokar’s house at Haryana’s Panipat and other properties in the state on Wednesday morning, said officials.As per the initial information, three teams are conducting raids in connection with alleged disproportionate assets and tax evasion by the Congress lawmaker.It is learnt that the raids are being carried out at his residence in Samalkha, a fuel station in Panipat and other properties in Hisar, Gurugram and Chandigarh.Dharam Singh, now known as a loyalist of former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda, won his first election on Haryana Janhit Congress (BL) or HJCBL ticket in 2009 and defeated Congress’s Sanjay Chhokar. Later, he along with other HJCBL MLAs extended support to the Hooda-led Congress government.In 2014, Ravinder Machhroli, who contested as an independent, defeated Chhokar. But in 2019, Chhokar won on the Congress ticket from Samalkha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-it-teams-raid-haryana-congress-mla-chhokar-s-properties-101615970948486.html
17-03-2021||India||'We have to stop Covid-19 second wave': PM Modi's 5-point plan to states, UTs||Urging all states and Union territories to take quick and decisive steps against the spread of Covid-19, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday said the second wave of Corona has to be stopped immediately. District authorities can create micro-containment zones, wherever necessary, PM Modi told state and UT authorities, as he handed out a five-point plan to fight what is being called the second wave of the Covid-19 infection.Reiterating his famous slogan 'Dawai bhi, kadai bhi' (yes to medicine, yes to caution), PM Modi said states will have to step up testing, focus on maximising vaccination and minimising wastage. In his five-point plan, the first is Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. In addition to that, the states will have to scale up RT-PCR tests, creating micro-containment zones, increase vaccination in both private and government hospitals and stop vaccine wastage.Also Watch | ‘If we don’t stop Covid right now…’: PM Modi’s warning after meet with CMsSpeaking at the interaction with Chief Ministers. https://t.co/s0c7OSK8zKAbout 70 districts of the country have seen an increase of more than 150 per cent in the number of Covid-19 cases in the last few weeks, PM Modi said adding if the spread can’t be contained now, a situation of a nationwide outbreak can come up. But at the same time, he emphasised not to create panic among people.Comparing India’s Covid-19 situation with the rest of the world, PM Modi said that most of the Covid-affected countries in the world had to face several waves of Corona, while India's journey has been a success.Referring to the situation in Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh, PM Modi said the positivity rate in both the state is high and the number of daily cases in these states is also rising. “This is also a test of good governance. We need to think why there is less testing in some areas or why there is less vaccination in some states,” PM Modi said urging the state administrations to take stock of the situation every day. “Our confidence should not become overconfidence. Our success should not turn into negligence,” he said.On how this 'second Covid-19' wave is different from the first one, PM Modi said, "Tier-2 and tier-3 cities are being affected now. In the first phase, we could contain the spread as the infection did not spread to the villages. But now as the small cities are being infected, villages need to be protected more."Talking about the vaccines, PM Modi said states should probe why vaccines are being wasted. "Over 10 per cent vaccines have been wasted in Telangana, Andhra Pradesh. Uttar Pradesh too reported some wastage. If we waste vaccines, we are depriving some people of their rights.""We have to get out of this situation quickly. Otherwise, this will go on and one..one year, two years. Now we have a weapon against it. As far as the expiry of the vaccines is concerned, you should use the vaccines which have come to you first. That will also address the issue of vaccine wastage," PM Modi said.The meeting between the PM and the state heads comes in the wake of a sharp rise in the number of daily Covid-19 infections in the country, a trend that started in February and became more acute in March. On Wednesday, India recorded 28,903 Covid-19 cases, registering the highest single-day spike in this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/situation-of-nationwide-outbreak-can-come-up-pm-modi-tells-cm-at-covid-19-meet-101615970510789.html
17-03-2021||India||Amid Covid-19 surge Ahmedabad zoo, lakefront, gardens closed||The Ahmedabad civic body on Wednesday announced the closure of the city zoo, lakefront and all public gardens here in view of the rising Covid-19 cases.On Tuesday, the city recorded 241 new cases of coronavirus, a sharp increase from 40 cases reported a month back on February 16.The Covid-19 tally in the city has gone up to 60,992, as per official figures."It has been decided to close all the gardens, Kankaria Lakefront, zoo, etc from March 18 till further orders in view of the Covid-19 pandemic," the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) said in a release.The Gujarat government on Tuesday increased the night curfew timings in Ahmedabad and three other major cities -- Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot -- by two hours.The curfew will now remain in force from 10 pm to 6 am, instead of the previous timings of 12 am to 6 am, till March 31.As of Tuesday, there were 60 'micro-containment' areas (where a number of Covid-19 cases have been found) in the city, the civic body said.Ahmedabad has so far reported 2,269 deaths due to Covid-19, while 58,043 have recovered from the disease.The Covid-19 recovery rate in the city stood at 95.3 per cent, as per the civic body.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-covid-19-surge-ahmedabad-zoo-lakefront-gardens-closed-101615968516705.html
17-03-2021||India||Centre's telemedicine service crosses 3 mln consultations; 35k patients daily||The National telemedicine service - eSanjeevani - marked another milestone as it completed 3 million consultations on Wednesday, according to a statement released by the government. The service is currently operating in 31 states and union territories of the country and is consulted by over 35,000 patients, added the statement.“In a short span of time the government of India’s National Telemedicine Service has started aiding the Indian healthcare delivery system by plugging the digital health divide that exists in urban and rural India. It is also addressing the shortage of doctors and specialists at ground level while reducing the burden on secondary and tertiary level hospitals. In line with the National Digital Health Mission eSanjeevani is also boosting the digital health ecosystem in the country,” the statement said.Read more: GMCH: Walk-in OPDs begin for Chandigarh residentsThe service which was started by the Union ministry of health and family welfare is of two kinds: eSanjeevani AB-HWC and eSanjeevani OPD. The eSanjeevani AB-HWC is a doctor to doctor telemedicine platform which is being implemented under the Ayushman Bharat scheme. According to the statement, the platform will be made operational at 155,000 health and wellness centres by December 2022.The eSanjeevaniOPD is a patient to doctor telemedicine platform which aims to provide health services to patients using online OPDs. The statement said that 2,100,100 patients have used the platform for health consultations since its rollout in April 2020.Read more: How Covid-19 can transform health care“Nationally, over 31,000 doctors and paramedics have been trained and on boarded eSanjeevani, of these around 14,000 doctors practice telemedicine on eSanjeevaniOPD and over 17,000 doctors and community health officers use eSanjeevaniAB-HWC,” the statement said.The government also said that eSanjeevaniOPD services will soon be available on the iOS application store to increase the coverage of the national telemedicine service in the country.In terms of the number of consultations, Tamil Nadu leads the list in the country with 642,708 patients consultations using the eSanjeevani platform. It is followed by Uttar Pradesh (631,019), Karnataka (607,305), Andhra Pradesh (216,860) and Madhya Pradesh (204,296).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/national-telemedicine-service-reaches-3-mln-consultations-35k-patients-daily-101615968656415.html
17-03-2021||India||PM Modi holds key meet on Covid-19 with CMs; Mamata, Bhupesh Baghel skip||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is interacting with chief ministers of states across the country to evaluate the Covid-19 situation amid the resurgence in the number of cases.The meeting has been called as the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government seeks to ramp up the world's largest Covid-19 vaccination drive, which began on January 16.Here are the latest updates on PM's meeting:West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee is not attending the meeting, news agency ANI reported. Banerjee has decided to skip the meeting as she has an election meeting pre-scheduled for Wednesday ahead of the West Bengal polls, according to ANI.Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel has also skipped the Prime Minister's meeting, ANI further reported.Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath is also not present at the virtual meeting as he is camping in Assam for the upcoming Assembly polls, according to ANI.Also Read | 'Vaccines that don't require needles may be out by year-end': WHO expertThe Prime Minister is meeting with the chief ministers through video conferencing. The exercise meant to assess the Covid-19 situation has been held regularly by the Prime Minister during the Covid-19 situation.PM Modi held the last interaction with the chief ministers in January ahead of the launch of the vaccination drive.In the last meeting, he announced that the Centre will bear the expenses of inoculating nearly three crore or 30 million healthcare and frontline workers in the country during the first phase of the vaccination drive. The vaccination drive for frontline workers began on February 2.The nationwide drive moved into the next phase from March 1, with those above the age of 60 and 45+ with comorbidities were given vaccines. The Prime Minister, President as well as various chief ministers and other Union ministers have been inoculated till date as part of this phase of the drive.India on Wednesday reported the highest number of coronavirus cases in the country this year. The 28,903 fresh Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours took the active case tally to more than 2.34 lakh. India has also administered more than 3.5 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses till date, as per the health ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-holds-key-meet-on-covid-19-mamata-banerjee-bhupesh-baghel-not-present-101615965725170.html
17-03-2021||India||MiG-21 crashes in central India, pilot killed, says Indian Air Force||A pilot of Indian Air Force (IAF) was killed after his MiG-21 met with a "fatal accident" on Wednesday morning in Central India, the force confirmed on Twitter.The accident took place when the aircraft was taking off for a combat training mission at an airbase in central India.A MiG-21 Bison aircraft of IAF was involved in a fatal accident this morning, while taking off for a combat training mission at an airbase in central India."The IAF lost Group Captain A Gupta in the tragic accident. IAF expresses deep condolences and stands firmly with the family members. A Court of Inquiry has been ordered to determine the cause of the accident," the air force said in a tweet.This is a developing story. More details awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iafs-mig-21-crashes-in-central-india-pilot-killed-101615962345447.html
17-03-2021||India||'Witnessed Saddam-like time during Emergency': Minister attacks Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi's comment about downgrading India's democracy by Sweden-based institute Varieties of Democracy (V-Dem) has been slammed by Union minister Prakash Javadekar. Reacting to the V-Dem report, Gandhi said during an online interaction that Iraq's dictator Saddam Hussein and Libya's Muammar Gaddafi used to win elections as well."Giving comment on Rahul Gandhi’s opinion is worthless. Comparing India’s democracy with Gaddafi and Saddam Hussein is an insult to the 80 crore voters. Only during the year of Emergency, we witnessed a time like that of Gaddafi and Saddam," Javadekar said.Gandhi was speaking to Professor Ashutosh Varshney of Brown University on different issues, when he was asked about the recent report which downgraded India to an "electoral autocracy" and Freedom House analysis which shifted India's status from a 'free' country to 'partly-free.'"Saddam Hussein and Gaddafi used to have elections. They used to win them. It wasn't like they weren't voting but there was no institutional framework to protect that vote," Rahul Gandhi said in the online interaction.Watch: 'Even Saddam, Gaddafi won elections', says Rahul Gandhi"Bharatiya Janata Party MPs in Parliament tell me that they cannot have an open discussion. They say they are told what to say," he further said.The government has disproved the report by Freedom House and called it "misleading, incorrect and misplaced."External affairs minister S Jaishankar also slammed global bodies for their "hypocrisy" and called them "self-appointed custodians of the world, who find it very difficult to stomach that somebody in India is not looking for their approval".On a question on should others become leaders in the Congress, Gandhi said, "Absolutely, 100 per cent. I am more than happy to push as many leaders as possible and make as many of them successful and that is my record...that is all I do all day long. I push people and push them forward."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/witnessed-saddam-like-time-during-emergency-minister-attacks-rahul-gandhi-101615965902979.html
17-03-2021||India||SC rejects farmers’ plea on land acquisition for Delhi-Katra national highway||The Supreme Court on Wednesday declined to entertain a public interest litigation (PIL), which sought a direction to the Centre to have a dialogue with agitating farmers whose lands have been reportedly acquired for construction of ₹25,000 crore Delhi-Amritsar-Katra national highway. A bench, headed by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde, heard attorney general (A-G) KK Venugopal before turning down a plea for issuing directives to the government to treat these farmers on par with Samyukta Kisan Manch (SKM), an unregistered body of farmers with whom the Centre has held 11 rounds of talks over the recently enacted three contentious farm laws. The A-G, reading out the prayers by the petitioner organisation, Bharat Bhoomi Bachao Sangharsh Samiti, called the plea as “political”, adding “it would throw open floodgates” if such petitions were entertained by the apex court. “Look at the second prayer in this petition. It talks about giving equal opportunity to the farmers to be heard as a matter of right and in terms with what the government has done with the other set of farmers. This is absolutely vague,” Venugopal submitted before the bench, which also included justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian. Also Read | Old consumer cases won’t be transferred,’ says Supreme CourtThe bench told the A-G that it had asked the petitioner to serve a copy in Venugopal’s office since the government was already negotiating with the farmers on the farm law. “Land acquisition is often connected with the farmers. We thought since you people have been negotiating with the farmers, this could also be looked into by you,” it told the A-G. Venugopal, however, asserted that the prayers in this petition were ambiguous and even though the PIL named farmers from various states, there was no description of the land owned by them. Representing the PIL, advocate MC Dhingra urged the bench to consider the request for a dialogue with the government. “We are the farmers peacefully engaged,” he said. But the bench said it could not admit the petition in view of Venugopal’s statements. “We are not casting any aspersions on you. You remain peaceful...that is all. The petition is dismissed,” ordered the court. The plea contended that lakhs of poor farmers from Haryana, Punjab and Rajasthan, whose lands are being acquired for the 650 km road project, were waiting for the government to initiate a dialogue with them since January but in vain. Apart from alleging that they have been treated unequally in comparison to the SKM, the organisation claimed that the farmers had been denied adequate compensation in lieu of the lands acquired from them for the highway project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-rejects-farmers-plea-on-land-acquisition-for-delhi-katra-national-highway-101615966149774.html
17-03-2021||India||76.4% of India's active Covid-19 cases reported in these 3 states||As India’s coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cumulative tally reached 11,438,734, the total active caseload stood at 234,406 which comprised 2.05 per cent of the total cases, according to the Union health ministry. With 28,903 fresh cases of Covid-19 in the past 24 hours, the country reported the highest number of daily cases so far this year. The ministry also said that three states cumulatively contributed to 76.4 per cent of the total cases, which are Maharashtra, Kerala and Punjab. Of these three states, Maharashtra, which has been witnessing a surge in coronavirus cases for the past one month, alone contributed to nearly 60 per cent of the cases, according to the health ministry.Also Watch | ‘If we don’t stop Covid right now…’: PM Modi’s warning after meet with CMsRead more: Covid-19: India has supplied about 60 million vaccine doses to other countriesHere’s a look at the three states which are the biggest contributors to India’s active cases of Covid-19:Maharashtra: Maharashtra recorded 17,864 new Covid-19 infections on Tuesday which took the state’s tally to 2,347,328, while active cases rose to 138,813. With 87 deaths, the death toll reached 52,996. The total number of recoveries in the state reached 2,154,253 as 9,510 patients were discharged. The state government also informed that on Tuesday 264,897 people were administered the coronavirus vaccine, which was the highest since the state began the inoculation drive. Amid the surge in Covid-19 cases, the state government has imposed lockdown or partial lockdown in several districts and cities of the state.Read more: PM Modi to meet CMs over Covid-19 today: All you need to knowKerala: Kerala on Tuesday logged 1,970 new Covid-19 cases and 2,884 recoveries as the active cases in the state came down to 26,127. The total caseload in the state touched 10,94,643 and fifteen more fatalities took the death toll to 4,422. As many as 14 lakh people have been vaccinated in the state so far.Punjab: Punjab added 1,475 fresh infections on Tuesday which pushed the tally to 201,036, while the death toll rose to 6,137 with 38 more fatalities. The number of active cases also increased from 11,942 on Monday to 12,616 on Tuesday. 751 patients were discharged after recovering from the infection, taking the number of cured persons to 1,82,283.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/764-of-india-s-active-covid-19-cases-reported-in-these-3-states-101615963783932.html
17-03-2021||India||News updates from HT: If BJP pushes farm laws expect social upheaval, says Rahul and all the latest news||Expect social turbulence if BJP pushes through farm laws, says Rahul GandhiCongress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday said that the country can witness some serious social turbulence if the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) pushes through the implementation of three contentious farm laws which have provoked agitation from thousands of farmers across India. Read More34 top officials transferred in major reshuffle in J&KThe Jammu & Kashmir administration on Tuesday transferred 34 bureaucrats in one of the biggest administrative reshuffles since August 2019 when the erstwhile state was stripped of its semi-autonomous status and split into two Union territories. Read MoreMayawati welcomes PM Narendra Modi’s initiative to convene CMs meet on Covid-19Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief and former Uttar Pradesh (UP) chief minister Mayawati welcomed Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s initiative to convene a meeting of chief ministers to discuss the fresh surge in Covid-19 cases in the country. Read More'This is just beyond me': Sanjay Manjrekar surprised at India's opening combination in 3rd T20I against EnglandIndia’s decision to open with Rohit Sharma and KL Rahul and drop Ishan Kishan to No.3 in the third T20I against England was ‘beyond’ former India batsman Sanjay Manjrekar. Read More'Made in India' Jeep Wrangler launched at Rs.53.90 LakhJeep India on Wednesday announced the launch of the India-made Wrangler SUV in the country. Read MorePriyanka Chopra sends her filmography to Australian journo who questioned her qualification as Oscar nominees announcerPriyanka Chopra has clapped back at an Australian journalist who questioned her and her husband Nick Jonas' qualifications as worthy announcers of Academy Awards nominees this year. Read More‘Women’s participation strengthens democracy’: US VP Kamala Harris addresses UNUS Vice President Kamala Harris addressed the 65th session of the UN Commission on the status of women. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-if-bjp-pushes-farm-laws-expect-social-upheaval-says-rahul-and-all-the-latest-news-101615963650088.html
17-03-2021||India||PM Modi 'pained by' Ram Swaroop Sharma's death, says he worked tirelessly for society||Prime Minister Narendra Modi condoled the demise of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP Ram Swaroop Sharma and said that Himachal Pradesh leader was committed to solving people's problems.Sharma was found dead at his residence in Delhi on Wednesday, police said."Shri Ram Swaroop Sharma was a dedicated leader, who was always committed to solving people’s problems. He worked tirelessly for the betterment of society. Pained by his untimely and unfortunate demise. My thoughts are with his family and supporters in this sad hour. Om Shanti," PM Modi said in a tweet.The circumstances of the death are in the initial stages of the investigation, the police said. "It looks like a case of suicide, but we are continuing to probe. We'll know better once we have the autopsy report and have questioned people," said Chinmoy Biswal, Delhi Police spokesperson.Lok Sabha proceedings were adjourned till 1 PM after an obituary reference to Sharma.Born at Jalpehar village in Mandi district on June 10, 1958, Sharma was a two-time MP.He was elected to the 16th and 17th Lok Sabha from Mandi parliamentary constituency in 2014 and 2019 respectively.According to the police, a call was made to the Police Control Room (PCR) around 7.45 am by his aide after the parliamentarian did not respond to knocks on his door.A police team reached the spot and forced open the door and found Sharma dead in his room.If you need support or know someone who does, please reach out to your nearest mental health specialist. Helplines: Aasra: 022 2754 6669; Sneha India Foundation: +914424640050 and Sanjivini: 011-24311918||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-pained-by-ram-swaroop-sharma-s-death-says-he-worked-tirelessly-for-society-101615964070305.html
17-03-2021||India||Kerala Congress Thomas faction leaves NDA ahead of assembly polls||With just three weeks left for the assembly elections, the Kerala Congress Thomas faction on Wednesday left the Bharatiya Janata Party -led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) and merged with Kerala Congress (Joseph), which is part of the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF). Party chief P C Thomas, minister of state for law in Vajpayee cabinet, claimed he was forced to leave the NDA since the BJP was not ready to give it even a “single” seat against his demand for four. “The BJP has asked me to contest from Pala constituency in Kottayam district and I told them I have some personal reasons for not contesting from there,” he told newsmen in Kottayam. He said the BJP failed to respect the coalition dharma, forcing him to quit the alliance. He said his party has decided to merge with the Joseph faction of the Kerala Congress, and he will be the deputy leader of the new party. Joseph faction leader and MLA Mons Joseph also confirmed the merger. The BJP said Thomas was “inactive” in the NDA for quite some time and was in talks with UDF leaders. The election for the 140-member Kerala assembly will be held in a single phase on April 6. Thomas wields influence in certain Christian pockets in Kottayam and Idukki districts and has left the NDA when the BJP was trying to curry favour with the minority community. A Lok Sabha MP from 1989 to 2009 from Muvattupuzha, Thomas helped the NDA register its maiden electoral victory in Kerala in 2004.He joined the NDA after falling out with his mentor K M Mani in 2001, following which, he formed the Indian Federal Democratic Party (IFDP). Later, he was inducted into the Vajpayee cabinet. There are at least six parties bearing the name of Kerala Congress in the state. Both the UDF and ruling LDF had liaison with some of the splinter groups. At one point, when Mani was alive, he was ready to cross over to the LDF camp but the move was thwarted by the CPI, second biggest partner in the LDF. Desperate to get a foothold in the state, the BJP also tried to woo Jose K Mani but he finally joined the LDF last year. Last week, former All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary PC Chacko quit the party, alleging rival factions within the party’s state unit were giving tickets to their loyalists. He joined the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-congress-thomas-faction-leaves-nda-ahead-of-assembly-polls-101615965428492.html
17-03-2021||India||5 states account for more than 71% of India's Covid-19 tally, says health ministry||The Union health ministry on Wednesday listed five states that continue to report a high number of daily new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases. The ministry said that Maharashtra, Punjab, Karnataka, Gujarat and Tamil Nadu not only report a hike in the daily number of cases but also accounted for more than 71 per cent of the 28,903 fresh coronavirus cases reported in the country on Wednesday morning.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19Maharashtra, with 17,864 cases in the last 24 hours, alone accounted for more than 61 per cent cases, followed by Kerala contributing 1,970 cases and Punjab reporting 1,463 coronavirus cases in the last 24 hours.The country's active coronavirus caseload has reached more than 2.34 lakh as it reported 28,903 cases. The active cases now account for 2.05% of the country's total caseload.The top three states that contribute the most - more than 76 per cent - to the active caseload of the country are Maharashtra, Kerala and Punjab; Maharashtra leads by contributing a staggering over 60 per cent to the tally, according to the health ministry. However, the report also showed that Kerala has been reporting a consistently declining trend over the last one month.Pune, Nagpur, Mumbai, Thane and Aurangabad in Maharashtra are the top five districts that contribute most to the active cases of the state. In Kerala, the top five districts are Ernakulam, Pathanamthitta, Kannur, Thrissur and Palakkad. In Punjab, Jalandhar, Hoshirapur, SAS Nagar, Patiala and Ludhiana have the highest number of active cases, the data showed.The states that have been reporting a surge in the number of cases have started imposing restrictions to contain the spread. At least two districts of Maharashtra have returned to lockdown, while some have night curfew imposed. Punjab and Gujarat have also imposed night curfew in a few districts.The spread of the virus in the country is on a rise as two months before the active caseload of the country used to be less than 1.50 per cent with less than 1.45 lakh active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-states-account-for-more-than-71-of-india-s-covid-19-tally-says-health-ministry-101615960495765.html
17-03-2021||India||Expect social turbulence if BJP pushes through farm laws, says Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday said that the country can witness some serious social turbulence if the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) pushes through the implementation of three contentious farm laws which have provoked agitation from thousands of farmers across India.Gandhi made the remarks in his conversation with Professor Ashutosh Varshney of Brown University via video conference where the two discussed farm laws, report by Sweden-based institute Varieties of Democracy which downgraded India to "electoral autocracy" and other issues.Terming the legislations as "extremely destructive", Gandhi said, "I feel, BJP will not have the power to push the farm bills through and if they do, we are going to head into some serious social turbulence.""We agree that there is a need to improve the agricultural system. We believe that any improvement of the agricultural system should be done by negotiating with the stakeholders of that system such as farmers," he added.We think it is going to be extremely destructive. I feel, BJP will not have the power to push the farm bills through and if they do, we are going to head into some serious social turbulence: Shri @RahulGandhi#DemocracyAndDialogueWithRahul pic.twitter.com/WMhogsvAVtLaying out his three problems with the issue, Gandhi said, "Our first problem with the farm laws is that there is no conversation with the stakeholders. They have not been explained what is happening.""Second thing is, you have to empower the producer, make him efficient. You have to make his negotiation more effective. Here there is a full scale assault on the producer. So literally, the producer is now going to be negotiating with Mr Adani and Mr Ambani with nobody in between," Gandhi said in his video dialogue."The first law basically says no farmers markets. The second law says as much hoarding as you want and third law says you cannot go and contest it in court," Gandhi explained.The video was shared by Congress on Twitter.Commenting on decline in India's democracy, Gandhi on Tuesday said Iraq's dictator Saddam Hussein and Libya's Muammar Gaddafi used to win elections as well."Saddam Hussein and Gaddafi used to have elections. They used to win them. It wasn't like they weren't voting but there was no institutional framework to protect that vote," Rahul Gandhi said in online interaction with Brown University.Rahul Gandhi further said, "Bharatiya Janata Party MPs in Parliament tell me that they cannot have an open discussion. They say they are told what to say."The Indian government, however, had disproved the report by Freedom House and called it "misleading, incorrect and misplaced".On the farm laws too, the government has said that Congress and other opposition parties are "misleading" the farmers who have been protesting against the three laws for more than 100 days now. The Centre has said that these laws are historic and will bring about a much-needed change in the agriculture sector. The government has said that it is ready to put these laws under suspension and held multiple rounds of talks with the protesting farmers, but the impasse is continuing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/expect-social-turbulence-if-bjp-pushes-through-farm-laws-says-rahul-gandhi-101615957554609.html
17-03-2021||India||34 top officials transferred in major reshuffle in J&K||The Jammu & Kashmir administration on Tuesday transferred 34 bureaucrats in one of the biggest administrative reshuffles since August 2019 when the erstwhile state was stripped of its semi-autonomous status and split into two Union territories. Also Read | Pakistani intruder shot dead in Ramgarh in J-K’s Samba districtRaghav Langer has been named as Jammu’s new divisional commissioner. He was earlier posted as the deputy commissioner of South Kashmir’s Pulwama district. Mohammad Ajaz Asad will be Srinagar’s new deputy commissioner in place of Shahid Iqbal Choudhary, who has been named as the chief executive officer, Mission Youth. Choudhary has also been given the additional charge of mission director, Skill Development Mission in place of Syed Abid Rasheed Shah.Officials aware of the matter said a major reshuffle was also on the cards in the police department and many officers were expected to be transferred.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/34-top-officials-transferred-in-major-reshuffle-in-jk-101615964108278.html
17-03-2021||India||Covid-19: Highest single-day spike in cases in Maharastra since Sept||Days after the Central team’s visit to six Maharashtra districts, the state government admitted that it is witnessing a second wave of Covid-19 infections and has begun taking measures to contain the spread of the virus. Tuesday saw the state’s highest single-day spike in 167 days with 17,864 fresh cases (18,317 cases were logged on September 30). The state saw the peak of the first wave on September 17 last year with 24,619 cases. The daily caseload in the state dropped to fewer than 2,000 cases in the first week of February. As of March 15, 65.72% of the day’s cases (9,893 of 15,051) and 65.64% of the active cases (85,696 out of 130,547) were from eight districts — Pune, Nagpur, Thane, Mumbai, Nashik, Jalgaon, Ahmednagar, and Aurangabad — which are being closely monitored.Also Read | India has supplied about 60 million Covid vaccine doses to other countriesOn Tuesday, the state also reported 87 deaths, taking the toll to 52,996. The state’s tally stands at 2,347,328 with 138,812 active cases. The case fatality rate (CFR) of the state stands at 2.49% and the recovery rate at 95.66%.A team of three senior officers attached to central institutions from the public health sector visited Mumbai, Kalyan-Dombivli, Nashik, Dhule, Jalgaon and Aurangabad between March 7 and 12. The Central team said it was the beginning of the second wave in Maharashtra. In a letter by Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan to Maharashtra chief secretary Sitaram Kunte, the Centre pointed at limited contact tracing, poor rate of institutional isolation, and fewer tests. It also asked the state to ramp up its health infrastructure, earmark the most infected areas as containment zones and chalk out a strategy for the better clinical management of patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-highest-single-day-spike-in-cases-in-maharastra-since-sept-101615963748438.html
17-03-2021||India||Mayawati welcomes PM Narendra Modi’s initiative to convene CMs meet on Covid-19||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief and former Uttar Pradesh (UP) chief minister Mayawati welcomed Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s initiative to convene a meeting of chief ministers to discuss the fresh surge in Covid-19 cases in the country. She also demanded that the poor and the middle class get free vaccination and the drive’s pace is quickened.“Considering fresh outbreak of cases, the initiative by the PM is a welcome one. I will also reiterate the need to ensure that the poor and the middle class are vaccinated free of cost,” she tweeted in Hindi on Wednesday. At present, the Covid vaccine is being given free of cost at government hospitals, while it’s price has been fixed at ₹250 per shot for private healthcare centres identified for the purpose. Mayawati recently announced that her party will contest 2022 assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh on its own, ending speculations of a possible tie-up with the BJP. Several of her party leaders have joined the Samajwadi Party in the past few months.Mayawati got vaccinated at Lucknow’s TS Misra Medical College and Hospital at Amausi on Saturday. Her second shot of Covishield is due on April 9, said hospital’s nodal officer (vaccination) Dr Sudhanshu Tiwari. Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, during the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) state executive committee meeting, had urged the party cadres to encourage people to get vaccinated and said that his government was providing the vaccine free of cost.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mayawati-welcomes-pm-narendra-modi-s-initiative-to-convene-cms-meet-on-covid19-101615962128049.html
17-03-2021||India||India concerned with escalation in hostilities in Yemen||India has expressed concern over the recent escalation in hostilities in several parts of Yemen, saying it is "worrisome" that this situation will provide opportunities for terrorist groups such as al-Qaeda and the Islamic State to spread their presence in the strife-torn country.Speaking at the UN Security Council monthly meeting on Yemen on Monday, India's Deputy Permanent Representative to the UN Ambassador Nagaraj Naidu termed as "deeply concerning" the reports of military confrontations in Taiz, Al Jawf and Sana’a governorates, asserting that it has resulted in several casualties, extensive destruction and renewed displacement of civilians."We are concerned at the recent escalation in hostilities in several parts of Yemen, especially in Marib which hosts a large number of internally displaced Yemenis,” Naidu said."The current escalation will also provide opportunities for terrorist groups such as Al-Qaeda and the Islamic State to spread their presence in Yemen, which is worrisome,” he said.Naidu also condemned the drone and missile attacks launched by Ansarallah into Saudi Arabia and the deliberate targeting of civilian and energy infrastructure in the country, calling upon all parties to the conflict to eschew violence and to take meaningful steps towards dialogue and negotiations for a political settlement.Special Envoy for Yemen Martin Griffiths told the Council that there has been a “dramatic” deterioration of the conflict in Yemen and Ansar Allah’s offensive on Marib governorate continues, putting civilians, including an estimated one million internally displaced persons, at risk."Cross-border attacks have also increased significantly in recent weeks. I am like all of us concerned by the intensification of the missile and drone strikes, including ones that have targeted civilian and commercial infrastructure in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. Subsequently, airstrikes took place within the confines of Sana’a city, endangering civilians there as well,” he said.Griffiths stressed that there should be no preconditions for resuming the political process. “Resuming the process, and engaging seriously in it, is an obligation upon the warring parties anywhere. They need to engage constantly and seriously at all stages with the United Nations to make this happen,” he said.He said they owe it to the people that they represent to provide hope even in these days that there is an end in sight to this conflict."I am alarmed, to be very frank, that the mere fact of meeting across the table to discuss with us or with others or with each other the contours of ending the war is being framed by some, not by all, as a concession rather than an obligation, as a transaction rather than a priority,” the UN special envoy said.Naidu recalled that two years ago, when Yemen was faced with a perilous situation in Hudaydah, the international community had acted swiftly and decisively, which resulted in the signing of the Stockholm Agreement and averted a humanitarian catastrophe."A similar focused diplomatic push is required now, not only to stop the battle for Marib, but also conflicts elsewhere in the country,” he said.Underlining that the already dire humanitarian situation in Yemen requires the full attention of the international community, Naidu said pledges from Yemen’s regional partners to support humanitarian and aid operations in the country and the enhanced contribution of some donor countries give reasons for hope.India expressed disappointment over recent talks on exchange of prisoners and detainees ending without any agreement between the parties, voicing hope that there is resumption of talks in the near future.Expressing support for the contribution made by Yemeni women to peace efforts in the country, Naidu said India has consistently held that greater participation of women in areas of conflict resolution, peace negotiations, peacekeeping and peacebuilding is conducive for lasting peace and security.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/india-concerned-with-escalation-in-hostilities-in-yemen-101615961120315.html
17-03-2021||India||BJP leader Dilip Gandhi dies; PM Modi, other ministers pay tribute||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday extended his condolences on the demise of former Member of Parliament (MP) and Union minister Dilip Gandhi, who died at the hospital in New Delhi earlier in the day.Remembering the minister's contributions to community service, the Prime Minister said, "Saddened by the demise of former MP and Minister Shri Dilip Gandhi Ji. He will be remembered for his rich contributions to community service and helping the poor. He made numerous efforts to strengthen the BJP in Maharashtra. Condolences to his family and supporters. Om Shanti."Saddened by the demise of former MP and Minister Shri Dilip Gandhi Ji. He will be remembered for his rich contributions to community service and helping the poor. He made numerous efforts to strengthen the BJP in Maharashtra. Condolences to his family and supporters. Om Shanti.Gandhi held the portfolio minister of state for shipping in the Atal Bihari Vajpayee-led government.The minister who died at the age of 69 recently tested positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and was under treatment for multiple ailments, news agency PTI reported.Union defence minister Rajnath Singh also took to the microblogging site Twitter to pay his condolences. He commended Gandhi's contributions to the welfare of farmers and weaker sections of the society and said the minister was an able administrator and parliamentarian."Anguished by the demise of former MP and Minister, Shri Dilip Gandhi ji. He distinguished himself as an able administrator and Parliamentarian. He worked towards the welfare of farmers & other weaker sections of our society. Condolences to his family and well wishers. Om Shanti," Singh tweeted on Wednesday.Also Read | Ram Swaroop Sharma, BJP MP from Himachal's Mandi, found dead in DelhiThe Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP began his career as a corporator in late 80s, emerged victorious in Lok Sabha elections thrice from Ahmednagar in Maharashtra since 1999.Home minister Amit Shah also expressed his grief on hearing the news of the demise of the former minister."The sad news of the demise of former Union Minister and senior party leader Mr. Dilip Gandhi was received. Dilip ji's entire life was devoted to public service and organization. May God give his family the power to bear this unbearable pain. ॐ shanti shanti shanti," Shah's tweet, in Hindi, read.पूर्व केंद्रीय मंत्री व पार्टी के वरिष्ठ नेता श्री दिलीप गांधी जी के निधन का दुःखद समाचार प्राप्त हुआ। दिलीप जी का पूरा जीवन जनता की सेवा व संगठन कार्यों में समर्पित रहा। ईश्वर उनके परिजनों को यह असहनीय पीड़ा सहने की शक्ति प्रदान करे। ॐ शांति शांति शांति||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-leader-dilip-gandhi-dies-pm-modi-other-ministers-pay-tribute-101615958284276.html
17-03-2021||India||'Saddam, Gaddafi used to win elections too', says Rahul Gandhi||Lambasting the Centre over reports claiming decline of democracy in India, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday said Iraq's dictator Saddam Hussein and Libya's Muammar Gaddafi used to win elections as well."Saddam Hussein and Gaddafi used to have elections. They used to win them. It wasn't like they weren't voting but there was no institutional framework to protect that vote," Rahul Gandhi said in online interaction with Brown University.He made this comment while reacting to a question of Professor Ashutosh Varshney of Brown University on reports by Varieties of Democracy (V-Dem), a Sweden-based institute which downgraded India to an "electoral autocracy," citing a decline in democratic freedoms and Freedom House analysis which shifted India's status from a 'free' country to 'partly-free.'Rahul Gandhi further said, "Bharatiya Janata Party MPs in Parliament tell me that they cannot have an open discussion. They say they are told what to say."The Indian government, however, had disproved the report by Freedom House and called it "misleading, incorrect and misplaced."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/saddam-gaddafi-used-to-win-elections-too-says-rahul-gandhi-101615958939018.html
17-03-2021||India||Don’t make child a pawn to settle scores: SC to couple seeking divorce||The Supreme Court has allowed a hostile couple to part ways with a piece of advice – not to make their child “a pawn” to settle scores. “The appeal accordingly stands disposed of with an advice to the parties that they may now live their life separately without any acrimony but should never endeavour to make the child a pawn in their past dispute,” said the bench of justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and R Subhash Reddy in an order last week. The bench passed the decree of divorce after noting that the marriage between the couple had “irretrievably broken down” and both of them had sought dissolution of their marriage by mutual consent. However, the court was critical of the couple’s acrimony for each other, casting a shadow on the well-being of their six-year-old daughter. It noted that the girl was torn between her father and the mother, as the latter sought to put certain bizarre conditions for the father to meet her daughter. One of these conditions was that the father could meet the daughter only in the presence of someone from the maternal side. The bench also took a grim view of the fact that the trial court judge, who had in March 2017 ordered that the custody of the child be with the mother, became a lawyer for her after his retirement. Also Read | Top court seeks EC, Centre opinions on repoll possibility if NOTA winsOn this aspect, the mother had filed an affidavit tendering an apology while claiming that she did not know that the lawyer was the same person who had once passed an order in her favour as a judge in Uttar Pradesh’s Ghaziabad court. Her affidavit had stated that the retired judge had also returned the litigation fees after realising that it was a case he had once heard. Representing the father, advocate Prem Prakash agreed to let this episode pass but he raised strong objections to the caveats on a father against meeting his child. The bench agreed with Prakash. “What kind of conditions are these? He is the girl’s father after all. How can such weird conditions be put? The girl should be able to meet her father freely. These conditions must go,” it told the woman’s lawyer, senior advocate V Shekhar. The court ordered that the father could see the girl twice a month over the weekends – for six hours on one weekend and for an overnight stay on another. Additionally, the bench said that summer and winter vacations, festivals such as Holi and Diwali, shall be equitably shared between the parents and that the father should also encourage the girl’s interaction with her paternal grandparents. “The school fee of the child shall be shared by both the parties. As and when the child comes of age and desires to get married, both the parties will contribute equitably towards the marriage functions of the child,” stated the order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dont-make-child-a-pawn-to-settle-scores-sc-to-couple-seeking-divorce-101615959008205.html
17-03-2021||India||'Champion of human rights': PM Modi pays tribute to Sheikh Mujibur Rahman||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday paid tribute to former President of Bangladesh Sheikh Mujibur Rahman and called him a 'hero for all Indians'. The Prime Minister also said that he will be honoured to participate in the celebrations of birth centenary of Rahman."My heartfelt homage to Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, a champion of human rights and freedom, on his birth anniversary. He is a hero for all Indians too. It will be my honour to visit Bangladesh later this month for the historic Mujib Borsho celebrations," PM Modi said in a tweet. PM Modi will be on a two-day visit to Bangladesh from March 26 to participate in three "epochal" events. This will be his first trip to a foreign country since the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic.The visit to the neighbouring country comes after Bangladesh Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina extended an invite to PM Modi, the ministry of external affairs said. "This visit is in connection with the commemoration of three epochal events - Mujib Borsho, the birth centenary of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman; 50 years of the establishment of diplomatic ties between India and Bangladesh; and 50 years of Bangladesh's war of liberation," the MEA said.The Prime Minister's Office (PMO) said that this first foreign trip after the coronavirus disease pandemic highlights the priority India attaches to Bangladesh. "This visit is in connection with the commemoration of three epochal events - Mujib Borsho, the birth centenary of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman; 50 years of the establishment of diplomatic ties between India and Bangladesh; and 50 years of Bangladesh's war of liberation," a statement by the PMO read.Modi had last visited Bangladesh in 2015.During the visit, Modi will attend the National Day programme of Bangladesh on March 26 as the guest of honour.Besides holding bilateral consultations with Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina, Modi's programmes includes a call on President of Bangladesh Abdul Hamid.Bangladesh Foreign Minister A K Abdul Momen will also call on Modi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/champion-of-human-rights-pm-modi-pays-tribute-to-sheikh-mujibur-rahman-101615956455582.html
17-03-2021||India||Covid-19: India has supplied about 60 mn vaccine doses to other countries||India has supplied close to 60 million coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine doses to other countries so far, to support their Covid-19 immunisation programme. The immunisation programme against Covid-19 started in India, and in other countries, in a phased manner to cover the health care providers, front line workers and the most vulnerable individuals above a certain age. Since India is manufacturing a couple of Covid-19 vaccines locally, the ministry of external affairs has received requests from various foreign countries for their supply. “Keeping in view the domestic requirements of the phased roll-out, India will continue to supply Covid-19 vaccines to partner countries over the coming weeks and months in a phased manner. It will be ensured that domestic manufacturers will have adequate stocks to meet domestic requirements while supplying abroad,” informed Ashwini Kumar Choubey, minister of state (health and family welfare), in a written reply in the Rajya Sabha on Tuesday. Also Read | 38k get Covid-19 vaccine jabs in Capital; Experts call for more inoculationsThe vaccines have been supplied to close to 70 countries, and several others have shown interest in getting vaccines made in India to inoculate their vulnerable population. India currently has two vaccines against Covid-19 approved for restricted emergency use: Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin, which the company has co-developed with the Indian Council of Medical Research, and Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine that Serum Institute of India is locally manufacturing as Covishield. Covaxin is a two-dose whole virion inactivated vaccine that is to be given 28 days apart as per the current recommendations. The company announced its interim phase 3 results recently that showed 81% overall efficacy, and it was also effective against mutant Sars-Cov-2 strains. Covishield, scientifically known as ChAdOx1-S, is a recombinant vaccine, with a proven efficacy of about 70%. India has administered close to 35 million Covid-19 vaccine doses since it started the national immunisation drive on January 16, 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-india-has-supplied-about-60-million-vaccine-doses-to-other-countries-101615958227815.html
17-03-2021||India||Ram Swaroop Sharma, BJP MP from Himachal, found dead at Delhi residence||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP from Himachal Pradesh Ram Swaroop Sharma was found dead at his residence in Delhi on Wednesday, police said.The circumstances of the death are in the initial stages of investigation, police added."It looks like a case of suicide, but we are continuing to probe. We'll know better once we have the autopsy report and have questioned people," said Chinmoy Biswal, Delhi Police spokesperson.Born at Jalpehar village in Mandi on June 10, 1958, Sharma was a two-time MP from the district. He was elected to the 16th and 17th Lok Sabha in 2014 and 2019, respectively.Prime Minister Narendra Modi expressed grief over the 'untimely' death of the leader and praised him for working tirelessly for the betterment of society."Shri Ram Swaroop Sharma was a dedicated leader, who was always committed to solving people’s problems. He worked tirelessly for the betterment of society. Pained by his untimely and unfortunate demise. My thoughts are with his family and supporters in this sad hour. Om Shanti," PM Modi tweeted.Shri Ram Swaroop Sharma was a dedicated leader, who was always committed to solving people’s problems. He worked tirelessly for the betterment of society. Pained by his untimely and unfortunate demise. My thoughts are with his family and supporters in this sad hour. Om Shanti.Sharma was a member of the standing committee on external affairs and the consultative committee, ministry of external affairs.Meanwhile, after the death of the BJP MP, the meeting of the BJP parliamentary party to be held today has been cancelled.(With agency inputs)If you need support or know someone who does, please reach out to your nearest mental health specialist. Helplines: Aasra: 022 2754 6669; Sneha India Foundation: +914424640050 and Sanjivini: 011-24311918||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ramswaroop-sharma-bjp-mp-from-himachal-pradesh-s-mandi-found-dead-in-delhi-101615955606647.html
17-03-2021||India||Odisha told to enforce prohibition of fishing around turtle nesting sites||Taking note of the high mortality of Olive Ridley marine turtles on Odisha coast due to fishing trawlers, a division bench of Orissa high court on Tuesday asked the state government to enforce prohibition of fishing activities by trawlers near Devi river mouth with the help of marine police station and Coast Guard. The bench headed by chief justice S Murlidhar also ordered the state government to provide the three marine police stations of Talachua, Tantiapal and Jamboo with sea-patrolling boats and additional force for the protection of Gahirmatha marine sanctuary that has the largest rookery of the Olive Ridley sea turtles.“The mortality of the turtles along the Odisha coast is mainly due to trawling operations. There is incidental killing of the turtles due to suffocation in fishing nets of trawlers or by injuries inflicted by the propellers of the trawlers. Enforcement activities should be continued to prevent the movement and fishing by trawlers in the prohibited area of Devi River mouth and Gahirmatha,” the HC said.The court last month registered a PIL suo motu over media reports that 800 Olive Ridleys perished in Gahirmatha marine sanctuary since January this year. The Olive Ridleys, protected under Schedule I of Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, come to Odisha coast every year for mass nesting when lakhs of pregnant females choose narrow beaches at Gahirmatha, Devi river mouth and Rushikulya river mouth to lay eggs. Each adult female lays approximately 100-140 eggs at a time. In March this year, around 8 lakh turtles laid eggs in Rushikulya and Gahirmatha sites.Accepting the recommendations of a three-member committee that it had formed to look into the issue of deaths of Olive Ridley sea turtles along the Odisha coast, the HC said no-fishing zones should be clearly demarcated.“The nesting beach at Gahirmatha should be fenced up at the landward side at the end of the beach with temporary wire mesh over a length of 3 kilometres to protect the nesting Olive Ridleys, eggs and hatchlings from predators like feral dogs, wild pigs, jackals and hyenas. The existing temporary fencing at Goharkuda Purunabandha beach should be strengthened likewise,” the HC said.The court also said the boundary of Gahirmatha marine sanctuary with its geo-coordinates should be uploaded in GPS systems of all fishing boats by the fisheries department so that their movement in the sea can be clearly recorded.“The state government will initiate a discussion with the Indian Space Research Organisation on the feasibility of installing transponders in all mechanized fishing vessels and trawlers to enable their tracking in the sea. This has already been done in Tamil Nadu,” the HC said.Quoting the reports of chief wildlife warden of Odisha, the HC said more than 46,000 Olive Ridley turtles have been killed on Odisha coast in last 10 years, of which, 60% deaths have happened at the rookery near Devi river mouth. It wasestimated that the current mortality continues to be at the rate of about 4,000 to 7,000 Olive Ridley sea turtles every year.Earlier, the HC-appointed committee said in their report to the court that there was no point in emphasising the use of Turtle Excluder Devices on fishing trawlers on the coast as its enforcement has been extremely difficult.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-told-to-enforce-prohibition-of-fishing-around-turtle-nesting-sites-101615954267851.html
17-03-2021||India||India records 28,903 Covid-19 cases in highest daily spike this year; active cases soar||India on Wednesday recorded 28,903 fresh cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, adding to the cumulative tally which now stands as 11,438,734, the Union health ministry said.This is the highest daily spike seen in the country so far this year.The country also saw 188 deaths from the viral disease in the said timespan, pushing the fatality toll to 159,044, the health ministry data updated at 8am showed. This is a sharp rise from 131 deaths recorded on Tuesday.Surging for a week now, India's active cases rose to 234,406, which now accounts for 2.05% of the country's total cases, the health ministry said. The active cases rose sharply by 10,974 on Wednesday, data showed.India's rising tally, which experts point out could be due to an ongoing second wave underlined by an increase in positivity rate and active cases, is being driven by five states which account for almost 80% of the daily new cases being reported. These five states are Maharashtra, Punjab, Karnataka, Gujarat and Tamil Nadu, health ministry had said on Tuesday.Three states - Maharashtra, Kerala and Punjab - cumulatively account for 76.57% of India’s total active cases.Eight states, the health ministry said, are displaying an upward trajectory in daily new cases. These are Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Delhi, Gujarat, Karnataka and Haryana.The number of people who have recuperated from the disease stands at 11,045,284, according to the health ministry.Scaling up the fight against the viral contagion on a massive scale, India has concentrated efforts on vaccination. More than 3.50 crore vaccine doses were administered in the country till Tuesday evening from January 16, when the nationwide drive started.A total of 3,50,64,536 vaccine doses have been given to people in the country, health ministry data updated at 8am on Wednesday showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-28-903-covid-19-cases-in-highest-daily-spike-active-cases-soar-101615950971469.html
17-03-2021||India||PM Modi to meet CMs over Covid-19 today: All you need to know||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is due to hold a meeting with the chief ministers of all states and Union territories on Wednesday as alarm grows over the resurgence of Covid-19 cases in India. Here is all you need to know about the meeting and the pandemic situation:•The situation is particularly alarming in Maharashtra, which is at “the beginning of its second wave” as the Centre has urged the state to step up containment efforts.• Modi is expected to raise the issue of states where the virus appears to be taking hold once again and is likely to stress the need to accelerate vaccinations.• A detailed directive has been issued to states such as Maharashtra to curb the transmission cycle and intensify disease surveillance by effective testing and tracing to identify cases. • States reporting a surge have been asked to quickly expand their vaccination coverage and deal with vaccine hesitancy among the target group. Also Read | 38k get covid-19 vaccine jabs in Capital; Experts call for more inoculations• Infection trends in at least eight states show they are in a new wave of infections. • Except for Kerala, Odisha, and Bihar, almost all regions are showing an increase in their outbreak, according to the University of Michigan’s India Covid-19 metrics tracker. • Since a low of roughly 11,000 cases a day in the second week of February across India, there are now approximately 23,500 a day on average (over the last seven days). • The trends threaten to quickly erode India’s advantage of starting its vaccination programme while the outbreak was largely under control.• The Union government on Monday rushed a three-member team of experts to Haridwar, Uttarakhand, to review medical care and public health arrangements for the Kumbh Mela that begins from April 1. • Experts said a lack of restrictions on how many people can gather for a dip in the river threatens to turn the religious event into a Covid-19 super-spreader. • The resurgence brings the focus back on coronavirus vaccinations, which have averaged around 1.4 million doses over the last week. • The country has targeted delivering 300 million doses by the end of July, with a little over 33 million done since January 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-to-meet-cms-over-covid-19-today-all-you-need-to-know-101615953248082.html
17-03-2021||India||Cong’s digital outreach campaign focuses on NRIs, PIOs||The Congress has launched an outreach campaign to boost its image among non-resident Indians (NRIs) and the persons of Indian origin (PIOs) globally, functionaries familiar with the matter said. The party’s unit in poll-bound Kerala has enlisted 1,000 volunteers as part of the campaign in West Asia, where millions of people from the state work and live, they added. The volunteers include professionals who work from one to eight hours daily to create digital outreach tools and improve the party’s messaging abroad.The push comes ahead of polls in Kerala next month and the 2022 elections in Punjab and Gujarat, which are among other states with a large number of expatriates abroad.The party’s Punjab and Gujarat units have held meetings to discuss ways for outreach in countries such as Canada, which has a significant Punjabi diaspora population. “The hope [is] that it will help us gain financial contributions and increase the party’s social capital,” said a functionary said, requesting anonymity.Also Read | Anti-BJP ‘storm’ spills out of cup at Kolkata’s iconic Coffee HouseAccording to the external affairs ministry, 32 million NRIs and PIOs live around the world. Congress’s arch-rival, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), has chapters across the world, and supporters in 20 countries helped the party in the 2019 national election campaign.A Congress leader said their campaign was part of a larger initiative to help improve the party’s image abroad and make the party’s presence felt among the diasporas. “The exercise is not just constrained to the elections. Prime Minister Narendra Modi goes abroad regularly, and BJP has its own outreach model. Congress also wants to ensure that it makes its message heard. ”A second functionary said the party is also working out strategies to reach out to the diaspora in the European Union (EU) and that it has an active chapter in Germany. Around 2.5 to 3 million Indians live in West Asia alone and the party is extremely active there, the functionary added. “After the Covid-19 pandemic... Zoom calls and online meetings became the norm. This has helped us reach out to more and more Indians overseas. We have a few hundred volunteers in the European Union as well.”The Congress has been particularly focused on its social media outreach, with the party launching a campaign with over 50,00,00 volunteers. It is also working to change its style of messaging by roping in social media influencers, especially in the poll-bound states of Tamil Nadu and Kerala, and by live streaming Rahul Gandhi’s events.The second functionary said the volunteers they have overseas are professionals like engineers and doctors. “These are essentially task forces that help us mine data, edit videos...”Bobbin Philip, 41, who started working for the Congress in 2019, said the social media campaign has also been strengthened in the UK. “Our initiative Empower Congress, a Facebook page, has gained 25,000 followers within a year,” Phillip, who is based in the UK, said. “We also do studies and have sent these to All India Congress Committee secretaries in India. This includes creating a better, more comprehensive communication system.”Phillip said better communication can help bring back the voters the Congress has lost. “Rigorous communication from Rahul Gandhi also makes a significant impact,” he said. Philip said the UK chapter of the Indian Overseas Congress is focusing on the Kerala elections. “We are trying to get the associations to donate as well. We are trying to reach out to people from across the world.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congs-digital-outreach-campaign-focuses-on-nris-pios-101615952227751.html
17-03-2021||India||News updates from HT: 'Don't think complete lockdown is necessary', says Pune mayor and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.'Don't think complete lockdown is necessary', says Pune mayorThe mayor of Pune has said that there is no plan to impose a complete lockdown in the city due to the Covid-19 situation. Pune is among the cities in Maharashtra which is badly affected by the resurgence of the coronavirus disease. Read moreRain, thunderstorms to affect western Himalayan region for next 2-3 daysA fresh feeble Western Disturbance is very likely to affect the western Himalayan region from today. Under its influence, scattered rainfall or snowfall is very likely over the western Himalayan region (Jammu & Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan & Muzaffarabad, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand ) on March 17 and 18 and over the adjoining plains of northwest India on March 18 and 19. Read moreCase cracked, says NIA: ‘Vaze did it for lost glory’Mumbai Police officer Sachin Vaze was behind the bomb scare outside billionaire industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s house, which he orchestrated as part of a conspiracy to restore his reputation as a successful cop, senior officers in the National Investigation Agency (NIA) told HT on Tuesday, contending that the mystery around the explosive-laden vehicle has been solved. Read moreNavya Naveli Nanda shares family portrait to wish Shweta Bachchan on birthday, Amitabh Bachchan drops cutest pics of herShweta Bachchan, daughter of Amitabh Bachchan, turns 47 on Wednesday and has received a loads of wishes from her family, friends and well wishers. Among the first ones to wish her was her daughter Navya Naveli Nanda and Amitabh. Read more'KL Rahul is the best batsman we have in T20s': India batting coach Vikram Rathour backs under-fire openerOpening the batting for India is a hard task, perhaps the hardest when you have players like Shikhar Dhawan and Ishan Kishan fighting for that same spot. Despite being one of India’s most consistent performers in the T20Is, KL Rahul is under scrutiny after he registered 1,0,0 in the three T20Is against England. Read moreSidharth Malhotra flaunts incredible body strength as he 'hang's out' on MM setIf you are in need of some persuasion to go out on your daily walk, let seeing Sidharth Malhotra hanging upside down from a tree on gymnastic rings be it. The fitness enthusiast gave fans a glimpse of his intense core and shoulder strengthening workout on Mission Majnu set and we are inspired to hit the grind this mid-week. Read moreThis delivery order with sweet messages is what you need to see todayThere are several things on the Internet that can make you feel happy or leave you smiling from ear to ear. This post, showing a wholesome delivery note, may make you feel both. The post, shared on Reddit’s ‘MadeMeSmile’ subreddit may make your day a bit brighter. Read moreRussia, Iran targeted 2020 US election: Report"Broad Russian and Iranian campaigns targeting multiple critical infrastructure sectors did compromise the security of several networks that managed some election functions," the government agencies said in a joint report. Read more'Exclusion of women in decision-making marker of flawed democracy': Kamala HarrisThe status of democracy depends fundamentally on the empowerment of women, whose exclusion from decision-making is a marker of a "flawed democracy", Kamala Harris has said in her first address to the United Nations as the Vice President of the US. Read moreAlso watch: 'Why was Ganguly's six famous?': Rajnath Singh's poll pitch in Bengal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-don-t-think-complete-lockdown-is-necessary-says-pune-mayor-and-all-the-latest-news-101615950522797.html
17-03-2021||India||Amid rise in Covid-19 cases, night curfew in Bhopal, Indore from today||Owing to a sudden surge in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases, the Madhya Pradesh government on Tuesday imposed a night curfew in the cities of Indore and Bhopal from March 17 until further order. The directive said that the night curfew will be in effect from 10pm to 6am in the two cities. The government order also stated that markets in eight other cities - Jabalpur, Gwalior, Ujjain, Ratlam, Burhanpur, Chhindwara, Betul and Khargone - will also be closed after 10pm starting Wednesday.“Night curfew will be implemented in Bhopal and Indore from March 17, until further order. Markets in eight cities-Jabalpur, Gwalior, Ujjain, Ratlam, Burhanpur, Chhindwara, Betul, Khargone to shut at 10pm from March 17. There won’t be curfews in these cities,” the Madhya Pradesh government order said.The decision was taken in a state cabinet meeting which was conducted to take stock of the Covid-19 situation in Madhya Pradesh and was headed by chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan.Prior to the meeting, the chief minister expressed concern at the increasing Covid-19 cases in the state and advised people to follow all the guidelines. “The way Covid-19 positive cases are increasing in the state, it is becoming a matter of concern for us… I appeal to the public to take this pandemic seriously, wear masks and follow all the rules,” Chouhan said.Read more: 8 states contributing the most Covid-19 cases to India's surging tallyChouhan had also held a meeting with Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan on Sunday with respect to the Covid-19 situation in the state.Indore and Bhopal, the two biggest cities in Madhya Pradesh, have been consistently reporting a high number of coronavirus cases. Indore reported 264 new cases on Tuesday with which the caseload of the city reached 62,675. Bhopal, on the other hand, reported 196 new cases which took the caseload to 45,731. The active caseload in Indore and Bhopal on Tuesday stood at 1,752 and 1,066 respectively.Madhya Pradesh on Tuesday reported 817 fresh cases which took the tally of the state to 2,70,208, while the death toll stood at 3,891 after one Covid-related death was reported. Total people recovered from Covid-19 in the state stood at 2,61,031, while the active cases in the state stood at 5,286.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-rise-in-covid-19-cases-night-curfew-in-bhopal-indore-from-today-101615950852082.html
17-03-2021||India||Rain, thunderstorms to affect western Himalayan region for next 2-3 days||Rain and thunderstorms are likely over the entire western Himalayan region for the next 2-3 days, according to India Meteorological Department.A fresh feeble Western Disturbance is very likely to affect the western Himalayan region from today. Under its influence, scattered rainfall or snowfall is very likely over the western Himalayan region (Jammu & Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan & Muzaffarabad, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand ) on March 17 and 18 and over the adjoining plains of northwest India on March 18 and 19.Also Read | 22 of 30 most polluted cities in the world are in India: ReportThunderstorms with lightning are also very likely over Jammu & Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan & Muzaffarabad, and Himachal Pradesh on March 17 and over adjoining plains of northwest India on March 18. Under the influence of interaction between mid-level westerlies and lower level easterlies, scattered rainfall with thunderstorm, lightning and gusty winds (speed reaching 30-40 kmph) are likely over Madhya Pradesh during the next five days; over Vidarbha during March 17 to 20, and over Chhattisgarh on March 18.Hailstorms are also very likely over east Madhya Pradesh on March 16 and 18; over West Madhya Pradesh during March 18 to 19 and over Vidarbha and Chhattisgarh on March 19.Under the influence of a trough (area of low pressure) in westerlies, scattered rainfall is very likely over northeast India during the next three days. Thunderstorms and lightning are also very likely over Arunachal Pradesh, Assam and Meghalaya on March 17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rain-thunderstorms-to-affect-western-himalayan-region-for-next-2-3-days-101615949227380.html
17-03-2021||India||5 drown in septic tank in Agra's Fatehabad, CM Adityanath announces compensation||Three minor brothers and two others drowned in a septic tank in Agra’s Fatehabad area on Tuesday, according to police.According to SSP Bablu Kumar, the incident took place at Pratappura village in the Fatehabad police station area when 10-year-old Anurag fell into the septic tank while playing.The others, identified as Sonu (25), Ram Khiladi, Harimohan (16) and Avinash (12), drowned while trying to save him.Harimohan, Avinash and Anurag were brothers.They were brought out from the tank by villagers who took them to a hospital where they were declared brought dead.Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has expressed grief over the incident and announced a compensation of ₹2 lakh each to the kin of the deceased, according to a release.The chief minister also prayed for peace to the departed souls, the release added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-minor-brothers-two-others-drown-in-septic-tank-in-agra-s-fatehabad-101615948041892.html
17-03-2021||India||India should not go back to licence raj regime: Economist Paul Krugman||India should not go back to the 'licence raj' regime and the country should have a deliberate policy for fostering industries, Nobel prize-winning economist Paul Krugman said on Monday.Addressing a virtual event organised by Ashoka University, Krugman further said the income inequality issue is a severe one in India."Don't go back (to) Licence Raj regime... country Like India might want to have a deliberate policy for fostering industries," he said.The licence raj, which involved an elaborate system of licences and regulations that were required to set up and run businesses in the country, was dismantled with the liberalisation policy introduced in 1991.Replying to a question on why India is not well in labour-intensive industries, Krugman said India is not as well suited as some other players are to produce labour-intensive manufacturing products."Internal geography (of India) may be one of the reason...Indian does have a kind of non-industrial ecology," the eminent economist noted.He further said India does not have a great transport infrastructure and that is going to pose some problems.Krugman pointed out that India has not really done well in the labour-intensive aspects, but the country was very successful in the services sector and high skill manufacturing."Services sector generates a lot of GDP, but they do not generate a lot of jobs," he opined.The Nobel laureate said he is an optimist about export-oriented growth for developing countries even as the process of globalisation is slowing down."Income inequality issue is a severe one in India. If the USA has an extremely hard time to tackle extreme inequality, then I got to worry about India," he observed.Krugman won the Nobel Prize in economics in 2008 for his work on international trade theory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-should-not-go-back-to-licence-raj-regime-economist-paul-krugman-101615948264476.html
17-03-2021||India||'Must visit': PM Modi tweets as Statue of Unity crosses 5 million visitors mark||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday urged people to visit the Statue of Unity as the world's tallest statue crossed the 5 million visitor's mark. PM Modi took to Twitter to share the development. "Excellent! Statue of Unity in Kevadia is a must visit. Do plan a trip there whenever you can," the Prime Minister said in a tweet. An official account of the statue said on Twitter, "Statue of Unity crosses 5 million visitors mark in just 553 working days, making it a greatly popular international tourist destination !!"Situated in Kevadia in Gujarat's Narmada district, the statue has emerged as an international tourist destination, offering multiple attractions for all age groups, Gujarat's Additional Chief Secretary (Forest and Environment) Rajiv Gupta said in a tweet.The 182-metre tall statue of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, billed as the world's tallest and built on the Sadhu Bet islet near the Sardar Sarovar Dam in Kevadia, was inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on October 31, 2018."#StatueofUnity crosses five million visitors mark !!! Built under visionary leadership of Hon.@PMOIndiait has emerged as an international tourist destination, offering multiple attractions for all age groups. @narendramodi @tourismgoi@souindia," Gupta tweeted.In a bid to make the destination more accessible, the government plans to improve rail and air connectivity to Kevadia. The government recently added eight new trains from different parts of the country and a seaplane service from Ahmedabad.The Covid-19 disease outbreak punctuated the flurry of visitors last year when the tourist spot was shut for more than seven months but picked up rapidly after the statue was again opened for public visiting in October last year. During his address on January18 this year after flagging off eight trains to Kevadia from across India, Prime Minister Modi said more tourists visit the Statue of Unity in Gujarat than the Statue of Liberty in the US.He had said that with increased connectivity, over a lakh people will visit Kevadia daily, as per a survey.On Patel's birth anniversary last year, Modi had also launched a seaplane service between the Statue of Unity and the Sabarmati river in Ahmedabad, further improving connectivity to the tourist attraction in Kevadia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/must-visit-pm-modi-tweets-as-statue-of-unity-crosses-5-million-visitors-mark-101615943443631.html
17-03-2021||India||No loudspeakers in mosques, dargahs from 10 pm to 6 am: Karnataka Waqf board||In an order with far-reaching implications, the Karnataka State Board of Auqaf has issued a circular to all the mosques and dargahs (mausoleums) in the state not to use loudspeakers between 10 pm and 6 am, saying the ambient noise level around these structures has "deleterious effects on human health and the psychological well-being of people".In the circular dated March 9, the board said, "The loudspeakers shall not be used at night time, which shall mean from 10 pm to 6 am."Further underlining the "silence zones", the circular said any violation will be liable for penalty."The areas comprising not less than 100 metres around hospitals, educational institutions and courts are declared as silence zones."Whoever uses sound amplifier or burst sound-emitting firecrackers, uses a loudspeaker or public address system in a silence zone is liable for penalty under the provisions of the Environment (Protection) Act-1986," the circular read.These decisions were taken at the board's 327th meeting held on December 19, 2020 regarding a strict adherence to the Noise Pollution (Regulation and Control) Rules, 2000 in Karnataka and "it unanimously resolved to create awareness amongst the managements of Masjids and Dargahs"."It is observed that increasing the ambient noise level around many a Masjid and Dargahs due to generator sets, loudspeakers and public address systems has deleterious effects on human health and the psychological well-being of people," the order noted.The board reminded the mutawallis and managing committees of the mosques and dargahs that it had issued a circular on July 10, 2017 (when Siddaramaiah headed the Congress government in Karnataka) to follow the ambient noise standards in accordance with the Noise Pollution (Regulation and Control) Rules, 2000.The circular said loudspeakers should be used only for "azan" and other important announcements, whereas the congregational Salat, Jumma Qutba, Bayans, religious socio-cultural and knowledge-based functions shall be performed with the speakers installed on the premises of the mosques and dargahs.The noise-governing apparatus may be installed in the institutions in consultation with the local environment officers.The Khateeb O Imam of Bengaluru's Jamia Masjid, Maqsood Imran, told PTI that he too has received the circular. He added that they have spoken to the CEO of the board about revising the circular since the morning "azan" is an important one.He shared a letter written by Waqf Board member and MLA Tanveer Sait to the CEO of the board.In the letter, Sait said, "As the board is an autonomous body, keeping this instruction in the view, you are hereby directed to issue an amended circular at the earliest, considering sunrise timings and use of loudspeakers sensibly between 10 pm to 5 am as the holy month of Ramzan is fast approaching."Former chairman of the state Waqf Board Anwar Manippady told PTI, "It is a great step towards amiability in the society between the two communities -- minorities and majorities."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-loudspeakers-in-mosques-dargahs-from-10-pm-to-6-am-karnataka-waqf-board-101615942542710.html
17-03-2021||India||BJP condemns plea in Supreme Court seeking removal of 26 Quran verses||Senior BJP leader Syed Shahnawaz Hussain on Tuesday slammed former chairman of UP Shia Waqf Board Waseem Rizvi for approaching the Supreme Court seeking removal of some verses of Quran, and said that his party is firmly against those who insult any religious texts.Hussain, the national spokesperson of the BJP, said Rizvi should not vitiate the atmosphere of the country by indulging in such an act."I strongly object and condemn Wasim Rizvi's petition seeking removal of 26 verses from Quran. It is my party's stand that saying absurd things about any religious texts, including Quran, is a highly condemnable act," Hussain told PTI.The BJP is firmly against those who insult any religious texts, he said.Rizvi has moved the Supreme Court seeking the removal of 26 verses from Quran, claiming they promote violence."The BJP is not in favour of any changes to any verses of Quran or any other religious texts," he said.The BJP does not approve of Rizvi's views as it hurts the sentiments of the people, Hussain said."Wasim Rizvi does not have any right to hurt religious sentiments of the people," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-condemns-plea-in-supreme-court-seeking-removal-of-26-quran-verses-101615941491096.html
17-03-2021||India||India mulls new democracy report, freedom index by local think tank||The ministry of external affairs is mulling a “world democracy report” as well as a “global press freedom index” to be brought out by an independent Indian think tank, according to people familiar with the matter and government documents reviewed by HT. The discussions to do this were going on before recent reports by Freedom House and V-Dem Institute downgraded India’s democratic rankings.“We may encourage one of the Indian independent think tanks to bring out its own annual world democracy report based on comprehensive parameters as well as an annual global freedom of press index,” an internal note prepared by the ministry of external affairs (MEA) earlier this year said.Also Read: India downgraded from ‘free’ to ‘partly free’ in democracy reportThe ministry of external affairs did not respond to queries seeking a comment on the matter.To be sure, the matter is still being considered and HT learns that no decision has been taken.The ministry of external affairs began discussions late last year after the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) forwarded to it a letter written by former Prasar Bharti chairman and current executive member of the Nehru Memorial Museum & Library (NMML), A Surya Prakash, on November 20, suggesting that India should counter reports such as the report from the Sweden-based V-Dem Institute and the Press Freedom Index by defining its own parameters on democracy, two officials aware of the development confirmed.HT has reviewed a copy of Prakash’s letter, written on November 20, 2020 – months after V-Dem report of the year 2020 was released. The report had said that India “has continued on a path of steep decline to the extent it has almost lost its status as a democracy”.Last week, in its 2021 report, the V-Dem Institute classified India as an “electoral autocracy” alongside Hungary and Turkey because of “restrictions on multiple facets of democracy” such as civil society groups and free speech. came close on the heels of the annual report on global political rights and liberties by US-based Freedom House, which downgraded India’s status as a democracy and free society to “partly free”.Also Read: In 7 points, India rebuts US NGO’s ‘partly free’ downgrade in democracy reportIn its internal note, MEA also suggested that missions across the world could actively engage with NGO/institutes such as the RSF and V-Dem and provide them with material which will help them put “India at the rightful place on the democracy and press-freedom index, in future reports”.At India Today’s conclave last week, minister for external affairs S Jaishankar slammed the two reports calling out the outlets for their “hypocrisy” and for acting like “self-appointed custodians of the world who find it very difficult to stomach that somebody in India is not looking for their approval”.In his letter addressed to the PMO last November, Surya Prakash wrote: “Earlier this year, my attention was drawn to a World Press Freedom Index published by a French NGO with the acronym RSF. This report placed India at a lowly 142, while a number of nations which are theocracies and non-democracies, are way above us. More recently, I saw a report published by a Swedish Institute called V-Dem. This institute places India at number 90 among democracies. Here again, a large number of nations where there is no separation of powers between the state and religion, which do not have a republican form of government, and where the concept of equality before law does not exist, are way ahead of us. In fact, many countries in the top ten nations have different forms of Christianity as their state religion, whereas the secular ideal is embedded in the preamble of our Constitution.”He added: “This has gone on for many decades and remained uncontested. I feel that as the world’s largest and most vibrant democracy, we must define democracy and judge other nations and not the other way round... I am of the view that a pristine democracy must contain the following eight fundamentals: An inviolable commitment to freedom of expression and freedom of conscience an unambiguous commitment to secularism; separation of religion and states republican form of government; constitutional right to equality before law; gender equality; right to life and personal liberty; and universal adult suffrage. All these eight essentials exist in the Indian Constitution and are part and parcel of our democratic way of life. Therefore, the time has come for us to challenge these western postulates and assert our position at the pinnacle of democracies… I do hope that in this age of Atma Vishwas and Atmanirbharta that you have ushered in, India will begin to assert herself in the field of democracy as well.”The PMO forwarded the letter to the ministry of external affairs. The MEA note appears to be a listing of possible ways in which Prakash’s suggestions could be implemented.“I have listed what in my view constitutes a democracy in my article. There are eight elements for a full-fledged democracy to function and we have all of them. Among the most important is the republican form of government. V Dem is from Sweden, look at the constitution of Scandinavian countries. Its constitution says the head of state ‘shall be a king or queen’. More importantly, the Constitution says the king or queen cannot be prosecuted for his or her actions, which means equality before law (Article 14 in our Constitution) has no place in Sweden. Further, the constitution says the king ‘shall always profess the pure evangelical faith’. It also does not allow the prince or princess to marry at will. They have not separated the religion from the state…We can also judge; we are the largest democracy and the most diverse society in the world. We must define democracy and judge democracies across the world. We may not be at the receiving end. We may have a point of view as well,” Prakash said when contacted by HT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-mulls-new-democracy-report-freedom-index-by-local-think-tank-101615938955923.html
17-03-2021||India||Serum CEO Poonawalla says vaccine nationalism threatens WHO's 2021 goal to deliver 2 billion doses to poorer nations||Vaccine nationalism in countries including the US and India is likely to derail efforts by the World Health Organization to deliver 2 billion doses to poorer and middle-income nations by the end of the year, according to the head of the world’s biggest vaccine maker.Countries are holding tight to their supplies and restricting access to materials needed to make more, said Adar Poonawalla, chief executive officer of the Serum Institute of India Ltd. The company is responsible for providing more than half of the shots used so far in the WHO-backed Covax program that aims to provide equitable vaccine access across the world.Many manufacturers, including Serum, already have missed timelines and commitments, Poonawalla said in an interview with Bloomberg Live that aired on Wednesday for the Bloomberg Equality Summit. It will take two to three months for shipments to Covax to really pick up, and reaching the 2021 target of 2 billion doses will be challenging, he said, predicting it will “spill over by a few months.”Poonawalla’s comments highlight the continuing challenge of vaccine inequality that threatens to prolong the pandemic after richer nations raced to stockpile supplies. Few African nations received a single shipment of shots before March, while more than 20% of the population in countries including Israel, the UK, Bahrain and the U.S have received at least one shot.As a manufacturing giant, India has sought to portray itself as a generous benefactor through targeted vaccine diplomacy, while seeking to outdo regional rival China. At the same time, New Delhi has tightly controlled the deployment of the doses it has, mostly supplied by Serum, which is making the shot developed by AstraZeneca Plc and Oxford University.Indian officials have also requested more vaccines than initially expected from the company, said Poonawalla.“We had to dedicate a lot of our capacity, which was not originally planned for India,” he said. “We’re trying to balance it out as much as possible, but again for the first few months we have been directed to prioritize supplies to India and certain other countries that have a high disease burden.”Daunting GapCovax has been slow to get off the ground, which WHO Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus has linked to companies and countries prioritizing bilateral deals ahead of the health body’s approval process.Poonawalla reiterated his concerns over impending bottlenecks caused by “raw materials nationalism” after the US invoked the Defense Production Act this month to safeguard supplies of items, such as bags and filters, for its own manufacturers.“I’ve sent this message to all the decision makers in the US -- please do not put a ban on critical raw materials that other global vaccine manufacturers need,” Poonawalla said.The Serum CEO earlier this month said the export ban could hit his plans to produce about a billion doses of Novavax Inc.’s Covid-19 vaccine this year. Despite those warnings, Poonawalla said he expects India’s regulators to grant approval for an August launch of the Novavax candidate, which Serum will begin stockpiling starting next month.By then, Poonawalla hopes that a fully privatized vaccine market will have opened up across India. Currently private hospitals and clinics are allowed to charge 250 rupees ($3.45) a dose, but they have to purchase those vaccines directly from the government and can only inoculate people aged 60 and above or those 45 and older who are high risk.Serum wants a liberalization of the rules to allow corporate clients to negotiate directly and potentially buy supplies at a higher cost, as its vaccines are now being provided through the government at “very low subsidized price”.Though opening up the private market would help accelerate India’s vaccination effort -- it’s only administered about 32 million doses so far, behind the pace needed to reach a goal of 300 million people by August -- there are concerns that doing so will lead to price gouging and unequal access across a country with enormous wealth divides.A free market would allow corporations to immunize their workforces quickly and “speed up the opening of the economy,” said Poonawalla.“This is an ongoing issue, which we’ve taken up with the highest levels of the government,” he said. “It’s a tough call for the government or anyone to make.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/serum-ceo-poonawalla-says-vaccine-nationalism-threatens-poorer-nations-101615933916578.html
17-03-2021||India||Govt says 2nd wave in Maharashtra; PM’s meet today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will hold a crucial meeting with the chief ministers of all states and Union territories on Wednesday as alarm grows over the resurgence of Covid-19 cases in India, particularly in the state of Maharashtra, which is at “the beginning of its second wave”, according to central officials who prodded the state to step up containment efforts.The PM is expected to raise the issue of states where the virus appears to be taking hold once again, and is likely to stress on the need to accelerate vaccinations, according to officials who asked not to be named.“A detailed directive was issued by the health ministry on measures that states such as Maharashtra should take in order to curb the transmission cycle. It includes intensifying disease surveillance by effective testing and tracing to identify cases. States that are reporting a surge also need to quickly expand their vaccination coverage and deal with vaccine hesitancy among the target group. The review is likely to focus on these details,” said one of the officials cited above. “And it is not just regarding states that are reporting a surge, others will also have to keep their guard up,” he added.Infection trends in at least eight states show they are in a new wave of infections. Except for Kerala, Odisha and Bihar, almost all regions are showing an increase in their outbreak, according to the University of Michigan’s India vid-19 metrics tracker that shows all of the other regions with an R number of above 1. Since a low of roughly 11,000 cases a day in the second week of February across India, there are now approximately 23,500 a day on average (over the last seven days). The trends threaten to quickly erode India’s advantage of starting its vaccination programme while the outbreak was largely under control.Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan wrote to the Maharashtra chief secretary after the central team’s visit last week. “Maharashtra is in the beginning of a second wave of Covid-19 pandemic. Efforts to track, test, isolate cases and quarantine contacts are limited there with no adherence to Covid-19 appropriate behaviour among people both in rural and urban areas,” Bhushan wrote in the letter.Maharashtra’s R number is at present 1.34. The R number, or the effective reproduction number of the virus, is an epidemiological measure that indicates the number of people each case infects on average – if it is above 1, it means onward infections, and thus the outbreak, is continuing to grow. The outbreak in Maharashtra is particularly serious in the regions of Nagpur, Aurangabad, Amravati, Thane and Mumbai. Nagpur civil surgeon Dr Devendra Patulkar said several factors may have contributed to the rise. “After December 2020, the public had let their guard down. They did not follow precautionary measures like wearing masks and maintaining social distances. Soon, the chain of infection started which is now spreading across the district,” he said. “However, so far, we haven’t received any case of virus mutation in the district,” he added.Dr Sundar Kulkarni, civil surgeon from Aurangabad, too said public carelessness was to blame.The letter highlighted what the central team said were lapses in the contact tracing process. Officials in Maharashtra reported they were tracing 20 contacts for every positive case, but, “a deep dive into the methodology of contact tracing revealed that the main concept of contact tracing was not clearly understood by field level staff”, the health secretary said. The central government recommended the state should plan for surges while it still has time and that the practice of auditing deaths be brought back. “Surveillance needs to be strengthened by active house to house search for active cases/contacts in containment zones (as per the containment plan),” said the letter. Contact tracers were mainly listing immediate family and neighbourhood contacts for the sake of listing, the official said in the communication. “The high-risk contacts in workplace settings, social settings and family settings were not investigated and listed,” the official said, citing the report.The central team also highlighted vaccine hesitancy among health workers. Experts said the government must step up efforts to identify variants of the Sars-Cov-2. “We have assurance from government that there are no imported variants, but given the scale of the rise in cases, the possibility of a local high transmission variant cannot be ruled out,” said Dr Gagandeep Kang, one of India’s top vaccine scientists.The Union government on Monday also rushed a three-member team of senior experts to Haridwar, Uttarakhand, to review medical care and public health arrangements for the Kumbh mela that begins from April 1. Experts said a lack of restrictions on how many people can gather for a dip in the river threatens to turn the religious event into a Covid-19 super-spreader. The resurgence brings the focus back on coronavirus vaccinations, which has averaged around 1.4 million doses over the last week. The country has targeted delivering 300 million doses by the end of July, with a little over 33 million done since January 16. “Expanding vaccination will help in two ways. It will protect the many who are still vulnerable to severe disease if infected and will reduce the transmission,” said Dr K Srinath Reddy, founder, Public Health Foundation of India. “Ensuring adherence to public health measures, especially masks and avoiding gatherings in ill ventilated places, is also crucial. These measures will guard against various forms of the virus, including mutants,” he added.Reddy also called for the need to step up genomic sequencing. “The rising case count in Maharashtra is worrisome. Mutant strains may be contributing but without extensive genomic analyses of virus samples from new cases, we cannot say to what extent the mutants are propelling this acceleration.”In a letter to the Union government, Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said the state needs at least 22 million doses of coronavirus vaccines, with at least 2 million being sent each week.“The state is planning to immunise 60-plus age group and 45-plus population with co-morbidities. It needs supply of 2.20 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccine (Covishield and Covaxin) during the next three-and-a-half months. You are requested to supply 20 lakh doses per week to Maharashtra,” Tope said in the letter sent on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-says-2nd-wave-in-maharashtra-pm-s-meet-today-101615929656625.html
17-03-2021||India||Hoax bomb threat message brings Silchar airport to a standstill||A bomb threat, which later turned out to be a hoax, delayed a Silchar-Guwahati-New Delhi flight by more than six hours on Tuesday, a statement issued by the Airports Authority of India (AAI) said.A piece of paper with a threat message written on it was found at the rear end of the SpiceJet aircraft, which had arrived at the Silchar airport from Guwahati with 109 passengers on board at 1.58 pm, it said."All agencies were alerted... As per the Stand Operating Procedure, passengers were stopped from exiting the arrival lounge," the statement said.A team of police officers and bomb disposal squads subsequently reached the airport and an "extensive checking" was carried out, the AAI said.The flight was finally cleared for takeoff at 9 pm, the statement added.P K Gorai, the director of Silchar airport, said all mandatory checks were carried out and flight was found to be safe for takeoff.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hoax-bomb-threat-message-brings-silchar-airport-to-a-standstill-101615920757265.html
17-03-2021||India||B’luru Metro to begin charging of power lines||BengaluruThe Bengaluru Metro Rail Corporation Limited (BMRCL) on Tuesday said it will begin the charging the power lines on the Nayandahalli-Kengeri stretch as it moves closer to the June 2021 deadline for the completion of the project. “The power system is being charged. First we will test this system and then the trials will go on,” an official from BMRCL said requesting anonymity. The power lines on the stretch run along the tracks.The 7.5-km long stretch connecting Nayandahalli station on Mysuru Road and Kengeri on the outskirts of India’s IT capital is crucial for reducing the traffic density on the stretch – one of the busiest roads leading to Bengaluru.While most of the construction work on the stretch has been completed, the initiation of charging of power lines has raised hopes that the project, which has seen several delays, will be completed by the June 2021 deadline. “As of today, June 2021 is the target and we are trying to achieve the same,” the official cited above said.The BMRCL has managed to operationalise just under 50 kms in the past 13 years, with at least 128 kms under various stages of construction. The Metro project was envisioned to help decongest Bengaluru, adjudged to have the world’s worst traffic globally in 2019.According to government data, the city has a population of over 10 million with 9.4 million vehicles, which also raises concerns about pollution, increasing traffic snarls and crumbling infrastructure.According to IQAir’s World Air Quality Report 2020, released on Tuesday, Bengaluru witnessed an average 15.6% dip in PM2.5 levels in which period.“However, the pollutant levels were above the WHO prescribed limit in 46.7% of the days. None of the Indian cities met the prescribed annual limit of 10 µg/m3. The IT city’s annual average stands at 27.5 µg/m3, nearly three times the prescribed limit. Also, Bengaluru’s PM 2.5 levels in December 2020 surpassed the January 2020 levels, indicating that the ‘better air quality’ has already faded away,” the report said.The residents in the city, touted as India’s fastest growing urban centres, have reported a deteriorating quality of life due to rising air and water pollution caused by vehicle emissions, dependence on coal-based energy, construction, industrial discharges and waste and stubble burning.Spread over 824 sq kms, Bengaluru has seen a rise in problems with barely any long-term solutions as civic and other agencies work independently of each other, exposing the lack of coordination required to find holistic solutions, urban experts said.BMRCL said it has managed to take 141,000 vehicles off the road so far in which period?.The Union government in the budget this year decided to extend funds worth ₹14,788 crore to construct 58.19 km of metro rail in Bengaluru city.Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman while presenting the Union Budget said that Central funding will be provided to Phase 2A and 2B of the Bengaluru metro rail.Phase 2A is the 18.23 km long elevated line that proposes to connect KR Puram and the Central Silk Board along the outer ring road (ORR) which is one of the busiest and most congested stretches in Bengaluru. The route also houses a significant number of technology and other corporations along the ORR which witnesses some of the worst traffic jams in Bengaluru. Phase 2B connects KR Puram to Bengaluru airport, extending about 37 km.The Asian Development Bank (ADB) in December last year approved a $500 million (about ₹3,685 crore) loan for Phase 2A and 2B.The Union government also said that the 278 km Bengaluru–Chennai Expressway work will be initiated in the current fiscal and construction will begin in 2021-22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bluru-metro-to-begin-charging-of-power-lines-101615919942244.html
17-03-2021||India||Mother of Walayar girls to contest against Vijayan||ThiruvananthapuramThe mother of the two minor girls, who were found dead in Walayar in Kerala’s Palakkad district in 2017, on Tuesday announced her candidature for the upcoming assembly polls from Dharmadom constituency. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan is seeking reelection from the north Kerala constituency. Accusing the CM of not keeping his word, the woman said, “Four years [have] passed since my daughters were killed. I am yet to get justice. The CM never kept his words. I am out for all mothers.”The eldest of the siblings, aged 13, was found hanging inside their hut in Walayar in Palakkad district on January 13, 2017 and her nine-year-old sister died on March 4 in the same manner. The parents alleged that the girls were murdered. Post-mortem examinations of the two girls revealed that they were subjected to sexual assault before their deaths. Following protests, five people were arrested by the police. One of the accused died by suicide last year.“Some of the police officers who weakened the case were later promoted. Let people know what he [chief minister] did to the mother who lost two children. I am firm on contesting against him,” she said in Thrissur, adding she was not prompted by political parties. Last month, the woman tonsured her head to protest the “failure of the government” to act against police officials who allegedly compromised the probe. Rights activists have said that the government was forced to slow the progress in the case as some of the accused were connected with the ruling Communist Party of India (Marxist).The CPI(M) on Tuesday alleged that the woman has been made a political pawn. “We are with the suffering mother. We did whatever is possible in the case. Now the CBI is investigating it. It seems she was misled by some forces,” said the CM. State law minister A K Balan also said she was turned a pawn in hands of some vested interests. Chief minister Vijayan was not available for comment. The opposition Congress, meanwhile, welcomed the woman’s candidature. “We welcome her bold decision,” said party state president Mullapally Ramachandran. He said the Congress will talk to UDF allies and will take a decision on supporting her. While Dharmadom is a Left stronghold, the woman’s entry into the fray will embarrass the CM, political observers said.“It will invite enough embarrassment to the party and government. She can pose a stiff challenge to the CM and attract sympathy of women voters,” said political observer Sunnykutty Abraham. A division bench of the Kerala high court, in January this year, set aside the verdict of a Pocso court acquitting all the accused and ordered a re-trial in the case. The court also handed over the case to the Central Bureau of Investigation. In an October 2019 order, a Pocso court acquitted the five accused due to lack of evidence after several witnesses turned hostile. The police officer, who headed the investigating team, was promoted by the state government in March last year. Lawyer N Rajesh, who represented one of the accused in the case, was also appointed the president of the district’s child welfare committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mother-of-walayar-girls-to-contest-against-vijayan-101615919762143.html
17-03-2021||India||‘Differing views only exist in Cong’: Rahul addresses dissent in party||In his first public remarks about the so-called G23 leaders who have sought sweeping changes within the Congress, party leader Rahul Gandhi said on Tuesday that such differing points of view can only survive in his party.In an interaction with a group of faculty members and students of the Brown University, Gandhi said: “In our party, 20 people have different views. Do you think they can exist in the BJP, BSP or Trinamool Congress?” He added that “negotiation can’t stop” inside the party even as a section has different viewpoints.In August last year, 23 senior Congress leaders including former Union ministers Ghulam Nabi Azad, Anand Sharma, Kapil Sibal and Manish Tewari shot a letter to Congress president Sonia Gandhi, seeking sweeping changes in the party’s functioning and visible leadership, deepening the rift in the organisation.On Tuesday, Gandhi, who is widely expected to return as the party’s president, said the Congress will remain “chaotic and constant” and never be a cadre-based organisation such as the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS). “The Congress is not the Nazi party. It’s not RSS. Our problem is negotiation between different sections have fractured. We are chaotic, we are constant. We are the conversation. That’s our system...,” he said.In the virtual interaction, weeks before assembly elections in five states, Gandhi also said that elections are about institutions ensuring framework, but that is no more available.The Wayanad MP also cautioned that if India can’t create jobs, it would face a “catastrophic” problem and said the ruling BJP and the RSS have destroyed institutional frameworks that would have protected people.The BJP has, in the past rejected Gandhi’s allegations that the party and its ideological parent, RSS, have “destroyed the country’s institutional framework”. Last month, an RSS pracharak and BJP leader in Tamil Nadu, L Ganesan said, “RSS means discipline, nationalism and all other good qualities. If somebody says that RSS is influencing the judiciary or any field, people should feel happy that something good will happen. It is a compliment given by Rahul Gandhi to the judiciary...”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/differing-views-only-exist-in-cong-rahul-addresses-dissent-in-party-101615918742121.html
17-03-2021||India||Parliamentary panel raises issue of cyberattacks with MHA, IT ministry||The parliamentary panel on information technology on Tuesday asked the ministry of electronics and information technology and the ministry of home affairs about the prevalence of cyber attacks in the country and the steps being taken to tackle them, people familiar with the matter said.The move comes amid reports of an increase in cyber attacks, including those potentially orchestrated by state actors, and targeting of vital installations.The panel met officials from both ministries and was informed about the various schemes in place to tackle the cyber attacks.“We are seeing an increasing number of cyber attacks,” a government official said on condition of anonymity. “That trend is undeniable.”The officials told the panel that the country is well-equipped to rebuff any such attacks, one of the people cited in the first instance said on condition of anonymity. The panel also inquired about the number of cyber attacks that have taken place in the country in the last year, but the ministries did not put a number to them.The people added that the IT ministry told the panel that it has directed all central and state ministries and departments, as well as state-owned companies in critical sectors to earmark 10% of their IT budget to increase their IT security capabilities to combat such incidents.Opposition MPs, including the panel’s chairperson and Congress MP Shashi Tharoor and another Congress MP Karti Chidambaram, flagged news reports of cyber security incidents across 10 power organisations earlier this month, flagged by the US security firm Recorded Future.“The MPs wanted to be apprised of the facts of the case,” said the first person.Hindustan Times on March 5 reported that cyber operations by state actors and the abuse of social media for “narrative warfare” are some of the particular threats likely to be recognised by the government in the National Cyber Security Strategy, 2021, a policy paper that could also make it mandatory for any business or government department with a significant IT interface to set up a cyber safety cell.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliamentary-panel-raises-issue-of-cyberattacks-with-mha-it-ministry-101615917661988.html
17-03-2021||India||Sunni body’s proposed nikahnama calls for right to divorce for women||The Sunni Ulema Council, a prominent body of Sunni Muslims, has proposed a new nikahnama (marriage contract) that bars triple talaq in one sitting and provides safeguards to women, including the right to divorce.In a first, the document will be made available in both Urdu and Hindi.“We are giving them (new nikahnama) to the clergy to build a consensus on it and also promote it in place of the old one that had none of the conditions mentioned in this one,” said Haji Mohammad Salees, convener of the Sunni Ulema Council.According to the draft, seen by HT, the nikahnama gives the woman the right to divorce and binds the clerics and witnesses to give their testimony in case the issue reaches a court. The name and address of the cleric who solemnises the marriage would also be mentioned in the contract, the draft states.The draft of the nikahnama states that a husband will not be able to give triple talaq in one sitting and the method of divorce would be in accordance with the Quran, Salees said. The old version was only available in Urdu and did not have any instructions on divorce which is why triple talaq happened, he said.“The new nikahnama has detailed that divorce can only take place as per the method outlined in the Quran -- the husband cannot give triple talaq in one sitting,” he said. Getting it in Hindi would make it easier to understand for everyone who are not well-versed in Urdu, he said.Salees said that the old version of the nikahnama needed to be changed to with respect to the change in time. He said that old version was just an announcement of marriage declaring that the woman would get a mutually agreed amount, meher, in lieu of the marriage. Unlike the old version, Aadhar numbers of the man and woman, along with those of the witnesses, would be mentioned in the marriage contract, he added.“The new nikahnama is being discussed among clerics, who are likely to reach a decision before Ramzan,” he said.The All India Muslim Women Personal Law Board (AIMWPLB) has given its consent to the new nikahnama, which is likely to be effective from Eid this year, president of the board Syeda Tabassum said. “The nikahnama will formally be in use from Eid this year; the draft is ready and it will be an effective instrument in checking cases of triple talaq,” said Tabassum.The AIMWPLB, on its part, would organise pre- and post-marriage counselling and distribute books on rights of the husband and wife.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sunni-body-s-proposed-nikahnama-calls-for-right-to-divorce-for-women-101615917542051.html
17-03-2021||India||Govt to soon give nod for indigenous stealth fighters||The government is likely to approve India’s homegrown fifth-generation fighter programme - the advanced medium combat aircraft (AMCA) - by mid-year, with design, development and first prototypes set to cost around ₹15,000 crore, people familiar with the development said on Tuesday.The Indian Air Force’s modernisation map envisages the deployment of around 120 stealth fighters (six squadrons) 2032 onwards, with the stealth planes forming an important element of future air combat, said a senior official, one of the people cited above.AMCA will be developed in two phases.“The first two squadrons will consist of Mk-1 version of AMCA. The remaining four squadrons will be raised with a more advanced Mk-2 version with a raft of sixth-generation technologies,” said a second official. Sixth-generation technologies are more advanced than those in any fighter jet currently in service globally.The stealth fighter could be put into production in the next seven to eight years, Hindustan Times has learnt.The Mk-1 stealth fighters will be powered by American GE 414 engines, with indigenous engines likely to replace the imported power plant in the Mk 2 version, said a third official. “AMCA is a top focus area for the Defence Research and Development Organisation, and IAF is firmly backing the project,” he said.DRDO is looking at incorporating sixth-generation technologies in AMCA. There is a possibility of equipping AMCA with directed energy weapons, superior anti-missile systems, advanced missile approach warning systems and teaming it with unmanned systems, IAF chief Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria said at Aero India-2021 last month.Experts said AMCA will be a crucial indigenous project.It will take Indian research and development and defence manufacturing to a much higher scale in terms of technology, said Air Vice Marshal Manmohan Bahadur (retd), additional director general, Centre for Air Power Studies. “It is imperative that the timeline laid down for the project is practical since breakthrough technologies will be getting implemented and the IAF’s operational plans will depend on it,” Bahadur added.India was earlier planning to co-develop a stealth fighter with Russia, but the proposed multi-billion dollar fifth generation fighter aircraft (FGFA) project was abandoned after IAF expressed strong reservations about the project due to high cost and the extent of technology transfer.Boosting indigenisation in the defence sector is a top priority for the government. India has set aside ₹70,221 crore -- 63% of the military’s capital budget for 2021-22 -- for buying locally produced weapons and systems.The allocation for indigenous procurement - made for the second consecutive year - will power the purchase of Tejas LCA (light combat aircraft) Mk-1A jets, light combat helicopters, basic trainer aircraft, Arjun Mk-1A tanks, Astra beyond-visual-range missiles, Pinaka rocket systems and anti-tank missiles, as previously reported by HT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-to-soon-give-nod-for-indigenous-stealth-fighters-101615917481953.html
17-03-2021||India||UK PM Boris Johnson to visit India in April to ‘unlock opportunities’||British Prime Minister Boris Johnson will visit India in April as part of his government’s tilt towards the Indo-Pacific under a comprehensive revamp of foreign and security policies to unlock new opportunities across the region. The UK on Tuesday unveiled its widely anticipated integrated review of security, defence, development and foreign policy, first announced after the 2019 election as “the most radical assessment of the UK’s place in the world since the end of the Cold War”. The integrated review set out several shifts in foreign policy, including a tilt to the Indo-Pacific, and Johnson will visit India at the end of April to “unlock opportunities in the region,” an official statement said. Presenting the review in Parliament, Johnson said he will travel to India to “strengthen our ties with the world’s largest democracy”. This will be Johnson’s first major international visit following Britain’s exit from the European Union (EU). Johnson was earlier set to be the chief guest at the Republic Day celebrations in January but he called off the trip to remain in Britain to focus on the response to a new Coronavirus variant. At the time, the UK had announced that Johnson hoped to visit India in the first half of 2021, and ahead of the UK’s G7 Summit in June that Prime Minister Narendra Modi is due to attend as a guest. The British high commissioner to India, Alex Ellis, played a key part in drafting the integrated review in his previous role as deputy national security advisor. Also read: UK’s Covid-19 vaccine is safe and works extremely well, says Boris JohnsonThe document described India-UK relations as “already strong” and said Britain will “seek transformation in our cooperation across the full range of our shared interests” over the next decade. It referred to India as an “international actor of growing importance” and spoke of the strong cultural links between the two sides, including 1.5 million British nationals of Indian origin. India-UK trade more than doubled between 2007 and 2019, and the investment relationship supports more than half a million jobs in each other’s economies. “The ability to strike our own trade deals will allow us to grow our economic relationship further, including through increased bilateral investment flows,” the integrated review said.“Our vision is for re-energised trade and investment, rooted in S&T and supporting levelling up in the UK and India alike; enhanced defence cooperation that brings a more secure Indian Ocean Region, building on the existing biannual Ministerial Defence Dialogues; and UK-India leadership to tackle global challenges like climate change, clean energy and global health,” it said. A major step towards boosting ties will be the launch of the “Enhanced Trade Partnership” this year, which will act as a roadmap to a potential comprehensive trade deal. With Britain looking at the Indo-Pacific as “increasingly the geopolitical centre of the world”, the aircraft carrier HMS Queen Elizabeth will undertake its first operational deployment to the region this year. The UK is also applying for partner status at the Association of South East Asian Nations (ASEAN) as part of its foreign policy shift. The deployment of HMS Queen Elizabeth, the UK’s largest warship, and its strike task group to the Indian Ocean, has been described by officials as the country’s “most ambitious deployment for two decades”. The reset of Britain’s international priorities with deeper engagement with the Indo-Pacific is also aimed at creating a democratic counterweight to China. “China’s military modernisation and growing international assertiveness within the Indo-Pacific region and beyond will pose an increasing risk to UK interests,” the integrated review said. The UK will “do more to adapt to China’s growing impact on many aspects of our lives as it becomes more powerful,” and this includes investing in “enhanced China-facing capabilities” and improving Britain’s “ability to respond to the systemic challenge that [China] poses to our security, prosperity and values – and those of our allies and partners,” the document said. The 114-page integrated review, which addressed issues related to national security, foreign policy and the global economy, is meant to implement Johnson’s “Global Britain” agenda.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uk-pm-boris-johnson-to-visit-india-in-april-to-unlock-opportunities-101615908121941.html
