18-03-2021||India||SC to hear plea against fresh sale of electoral bonds||The Supreme Court on Thursday agreed to hear next week a plea to stop the fresh sale of electoral bonds from April 1 till the top court decides on the validity of these bonds. A bench headed by the Chief Justice of India SA Bobde, fixed March 24 to hear a new application by the Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR), which has requested that the court restrain sales of these bonds ahead of the assembly elections in four states and a Union Territory. The elections start on March 27, and end on April 29. the counting of votes is on May 2. Advocate Prashant Bhushan, representing ADR, mentioned the matter before the bench, which also included justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, for an urgent listing of the case. Solicitor general (S-G) Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Central government, informed the bench that attorney general KK Venugopal appeared in this case on behalf of the government which has no objection to the plea being heard next week. “In a matter like this, we are sure you will find some time,” the CJI told the S-G, fixing the matter for a hearing on March 24. The new application has been moved in a pending petition on this issue by the same organisation filed in 2017. The plea stated: “There is a serious apprehension that any further sale of electoral bonds before the upcoming state elections in West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Assam, would further increase illegal and illicit funding of political parties through shell companies. Thus, the petitioner seeks a direction that no further opening of window for the sale of electoral bonds be allowed during the pendency of the instant writ petition.” The petitioner pointed out that the petition challenging electoral bonds has been pending in the Supreme Court since September 2017. The matter was last heard on January 20 last year following which ADR requested the court in October last year to list the matter ahead of the assembly elections in Bihar. However, the matter was not listed. In its 2017 PIL, ADR sought that the amendments carried out to the Finance Act providing an anonymous route for political parties to receive corporate funding through electoral bonds be struck down. These donations enjoy 100% tax exemption as they need not be reported to the Income Tax department either, the petition added. “The Electoral Bonds Scheme has opened the floodgates to unlimited corporate donations to political parties and anonymous financing by Indian as well as foreign companies which can have serious repercussions on the Indian democracy,” that application filed by ADR stated, adding that the Finance Act of 2017 exempts use of electoral bonds from disclosure under the Representation of Peoples Act.  ADR moved applications in March 2019 and again in November 2019 to stay the implementation of the Electoral Bond Scheme but these were not granted. In April 2019, the Supreme Court, in an interim order, asked political parties to disclose to the Election Commission in sealed covers details of donations received by way of electoral bonds. In the same order, the top court observed that the matter of electoral bonds gives rise to “weighty issues which have a tremendous bearing on the sanctity of the electoral process in the country” which require an in-depth hearing. The fresh application filed on March 9 said: “As per data on Electoral Bonds declared by political parties in their audit reports for the FY 2017-18 and FY 2018-19, the ruling party had received more than 60% of the total electoral bonds issued till date.” So far more than ₹6,500 crore worth of electoral bonds have been sold with the majority of donations going to the ruling party, ADR claimed.Out of more than ₹ 6,000 crores worth of Electoral Bonds sold so far, nearly ₹ 2,551 crores were sold in 2018-19. As per the annual audit report submitted by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) with the Election Commission, the party received the highest amount of electoral bonds amounting to ₹1450.89 crores i.e. 56.9% of the total. The Congress received nearly ₹ 383.26 crores which is 15% of the total. The amount received by the BJP in 2018-19 was nearly 7 times the amount of the previous year and alone constituted 60.2% of the total income, whereas in the previous year, it was only 20.4%. Electoral bonds received by Congress in 2018-19 amounted to ₹ 383.26 crores whereas it was only ₹ 5 crores in 2017-18. Electoral bonds accounted for 41.7% of the total income earned by INC in 2018-19, while it was only 2.5% of the income in 2017-18.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-to-hear-plea-against-fresh-sale-of-electoral-bonds-101616092156279.html
18-03-2021||India||Consider lawyers for vaccine priority, top court asks government||The Supreme Court on Thursday asked the Centre to consider prioritising lawyers for Covid-19 vaccinations since “their livelihood depends on meeting people” even as the government maintained that a “vegetable vendor” has to meet a far greater number of people to make both ends meet.The top court, however, maintained that the Centre’s expert committee on vaccination should examine the lawyers’ request, calling their concerns “genuine”.“Their meeting people is connected to their livelihood. Advocates can earn money only when they can come in contact with people. And they want to be protected. What we want to know if you have any reservation in hearing the advocates on this point,” said the bench, led by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde, while hearing a public interest litigation that has also sought to include judges and court staff in the priority groups.Representing the government, solicitor general Tushar Mehta retorted that the vaccination for those above 60 years of age, and those between 45 and 59 with 20 identified diseases, was based on their vulnerability and a rational criterion of averting mortality, notwithstanding “someone was a scientist or a villager”.“I don’t belong to any of these classes and hence, I am also not vaccinated. I am from the same fraternity. But how can a 30-year-old lawyer be put on par with a vegetable vendor sitting in a market who has to go through the same hustle-bustle and meet far a greater number of people to earn his livelihood? Tomorrow, journalists may also make the same demand based on their meeting a large number of people,” the SG told the bench, which also included justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian.At this, the bench replied: “We don’t know about the journalists... Whether they need to meet people for their work or whether they must meet people for their work... or whether some can do their work without meeting people.”“We have no doubt India is leading into the vaccination drive and it is doing a great job. And the government has distinguished itself by supplying vaccines to other countries as well. We are not casting any aspersion on anyone. We are asking you that those, who must in order to earn their livelihood meet people, are asking if their claims can be considered or not. This is a genuine concern on behalf of the advocates,” the bench added.The CJI added: “A government always has to deal with sections of people. We are asking the government to deal with this section of people and see what it can do.”Mehta then sought instructions from the officials of the Union health ministry and accepted the bench’s suggestion. “Let them (lawyers) make a representation that will be given to the expert committee and we will respond in three to four days,” he told the bench. The court fixed the matter for a hearing next week.The bench, noting that the PIL was already pending before it, restrained the Delhi high court from proceeding with a suo motu (registered on its own) case on prioritising lawyers for Covid-19 jabs and seeking details from the vaccine manufacturers on their capacity.Entertaining the transfer plea by vaccine manufacturers, Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech, the bench said that the SC would hear all the issues and posted the matter next week, awaiting a response from the expert committee on prioritising lawyers.Senior advocates Harish Salve and Mukul Rohatgi appeared for the transfer petitions on behalf of SII and Bharat Biotech. The duo sought suo motu proceedings before the Delhi HC to be stayed, pointing out that it would lead to problems if every high court in the country began its own exercise of deciding who should be defined as frontline workers and be vaccinated on priority.“The high court order says we must disclose our stock and capacity to produce vaccines. We don’t want these details out in the public domain because someone could take undue advantage. This is an all-India issue. Let this be decided by the highest court,” said Rohatgi.Salve added: “I say so as a senior member of the Bar that it is a little embarrassing to see the manner in which this matter has been taken up (by HC). For a court to say whether lawyers are frontline workers or not is embarrassing. When age has a reasonable nexus with the objective sought to be achieved, I don’t see why a court should decide who should be given the vaccine first.”The SG supported their plea for transfer of the high court case to the top court, saying the government would satisfy the conscience of the court about all the issues involved.The court then issued a notice on the transfer petition relating to the Delhi high court , while Salve said he would amend SII’s petition to also seek transfer of another case pending before the Bombay high court on the same issue.The top court has also issued a notice to the Centre on a plea by former president of Indian Medical Association (IMA), KK Aggarwal, on the inclusion in the priority groups of those younger than 45 years, but with identified comorbidities (other health conditions that increase their vulnerability to Covid-19).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/consider-lawyers-for-vaccine-priority-top-court-asks-government-101616091020257.html
18-03-2021||India||Arindam Bagchi to be next ministry of external affairs spokesperson||Arindam Bagchi, an officer of the 1995 batch of the Indian Foreign Service (IFS), was on Thursday named the next spokesperson of the external affairs ministry as part of a reshuffle, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity. Bagchi is currently joint secretary (North) in the ministry and heads the division responsible for relations with Nepal and Bhutan. The current ministry spokesperson, Anurag Srivastava, is set to become the next joint secretary (North), the people said. Srivastava, an officer of the 1999 batch of IFS, had taken over as the spokesperson in April last year. Before that, he had served as India’s ambassador to Ethiopia and the African Union. Bagchi, who was appointed as joint secretary (North) in June 2020, had been in contention for the post of spokesperson last year. He has earlier served as the ambassador to Croatia (2018-20), the deputy high commissioner to Sri Lanka (2014-18), and as a director in the Prime Minister’s Office (2010-14). He has also done stints in India’s permanent mission to the UN in New York and in the embassies in Peru and Spain. Srivastava, who has degrees in engineering and business management, worked in the corporate sector before joining the IFS. He also served at the permanent mission to the UN in Geneva and headed the finance division of the foreign ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arindam-bagchi-to-be-next-ministry-of-external-affairs-spokesperson-101616090237057.html
18-03-2021||India||Russia leg almost over, Gaganyaan astronauts to start simulation, crew module tests in India soon||Four astronauts selected for India’s first human spaceflight will start their mission-specific training in India by May or June, the government said on Thursday, with the Indian Air Force (IAF) pilots almost at the end of their generic space training in Russia.In his August 15 speech in 2018, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced that India would send a human mission, Gaganyaan, to space in the 75th year of Independence. With the Covid-19 pandemic, however, the mission is likely to get delayed.“Due to Covid pandemic and subsequent budgetary guidelines, programmatic milestones of Gaganyaan Programme are reassessed and are as follows; First unmanned flight: December 2021 Second unmanned flight: 2022-23 Manned flight: After successful completion of the above two flights. ISRO is making all efforts to make up the schedule delays due to Covid,” minister of state for department of space Jitendra Singh said in a reply in the Lok Sabha.Currently, the astronauts are undergoing generic space training such as survival in snow, water and steppe, parabolic flight, orbital mechanics and astro-navigation at the Gagarin Cosmonaut Training Centre in Russia.For the India leg of the training, the astronauts will be familiarised with India’s crew module and systems. The training will include the simulators of India’s crew module and flight hardware and software, Unnikrishnan Nair, director, Human Spaceflight Centre, has said.An expert team has been constituted to define the training curriculum. It will include training in at least three types of simulators. The independent training simulator will familiarise the crew with the electrical and mechanical user interface and train them in “off-nominal” conditions. The crew module mock-up training simulator will train them in procedures within the crew module, where the three member crew would be seated. The mission simulator will train them in flight hardware and software.“Once they are back from Russia, they will then receive specific training in India for which the simulators have been defined. These are the areas where the industry will be contributing in a rich way to realise the simulators. Each one is more and more complex in terms of the training imparted to the astronauts,” Nair said.In Russia, the astronauts received a 12-month training on astro-navigation, extra-vehicular activity, heat tolerance, how to adjust with depressurisation and working in depressurised modules and gravitational tolerance. They are also being trained for abnormal descent in winter, water, and steppe conditions.The Indian Space Research Organisation (Isro) is in the process of human-rating its systems to ensure that there are enough redundancies to make the rockets safe for crew members. An inter-agency certification board has been constituted for providing human-rating certification for the mission, according to the Lok Sabha reply by the government.The space agency has already tested the liquid-fuel Vikas engine and the cryogenic engine to be used for the mission. The solid booster engine and the crew escape system will be tested by the space agency this year, the government said. The fabrication of hardware for the ground test as well as the unmanned mission is at an advanced stage. A national-level Gaganyaan Advisory Council has been constituted for planning and coordination for the mission, according to the government.The Indian Navy has been identified as the lead agency for recovery operations such as getting the crew back after they return to Earth, it said.The pandemic has also delayed other big-ticket missions that Isro planned for the year, including India’s first solar mission – Aditya L1 – scheduled for mid-2020. Apart from the solar mission, Isro was to also send a lander-rover mission to moon either by 2020-end or 2021 beginning.The agency is yet to set a date for its third mission to the Moon. The government green-lit the third mission soon after the lander-rover of the Chandrayaan 2 mission crashed and lost communication just 2.1km from the surface.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/russia-leg-almost-over-gaganyaan-astronauts-to-start-simulation-crew-module-tests-in-india-soon-101616089792223.html
18-03-2021||India||Ask Kejriwal why no woman minister in his govt: Delhi BJP to DCW chief||Appreciating DCW chairperson Swati Maliwal for issuing a notice to Delhi Police over the lack of woman SHO in the force, the Delhi BJP on Thursday said she should also question Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal why there was no women minister in his government.The Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) had recently issued a notice to the city police, seeking reasons for no female station house officer (SHO) at any police station.In a letter to Maliwal, Delhi BJP vice president Virendra Sachdeva appreciated her concern and said she should also send a notice to Kejriwal asking him the reason for not including any woman in his cabinet.Every government in Delhi from 1993 till 2014, had women ministers. However, the Kejriwal government discontinued this tradition despite having several women MLAs in his party, Sachdeva said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ask-kejriwal-why-no-woman-minister-in-his-govt-delhi-bjp-to-dcw-chief-101616088448401.html
18-03-2021||India||Covid-19: Madhya Pradesh temporarily stops bus service to and from Maharashtra||The Madhya Pradesh state transport authority announced on Thursday that it is temporarily suspending bus services with Maharashtra, which has been badly hit by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. The temporary suspension of inter-state bus service will come into effect from March 20 and will remain in place till March 31, news agency ANI reported.The decision was taken by chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan during a meeting to review the Covid-19 situation with municipal commissioners and district collectors, ANI quoted an official as saying. The order was issued to check the spread of the disease in Madhya Pradesh, the official added.The government has already advised officials in border districts to place the passengers arriving from Maharashtra in week-long quarantine.Madhya Pradesh on Thursday reported 917 coronavirus positive cases, taking its tally to 2,71,957 while with one more death, the toll rose to 3,894.Maharashtra, the worst-affected state, recorded 25,833 new cases of Covid-19 - its highest ever since the beginning of the pandemic. This took the state's caseload to 23,96,340, while the death toll jumped to 53,138 with 58 new fatalities.The earlier record was 24,886 cases, reported on September 11 last year.Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday asked divisional commissioners to ensure that restrictions announced to curb the spread of Covid-19 are implemented strictly in view of the spike in the number of infection cases.The state is in the beginning of second Covid-19 wave, a central team report had said earlier this week.On Thursday, 12,764 patients were discharged from hospitals, the highest in single day this year.The total of recoveries now stands at 21,75,565. There are 1,66,353 active cases in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madhya-pradesh-temporarily-stops-bus-service-to-and-from-maharashtra-101616086511723.html
18-03-2021||India||Manipal institute campus declared a containment zone after 59 people test positive for Covid-19||The prestigious Manipal Institute of Technology (MIT) in Karnataka's Udupi district was declared as containment zone by the administration after 59 people tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the past few days.District Health Officer Dr Sudhidra Chandra Suda said that 33 people tested positive for the disease in Udupi on Wednesday, out of which 27 were from MIT. "Most students who tested positive are from other states. Some first contacts with the Covid-19 positive have also tested positive. The district health administration has declared the campus as a containment zone," he added.The MIT administration has already decided to conduct all theory classes in online mode and defer the laboratory, practical and contact classes to a later date."Pending end semester examination of First semester B.Tech will be rescheduled to a later date," the institution said in a letter on Wednesday.The state has reported a surge in the coronavirus disease cases in the last two weeks and travellers from Maharashtra and Kerala have been mandated to carry negative Covid-19 test certificates.Karnataka reported as many as 1,488 new Covid-19 cases and four deaths in the last 24 hours, the state health department said on Thursday. This is the third straight day when the state's Covid-19 tally has been in four figures.Eight more people died, which takes the death toll to 12,415 across the state. The number of active cases in Karnataka stands at 11,359.On the same day, the state government said that the daily tests of Covid-19 will be increased to one lakh in the state.The Karnataka government on Monday said that it is putting together a concerted effort involving healthcare workers, officials and other personnel to prevent the second wave of covid-19 in the state. K Sudhakar, Karnataka's health and family welfare and medical education minister said that all agencies and personnel will work on "mission mode" for the next 50 days to prevent a rise in positive cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipal-institute-campus-declared-a-containment-zone-101616085624070.html
18-03-2021||India||'Centre wants to govern Delhi by proxy': Mamata Banerjee supports Kejriwal over NCT bill||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday wrote a letter to her Delhi counterpart Arvind Kejriwal, supporting him over the opposition to National Capital Territory (NCT) bill introduced by the Centre recently in Parliament. Banerjee said the Centre's move was "devious, anti-democratic and anti-constitution"."I stand in full solidarity with you in your principled opposition to Centre's devious, anti-democratic and anti-constitution move to disempower Delhi government and reduce status of Delhi CM to a subordinate to the Lieutenant Governor," Banerjee said in her letter.On Monday, the Centre tabled the 'Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Bill, 2021 in Parliament that seeks to give overarching powers over Delhi’s daily functions to the Centre-appointed Lieutenant Governor. The bill mandates that 'government' referred to in any law passed by the legislative assembly would directly mean the L-G and not the government. It also makes it mandatory for the city government to seek the L-G’s opinion before any executive action.Since its introduction in the lower house of Parliament or Lok Sabha, the bill sparked major protests from the Delhi government. It also revived the old-running power tussle between the Centre and the Delhi government over the control of the national capital. Kejriwal says that the Centre's legislation seeks to drastically curtail the powers of an elected city government. But the Centre says that the bill will "promote harmonious relations between the legislature and the executive, and further define the responsibilities of the elected government and the lieutenant governor, in line with the constitutional scheme of governance of National Capital Territory of Delhi, as interpreted by the Hon’ble Supreme Court." The Centre's stand was laid out in a statement attached with the draft legislation, attributed to Union home minister Amit Shah.The bill is the "surgical strike on the federal structure of the Indian Republic," said Banerjee in the letter. The bill "also makes a mockery of the letter and spirit of the democracy by disempowering the Delhi government," she added.Underlining the 2018 verdict of the Supreme Court, the West Bengal chief minister pointed out that "the bill violates the unambiguous verdict... which upheld the pre-eminence of Delhi's elected government in all matters other than police, public order and land".She further sharpened her attack against the BJP government and said, "It is evident to all that both Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah have not been able to stomach the humiliating defeat the BJP suffered at the hands of the Aam Aadmi Party in both 2014 and 2019 assembly elections.""I am not at all surprised by the BJP's move to strip away the legitimate powers of the Delhi Government," she also said in the letter. "They want to govern Delhi by proxy, which is the real purpose of the proposed amendments to the GNCTD Act," Banerjee added.The letter comes as Banerjee is engaged in a fierce battle in West Bengal with the BJP ahead of the assembly elections in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-wants-to-govern-delhi-by-proxy-mamata-banerjee-supports-kejriwal-over-nct-bill-101616084402152.html
18-03-2021||India||Gaganyaan: Astronauts set to finish training in Russia this month, says minister||The training of four astronauts in Russia for India's first human space flight will complete this month and the second phase of training, which will be module specific, is scheduled to take place in the country, Union minister Jitendra Singh said on Thursday.India's first human space flight, 'Gaganyaan', will be preceded by an unmanned flight by 2021, followed by another flight carrying "Vyom Mitra"."Four astronauts are being trained for India's first human space flight. Their one-year training in Russia is completing this month, with some delay on account of the COVID pandemic," Singh told PTI."The second phase of training, which will be module specific, is scheduled to take place in India," the minister said.The 'Gaganyan' flight, estimated to be around ₹9,023 crore, is scheduled sometime before or on the eve of the 75th anniversary of India's independence.India's heaviest launch vehicle, 'Bahubali' GSLV Mark-III, will carry astronauts to space.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gaganyaan-astronauts-set-to-finish-training-in-russia-this-month-says-minister-101616083166538.html
18-03-2021||India||‘A word picked up, blown up’: Tirath Rawat’s wife on his ripped jeans remark||Uttarakhand chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat’s wife, professor Rashmi Tyagi, has rallied behind her husband over his “ripped jeans” comment, saying it was “blown out of context” and “wrongly interpreted”. Clarifying further, she said her husband was making a point about blindly aping western culture while ignoring one’s own. “He was talking about how we are aping western culture blindly and not following our own traditions and values which are seeped with thousands of years of cultural wisdom. But his one word was picked up and blown out of context and wrongly interpreted. He spoke for nearly one hour, but nobody talks about the whole theme he was trying to focus on. Did he say only one word-jeans?” asked Prof Tyagi, who teaches psychology at Garhwal university.On Tuesday, CM Rawat made the comments about distressed jeans while discussing substance abuse at a workshop organised by the Uttarakhand state commission for protection of child rights in Dehradun. “Showing bare knees by wearing ripped jeans just to look like rich kids is the value given now which is just a race towards westernisation when the western world today are following us. Ripped jeans pave the way for societal breakdown and is a bad example parents set for children,” said the CM while recounting an encounter with a woman wearing distressed jeans in a plane. The new CM’s remarks drew flak with women rights activists and opposition Congress panning him for his controversial remarks. Prof Tyagi said her husband can never say such things as his intention was altogether different. “My husband was saying that our food and dress should be in tune with the local culture and aping Western culture blindly was not the right thing. It is our moral responsibility to keep alive our culture and traditions”, she said. “My husband has been doing such good work for the last four days, why are they not focusing on that, debating that. There are so many more pressing issues people are facing in the country; why is that not being discussed,” she said. Tyagi said her husband has been a big supporter of women related issues. “My husband has a progressive and mature outlook. He has reached this point because of his positive behaviour with people, with party cadre. He works in accordance with the sentiments of people and takes a lot of care about what people feel about various issues,” she stressed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-word-picked-up-blown-up-tirath-rawat-s-wife-on-his-ripped-jeans-remark-101616083156406.html
18-03-2021||India||News updates from HT: Minister gives reason for ex- Mumbai top cop's transfer and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.'Serious and unforgivable mistakes': Maharashtra minister on why Mumbai police chief was transferredA day after Mumbai police commissioner Pram Bir Singh was shunted out by the Maharashtra government, a state minister gave the reason for the decision. Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh said on Thursday that Singh was transferred after some of his colleagues committed "serious and unforgivable mistakes". Read moreGovt announces vehicle scrappage policy: All you need to knowThe central government on Thursday announced the long-awaited vehicle scrappage policy, which was announced by the finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman in her budget speech. Calling the policy a "win-win" for everyone, Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari said that it will reduce pollution and increase road safety. Read moreEU to slap sanctions on Chinese officials over rights abuses in Xinjiang: ReportEuropean Union officials have approved sanctions on Chinese officials, who are accused of human rights abuses in Xinjiang province. The penalties were approved at preparatory meetings for next week's Foreign Affairs Council, according to people familiar with the discussions. Read moreKareena Kapoor can't stop staring at her newborn baby. Check out her new picKareena Kapoor Khan says she just can't help staring at her newborn son. She made the comment even as she posted a new picture of herself but not her son. She wrote: "Can't stop staring... at him." The black and white picture shows her in a relaxed mode at home and looking downwards. Read moreHigh in 'Sky': Suryakumar starts off with astonishing one-legged six off ArcherSuryakumar Yadav started his international career as a batsman in an India shirt with a majestic shot that many wouldn't have expected a player playing his first international innings to go for on the very first delivery he faced. Read moreIf Popeye came to India, he'd surely binge on this dinner recipe of Palak PaneerAs a wonderful source of iron, folate, chlorophyll, Vitamin E, magnesium, Vitamin A, fibre, plant protein and Vitamin C, spinach or palak is one green vegetable that must certainly be included in your diet for being packed with varied health benefits and so, we are whipping up some Palak Paneer for dinner. Read more5 air conditioner myths busted just in time for summerCan you imagine being stuck at home without an air conditioner during the lockdown? Air conditioners (ACs) have become a quintessential part of our lives given the fluctuating climatic conditions. And these gadgets have evolved from just being big cooling machines to sleek appliances that are suitable for use throughout the year to maintain comfortable indoor temperature. Read moreGordon Ramsay’s daughter Tilly pranks him with raw egg and water. WatchCelebrity chef and restaurateur Gordon Ramsay was on the receiving end of a naughty prank played on him by his daughter and the Internet’s here for it. A video posted by the renowned chef on Insatgram shows how Tilly Ramsay pulled off the prank on him and it’s since collecting a ton of reactions on Instagram. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-minister-gives-reason-for-ex-mumbai-top-cop-s-transfer-101616080748347.html
18-03-2021||India||Ahmedabad to be under extended night curfew from Friday as Covid-19 cases rise||Amid the rising number of cases in Ahmedabad, the Gujarat government on Thursday increased the timing of night curfew in the city. From Friday, the restrictions will remain in place from 9pm to 6am instead of 10pm to 6am, the district administration said, according to news agency ANI.The order further said that all shopping malls and movie theatres in the city will remain shut on Saturday and Sunday, ANI reported.Ahmedabad, being one of the high caseload cities in Gujarat, has been facing several restrictions. The city's civic body on Wednesday ordered the closure of all gardens and parks till further orders. Apart from this, bus services coming under the Ahmedabad Municipal Transport Service (AMTS) and Ahmedabad Bus Rapid Transit System have also been suspended until further orders.Gujarat on Wednesday registered 1,122 fresh Covid-19 disease cases and three more related fatalities, pushing the caseload and death toll to 2,81,173 and 4,430 respectively. The active cases have climbed to 5,310 and more than 2,71,000 people have recovered so far.Gujarat: Night curfew to remain in force from 9 pm to 6 am in Ahmedabad from tomorrow. Malls and cinema halls to remain close on Saturday and Sunday.Wednesday’s case count in Gujarat has been the highest for the first time in nearly three months. Surat added the most number of cases (353), followed by Ahmedabad (271), Vadodara (114) and Rajkot (112). The three new fatalities were reported from Ahmedabad, Surat and Vadodara.Chief minister Vijay Rupani on Wednesday chaired a meeting to review the overall situation in Gujarat where it was decided to increase daily Covid-19 testing and administering vaccine doses apart from focusing on contact tracing and increasing the number of micro containment areas. More than 28.5 lakh beneficiaries have been vaccinated against the disease till now.Rupani said during the review meeting that 3,00,000 lakh vaccine doses will be administered on a daily basis against the 1,50,000 doses which were being given before, according to a release issued by the chief minister's office (CMO). The vaccination figures would increase by increasing the number of vaccination centres and extending operation hours till 9pm, the release added.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/night-curfew-imposed-in-gujarat-s-ahmedabad-from-march-19-between-9pm6am-101616079899686.html
18-03-2021||India||Man dies two days after Covid shot, autopsy finds brain haemorrhage||A labourer died in this district two days after getting vaccinated against coronavirus but doctors have not linked the death to the inoculation.An autopsy report identified brain haemorrhage as the cause of 38-year-old Lalmani’s death, chief medical officer PD Gupta said on Thursday.Dr Gupta also said there was also swelling in the man’s liver and spleen.It was not immediately clear whether the man, described as a labourer from Bahuti Basita village, was a frontline worker and entitled to a Covid-19 shot under that category.Lalmani was vaccinated at the government-run Lalganj primary health centre on Monday.His wife Meera said he complained of body ache and lethargy after getting the shot and was rushed to hospital on Wednesday morning when his condition turned serious.He was given medicines there but he vomited and died, she said.The body was sent for a post- mortem examination following Meera’s allegations and the report received the same night.The opinion of the doctors who conducted the post-mortem was that excessive bleeding in the brain led to the death, the CMO said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-dies-two-days-after-covid-shot-autopsy-finds-brain-haemorrhage-101616079246618.html
18-03-2021||India||India, Kuwait announce joint commission to boost ties in energy||India and Kuwait on Thursday announced the creation of a joint commission to further institutionalise their relations in areas ranging from energy to defence and to forge a framework for cooperation in the future. The decision to establish the joint commission co-chaired by the foreign ministers of the two sides was part of a joint statement issued at the end of Kuwaiti foreign minister Ahmed Nasser al-Mohammed al-Sabah’s brief visit to New Delhi. Al-Sabah, who arrived late last night, held talks with external affairs minister S Jaishankar before leaving for Pakistan. Al-Sabah and Jaishankar reviewed all aspects of bilateral ties and discussed regional developments. India is among the largest trading partners of Kuwait, and bilateral trade was worth $10.86 billion during 2019-20. India’s imports, mainly oil, were worth $9.6 billion in this period. Kuwait was the 10th largest oil supplier to India during 2019-20 and met 3.8% of the country’s energy needs. Kuwait is also home to nearly 900,000 Indian expatriates. The joint commission will act as an umbrella for all bilateral institutional engagements such as foreign office consultations and joint working groups. Apart from existing working groups on hydrocarbons, manpower and mobility, and healthcare, new groups will be created on trade and investment, defence and security, and maritime cooperation. The joint commission will work to strengthen ties in the fields of energy, trade, investment, manpower, skills, science and technology, IT, health and education. It will also review existing bilateral agreements and find solutions to any hurdles in their implementation. Al-Sabah thanked the Indian government for supplying 200,000 doses of Covishield vaccines to Kuwait in February. Jaishankar, in turn, thanked the Kuwaiti government for taking care of the large Indian community during the pandemic. He hoped the Indian community will be able to resume travel to Kuwait in big numbers soon. Ahead of his talks with Jaishankar, Al-Sabah told a small group of reporters late on Wednesday that Kuwait is looking to India and the world community to help revive the peace process between Palestinians and Israelis as allowing the matter to linger could jeopardise any potential for progress. He described the Abraham Accords signed by Israel and Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) members such as Bahrain and the United Arab Emirates (UAE) as sovereign decisions by countries regarding the conduct of foreign relations. “Saying that, we think that the peace process is very important. We think that now it is the opportune time to revive the peace process between the Palestinians and the Israelis. We think that if we leave the peace process to linger even further...it might jeopardise any potential for it to see the light of day,” he said. “And it needs the understanding and the support of the whole international community, including India, in this matter,” he added. Al-Sabah lauded India for standing by Kuwait in its “darkest moments and in our direst time”, including the provision of medical aid at the peak of the pandemic last year. He singled out the “white army of Indian nationals” – or nurses and doctors – who were combating Covid-19 alongside Kuwaitis. India had deployed a 15-member medical rapid response team to Kuwait last April to help in testing and treating infected people. Al-Sabah also played down a bill on reducing the number of foreign nationals that was discussed by Kuwait’s Parliament last year, saying it was only aimed at illegal residents. Kuwait’s population of 4.1 million includes 1.4 million Kuwaitis and almost 900,000 Indians, he noted. “They [Indians] share with us our bread and butter. They have contributed very much and are still contributing in our development and strengthening our cooperation,” he said. “The Indian community is an element of security of Kuwait and also an integral part of the new generation ahead as they are very much involved in our education system. The bill discussed last year was only for illegal expats in Kuwait and is not aimed at any of the more than 170 nationalities present in the country,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-kuwait-announce-joint-commission-to-boost-ties-in-energy-101616079076167.html
18-03-2021||India||Govt announces vehicle scrappage policy: All you need to know||The central government on Thursday announced the long-awaited vehicle scrappage policy, which was announced by the finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman in her budget speech. Calling the policy a "win-win" for everyone, Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari said that it will reduce pollution and increase road safety.As per the new policy, in case of failure to get a fitness certificate, commercial vehicles will be de-registered after 15 years, said Gadkari. Private vehicles will be de-registered after 20 years if found unfit or in case of a failure to renew registration certificates, he added.The policy is touted as a major step to boost the Indian automobile sector, reeling under the adverse impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. Once it is implemented, the scrappage policy will make India the world's largest automobile hub in the next five years, Gadkari stated in Parliament.The rules for fitness tests and scrapping centres are likely to be notified by October 1 of this year.On February 1, the Union finance minister announced a vehicle scrapping policy in an attempt to give a boost to the automobile manufacturing sector and lower carbon emissions.Here is all you need to know about the policy:1) Personal vehicles will be required to undergo a fitness test at government-certified fitness centres. Owners can scrap their vehicles anywhere in the country irrespective of their registration place.2) The policy will not be applicable on vintage cars.3) Appointment for fitness centres may be booked online, according to the new guidelines. Test reports will be generated in an electronic mode.4) In case of failure to obtain fitness certification or found unfit, vehicles will be de-registered.5) The government also proposed that all vehicles of the central government, state government, municipal corporation, panchayats, state transport undertakings, public sector undertakings and autonomous bodies with the Union and state governments may be de-registered and scrapped after 15 years from the date of registration. The tentative date for scrappage of government and PSUs vehicles above 15 years of age is April 1, 2022.6) The owners will be provided with a scrapping certificate after which they will be eligible for the incentives proposed under the scheme.7) The incentives include scrap value for the old vehicle, which will be approximately 4-6% of the ex-showroom price of a new vehicle.8) The state governments may be advised to offer a road-tax rebate of up to 25% for personal vehicles and up to 15% for commercial vehicles.9) The vehicle manufacturers are also advised for providing a discount of 5% on the purchase of a new vehicle.10) The registration fees may also be waived for the purchase of a new vehicle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-announces-vehicle-scrappage-policy-all-you-need-to-know-101616078006047.html
18-03-2021||India||Mallya, Nirav Modi & Mehul Choksi all coming back to face law: FM||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Thursday said that fugitive businessmen Vijaya Mallya, Nirav Modi and Mehul Choksi are "coming back" to India" to face the law.The government is persuing extradition of Mallya and Modi from the UK while Choksi is believed to be in Antigua.Vijay Mallya, Nirav Modi, Mehul Choksi are all coming back to face law of the land, Sitharaman said in the Rajya Sabha while replying to a debate on the insurance amendment bill.Mallya, an accused in bank loan default case of over ₹9,000 crore involving his defunct Kingfisher Airlines, is in the UK since March 2016.Nirav Modi and his maternal uncle Choksi fled the country allegedly after committing fraud in the public sector lender Punjab National Bank. Modi is accused of committing a fraud of $2 billion (around ₹14,500 crore) in the PNB.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mallya-nirav-modi-mehul-choksi-all-coming-back-to-face-law-fm-101616076500697.html
18-03-2021||India||Rajya Sabha passes bill to raise FDI in insurance to 74%||A bill to increase foreign direct investment limit in the insurance sector to 74 per cent from the current 49 per cent was approved by the Rajya Sabha on Thursday.Replying to the debate on Insurance (Amendment) Bill, 2021, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said foreign investment will supplement domestic long-term resources with a view to further insurance penetration in the country.The bill was passed with a voice vote.Sitharaman said the decision to increase the FDI limit to 74 per cent was taken after sector regulator IRDAI held detailed consultations with stakeholders.As per the bill, the majority of directors on the board and key management persons would be resident Indians, with at least 50 per cent of directors being independent directors, and specified percentage of profits being retained as a general reserve.It was in 2015 when the government had last hiked the FDI cap in the insurance sector from 26 per cent to 49 per cent.Increase in FDI is aimed at improving life insurance penetration in the country. Life insurance premium as a percentage of GDP is 3.6 per cent in the country, way below the global average of 7.13 per cent, and in case of general insurance, it is even worse at 0.94 per cent of GDP, as against the world average of 2.88 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajya-sabha-passes-bill-to-raise-fdi-in-insurance-to-74-101616076257854.html
18-03-2021||India||Assam: Politics over tea, wages and a court order in poll season||On Tuesday, the Gauhati high court directed the Bharatiya Janata Party-led government in Assam not to take coercive action against tea garden owners over non-compliance of a recent order to increase daily wages of tea-garden workers in the state. Acting on a petition by Indian Tea Association, the biggest organisation of tea producers in India, and 17 other petitioners, justice Michael Zothankhuma ruled that tea garden owners were at liberty to pay workers any interim enhancement of wages, they deemed proper, till the issue was decided by the court. The order follows another one by the court a few days back, staying the government order in February to raise daily wages of tea workers by ₹50, from ₹167 to ₹217. The move ahead of the assembly polls was aimed at wooing the tea-tribe community. The ITA and other tea planters approached the court challenging the order. While the court directive comes as a relief for tea planters, it might not be so for two major political parties in the poll-bound state-- the ruling BJP and the opposition Congress. While the saffron outfit announced an increase in daily wages (and also daily ration allowance of ₹101, taking the total to ₹318 per day), the Congress said it guaranteed an increase in daily wages to ₹365 if it came to power in Assam. Significantly, the HC fixed the next date of hearing in the present case on April 23, by which time, polling in Assam will be over. The state goes to polls in three phases on March 27, April 1 and April 6. Tea-tribe and Politics Tea-tribes as they are called in Assam are a community of workers or families of former workers in tea-gardens, spread across most districts of Upper Assam. The workers were brought here from West Bengal, Bihar, Odisha, Madhya Pradesh etc in several phases from the mid-19th and mid-20th centuries by British tea planters. Over the years, the community has grown and at present it comprises around 17% of Assam’s total population of 31 million. Around a million of them are still employed in the 800 big gardens, some in small tea holdings, while some have left work in tea gardens for other professions. Due to their sizable numbers, the community plays a key role in outcome on around 35-40 of the total 126 assembly seats. Political parties routinely give tickets to members of the community and over the past decades, several of them have become ministers in both the state and Central governments. But the lot of most members of the community hasn’t improved much as their health, education and sanitation levels are still poor, making them one of the most marginalised sections despite their numbers. The community was traditionally considered a Congress vote bank. But in the past few years, the BJP has been able to make inroads. In the first phase, polling will take place in 47 seats in the tea-rich belt. In 2016, when BJP came to power for the first time, the party along with ally Asom Gana Parishad won 35 of these seats (BJP alone won 27). Since coming to power, the BJP-led government has launched many schemes targeting the tea-tribe community, including promise of granting them scheduled tribe status, cash benefits to pregnant women, reservation of seats in educational institutions, setting up schools in tea gardens as well as providing mobile phones, bicycles, money to meritorious students and funds to youths to set up small businesses. “We have been implementing several schemes for the tea-tribes community over the years. The schemes have earned heavy praise from members of the community,” finance minister Himanta Biswa Sarma told the state assembly last month, while presenting a vote on account. He mentioned how the government has opened 730,000 bank accounts for tea workers and transferred ₹2500 to each account in two tranches and ₹3000 in the third tranche. Organisations of tea garden workers have been demanding an increase in the daily wages to ₹351 for long. In 2018, the state government in an interim order increased daily wages of tea workers by ₹30 from ₹137 to ₹167. While the earlier order was yet to be notified, another interim order was issued in February this year, taking the total hike to ₹80. The move came a few days after the Congress promised to increase the daily wages of tea workers to ₹365. Accusing the ruling BJP-led government in the state of exploiting the tea garden workers and giving benefit to businessmen from Gujarat, Rahul Gandhi promised at a rally in Sivasagar on February 14 that if the Congress returned to power in the state it will increase daily wage of tea workers from present ₹167 to ₹365. During her visit to Assam a few days after her brother, Priyanka Gandhi also made it a point to visit homes of tea workers, interact with them and even pluck tea leaves.The tea tribe community has two Lok Sabha MPs and one in Rajya Sabha, all three are from the BJP. One of them Rameshwar Teli is also a minister in the Narendra Modi government. In this election, BJP has given tickets to four members from the community, including two sitting MLAs. State minister Sanjay Kishan from Tinsukia is one of them. On the other hand, Congress has given tickets to six tea tribe members including three sitting legislators.Daily Wages and Economics While political parties try to woo tea workers with promises of increased wages and other schemes, the tea industry, which is trying to recover after the loss of production due to Covid-19 lockdown and other restrictions, feels interventions by governments could hurt the industry more. Assam produces more than half of India’s total tea output. On an average, the 180-year-old industry produces around 650-700 million kg of tea annually. While around half of this comes from the 800 big gardens, small tea growers, who are nearly 70,000 in number, account for the rest. As tea production is a labour intensive industry which involves plucking of tea leaves by workers, nearly half of the costs of companies goes to paying wages. “Nearly 60-70% of our expenses go on the salaries of workers. Earlier, wages were decided between workers and the tea garden owners through discussions. But now political parties have stepped in for political reasons. There can’t be a sweeping order as all gardens have different issues, cost of production and profits. We also know workers need more money, but to do that, we also need more money. Any increase in wages has to be feasible and should not break the industry itself. That’s why we went to court against the government’s interim order hiking wages to ₹217,” said Deboshyam Barua, director of Golaghat-based Dalowjan tea estate and also an office-bearer of Assam Tea Planters Association. “The price of tea hasn’t increased significantly in the past two decades. Some argue that tea-gardens in south India pay much higher wages, so why can’t we? But, while gardens there produce tea almost throughout the year, we do so for a few months. During our meetings with the government, we had suggested that the industry will be able to pay around ₹197 daily to workers. We said that anything higher than that will affect the industry adversely. But the government decided to hike it to ₹217 and pushed us to seek relief from court,” he added. Assam Chah Mazdoor Sanga (ACMS), the most prominent tea workers’ body (affiliated to Congress) accuses the BJP government of playing politics over wages without having any serious intention of implementing it. The government’s move to increase wages by issuing interim orders without notifying them is seen as an attempt in that regard. “The government has been issuing interim orders on wages, the latest one issued days prior to the announcement of polls. Tea gardens found flaws in the order on technical grounds and went to the court, which in turn stayed the government move,” said Pawan Singh Ghatowar, president of ACMS, which is also a party to the HC petition. One of the most prominent politicians from the tea-tribe community, Ghatowar has been elected an MP from Congress five times and was also a union minister. “If the tea industry in Kerala can pay ₹380 daily to workers, why can’t we do it in Assam? The government should also come to the aid of nearly 500,000 workers in small tea gardens, who don’t have any provision of minimum wages or other benefits that workers in big gardens get. A minimum wage for them should also be fixed. If the government can fix wages of those in the unorganized sector why should workers in small tea gardens be left out?” he questioned. Amidst all this, the Assam Tea Tribes Students Association (ATTSA), a student body of the tea community, has called for a complete shutdown of tea gardens across Assam on March 22 in protest against the state government’s alleged negligence towards tea garden workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-politics-over-tea-wages-and-a-court-order-in-poll-season-101616075296172.html
18-03-2021||India||Sikkim issues new Covid-19 rules, no movement of vehicles at night||Sikkim has partially modified its earlier official protocols regarding the Covid-19 situation in the state and issued a fresh set of rules, which include restrictions on vehicular movement at night. The state imposed a 'night curfew' since last night, instructing restaurants, bars, nightclubs, and other commercial establishments to shut shop by 10 pm daily.Yesterday, Sikkim chief minister Prem Singh Tamang had announced that night curfew will be imposed in the state from Wednesday night in the wake of a spurt in Covid-19 cases.The Sikkim government's official order today was shared by news agency ANI. It is signed by SC Gupta, the chief secretary of the state government, and details the fresh set of protocols concerning measures for containment of the coronavirus disease.Sikkim Government issues measures for containment of #COVID19; There shall be no movement of vehicles from 10:30 pm till 6 am except for emergency purposes, all commercial establishments including restaurants, bars, night clubs, pubs, gyms etc shall close by 10 pm every day. pic.twitter.com/JXijeGw23xRestriction on vehicular movement at night: The new rules in Sikkim dictate that there shall be no movement of vehicles from 10:30 pm to 6 am, except for emergency purposes. The restriction shall also not apply to commercial goods vehicles, including LCVs and vehicles on emergency duty. For every other sort of vehicle, however, the district police have been instructed to ensure compliance with the order.Markets, shops to shut down by 10 pm: All commercial establishments, including restaurants, bars, nightclubs, discos, pubs, and gyms, have been instructed to close by 10 pm every night. In-house guests, staying in the hotels, may however continue enjoying services from the facility, the order added.All such commercial establishments have also been instructed to ensure compliance with the pre-existing Covid-19 protocols — wear masks, practice social distancing, and follow the proper sanitisation procedures.Schools to carry out special awareness drive on Covid-19: All schools, institutions, and establishments in the state have been instructed to carry out a "special drive" to ensure that students, employees, and customers continue to follow the proper Covid-19 protocols, wear masks, and practice social distancing. The police have also been asked to 'strictly enforce' the norms in public places.--Sikkim is one of the 18 states/union territories in India that have not reported any Covid-19 deaths in the last 24 hours, reported ANI earlier in the day.Chief minister Prem Singh Tamang had appealed to the people of Sikkim yesterday, urging them to regularly wear masks and continue to follow social distancing norms as per the official Covid-19 protocol.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sikkim-issues-new-covid-19-rules-no-movement-of-vehicles-at-night-101616072300315.html
18-03-2021||India||India slips to 56th in house price index: Report||Roiled by the pandemic, home prices in India fell 3.6 per cent in December quarter 2020, pushing down its global ranking to the lowest 56th as compared to 43rd in the year-ago period, while Turkey continued to lead the tally, says a report.According to international property consultancy Knight Frank, India was the weakest-performing housing market in October-December last year with a decline of 3.6 per cent year-on-year in prices.The Knight Frank global house price index tracks the movement in mainstream residential prices across 56 countries and territories worldwide using official statistics.During the quarter, Turkey continued to lead the annual rankings with prices up by 30.3 per cent year-on-year, followed by New Zealand at 18.6 per cent and Slovakia at 16 per cent.In the US, the worst affected by the pandemic, the home prices rose 10.4 per cent in the quarter.India's ranking stood at 56th globally in terms of home price appreciation, down 13 notches from 43rd in the same quarter last year, according to the report, which said as much as 89 per cent of the countries and territories saw prices going up in 2020.India was the weakest-performing country, with a yearly decline of 3.6 per cent in home prices, followed by Morocco with a drop of 3.3 per cent, the report said.India had maintained its 43rd position in January-March 2020 as well. It then slipped to 54th in June quarter and retained that in the following three-month period. It further fell to 56th in December quarter 2020 -- the lowest among the 56 mapped markets ,the report said.The fall, due to the pandemic, comes despite the Centre and states taking many steps to create housing demand, and also historic low home loan rates, lower stamp duty and other levies on residential purchases in key markets.Shishir Baijal, chairman of Knight Frank India said the pandemic has changed the end-users' outlook towards home ownership leading many fence-sitters make their purchase decisions."As the vaccine rollout takes place, we expect normality to return, after which the government will have to device measures to extend the current sales momentum," he said.According to the report, 89 per cent of markets saw prices increase in the year, with several emerging markets performing strongly, including Turkey, which leads the index for the fourth consecutive quarter.In the US, the worst affected by the pandemic, the home prices rose 10.4 per cent in the quarter. In Canada and Britain, prices surged 9 per cent each , Japan saw 5 per cent rise, Singapore( 2.5 per cent) and Russia (14 per cent). Hong Kong and Malaysia both saw annual price growth slip into the negative territory.Globally, mainstream residential prices across the 56 key markets rose at an annual rate of 5.6 per cent on average in 2020, compared to 5.3 per cent in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-slips-to-56th-in-house-price-index-report-101616071232721.html
18-03-2021||India||Prohibition on use of social media illegal, Air India pilots write to chairman||Air India-Indian Commercial Pilots' Association (ICPA) on Thursday wrote to the Air India chairman, stating that the prohibition on the use of social media and policy introduced by the airline in this regard is illegal and violates a fundamental right."At the outset, we note with alarm that such a Policy introduced by Air India is entirely illegal and with no basis in law whatsoever. By way of the Policy, Air India has effectively imposed a blanket ban or prohibition on the use of social or digital media by all its employees, including those that have superannuated," it said in a letter to the airline's Chairman and MD (CMD) Rajiv Bansal.They said that they have examined the Policy introduced by Air India and it appears that the Policy bars all employees of Air India, both serving and retired employees, from posting any content on social media, including but not limited to Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, LinkedIn and other such forums."At present, there is no law in India that either empowers or even remotely justifies such an act by an employer, especially Air India, being a State instrumentality under Article 12 of the Constitution, to impose such a blanket ban on the use of social or digital media by its employees. The same, it is reiterated, is without any basis or lawful sanction," the letter reads.They further said that is a veiled threat, imposed on the employees under the garb of a set of guidelines and an advisory."The present Policy introduced by Air India, is also, and most importantly, violates the fundamental right of freedom and speech, guaranteed to the employees of Air India, under Article 19 (1) (a) of the Constitution, being citizens of India," it further reads.The union further stated that the policy, unlike social media policies adopted by several other employers, does not even attempt to draw a distinction between the content posted during working hours or from the workplace and that posted after working hours or outside of the workplace."For instance, not only does the Policy not distinguish between content uploaded through an official device and a personal device, the Policy goes on to in fact, expressly include content uploaded through personal devices of all its employees," it reads.The pilot union said that the introduction of a policy is entirely unheard of and infringes upon various rights of its employees."It has also been set out in the Policy that violation of the said guidelines, service regulations and standing orders would be tantamount to misconduct and shall also apply to the employees' online behaviour and conduct on social media or digital platforms," the letter addedIn this regard, we draw your attention to the order dated September 27, 2016, passed by the Supreme Court, in SLP(C) Nos. 12575-12577/2014, wherein it has been categorically recorded as follows, and the questions of law have been referred to a larger bench, comprising three judges:"The present dispute, inter alia, relates to whether Section 9A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 would apply to the respondents herein, by virtue of a 1960 Regulation made under proviso (b) thereof no longer having any effect in law, as a result of the introduction of The Air Corporations (Transfer of Undertakings and Repeal) Act, 1994. By Judgment dated 27.01.2014, the Division Bench of the Bombay High Court has relied upon a Judgment of this Court in Air India Vs. Union of India reported in (1995) 4 SCC 734, which held that on the coming into force of The Air Corporations (Transfer of Undertakings and Repeal) Act, 1994 with effect from 29.01.1994, Regulations made under The Air Corporations Act, 1953 would also come to an end. This Judgment, as has been noted by the impugned Judgment itself, has been referred to a larger Bench by an order dated 11.12.2006 in Civil Appeal No. 5921 of 2006."Earlier Air India has issued letters to all its serving as well as retired employees regarding engagement on Social Media or Digital platforms.In its policy the Air India has said has advised its employees to desist from posting any personal views contradicting the organisation's message or on policy matters related to the aviation sector.The guidelines are valid for all types of participation on social media, including indirect participation, when an employee does not own a profile or social media account but endorses or participates in any content or debate adversely.The Policy also states that Air India reserves the right to monitor comments or discussions about the company, employees, clients and the industry posted by employees on the Internet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prohibition-on-use-of-social-media-illegal-air-india-pilots-write-to-chairman-101616071011048.html
18-03-2021||India||Compliance, increased testing: Key points from UP govt's new Covid-19 guidelines||The spike in the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases has led the Uttar Pradesh government to impose stricter guidelines to contain the spread of deadly virus.Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday said compliance with Covid-19 protocol is essential and that special vigilance is required ahead of panchayat elections and festivals. Contact tracing needs to be strengthened, he assertedClick here for complete coverage of Covid-19"In each case, compliance with the Covid protocol should be ensured. In view of panchayat elections and festivals / festivals, we have to take special vigilance. Contact tracing needs to be speeded up and strengthened," the chief minister's office (CMO) tweeted in Hindi.प्रत्येक दशा में कोविड प्रोटोकॉल का अनुपालन सुनिश्चित किया जाए। पंचायत चुनाव और पर्व/त्योहारों के दृष्टिगत हमें विशेष सतर्कता बरतनी होगी। कॉन्टैक्ट ट्रेसिंग को तेज और सुदृढ़ किए जाने की आवश्यकता है: #UPCM श्री @myogiadityanath जीIn other tweets, the UP CMO said that the recent rise in Covid-19 infections is a warning to everyone. In the wake of surging cases of the virus the minister said antigen tests should be made mandatory at railway stations, airports, bus stations etc. including an increase in the number of RT-PCR tests. Dedicated Covid-19 hospitals should be kept active at all times in every district of the state, he added.Here are the key points from UP government's guidelines:Chief secretary RK Tiwari has instructed all district magistrates to test people coming from states with higher Covid-19 cases.Gautam Buddh Nagar Police and Ghaziabad district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey in Uttar Pradesh have imposed Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) from March 17- April 30 to restrict gathering ahead of festivals.Agressive contact tracing of railway co-passengers of people who test Covid-19 positive. The stations where long distance trains stop should have testing facilities.Intensified surveillance of areas where people have arrived from states with a high number of Covid-19 cases.Strict measures like barricading, pasting stickers on houses of those found Covid-19 positive in containment zones have also been ordered.Region wise calendar of areas has been prepared by the state government for intensive surveillance of people returning in large numbers.Asserting the importance of Covid-19 vaccination, the chief minister also said that the inoculation process is going smoothly in the state and Uttar Pradesh is the first state in the country to administer 33 lakh vaccinations. This situation needs to be improved further, he added.India on Thursday reported the highest spike (35,871) in daily coronavirus cases in more than 100 days. More than 3.71 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered in the country so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/compliance-increased-testing-key-points-from-up-govt-s-new-covid-19-guidelines-101616066377406.html
18-03-2021||India||In last one year, more people died of road accidents than Covid-19: Nitin Gadkari||The government is serious about reducing road accidents as more people died from such mishaps in the last one year than from Covid-19 infection, Road Transport Minister Nitin Gadkari said on Thursday.During the Question Hour in the Lok Sabha, Gadkari said the government is very much concerned about road accidents and will have to take all steps to reduce road accidents."Our government is serious about reducing road accidents...1.5 lakh people died due to road accidents in the last one year which is more than 1.46 lakh deaths due to Covid-19," he said.The minister further noted that most of those who died due to road accidents were people in the age group of 18-35.According to a recent  World Bank report, India accounts for the highest number of road accidents globally, with 1.5 lakh people being killed and more than 4.5 lakh crippled annually in 4.5 lakh road accidents with losses amounting to 3.14 per cent of the GDP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-last-one-year-more-people-died-of-road-accidents-than-covid-19-nitin-gadkari-101616068193014.html
18-03-2021||India||Roll back ban on posting on social media, digital platforms: Air India pilots||Air India’s union of airbus pilots, Indian Commercial Pilots Association (ICPA), has requested its management to roll back the policy that does not allow any Air India employee, whether serving or retired, to post anything on Facebook, Instagram, LinkedIn, Wikipedia, WhatsApp or Twitter, blogs or video channels, be it during or after duty hours, and has termed the policy to be entirely illegal and with no basis in law.Besides all the other restrictions, the pilots, in a letter to Air India chairperson and managing director Rajiv Bansal, objected to needing approval from the airline even to upload personal content related to Air India or any of its activities. The pilots also pointed that the policy implemented from March 1, 2021 states that the airline has the rights to monitor comments or discussions about them, their employees, clients and the industry posted on the Internet.The pilots said that India currently has no law that either empowers or remotely justifies such an act by an employer to impose a blanket ban on the use of social/ digital media.Also Read | Air India staff’s takeover plan fails to make the cutThe letter read, “While we note the concerns that Air India may have, in respect of protecting its image over social/digital media, especially preceding its proposed disinvestment, the introduction of a policy as the present one, is entirely unheard of and infringes upon various rights of its employees. It goes on to categorically state that it covers conduct of employees as private participants on the social media platforms, thereby making it patently illegal. The present policy, introduced by Air India, is most importantly, violative of the fundamental right of freedom and speech, guaranteed to the employees of Air India, under Article 19 (1) (a) of the Constitution, being citizens of India.”The union said, “Even assuming for a moment that Air India still has the authority and the power to introduce the present blanket policy, the same is expressly hit by the bar under Section 9A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (ID Act), and cannot be allowed to subsist.”Stating the law, the pilots reiterated that the introduction and enforcement of the policy by Air India, with no consultation, discussion, notice or any other form of communication with the employees will result in multiple violations by them and hence asked them to drop the policy.An Air India spokesperson refused to comment on the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/roll-back-ban-on-posting-on-social-media-digital-platforms-air-india-pilots-101616068936936.html
18-03-2021||India||Battle for ‘Kerala’s Gujarat’ seen as verdict on BJP’s southern push||The electoral contest in Nemom, a little known constituency in Thiruvananthapuram, is being seen as a possible verdict on the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) bid to expand its influence in the southern state. The fight for the only assembly seat won by the saffron party in the last assembly elections has become a battle of prestige, as the party candidate describes Nemom as “Kerala’s Gujarat”, suggesting it was BJP’s impregnable fortress. The Congress and the Left are desperate to prove him wrong.“I came here to win. I will stop the BJP run not in Nemom alone, but also in the whole state,” said Congress candidate K Muraleedharan, who is also son of former chief minister K Karunakaran and a sitting MP from Vadakara. Karunakaran represented Nemom in 1982.The Congress fielded Muraleedharan (64) from this seat overlooking its principle of not fielding any sitting MP in the assembly election. At one point, it even considered fielding former CM Oommen Chandy from this seat. The ruling CPI(M) has fielded party strongman V Sivankutty (66), who represented the seat in 2011 before losing it to BJP veteran O Rajagopal, a former minister in Vajpayee government in 2016 elections.With nearly two lakh voters, the urban constituency has a sizable upper caste Hindu population, followed by a good presence of Nadar community and 20% minority voters. Some say the BJP considers Nemom to be its laboratory for expansion plans in Kerala, which could explain why the BJP candidate and former Mizoram governor, Kummanam Rajasekharan (68), said “it was the party’s Gujarat and battle for Kerala will begin here”, posing a challenge to his opponents.Congress and CPI (M), predictably, want the saffron challenge to be nipped in the bud.“Kerala is not fertile for divisive forces. Nemom will remain the BJP’s first and the last seat,” said former defence minister A K Antony, who played a key role in fielding Muraleedharan from the seat.“Both parties, the Congress and the CPM have teamed up against me. They have just one-point agenda to beat the BJP. But the party will emerge a decisive force in the state and Nemom will mark the beginning,” said Rajasekharan after having a quick ‘sadya’ (traditional Kerala meal served on plantain leaves) at a party worker’s house. He quit the governor’s post in 2019 to contest against Congress candidate Shashi Tharoor in the Lok Sabha polls, but lost.The former RSS prachark (full time worker) said Muraleedharan’s candidature was much hyped yet it won’t impact his chances. The party is planning to parade some of its tallest leaders including Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah by the month- end to bolster Rajasekharan’s campaign. “Nemom is our fort. Even Rahul Gandhi can’t win here,” said party state president K Surendran. To create the Gujarat connect, the party is showing slides of developmental works carried out in Gujarat under BJP’s two-decade rule.The LDF candidate Sivankutty was also confident of his victory. He claimed the entire state was set to rewrite its poll history of the last four decades by giving a second term to Pinarayi Vijauan government, which he claimed, set a new benchmark in development. “The BJP is pumping in money, but Kerala is not suitable for its communal agenda,” he said. In the 2016 polls, Rajagopal had defeated Sivankutty with a margin of over 800 votes and UDF’s Surendran Pillai was a distant third. This time, the main fight is said to be between the Congress and the BJP on the seat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/battle-for-kerala-s-gujarat-seen-as-verdict-on-bjp-s-southern-push-101616066595459.html
18-03-2021||India||Actor Arun Govil, famous as Lord Ram of ‘Ramayan’ TV series, joins BJP||Actor Arun Govil, known for playing Lord Ram in Ramayan TV series, joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Thursday. Govil joined the party at its office in Delhi in the presence of Arun Singh.He joined the BJP just ahead of the assembly elections in four states and the union territory of Puducherry.The 63-year-old said he was not inclined to enter politics earlier in his life, but the "work done by Prime Minister Narendra Modi" has changed his perception of politics.He said that the "objection" raised to the 'Jai Shri Ram' slogans by West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee was "the immediate trigger" for him to take the political plunge.He also said 'Jai Shri Ram' is not just a mere slogan but our lifestyle and "sanskar".Brought up in the cantonment town of Meerut, Govil, the son of a waterworks engineer, studied in a number of schools across Saharanpur and Shahjahanpur. After school, he enrolled for a BSc at Meerut and completed it from Mathura.Before he essayed the role of Ram, Govil tasted success on the big screen with in his debut film Paheli (1977) from the house of Barjatyas of Rajshri Productions.According to reports, Ramayan found a place in the Limca Book of Records because of its historic viewership, back in the day. The show held the record for the World’s Most Viewed Mythological TV Series until 2003.After Ramayan, Govil continued to work in television, appearing in a bunch of mythological serials such as Luv Kush, played Harishchandra in TV series Vishwamitra and Buddha in a serial of the same name.He has also worked in a number of Bhojpuri, Braj Bhasha, Odia and Telugu films.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/actor-arun-govil-famous-as-lord-ram-of-ramayan-tv-series-joins-bjp-101616066466273.html
18-03-2021||India||News updates from HT: Amarinder Singh threatens to move SC in fight against farm laws and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.On fight against farm laws, Amarinder Singh threatens to move Supreme CourtPunjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Thursday said that his government will move the Supreme Court if the bills passed by the state Assembly do not receive presidential assent. Read moreTamil Nadu to ramp up vaccination drive as total Covid cases go over 8,62,000The Tamil Nadu government on Thursday announced expanding the Covid-19 vaccination drive. The doses of the vaccine will now be administered at mini-clinics, primary healthcare centres and special temporary hospitals set up by the government, according to news agency ANI. Read moreWith believers, awaiting final verdict on Sabarimala: Pinarayi VijayanKerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday underscored that his government was with the believers on the Sabarimala issue and everyone will be consulted after the Supreme Court delivers its final verdict in the case regarding temple entry of women of all ages at the hill shrine. Read moreSharp rise in Delhi’s jobless during lockdown, women worst hit: SurveyThe unemployment rate in Delhi rose by 17.4 percentage points during the Covid-19 pandemic-induced nationwide lockdown—from 11.1% recorded in January-February 2020 to 28.5% recorded in October-November 2020—according to a Delhi government survey, which HT has seen.. Read moreOpen season in Indian cricketAs India made a sensational comeback to win a second successive Test series in Australia early this year, their seemingly endless pace resources, following injuries to their senior quartet, made it a remarkable achievement. Read moreKangana Ranaut shares pics in ripped jeans with advice, says most young people look like 'homeless beggars' these daysActor Kangana Ranaut has joined the debate around women who wear ripped jeans, sparked by Uttarakhand chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat's latest controversial comments. Read more'Mereko utar do': Woman’s reaction while paragliding goes viral. WatchRemember the viral ‘Land kara de’ video in which a man freaked out while paragliding in Himachal's Kullu? Another video of a woman trying the same adventure sport has now reminded people of that clip. Read more2021 Skoda Kushaq SUV breaks cover globallyCelebrating its 20th year in India, Skoda has unveiled its latest offering - the 2021 Kushaq SUV - in Mumbai today during a global premiere. Read moreWatch: PM Modi on Mamata’s injury; ‘transfer my commission’ jibe at TMC||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-amarinder-singh-threatens-to-move-supreme-court-in-fight-against-farm-laws-and-all-the-latest-news-101616064473835.html
18-03-2021||India||UP government releases fresh Covid-19 guidelines, ramps up testing||The Uttar Pradesh government has released a set of guidelines in the wake of rising number of coronavirus disease (Covid-9) cases. Chief secretary RK Tiwari has directed all the district magistrates to ensure testing of people who are coming from high caseload areas/states.According to the directive issued by Tiwari, such people should undergo rapid antigen tests to know the presence of Sars-CoV-2 virus which causes Covid-19, Hindustan Times' sister publication Live Hindustan reported. RT-PCR and other tests have also been made mandatory for people arriving at various railway stations in Uttar Pradesh from states like Maharashtra, Kerala and Punjab, according to Live Hindustan.The authorities have also been asked to conduct aggressive contact tracing of railway co-passengers of people who are found positive with Covid-19. In fact, the district administrators have been asked to put all the passengers who arrived in that particular train under surveillance, Live Hindustan reported.The stations where long-distance trains make a halt should have 24-hour testing facilities.The state government has also prepared a region wise calendar of areas where people have returned in large numbers. The chief secretary said that these calendars have already been given to chief medical officers, Live Hindustan reported. The frontline workers have been asked to survey those areas and submit a report to medical officers, according to Live Hindustan. The government has intensified surveillance in areas where a large number of people have arrived from other high caseload states.Meanwhile, the police have announced strict measures for areas which have been declared as containment zones. In state capital Lucknow, the number of containment zones have reached 84 and will be placed under barricading, announced police commissioner DK Thakur. The district administration will also paste stickers on the houses of those found positive with Covid-19.The Gautam Buddha Nagar district administration has imposed fresh restrictions under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) till April 30 in light of the rising trend of Covid-19 cases."This step is taken also to prevent any untoward incident during the upcoming festivals," said Ashutosh Dwivedi, Additional DCP (Law and Order), Gautam Buddha Nagar.The Additional DCP also appealed to the public to comply with Covid-19 appropriate behaviour, wear masks, maintain social distancing.The number of active Covid-19 cases in the state rose to 2,014 from 1,912 on Tuesday while the overall recoveries reached 5,95,150 and the death toll reached at 8,751 on Wednesday, the data from state health department showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-government-releases-fresh-covid-19-guidelines-ramps-up-testing-101616065723319.html
18-03-2021||India||With believers, awaiting final verdict on Sabarimala: Pinarayi Vijayan||Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday underscored that his government was with the believers on the Sabarimala issue and everyone will be consulted after the Supreme Court delivers its final verdict in the case regarding temple entry of women of all ages at the hill shrine. The comment comes a week after his temple affairs minister Kadakampally Surendran expressed regret over the state government’s handling of the protests against the entry of women into the Sabarimala temple more than two years ago. Joining the debate yesterday, Communist Party of India (Marxist) general secretary Sitaram Yechury told a news channel in Delhi that he had no idea why the minister expressed regrets and that the party’s position on it was based on policy of equality as enshrined in the constitution.After Yechury’s statement, many Hindu outfits, including the Nair Service Society and Sabarimala Karma Samiti, asked the chief minister to explain these divergent views. Talking to newsmen in Malappuram, CM Vijayan said there was no problem in the temple for the last two years and some vested parties were raking it up unnecessarily for votes. “Since the election is round the corner some people take special interest in Sabarimala. We have seen peaceful pilgrimage in the last two years. We will talk to all concerned once the Supreme Court delivers its final verdict,” he said, adding some parties were out to exploit the issue and try to turn believers against the government. “As continuation of power is sure for the left some parties are coming out with new theories and busy raking up old issues to target the government which always surged ahead with development activities. Dragging the temple issue was part of it,” he said. “We have made it clear that we are with believers. Once the court takes a final decision we will talk to all concerned parties,” he reiterated. In 2018 the state had witnessed high drama and violence as at least 18 women in the age group of 10-50 were prevented by protesting devotees when they tried to enter the temple after the Supreme Court verdict. The ruling CPI (M) had drawn flak for its hastiness in implementing the court order. After widespread protests, revision petitions were referred to a nine-member bench by the top court.The emotional temple issue turned live again after Yechury’s statement and the opposition Congress and the BJP saying the regret expressed by the state minister was just a smokescreen ahead of the assembly elections. BJP’s Kerala unit president K Surendran said the two contrasting comments by the two CPI (M) leaders exposed the party’s double standard.“The party’s double standard is exposed yet again. Many devotees were making regular rounds to the court for chanting hymns during the height of protest. Yechury has now made it clear that the party is not with devotees. Devotees can’t be deceived like this,” Surendran had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-believers-awaiting-final-verdict-on-sabarimala-pinarayi-vijayan-101616064915257.html
18-03-2021||India||As Delhi sees fresh Covid-19 surge, CM Kejriwal urges Centre to make vaccine available to all||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday urged the central government to extend the vaccination drive against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) to all eligible beneficiaries in view of the rising cases. "Request Centre to make list of those not eligible for Covid-19 vaccine and make it available for all others," Kejriwal said at a press briefing.He also claimed that the Delhi government can vaccinate the entire city within three months. "We can vaccinate all of Delhi in three months if walk-in vaccinations are allowed," Kejriwal said."I appeal to Centre that their current guideline for vaccination centres is very stringent. We now have two months of experience in vaccination. So we're writing to Centre to relax some parametres so that vaccination can be done at more centres. We will take all precautions," said Kejriwal.The Delhi chief minister also appealed to people, eligible to get the vaccine according to the government-mandated guidelines, to get themselves vaccinated without hesitation. He also assured that his government will double the capacity in the coming few days. "Vaccination is being done in about 500 centres in Delhi, it will be doubled to 1000," he said. "As of now, 30,000-40,000 vaccines are being administered per day. We will increase this to 1.25 lakh vaccines per day," Kejriwal added.The Delhi government also increased the vaccination time by four hours. "In centres, especially government centres, vaccination is being done from 9am to 5pm. Now the hours are being increased from 9am to 9pm so that more and more people can be vaccinated," Kejriwal announced.This comes as the national capital is witnessing a surge in the daily Covid-19 cases. On Wednesday, Delhi added more than 500 cases, which pushed the city’s tally to 645,025. The death total toll climbed to 10,948, with one death reported in the last 24 hours.India rolled out its vaccination drive on January 16 and currently it is the second country after the United States to vaccinate the highest number of people. In the first phase of the vaccination, only health care workers and frontline workers were allowed to be immunised. In the following phase, the government permitted those above 60 years and people with commodities to be included in the drive.According to the current guidelines, the vaccination drive will be extended to the general public once people considered to be more vulnerable to the viral disease are covered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-delhi-sees-fresh-covid-19-surge-cm-kejriwal-urges-centre-to-make-vaccine-available-to-all-101616063888890.html
18-03-2021||India||Highest rise in child mortality, maternal deaths likely in India: Unicef report on Covid-19 impact||India is likely to register the greatest increase in the number of deaths among children below five years among six South Asian countries in 2020 and also the highest number of maternal deaths amid the coronavirus pandemic, which disrupted the country's health services, according to a Unicef report.The 'Direct and Indirect Effects of COVID-19 Pandemic and Response in South Asia’, a report commissioned by Unicef Regional Office for South Asia (ROSA) is based on the six most populous countries of the South Asian region - Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Nepal, India, Pakistan and Sri Lanka. It studied the impact of Covid-19 on mortality, hospitalisations, and ICU admissions due to the disease and the impact of nation-wide lockdown on maternal and child mortality, educational attainment of children, and the region’s economy. The report indicated grim results for all the countries with major impact of Covid-19 on maternal and child mortality, education and economy.Also Read | FIR against Mumbai restaurant for flouting Covid-19 normsDue to observed and expected reduction in coverage of modern contraceptive methods, the report said more than 3.5 million additional unintended pregnancies are expected in South Asia with the highest number or over 3 million likely in India. The largest increase in the number of stillbirths as a result of reduced SRMNCH services are also expected in India (10 per cent) followed by Pakistan. SRMNCH services include family planning, antenatal care, facility births, vaccines, full immunisation, zinc supplements, antibiotics for pneumonia, acute malnutrition treatment etc.Bangladesh, India and Sri Lanka are expected to have fewer maternal deaths in the first and second quarter of 2021 in comparison to 2019, however additional unintended pregnancies are still projected to be higher. Additionally, the number of deaths due to maternal causes among young females is estimated to increase in the region with the highest rise in India followed by Pakistan. "India is expected to be hit hardest with an additional 3,412 adolescent deaths followed by Pakistan (1,629) and Bangladesh (836)," the report said. The rise in deaths has been cited to malaria and typhoid.The report said children in rural areas and poorer households are less likely to access remote learning. As a result of prolonged school closures, almost 9 million primary and secondary school children are expected to permanently drop out, with the highest number or 7 million expected in India. Adding to this, the report also suggested that the highest cost of lower education attainment by this cohort will be borne by India, followed by Bangladesh and Sri Lanka.As a result of the increase in the number of girls dropping out of schools due to the pandemic, the region is anticipated to see a rise in early marriage and adolescents pregnancies.The coronavirus pandemic has had a significant economic impact on the region from staggering GDP to increased unemployment. The report suggests that even in the least severe stage the increase in food security among the population ranges from 17.4 per cent in Afghanistan to 18.9 per cent in Sri Lanka. The report said given the trajectory Covid-19 will extend in the foreseeable future and maybe till 2020. As part of the way forward, the report suggested strategies as smart lockdown, which have been proven to be more effective than blanket stay-at-home orders, safe schools, securing food supply, resumption of maternal care services etc.On the impact of Covid-19, the report said it is estimated to have cost the South Asian region more than $2.4 billion including the cost of testing and healthcare utilisation for deaths. "If the current status quo in terms of testing, and infection control and prevention, is maintained, the region is expected to spend an additional $8.1 billion on Covid-19 diagnostic tests, and between $520 million and $2.4 billion on healthcare utilisation by September 2021, depending on the level of mitigation response instituted," the study said, adding that India is expected to bear the largest share of this cost.Also Read | Telangana launches Dalit scheme in budget, says state growth better than Centre﻿The highest number of deaths, hospitalisations and ICU admissions are expected to occur in India with the numbers expected to rise highest in February 2021.The report also noted that since the observed number of cases and deaths are rising most rapidly in the country as compared to other South Asian neighbours, the impact of modelling the increased coverage and effectiveness of mitigation strategies is also highest in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/highest-rise-in-child-mortality-maternal-deaths-likely-in-india-unicef-report-on-covid-19-impact-101616054990264.html
18-03-2021||India||Tamil Nadu to ramp up vaccination drive as total Covid cases go over 8,62,000||The Tamil Nadu government on Thursday announced expanding the Covid-19 vaccination drive. The doses of the vaccine will now be administered at mini-clinics, primary healthcare centres and special temporary hospitals set up by the government, according to news agency ANI.The decision has been taken amid a spike in the number of Covid-19 cases. Tamil Nadu on Wednesday reported 945 fresh coronavirus disease cases, eight related fatalities taking the caseload and death toll to 8,62,374 and 12,564 respectively, the state health department’s bulletin showed. The active cases in the state have climbed to 5,811 while almost 8,44,000 people have recovered so far.Wednesday’s case count is the highest since early January as the state has been witnessing an upward trend in its daily cases since the first week of March. The state government has attributed this surge to people not following the Covid-appropriate behaviour and shunning masks.Chennai continues to be the worst-hit in the state and is leading the infection and death figures in the state. The capital city added 395 news cases and five related fatalities on Wednesday. Other districts such as Thiruvallur, Tiruppur, Thanjavur and Coimbatore are also seeing a fresh surge in cases.Also Read| At meeting with Modi, CMs seek expansion of vaccine coverageTamil Nadu started its first phase of the vaccination drive from January 16 - along with the Centre - to administer jabs to all healthcare and frontline workers. The second phase, which rolled out from March 1, is seeing the inoculation of people above 60 years of age and those between 45-59 years with specific comorbidities. A total of 17,18,313 beneficiaries have been vaccinated in the state so far of which 15,44,770 beneficiaries have been administered the first dose and the remaining 1,73,543 have been given the second dose as well, the Union health ministry’s update at 7am showed.On Wednesday, Tamil Nadu health secretary J Radhakrishnan said the state government had urged the Centre to bring down the age limit of vaccination - from 60 to 50 years and above in order to vaccinate a larger number of people. “We appeal to those engaged in public activity and are above the age of 45 with co- morbidity to get vaccinated”, Radhakrishnan added while addressing reporters after he had reviewed the coronavirus ward at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital in Chennai, according to PTI.This comment of the health secretary comes after Tamil Nadu chief secretary Rajeev Ranjan and other senior officials had taken part in a virtual meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to review the country’s overall Covid-19 situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-to-ramp-up-vaccination-drive-as-total-covid-cases-go-over-862000-101616061927513.html
18-03-2021||India||On fight against farm laws, Amarinder Singh threatens to move Supreme Court||Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Thursday said that his government will move the Supreme Court if the bills passed by the state Assembly do not receive presidential assent. The Punjab Assemby passed a bill against the three central farm laws last month."Unfortunately, the governor is still sitting on instead of forwarding them for presidential approval, even though the Vidhan Sabha had unanimously passed the bills, with all parties voting for them," said Singh.The Centre should scrap the three farm laws, sit with the farmers and make new legislations in their place, the chief minister said while addressing mediapersons on completion of four years of his government."I fail to understand why the central government is trying to break the age-old time-tested relationship between farmers and arhtiyas," Singh said adding that the new laws are not an improvement on the existing system and will destroy the farming sector.Ahrtiyas are commissioning agents who help farmers sell their crops to buyers. Ahrtiyas facilitate the transaction between farmers and buyers - the buyers can be a person, a firm or a company or a cooperative society or a government agency or even to a public undertaking agency, a public agency or a corporation - and receive a commission for facilitating the transaction following which they pay farmers money for their crops.Punjab became the first state in the country to pass four bills and a resolution against the central laws in October last year. The Amarinder Singh government said that these amendments will safeguard the interests of the state’s farmers, who are concerned that the central legislation would deprive them of government-fixed minimum support prices (MSPs) for their produce and put them at the mercy of big corporate houses.Since the state laws are in conflict with the central laws, which have been signed by President Ram Nath Kovind, they would require presidential assent to be enacted.In February this year, Singh said that his government will bring the amendment bills to negate the Centre’s three farm laws again in the Vidhan Sabha since the governor failed to send the earlier Bills to President Ram Nath Kovind.Earlier this month, the Congress government in Punjab passed a resolution during the budget session of the state assembly, demanding withdrawal of three farms laws unconditionally by the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-fight-against-farm-laws-amarinder-singh-threatens-to-move-supreme-court-101616060676114.html
18-03-2021||India||A cop who lives for the love of the people||Started in 2015, Operation Smile was a campaign launched by the Ghaziabad police to trace and recover missing children. The operation has yielded stunning results and has directly led to the reunion of 3,178 children with their families. Among the pioneer individuals who first conceptualised and then spearheaded the campaign, which has now been adopted by multiple states of the Indian subcontinent was Kumar Ranvijay Singh, Additional DCP, Noida. It is not uncommon to hear press briefs about waxing eloquent on the successes of the operation such as recently in the month of January, as many as 3,178 missing children, including 277 girls, engaged as labourers or seeking alms across the Telangana State, were rescued by Telangana police during the month-long drive to trace missing children. Of them, a total of 2,373 children are from Telangana, while the remaining 805 belong to other states.Little is spoken about the fundamental and the pivotal role played by Singh, Additional DCP, Noida. One finds him sitting in his office on his swivel chair, the unassuming police officer very graciously asks each and every person who knocks at his door to take a seat in his ever accommodating office. A young woman walks up to him and presents him with a chocolate, just thanking him for being a kind and a helpful police officer. The surprise gift brings a huge smile on his face, and he feels honoured with the gesture. He says, “This is what we live for - The love of people.”A masters in Philosophy from Delhi University, he feels empathy, compassion, active listening, conflict resolution and building trust are the foremost pillars of an enforcement organisation. He says, “ I don’t believe in serving people mechanically. Connecting yourself with the issues of people as if they are your own is important. The ability to understand and share someone else’s feelings, to know what it’s like to be in somebody else’s shoes and it is always appreciated. It allows for a deeper understanding of what other individuals are experiencing. In turn, this leads to more positive interactions and communication between police officers and the people they encounter.”Compassion also forms one of the key tenets of police work. “Treating individuals with compassion, whether they’re witnesses, victims, or suspects helps build a rapport and brings healing to dangerous and traumatic situations. Compassion with sensitivity is perhaps the most important attribute for modern police officers in their daily interactions,” says Singh, the son of a war veteran who fought the Indo-Pakistani War of 1971.In the pandemic, Singh ensured that no one went hungry and distributed food packets personally. The Additional DCP, believes that to build trust in the community, police officers must be in constant communication with citizens, listening to their wants and needs, and building a rapport with those they work with on a day-to-day basis. Narrating an incident, he says, “ An executive who was stuck here in Noida in the pandemic had to return to his expecting wife but couldn’t as there were no modes of travel. We facilitated his return to Bareilly where he welcomed a baby boy with his wife.”He smilingly continues, “ The Muslim family named the boy, Rannvijay Khan, as a token of appreciation. These are reflections of the bonds we forge, the promises we keep and actions we undertake for the larger good of people.”Commenting on the negative light in which police officers are perceived, he says, “The perception of law enforcement is created by its relationships with community members. Building trust means acting in a manner that promotes community safety and security, and avoiding actions that can undermine trust.”In a very thoughtful manner, his parting comment is, “Social issues can not be handled by law but by human connection.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-cop-who-lives-for-the-love-of-the-people-101616060055036.html
18-03-2021||India||Toll booths to be removed, GPS-based toll collection within 1 year, says Gadkari||India will do away with toll booths and implement complete GPS-based toll collection within one year, Road Transport and Highways Minister Nitin Gadkari said on Thursday.He said 93 per cent of the vehicles pay toll using FASTag, but the remaining 7 per cent have still not taken it despite paying a double toll. "I want to assure the House that within one year all physical toll booths in the country will be removed. It means that toll collection will happen via GPS. The money will be collected based on GPS imaging (on vehicles)," Gadkari said in the Lok Sabha during Question Hour.The minister said he has instructed police inquiry for those vehicles which do not pay toll using FASTags. There are cases of toll theft and GST evasion cases if FASTags are not fitted in vehicles. FASTags, which facilitate electronic payment of fee at toll plazas, was introduced in 2016.From February 16, vehicles without FASTag are required to pay double toll fee at electronic toll plazas across the country.Making the tags compulsory would also help in ensuring that vehicles pass seamlessly through the toll plazas, as the fee payment would be done electronically.Gadkari said new vehicles have FasTags fitted in them, while the government has said it will give free FASTags for old vehicles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/toll-booths-to-be-removed-gps-based-toll-collection-within-1-year-says-gadkari-101616058928610.html
18-03-2021||India||These 9 districts in Punjab will see extended night curfew from today||Nine districts in Punjab, which have been reporting more than 100 cases of the coronavirus disease every day, will be put under extended curfew from Thursdduring the night as one of the measures to stop the spread of Covid-19. Night curfew will now be in place from 9pm to 5am, instead of 11pm to 5am, in Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Patiala, Mohali, Amritsar, Gurdaspur, Hoshiarpur, Kapurthala and Ropar.Chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Thursday also warned of other tough measures and restrictions over the next few days as Punjab’s daily Covid-19 cases shot up to 2039 and the state saw 35 related deaths on Wednesday. Singh, while addressing a press conference to mark the completion of four years of his government, said the situation in the state was critical and he was going to be tough.“I won’t be easy on the people. People may not like it, but it’s my duty,” he said, adding that he hoped the daily caseload won’t cross 3000, as projected by some experts. He also expressed the hope that all residents will cooperate and adhere to the restrictions. “For God’s sake, save the lives of Punjabis,” he urged citizens.Also read | Focus back on Punjab’s high death rate, worries mountHe said several stringent measures, including restrictions on gatherings, will be announced after discussions with the state government’s expert Covid team over the next couple of days. A decision about restrictions on political gatherings will be taken as per the medical expert team’s advice, he added.The chief minister also urged people to go to the doctor and get themselves tested even if they feel slightly unwell, saying citizens were going to hospitals too late. He appealed to all citizens to wear masks and maintain social distance, warning that penalties may also be enhanced if needed.Also read | Covid-19 positivity rate in Punjab has doubled, says health ministryMeanwhile, with 35,871 Covid-19 cases and 172 related fatalities, the highest single-day rise in more than 100 days, India’s disease tally rose to over 11.47 million and its death toll mounted to 159,216, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Thursday morning. As many as 36,011 infections were recorded on December 6 last year.India, which is now the third worst-hit country after the United States and Brazil, has an active caseload of 252,364. The country’s recovery rate is 96.41 per cent, the health ministry’s data updated at 8am showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/these-9-districts-in-punjab-will-see-extended-night-curfew-from-today-101616057538837.html
18-03-2021||India||RJD MP Manoj Kumar Jha calls for law to regulate online hate speech||Rajya Sabha RJD member Manoj Kumar Jha on Thursday demanded legislation to regulate online hate speech and improve information disclosure about paid content.Raising the issue in the pre-noon session in the House, Jha said the use of the online sphere for spreading hate speech is reaching new heights.Even new channels deliberately broadcast TRP-centric news without or contrary to officially known facts, he added."Thus, I request to bring legislation to regulate the problem of online hate speech. The legislation should aim to detect monitor and safeguard against coordinated inauthentic behaviour, the misuse of online account bots, for the spread of hate speech and the deliberate broadcasting of fake news," Jha said.The senior RJD MP said the legislation should have measures to be taken to improve information disclosure about paid content aimed at spreading hate speech for a political end.He also suggested that such legislation be introduced only after discussion with stakeholders for a balance between the censorship of harmful content and freedom of speech and expression.The RJD MP made a case for including internet education in the school curriculum to impart basic knowledge and sensitise children about the responsible use of the internet and the risks of hate speech and abuse.The issue of household air pollution was also raised in the House.Citing a study published in 2018, NCP member Vandana Chavan said household air pollution claims the lives of almost half a million Indians and is also a cause for major lethal diseases.The Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojanam, which boosts the use of clean cooking fuel and helps control these related diseases, came as solace and the right step of the government in that direction, she said.Chavan said it was also heartening that the government, in a very short time, claimed success in achieving 98 per cent LPG coverage pan India,In spite of the 98 per cent coverage claimed, there was only a 20 per cent increase in the actual usage of clean cooking fuel from 2015 to 2020, the MP noted.The NCP member highlighted that 44.5 per cent of rural households were still using firewood chips and crop residue, meaning usage of LPG cylinders was very low.Under the DBT Scheme, she said, the beneficiary has to pay the amount and then wait for the subsidy to come into his account."So a huge challenge for the poor families, So I sincerely urge...that the government should reconsider, restructure the Ujjwala scheme, and additional monetary incentive be given to encourage refills (of LPG cylinders), as recommended also by the Committee on petroleum and natural gas in 2020, and a system be devised that is practical and works for the poor," Chavan said.D P Vats of the BJP said non-populist, drastic measures are needed to check rising pollution and shed the tag of Delhi as the world's most polluted capital.Citing the recent report of a Swiss air quality technology company, he said Delhi remains the most polluted capital city in the world for the third consecutive year while towns of the national capital region (NCR) rank among the most polluted.Joining the issue, Priyanka Chaturvedi (Shiv Sena) said instead of discussing pollution "we end up discussing women wearing ripped jeans", a reference to a remark by Uttarakhand Chief Minister Tirath Singh Rawat.She said premature deaths due to pollution are more than deaths associated with COVID-19.Raising the Maharashtra-Karnataka border row, G C Chandrashekar of the Congress said since the dispute is in the Supreme Court, the Maharashtra government should not make provocative statements.Shiv Sena had on Wednesday demanded that Belagavi be declared a union territory."Belagavi will remain part of Karnataka," Chandrashekar declared. His party colleague Anand Sharma raised the need for setting up virtual classrooms at community centres and providing wifi connectivity to help students with no devices to join online classes,Jyotiraditya Scindia (BJP) wanted a national mission for eradicating malnutrition in children to be set up.P Wilson (DMK) raised the issue of the Centre curtailing reservation in the M.Tech biotechnology course in Anna University to 27 per cent, saying the institution is a state university and should be governed by Tamil Nadu's reservation policy of providing 69 per cent reservation.KC Ramamurthy (BJP) sought the setting up of Supreme Court's benches in four regions to ease the burden on the apex court. For the south, he suggested Bengaluru as the ideal location.Kumar Ketkar (Congress) sought a full investigation into the supplier of the gelatin sticks founds in an SUV parked near the Mumbai residence of the richest Indian Mukesh Ambani, the purpose and the associates of the person.Banda Prakash (TRS) raised the issue of posts belonging to reserved categories lying vacant in higher education institutions such as IIMs and IITs while Ahmad Ashfaque Karim (RJD) demanded that charitable education institutions be exempted from GST just like income tax.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rjd-mp-manoj-kumar-jha-calls-for-law-to-regulate-online-hate-speech-101616056852611.html
18-03-2021||India||700+ companies of central forces to be sent for Bengal polls: CRPF chief||The Central Reserve Police Force’s (CRPF) director general Kuldiep Singh said on Thursday 725 companies of central forces will be deployed for pre-poll duties in West Bengal ahead of the upcoming assembly elections. Out of the 725 companies, 415 have already reached the state, the newly-appointed director general said.Around 350-370 of them will be from CRPF, Singh said during the annual press conference, adding the Election Commission of India will decide which phase of polling will be difficult according to which the deployment will be done. Polling in West Bengal will be held in eight phases beginning from March 27 and ending with the last phase on April 29. Votes will be counted on May 2.A company of central forces has around 100 personnel that amounts to deployment of nearly over 70,000 personnel for pre-poll duties in the state.Click here for complete coverage on assembly electionsEarlier this month, the Election Commission had held a meeting with all the observers appointed for election duty. The briefing session that saw the participation, physically and virtually, of more than 1,600 observers focussed on election planning, security management and SVEEP aspects including state-specific issues and Covid-19 guidelines.Last month, a maximum of nine companies of CRPF were planned to be deployed in Purulia and Jhargram districts with the poll body mulling the deployment of three companies of Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) in Kolkata, four companies of CRPF in the Howrah Police Commissionerate area and two companies in rural Howrah, reported Mint.Also Read | In Purulia, PM Modi refers to Ramayana to point to its water crisisAs per the report that cited a senior official, the central forces were aimed to be deployed for area domination especially in the sensitive zones with the assistance of state police and senior officials of district administration.The announcement comes ahead of the elections in a volatile state witnessing continuous clashes between the workers of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/725-central-forces-companies-to-be-deployed-in-west-bengal-polls-says-crpf-dg-101616051870150.html
18-03-2021||India||News updates from HT: Unemployment rises in Delhi during lockdown, women hit worst and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Sharp rise in Delhi’s jobless during lockdown, women worst hit: SurveyThe unemployment rate in Delhi rose by 17.4 percentage points during the Covid-19 pandemic-induced nationwide lockdown—from 11.1% recorded in January-February 2020 to 28.5% recorded in October-November 2020—according to a Delhi government survey, which HT has seen. Read moreSupreme Court to hear plea to stop fresh sale of electoral bonds on March 24The Supreme Court on Thursday agreed to hear next week a plea to stop fresh sale of electoral bonds from April 1 till the top court decides on the validity of these bonds. Read moreDelhi CM Kejriwal to meet officials amid rise in Covid-19 casesA day after Delhi recorded the highest spike in daily cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in more than two months, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal is expected to hold a review meeting with the health minister, health secretary and other officials, news agency ANI reported on Thursday. Read moreAfghan special forces helicopter crash lands, 9 deadNine people on board a special forces helicopter were killed after it crash-landed in the Maidan Wardak province, on Wednesday night, according to the Afghan Ministry of Defense on Thursday. Read moreHe will be disappointed: Laxman explains what’s going wrong with KL Rahul’s techniqueIndian opener KL Rahul is having a tough time in the ongoing T20I series against England in Ahmedabad. One of India's most consistent T20I batsmen over the last few years, Rahul has been struggling badly to get runs against his name. In the last three games, the Karnataka batsman has registered scores of 1, 0 and 0. Read moreHyundai reveals more details about its new Staria MPV ahead of unveilingNearly a week after teasing its upcoming MPV, Hyundai has revealed clearer pictures for the successor to its Starex MPV called the Staria. The design of the new Hyundai Staria MPV have been completely revamped compared to Starex, and now look more modern. Read moreKiara Advani works on her abs in new fitness clip, does leg raises, seen yet?There are a few celebrities who rarely share snippets from their gym sessions, but whenever they do, those videos go viral and leave their followers feeling lazy. Kiara Advani is one such actor. Not long ago, a clip of her nailing an intense session with her trainer had surfaced on the internet and it left us breathless, her latest clip is also doing the same. Read moreZack Snyder's Justice League movie review: An exhausting yet exhilarating superhero epic; fan-service at its finestYou can’t fault a film for being an indulgent endurance test if that is exactly what it was aiming for. What would have been criticism in normal circumstances, in a post Snyder Cut world, has become indistinguishable from praise. Read moreOhio resident finds raccoon invading his home. It was napping in the dishwasherUnwanted and uninvited guests can make anyone uncomfortable. For an Ohio resident, this unwanted guest came in the form of a raccoon. A post shared on Facebook details what happened once this guest was found taking a nap in the resident’s dishwasher. Read moreWatch: Param Bir Singh Out: Decoding the fallout for Uddhav-led Maharashtra coalitionThe Maharashtra government transferred Mumbai Police Commissioner, Param Bir Singh on March 17, who faced flak over his handling of the Ambani bomb scare episode. This came in the backdrop of a police officer, Sachin Vaze, being blamed by the National Investigation Agency for the case related to the recovery of an SUV with explosives near Ambani's house in Mumbai on February 25. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-unemployment-rises-in-delhi-during-lockdown-women-hit-worst-and-all-the-latest-news-101616049796813.html
18-03-2021||India||SC to hear on March 25 plea to stop deportation of Rohingya refugees||The Supreme Court on Thursday agreed to hear on March 25 a plea seeking release and protection of over 150 Rohingya refugees, who have been sent to a holding centre in Jammu as part of the Jammu & Kashmir administration’s process to identify undocumented immigrants in the Union Territory. The administration has said it will work on their deportation next to Myanmar.A bench headed by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde asked solicitor general Tushar Mehta to come with a response to the plea next week.The Jammu & Kashmir administration began the process of identifying undocumented immigrants on March 6. Over 150 of them were sent to the holding centre under the Foreigners Act. Officials insisted due process of law was followed and added the immigrants sent to the centre did not carry any valid travel documents.Hundreds of thousands of Muslim Rohingya have since 2017 fled Myanmar to escape persecution and many of them have been staying in the Union Territory. The UN has called a Myanmar army’s campaign against the Rohingya “a textbook example of ethnic cleansing”.Advocate Prashant Bhushan requested an urgent hearing of the plea on behalf of a Rohingya, Mohammad Salimullah. Bhushan said an urgent intervention was required since those “detained” in Jammu could be deported anytime to Myanmar, where they fled from fearing persecution.“There is a military government in Myanmar now. Their life is under threat,” said Bhushan, referring to the latest military coup in Myanmar in February.Mehta said Bhushan’s submissions were factually incorrect and added the government would respond on March 24.Salimullah has, in his plea, cited news reports of “detention” of around 150 refugees in a “temporary jail” for their deportation.“This follows the Union Minister Jitendra Singh’s statements two months ago that the Rohingya (identified as Muslim refugees by the government) would not be able to secure citizenship. These refugees have been illegally detained and jailed in the Jammu sub-jail, which has been converted into a holding centre with the IGP (inspector general of police, Jammu) Mukesh Singh stating that they face deportation back to Myanmar following verification by their embassy,” he said in his plea.The plea has urged the court to order the release of the Rohingya refugees immediately and direct the government to expeditiously grant refugee identification cards to them.It cited records from the deputy commissioner’s office and added it showed 6,523 Rohingyas were living in Jammu. The plea requested the court to stop the Centre from implementing any orders on deporting the refugees. It added the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees should be asked to “intervene and determine the protection needs of the Rohingya refugees not just in the Jammu but also in camps across the country and complete the process of granting them refugee cards”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-to-hear-on-march-25-plea-to-stop-deportation-of-rohingya-refugees-101616051474216.html
18-03-2021||India||To Trinamool’s ‘Khela Hobe’ poll slogan, PM Modi says game over||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday turned around the ruling Trinamool Congress’ campaign slogan of Khela Hobe to criticise what he said was the party’s ‘misrule and politics of appeasement' for the last decade. The Prime Minister, during an election rally in the state’s Purulia, pointed out the region was still underdeveloped and has been facing a water crisis, forced migration and an administration that discriminates.“First the Left government and then the TMC government did not let industries develop here. The kind of work that should have been done for irrigation, did not take place. I know the problems faced in rearing livestock due to less water. The TMC government was busy in its 'khela’ by leaving farming on its own,” PM Modi said. “These people have given Purulia a life riddled with water crisis. They have given Purulia migration, they have given the poor of Purulia discriminatory governance, they have given Purulia an identity of being one of the most backward areas of the country,” he added.Also read | How Bengal economy has fared over the last decadeOn the ‘Khela Hobe’ poll slogan of West Bengal’s ruling party, the Prime Minister replied in Bengali. “Didi bole khela hobe, BJP bole chaakri hobe. Didi bole khela hobe, BJP bole vikas hobe. Didi bole khela hobe, BJP bole shiksha hobe. Didi bole kela hobe, BJP bole mohila der utthan hobe. Didi bole chela hobe, BJP bole school hobe… Khela shesh hobe, vikas aarambh hobe,” he said.West Bengal, the Prime Minister said, made up its mind long back. “It has been saying Lok Sabha mein TMC half aur iss baar poori saaf' (TMC’s strength is half in the Lok Sabha and now it will be completely decimated). Seeing this determination, Didi is taking out her frustration on me. But for us, she is a daughter like the crores of daughters of India. Respecting is a part of our culture,” he said.The Prime Minister also referred to the Hindu epic Ramayana on his campaign trail in poll-bound West Bengal's Purulia to point out the crisis facing the area currently. "This land is a witness to Lord Ram and Goddess Sita's exile. This land has Sitakund. It is also said that when Goddess Sita was thirsty, Lord Ram got water from the ground by hitting it with an arrow... It is an irony that Purulia faces a water crisis today," PM Modi said.Also read | Your pain is more than mine, says wheelchair-bound Mamata Banerjee in PuruliaChief minister Mamata Banerjee had on Monday held two successive rallies in the tribal-dominated district, located in the western part of the state in the Jangalmahal area. Banerjee had attacked the BJP, saying that she was a street fighter and none should dare to stifle her.People in the Purulia assembly seat, part of the Purulia Lok Sabha constituency, will vote in the first phase of polls on March 27. Congress candidate Sudip Mukherjee defeated his nearest rival Jyotiprasad Singh Deo of All India Trinamool Congress in the last assembly elections in 2016. The eight-phase assembly elections in the state are scheduled to begin on March 27 and end on April 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/irony-that-purulia-faces-water-crisis-today-pm-modi-in-bengal-101616048366943.html
18-03-2021||India||Supreme Court to hear plea to stop fresh sale of electoral bonds on March 24||The Supreme Court on Thursday agreed to hear next week a plea to stop fresh sale of electoral bonds from April 1 till the top court decides on the validity of these bonds. A bench, headed by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde, fixed Wednesday next week to hear a new application by the Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR), which has requested the court to put a restraint on sale of these bonds ahead of the assembly elections in four states and a Union Territory. Advocate Prashant Bhushan, representing the ADR, mentioned the matter before the bench, which also included justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, for an urgent listing of the case. Solicitor general (S-G) Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Central government, informed the bench that attorney general KK Venugopal appeared in this case on behalf of the government and that they had no objection to the plea being heard next week. Also Read | Cancellation of ration cards a serious issue: SC“In a matter like this, we are sure you will find some time,” the CJI told the S-G, fixing the matter for a hearing on March 24. The new application has been moved in a pending petition on this issue by the same organisation. The plea has stated: “There is a serious apprehension that any further sale of electoral bonds before the upcoming state elections in West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Assam, would further increase illegal and illicit funding of political parties through shell companies. Thus, the petitioner seeks a direction that no further opening of window for the sale of electoral bonds be allowed during the pendency of the instant writ petition.” The petitioner pointed out that the petition challenging electoral bonds has been pending in the Supreme Court since September 2017. The matter was last heard on January 20 last year following which ADR had requested the court in October last year to list the matter ahead of the assembly elections in Bihar. However, the matter was not listed. In its PIL, the ADR had sought that the amendments carried out to the Finance Act -- that were passed as Money Bills which provided an anonymous route for political parties to receive corporate funding through electoral bonds -- be struck down. This lack of transparency in the accounts of all political parties was cited as the ground by ADR to oppose this scheme. These donations enjoy 100% tax exemption as they need not be reported to the Income Tax department either, the petition added. “The Electoral Bonds Scheme has opened the floodgates to unlimited corporate donations to political parties and anonymous financing by Indian as well as foreign companies which can have serious repercussions on the Indian democracy,” the application filed by ADR stated, adding that the Finance Act of 2017 exempts use of electoral bonds from disclosure under the Representation of Peoples Act. The ADR moved applications in March 2019 and again in November 2019 to stay the implementation of the Electoral Bond Scheme but the same was not granted. In April 2019, the Supreme Court, in an interim order, asked political parties to disclose to the Election Commission in sealed covers details of donations received by way of electoral bonds. In the same order, the top court had observed that the matter of electoral bonds gives rise to “weighty issues which have a tremendous bearing on the sanctity of the electoral process in the country” which require an in-depth hearing. The fresh application filed on March 9 went on to say: “As per data on Electoral Bonds declared by political parties in their audit reports for the FY 2017-18 and FY 2018-19, the ruling party had received more than 60% of the total electoral bonds issued till date.” So far more than ₹6,500 crore worth of electoral bonds have been sold with the majority of donations going to the ruling party, the ADR claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-to-hear-plea-to-stop-fresh-sale-of-electoral-bonds-on-march-24-101616048234215.html
18-03-2021||India||Delhi CM Kejriwal to meet officials amid rise in Covid-19 cases||A day after Delhi recorded the highest spike in daily cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in more than two months, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal is expected to hold a review meeting with the health minister, health secretary and other officials, news agency ANI reported on Thursday. The meeting has been called to review the rise in Covid-19 cases, said health minister Satyendra Jain.Delhi on Wednesday recorded 536 coronavirus disease cases, the highest in about two-and-a-half months, and three more people died, officials from the health department said. The national capital witnessed a steep rise in active cases which rose to 2,702 from 2,488 a day ago, according to the health bulletin.The 536 cases on Wednesday took the infection tally to 645,025 and 6.31 lakh people have recovered so far. Three new fatalities took the toll to 10,948, while the positivity rate rose to 0.66%, the bulletin said. On Tuesday, 425 cases were recorded with a positivity rate of 0.61%.Health experts and doctors have attributed this "sudden rise" to people turning complacent, not following Covid-19 appropriate behaviour and "assuming all is well now".There were 585 Covid-19 cases reported on January 1 and 424 on January 3. The daily count had dropped to 306 on January 11 and risen again to 386 on January 12, according to official figures. The numbers had started to come down in February. On February 26, the month's highest daily count of 256 cases was recorded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-cm-kejriwal-to-meet-officials-amid-rise-in-covid-19-cases-101616044933097.html
18-03-2021||India||Fresh rain and snowfall predicted in Kashmir later this week||The weather department in Srinagar has predicted fresh rain and snowfall in Kashmir later this week, continuing the trend of back to back rain and snowfall in the upper reaches of Kashmir in the month of March this year. Regional director of Indian Meteorological Department (IMD), Sonam Lotus said the weather will mainly be clear to partly cloudy on Thursday. “Light rain may occur at isolated places of Kashmir towards evening. There’s no forecast of any major rainfall activity till the 20th. As of today, it looks like 70% chance of light to moderate rain and snow during 21-23 March,” he said in a statement on Thursday morning.The summer capital Srinagar recorded a maximum of 4.2 degrees Celsius during the night while Jammu recorded 15.5 degrees. Gulmarg was the coldest place in Kashmir as night temperature was recorded at 1.5 degrees C.Although the month of February witnessed a number of snow spells, it also saw an abrupt increase in maximum temperatures. Kashmir experienced harshest winter in 30 years with temperatures plunging to record levels in the month of January. On January 31, Srinagar recorded minus 8.8 degrees C, lowest since the January of 1991.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fresh-rain-and-snowfall-predicted-in-kashmir-later-this-week-101616047213903.html
18-03-2021||India||Schools shut in Maharashtra’s Palghar after students, teachers contract Covid-19||Authorities in Palghar of Maharashtra, the country’s worst-hit state, closed all educational institutions in the district till further orders after students and a teacher of a residential school tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). “All government schools, colleges, hostels and private schools in Palghar District to remain closed till further orders,” Palghar’s deputy collector Manik Gursal said, according to news agency ANI.News agency PTI cited an official from the health department as saying on Wednesday that 30 students and a teacher from the Nandore Government Ashram School tested positive for Covid-19. The official from the taluka medical office said that the cases came to light after a couple of students displayed symptoms of the viral infection earlier this week, PTI reported. Of the 193 students of the school, 30 tested positive for the infection on Tuesday, he said. The official also said that one of the teachers also contracted the infection.Also read | Covid-19: Maharashtra sees highest single-day spike in 181 daysThe school was declared a containment zone and a notice has been displayed accordingly at the entrance of the facility following the detection of the cases. Infected students and the teacher are currently undergoing treatment at a Covid-19 centre in the district, PTI said. Last week, as many as 79 people, including students, teachers and other staff, of three ashram schools in Jawhar tested positive for Covid-19.Palghar district has reported 46,967 cases of the coronavirus disease and 1,207 people have succumbed so far. Meanwhile, Maharashtra reported 23,179 Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, the highest daily infection count so far this year. The western state reported more than 23,000 Covid-19 cases in September last year. According to the state’s health bulletin, 24,886 Covid-19 cases were recorded on September 11, 2020, and there were 24,619 infections on September 17.Also read | Stop 2nd surge to prevent pan-Indian outbreak: ModiIndia recorded 35,871 new Covid-19 cases, the highest single-day rise in 102 days, which took the infection tally to 11,474,605, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Thursday morning. The country registered 36,011 infections on December 6 last year. Its active caseload reached 252,364, registering an increase for the eighth consecutive day, the health ministry’s data showed. The death toll increased to 159,216 with 172 new fatalities between Wednesday and Thursday morning, it also showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/schools-shut-in-maharashtra-s-palghar-after-students-teachers-contract-covid19-101616046346875.html
18-03-2021||India||CJI pushes collegium for new SC judge’s appointment during his tenure: All you need to know||Chief Justice of India SA Bobde has made the final push for the collegium to make its first recommendation of a judge to be appointed to the Supreme Court during his 14-month tenure. Here is all you need to know about the push just over a month before his retirement:• A meeting of the collegium was held on Wednesday to finalise the names of some high court judges for their elevation to the apex court.• The deliberation could not come to a conclusion, HT reported.• The other judges in the five-member collegium, headed by Bobde, are justices NV Ramana, Rohinton F Nariman, Uday U Lalit, and AM Khanwilkar.Also Read | Anti-Sikh riots case: SC to hear bail plea of Sajjan Kumar today• The discussion took place on a list of at least five names, drawn up by Bobde, from among chief justices and senior judges of the high courts. • The views of the other four senior-most judges in the collegium were sought by Bobde, and no name was finalised for elevation. • Another meeting has been scheduled after next week, HT reported.• Those being considered for elevation to the top court include chief justices of three high courts and two women high court judges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cjipushes-collegium-for-new-sc-judge-s-appointment-during-his-tenure-all-you-need-to-know-101616045773809.html
18-03-2021||India||PM calls for quick steps to check Covid-19: Key takeaways from meeting with CMs||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday warned if a second surge of Covid-19 cases is not stopped, there could be another pan-India outbreak. The warning came at his urgent meeting with chief ministers. Here is all you need to know about the meeting and the issues raised:• Modi said 70 districts have logged an over 150% increase in Covid-19 cases recently, and that “quick and decisive steps” were needed to revamp safety protocols• He called for scaling up RT-PCR testing and vaccination sites.• “This is also a test of good governance,” he said.Also Read | Key sectors must be made disaster-resilient: PM Modi• This was his first such meeting after Covid-19 vaccination started in India on January 16• Modi stressed his “treatment also, stringent protocols also” formula.• He called for bringing the focus back on the test-trace-treat strategy by ensuring at least 70% of tests are through the RT-PCR method.• Modi said more contacts of patients be traced, and micro-containment zones created.• He called for the need to accelerate vaccinations, reduce wastage, and prevent the expiry of doses• Modi highlighted the importance of protecting rural areas that have weaker health resources. • Representatives of at least three states asked Modi to consider allowing more people to seek coronavirus doses. • Several states sought more vaccine doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-calls-for-quick-steps-to-check-covid-19-key-takeaways-from-meeting-with-cms-101616043973780.html
18-03-2021||India||Covid-19: Ahmedabad transport services suspended from today till further notice||In view of the rising cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Gujarat, authorities have suspended buses operated by the Ahmedabad Municipal Transport Service (AMTS) and Ahmedabad Bus Rapid Transit System from Thursday until further notice.The decision to halt transportation services in the city comes in the backdrop of fears of a second wave of the coronavirus pandemic in the country. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday met chief ministers of states and Union territories in this regard and called for "quick and decisive" steps to stop the emerging "second peak" of the infection.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageMeanwhile, the state government also imposed night curfew in Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Surat and Rajkot between 10pm and 6am from Wednesday.Gujarat recorded 1,122 Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, its highest spike since December last year, taking the infection count to 281,173. According to a health official, Gujarat's daily infection count had dropped to below 1,000 on December 21, 2020, but a surge in cases was seen after February.With three fresh deaths -- in Ahmedabad, Surat and Vadodara -- the state's toll rose to 4,430, while the recovery count reached 2,71,433, or 96.45 per cent of the caseload, news agency PTI said quoting the official. The state's active caseload is 5,310, of which 61 patients are on ventilator support.Also Read: Gujarat imposes night curfew in 4 cities till March 31 as Covid-19 cases surge"Surat led with 353 cases on Wednesday, followed by 271 in Ahmedabad, 114 in Vadodara and 112 in Rajkot," he said. Meanwhile, 67,734 people got vaccinated on Wednesday, taking the number of those who got their first and second doses to 22,71,145 and 5,54,662 respectively.India on Thursday registered 35,871 new cases of the infection as the nationwide resurgence of new infections continued. As many as 11,474,605 people have been infected in the country and 159,216 have lost their lives, according to the data released by the Union health ministry.(with PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-ahmedabad-transport-services-suspended-from-today-till-further-notice-101616042879713.html
18-03-2021||India||Covid-19: Maharashtra sees highest single-day spike in 181 days||Maharashtra on Wednesday logged 23,179 fresh Covid-19 cases— the highest single-day spike in 181 days. The state had reached its peak on September 11 last year, with 24,886 cases. It has breached the 20,000-mark 16 times since the pandemic broke out in March 2020, of which, it crossed the 23,000-mark six times, government data showed. The state’s total tally rose to 2,370,507, while its active caseload climbed to 152,760 on Wednesday. Mumbai recorded a 159-day high with 2,377 new cases, taking its tally to 349,974. The active case count in the city was 15,410. The state also reported 84 fatalities, pushing the death toll to 53,080. Mumbai reported eight fatalities, taking its death toll 11,551. Also Read | Prisoners across globe, including in India, forgotten during Covid-19: AmnestyNagpur city reported 2,698 fresh cases—topping the city chart on Wednesday—followed by Pune city, which clocked 2,612 fresh cases. The Mumbai Metropolitan Region (excluding Mumbai) reported 2,434 fresh cases. In MMR, Kalyan-Dombivli logged 637 fresh cases and Thane city, 516 new cases. The first three months of the year have seen a steady rise in Covid-19 cases in the state. In January, the state reported 104,287 cases and 1,561 deaths. This rose to 128,671 fresh cases in February—a jump of 23.38%. Conversely, the deaths reduced by 31.32% in February to 1,072 fatalities. In March so far, Maharashtra’s cases have risen by 67.43% in comparison to February’s cases. In March, the state has reported 215,437 new cases and 926 deaths. State health minister Rajesh Tope said though the cases are increasing, there is no need for panic as the state has adequate number of hospital beds and other life-saving equipment. He said despite the second wave, the number of fatalities and death rate are under control.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-maharashtra-sees-highest-single-day-spike-in-181-days-101616043253665.html
18-03-2021||India||Direct and indirect losses of disasters need to be accounted for: PM Modi||Disasters cause direct and indirect losses and both should be accounted for holistically, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has said while calling upon governments to invest in resilient infrastructure.“When a bridge is lost, a telecom tower falls, power systems fail, or when a school is damaged, the loss is not just the direct damage. We should look at losses holistically. Indirect losses due to disruptions to small businesses and interrupted schooling of children may be several times higher,” Modi said at the inaugural session of the International Conference on Disaster Resilient Infrastructure co-hosted by India and the United Kingdom on Wednesday. “We need the right accounting perspective for a holistic evaluation of the situation. If we make our infrastructure resilient, we will reduce both direct and indirect losses and protect the livelihoods of millions.”Modi said the third edition of the conference was being hosted at an unprecedented time when the world is experiencing a once-in-a-hundred-year disaster. “The Covid-19 pandemic has taught us that in an interdependent and interconnected world, no country--rich or poor, in the east or west, north or south--is immune to the effect of global disasters,” he said, quoting Indian scholar Nagarjuna’s verse on the interconnectedness of all beings.Also Read | Stop 2nd surge to prevent pan-Indian outbreak: ModiWhile 2021 maybe a year of recovery from the pandemic, Modi urged people not to forget the lessons learnt and understand the climate crisis does not have a vaccine yet.“It will take sustained and concerted efforts to mitigate climate change. We also need to adapt to changes that are already being observed and are affecting communities around the world…countries that are making large investments in infrastructure, such as India, must ensure that this is an investment in resilience, and not in risk,” he said. “But as the events of recent weeks have shown, this is not a developing country problem alone. Just last month, the winter storm Uri, knocked out around one-third of electricity generating capacity in Texas, United States. Almost three million people were left without power. Such events can happen.”Modi launched the Coalition of Disaster Resilient Infrastructure (ICDRI) in 2019 at the UN Climate Action Summit 2019 in New York. The coalition has 22 members.Modi said the effect of disaster in one part of the world can quickly spread across the world. “Cooperation is a must for ensuring the resilience of the global system. Infrastructure is developed for the long-term. If we make it resilient, we will prevent disasters not only for ourselves but many future generations,” Modi said. He stressed the need to harness the full potential of geospatial technologies, space-based capabilities, data science, artificial intelligence, material sciences, and combine it with local knowledge to pursue resilience.Modi referred to climate change and said concerns of the most vulnerable nations and communities must be put first. “In this regard, the Small Island Developing Nations that are already experiencing the impacts of worsening disasters must have easy access to all the technology, knowledge and assistance that they consider necessary,” said. He said CDRI must take stock of the performance of some of the key infrastructure sectors particularly health infrastructure and the digital infrastructure that played a central role during the pandemic.UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson called for the need to be ready for whatever challenges may be coming next “...we must not only do everything in our power to strive for global net-zero and ambitious 2030 emissions reductions targets, but we must also adapt to its damaging effects – and build more resilience to disasters. Our roads, our bridges, power lines, schools, hospitals – all the infrastructure we rely on to keep our economies moving and our communities safe – they must be made ready.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/direct-and-indirect-losses-of-disasters-need-to-be-accounted-for-pm-modi-101616043133604.html
18-03-2021||India||Prohibitory orders, large gatherings banned in GB Nagar till April 30||Police in Uttar Pradesh's Gautam Buddh Nagar on Tuesday imposed restrictions prohibiting unauthorised protests and warned of action against people not following Covid-19 protocols like social distancing and wearing face masks in public places. The police, according to an order, invoked section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) till April 30 as a precautionary measure against the coronavirus disease ahead of upcoming festivals. Holi, Good Friday, Maharishi Kashyap Jayanti, Navratri, Ambedkar Jayanti, Ram Navami, Mahavir Jayanti, and Hanuman Jayanti will be celebrated between March 17-April 30."During these occasions, the chances of anti-social elements attempting to disrupt law and order cannot be ruled out," Ashutosh Dwivedi, additional deputy commissioner of police (law and order), said in the order, according to news agency PTI.Also read | UP sees rising trend in Covid casesPeople will have to follow Covid-19 protocols at public places during the period and they will not be allowed to roam around with sticks, rods or firearms at public places except disabled and blind people, the order said. "Nobody will be allowed to hold protests, processions or hunger strikes without permission from the competent authority, nor will they encourage anyone else to do so," the order said. "No firearms will be allowed inside any government or private office during the period. People who have been provided with armed security personnel by the government will ensure that their gunners stay out of offices," it added.Also read | Mayawati welcomes PM Modi’s initiative to convene CMs meet on Covid-19The police also reiterated the complete ban on celebratory firing at events such as weddings and consumption of liquor at public places during the period and cautioned people against selling, playing or displaying any audio or visual, which may create tension."Any violation of the restrictive orders under CrPC section 144 or any of its sub-sections mentioned would lead to the prosecution of offenders under IPC section 188," the order said.Ghaziabad’s district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey has also issued orders under section 144 to prevent gatherings amid the rising Covid-19 cases and in view of the upcoming festivals.According to data released by Uttar Pradesh’s health department, Gautam Buddh Nagar recorded seven new cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday that pushed the district's tally to 25,693. Gautam Buddh Nagar has a death toll of 91 with a mortality rate of 0.35 per cent. The active cases in the district reached 76 from 78 the previous day and the recovery rate reached 99.35 per cent, according to the data.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prohibitory-orders-large-gatherings-banned-in-gb-nagar-till-april-30-101616041460422.html
18-03-2021||India||CBI books Cadbury for fraudulently availing area-based tax benefits in Himachal||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has filed a case against Mondelez, the maker of Cadbury chocolates, its former executives as well as several government officials for setting up a “ghost” production unit of the company in Baddi, Himachal Pradesh. Cadbury allegedly misrepresented facts to avail area-based tax exemption benefits worth around ₹241 crore, according to the CBI First Information Report. Rather than expanding production by creating a unit, Cadbury decided to increase production capacity in its existing unit and avail tax exemption from May 2005, CBI said. The Central Vigilance Commission (CVC) had asked the central anti-corruption agency to look into the matter after the latter filed a Preliminary Enquiry (PE) in 2017, which has now been turned into an FIR. A PE is the first stage of any investigation in the CBI. Also Read | Sensex 350 points higher at 50,161, Nifty at 14,800 in opening tradeThe enquiry revealed that a plant was proposed by Cadbury India in Baddi in 2007 to manufacture its popular chocolates, 5 Star and Gems, so that it could avail area-based excise and tax exemption. To avail the same, some members of the executive board of the company along with the key managers, collectively decided to manipulate records, engage intermediaries to route bribes to the government officials, and cover up evidence, according to the CBI FIR. No new plant was constructed.Cadbury officials, CBI added, “paid bribes, misrepresented facts and manipulated records to fraudulently avail area-based exemption benefits (Central Excise and Income Tax) in Baddi, Himachal Pradesh, knowing fully well that they were not entitled to avail area-based tax exemption benefits”. People familiar with the development said that the CBI teams carried out searches at five places in Himachal Pradesh and Haryana on Wednesday. Among those named in the FIR include Cadbury’s then vice-president (Finance) Vikram Arora, former director, finance Rajesh Garg, former director Jaiboy Phillips (then director, supply chain), and officials of Central Excise among others. A Mondelez India spokesperson said in a statement, “In 2019, the company settled a potentially protracted litigation through the Sabka Vishwas (Legacy Dispute Resolution) Scheme, 2019 – an amnesty scheme introduced by the Indian government to settle tax litigation. This decision was made in the interest of putting an end to protracted litigation to enable us to focus on what we do best, growing our business in India. We are yet to receive any formal communication in the matter from the authorities”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-books-cadbury-for-fraudulently-availing-area-based-tax-benefits-in-himachal-101616041153705.html
18-03-2021||India||India should help revive Palestinian-Israeli peace process: Kuwait foreign min||Kuwait looks to India and the world community to help revive the peace process between Palestinians and Israelis as allowing the matter to linger further could jeopardise any potential for progress, Kuwaiti foreign minister Ahmed Nasser al-Mohammed al-Sabah has said. Al-Sabah, who is in India for a brief visit to hold talks with his counterpart S Jaishankar, made the remarks during an interaction with a small group of reporters late on Wednesday. He said his talks with Jaishankar on Thursday will focus on institutionalising the wide-ranging cooperation between Kuwait and India and creating a framework to help both sides move forward in an objective manner in areas such as food security, energy, trade and investment. Al-Sabah described the Abraham Accords signed by Israel and Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) members such as Bahrain and the United Arab Emirates (UAE) as sovereign decisions by countries regarding the conduct of foreign relations. “Saying that, we think that the peace process is very important. We think that now it is the opportune time to revive the peace process between the Palestinians and the Israelis. We think that if we leave the peace process to linger even further...it might jeopardise any potential for it to see the light of day,” he said. Also Read | Kuwait bans entry for non-Kuwaiti citizens as part of Covid-19 restrictions“And it needs the understanding and the support of the whole international community, including India, in this matter. We think that this issue has taken a long time and has produced a lot of bloodshed, violence and tragedy, but most importantly, despair in the region and among the Palestinians. We are with the peace process and the potential of reviving the peace process is very important to bring back hope for all those affected,” he added. Al-Sabah lauded India for standing by Kuwait in its “darkest moments and in our direst time”, including the provision of medical assistance during the peak of the Covid-19 pandemic last year. He singled out the “white army of Indian nationals” – or nurses and doctors – who were combating Covid-19 alongside Kuwaitis. “Even when there was a total lockdown in India, the Indian leadership sent medical assistance to Kuwait and this was very much appreciated,” he said. India deployed a medical rapid response team to Kuwait last April to help in testing and treating infected people. The 15-member team was sent at the request of the Kuwait government. Al-Sabah also played down a bill on reducing the number of foreign nationals that was discussed last year by Kuwait’s Parliament, saying it was only aimed at illegal residents. Kuwait’s population of 4.1 million includes 1.4 million Kuwaitis and almost 900,000 Indians, he noted. “They [Indians] share with us our bread and butter. They have contributed very much and are still contributing in our development and strengthening our cooperation,” he said. “The Indian community is an element of security of Kuwait and also an integral part of the new generation ahead as they are very much involved in our education system. The bill discussed last year was only for illegal expats in Kuwait and is not aimed at any of the more than 170 nationalities present in the country,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-should-help-revive-palestinian-israeli-peace-process-kuwait-foreign-min-101616040733531.html
18-03-2021||India||1 person arrested in Silchar airport hoax bomb threat case||Assam resident Shahid Ahmed Laskar has been arrested in connection with the hoax bomb threat incident at Silchar airport on Tuesday afternoon and is currently under interrogation by Cachar police, said police officials.A chit with a message, “there is a bomb in the aircraft”, was found inside Spicejet flight (SG8152) which was scheduled to depart from Silchar for Guwahati on the afternoon of March 16. It created panic among the passengers and the flight was delayed by seven hours. However, no bomb or any other suspicious substance was found during the search of the aircraft by a bomb squad.As per Cachar police officials, the chit carrying the bomb threat was found near the seat of Shahid Ahmed Laskar, a resident of Hailakandi district, who had flown to Silchar on the same flight from Delhi. His phone was found to be in switched-off mode for hours after he left the airport. The police located him finally by tracking his mobile. Later, he was arrested, said Bhargav Goswami, deputy superintendent of police, DSP (HQ).Laskar was produced before a local court on Wednesday afternoon and was sent to three days in police remand for further interrogation. Cachar deputy commissioner Keerthi Jalli has appealed to fliers using the Silchar airport, not to panic. “Bomb disposal squad visited the place and did a thorough check up and we couldn’t find any trace (of a bomb). Magistrate in-charge and DSP were on the spot. We will still be on our guard but request the public not to panic or believe in any rumours,” said Jalli.Prime Minister Narendra Modi is holding a public rally in Karimganj district on Thursday and is expected to land at Silchar airport in a special flight. From the airport, he’ll take a chopper to the venue. Special security arrangements have been made for the trip.Cachar superintendent of police Bhanwar Lal Meena has asked for deployment of 69 companies of Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF) in the district for the upcoming assembly elections.“We have 1,834 polling stations across the district and there are sensitive areas as well. We already have our police and CRPF teams but we need special armed forces for smooth run of law and order during the elections,” said Meena.All the three districts of Barak Valley will vote on April 1. Counting of votes will take place on May 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1-person-arrested-in-silchar-airport-hoax-bomb-threat-case-101616040613567.html
18-03-2021||India||India records 35,871 new Covid-19 cases, highest daily spike this year||India on Thursday registered 35,871 new cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), pushing the cumulative tally past 11,474,605 in the last 24 hours, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated at 8am. The country has recorded more than 20,000 cases for the eighth day in a row, indicating a sharp rise in cases and a likely second wave.The active caseload in the country, increasing for a week now, was logged at 252,364 on Thursday. This accounts for 2.05 % of the total cases.The death toll soared to 159,216 with 172 new fatalities, the highest in around two months, the data updated at 8 am showed.Also read: Stop 2nd surge to prevent pan-Indian outbreak, says ModiMaharashtra, India's worst affected state by the viral disease, has been driving the country's tally as it saw 23,179 Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, the highest single-day infection count so far in 2021, a health official said. The last time cases hovered past the 23,000-mark in the state was in September last year. On September 11, 2020, the state reported 24,886 cases and on September 17, there were 24,619 infections.This was the sixth-highest one-day spike of infection cases in the state since the pandemic began last year. As many as 30,254 new infections were recorded in a span of 24 hours on December 13.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday met the chief ministers of states and called for "quick and decisive" steps to stop the emerging "second peak" of Covid-19.Also read: Over 150% rise in Covid cases in 70 districts, states asked to boost testingPM Modi warned chief ministers during a video interaction that a "nationwide outbreak" may emerge again, and asked them to seriously follow the "Test, Track and Treat" approach. In his interaction over the pandemic and progress in the Covid-19 vaccination drive, Modi said states like Maharashtra and Punjab have been seeing a rise in cases while the positivity rate has shot up in Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-35-871-new-covid-19-cases-highest-daily-spike-this-year-101616031851455.html
18-03-2021||India||SC to hear NCB’s appeal against bail to Rhea Chakraborty today||The Supreme Court will today hear an appeal by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) against the bail granted to actor Rhea Chakraborty in a drugs-related case linked to the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput in Mumbai.A bench of Chief Justice of India SA Bobde and justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian will hear the NCB’s appeal against the Bombay high court order.Also Read | NCB arrests 3 in Goa, including 1 linked to Sushant Singh Rajput caseThe court had granted bail to Chakraborty, noting she could not be charged for her alleged involvement in commercial trade of the narcotics because there was no concrete evidence to prima facie make out such a case against her.It had also underlined that no narcotics was recovered from her possession by the NCB sleuths, who had accused Chakraborty of being a part of a drug syndicate in Mumbai.She was arrested in this case by the NCB in September last year and was released on bail after spending more than a month behind bars.In its charge sheet against Chakraborty, NCB has said that she procured and financed narcotic substances for Rajput with the help of her brother Showik. In this regard Maneshinde said, “The court has found no prima facie material, at the stage of bail, of alleged financing drugs etc.”In its charge sheet, in which it named Chakraborty and 32 others, NCB said Chakraborty took delivery of drugs at her residence, and thus drugs were stored at her house. The actor, through her lawyer, has denied all the charges. She has allegedly provided fund for purchase of drugs; thus she has financed an activity related to illicit drug dealings, NCB has claimed. Rajput was found dead in his Mumbai apartment in June last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-to-hear-ncb-s-appeal-against-bail-to-rhea-chakraborty-today-101616038573270.html
18-03-2021||India||News updates from HT: PM Modi to address rallies in West Bengal, Assam today||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.PM Modi to address rallies in West Bengal's Purulia, Assam's Karimganj todayPrime Minister Narendra Modi will address public rallies in West Bengal and Assam on Thursday. The events, to be held at 11am and 3pm respectively, are a part of the Bharatiya Janata Party's (BJP) campaign in the two poll-bound states. Read more.Rain, thunderstorms likely over central India for next 5 days: IMDThunderstorms and rain are likely over many parts of western Himalayas and northwest India today, according to the India Meteorological Department. Rain and thunderstorms are also likely over central India for the next five days. Read more.How Bengal economy has fared over the last decadeDuring the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)‘s election campaign in West Bengal, home minister Amit Shah said the state’s economic performance was much worse than BJP-ruled states. Read more.'More than half of our team had failed': Sehwag reveals what could have led to Kohli's obsession with fitnessAverage fielding and catches being dropped are nothing new in Indian cricket. But when it happens despite the high fielding and fitness standards set by the current Indian team, it is bound to leave many surprised. As unbelievable as it is, irrespective of how good a physical shape the Indian players are in, the standard of fielding doesn't do justice to it. Read more.Priyanka Chopra is mesmerising in ₹1.8 lakh halter-neck dress with Nick JonasMiss World 2000 Priyanka Chopra had a great start to the week. The actor was all set to announce the Oscar nominees with husband Nick Jonas and was elated after realising that her film The White Tiger had also been nominated in the category of best-adapted screenplay. Read more.Happy birthday Ratna Pathak Shah: Here's why she is Bollywood's hit momRatna Pathak Shah is known to a generation of television viewers thanks to her winning presence in Sarabhai versus Sarabhai. The actor made her debut back in the 1980s with Mandi (1983) and went on to make her presence felt in a number of iconic films like Mirch Masala (1987), The Perfect Murder (1988) and Bharat Ek Khoj (1988, TV). Read more.Watch: Ambani threat accused Sachin Vaze taken to Mahim creek amid probeAmbani bomb scare accused Sachin Vaze was seen with investigators. The suspended cop was taken to Mahim creek as part of probe. National Investigation Agency (NIA) team was seen escorting Vaze. Watch full video.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-pm-modi-to-address-rallies-in-west-bengal-assam-today-101616037724800.html
18-03-2021||India||Heatwave in Gujarat’s Saurashtra, Kutch; IMD issues yellow alert||Gujarat’s Saurashtra and Kutch region will continue to reel under heatwave conditions till Thursday, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said. The weather bureau has also said there won’t be any significant change in maximum temperatures over most parts of Gujarat during the next 48 hours and it would fall by 2-3°C after that. “No heat wave very likely over the country during next 5 days except over Saurashtra & Kutch, where heat wave conditions in isolated places are very likely on 17th & 18th March,” IMD said on Wednesday.The weather bureau has also issued a yellow alert over the Saurashtra and Kutch region. “Heat is tolerable for the general public but moderate health concern for vulnerable people e.g. infants, elderly, people with chronic diseases,” IMD said and addedthat people should avoid heat exposure.The met department declares a heatwave when the maximum temperature is at least 40°C and between 4.5°C and 6.4°C higher than the normal or when the maximum temperature is over 45°C for two stations in a sub-division for two consecutive days.It considers a severe heatwave when the maximum temperature is at least 40°C and more than 6.4°C higher than the normal or when the maximum temperature is more than 47°C.IMD has issued a forecast of above-normal summers for north and east India which usually sees a high number of deaths due to heatwaves. In its summer forecast for March to May made earlier this month, IMD said day temperatures are likely to be above normal in north, northeast, parts of east and west India. "However, below normal seasonal maximum temperatures are likely over most of the subdivisions of the south peninsula and adjoining central India," it added.It has said there is a probability forecast for above maximum temperatures in Chhattisgarh, Odisha, Gujarat, coastal Maharashtra, Goa and coastal Andhra Pradesh.The IMD had said earlier this year that 2020 was the eighth warmest since 1901 but it was "substantially lower" than the highest warming observed in 2016. According to the weather department, the past two decades - 2001-2010 and 2011-2020 - were also the warmest decades on record with anomalies of 0.23 degree Celsius and 0.34 degree Celsius respectively, indicating the overall rising temperature.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heatwave-in-gujarat-s-saurashtra-kutch-imd-issues-yellow-alert-101616036115026.html
18-03-2021||India||Shashi Tharoor to court: Cause of Sunanda’s death not established||Congress MP Shashi Tharoor on Wednesday told a Delhi court that doctors have not been able to ascertain the cause of death or establish whether his wife, Sunanda Pushkar, died by suicide, adding that the case of abetment to suicide against him was nothing but a figment of imagination of the police.Tharoor, represented by senior advocate Vikas Pahwa, contended that Pushkar was already in bad health before arriving in the national capital on the day of her death.Pahwa said there was enough evidence to show that Pushkar boarded the plane on a wheelchair and continued to use it till the time she reached her hotel room. “In January 2014, she was not a healthy person. A lady who can’t walk, who was on a wheelchair, who had autoimmune disease, they say such a lady is fit,” Pahwa told the court.Pushkar, 51, was found dead in a hotel room on January 17, 2014, after which police charged her husband and Congress MP Shashi Tharoor for abetment to suicide, among other charges.Tharoor has consistently denied all charges, calling them preposterous and motivated.On May 14, 2018, Tharoor said in a tweet: “ I have taken note of the filing of this preposterous charge sheet & intend to contest it vigorously. No one who knew Sunanda believes she would ever have committed suicide, let alone abetment on my part...If this is conclusion arrived at after 4+ yrs of investigation it does not speak well of the methods or motivations of the Delhi Police....!”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shashi-tharoor-to-court-cause-of-sunanda-s-death-not-established-101616034764843.html
18-03-2021||India||AIMIM prevents BJP from returning to power in Gujarat’s 2002 epicentre Godhra||The All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) on Wednesday prevented the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) from returning to power in the municipality of Godhra, which was the epicentre of the 2002 Hindutva assertion in Gujarat, by supporting a battery of independent candidates to capture power, said AIMIM state president Sabir Kabliwala.“Out of the seventeen independents, who are part of the 44 -strong board, five are non-Muslims. We were successful in stopping BJP from returning to power in Godhra municipality," Kabliwala said.Despite the BJP winning 18 seats in the 44-member Godhra Municipality, it could not return to power as the AIMIM, with seven seats, threw its weight behind a group of 17 independents.The AIMIM backed Sanjay Soni was elected as the president of Godhra Municipality. Soni contested as a BJP rebel along with five other rebels, who all won as independents. The rest of the winning independent candidates in the grouping are from the Muslim community.Besides the BJP’s 18, an equal number of independents won the Godhra Municipality polls, held on February 28, with seven members of AIMIM and one from the Congress party. One of the 18 Independents, Sophiya Jamaal, abstained from voting.While the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) opened its account in Gujarat by becoming the main opposition party in the Surat Municipal Corporation, the AIMIM won seven seats in the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation in the elections held last month.Also Read: As Covid-19 cases rise, bus services in Ahmedabad suspended till further ordersSimilarly, nine of the 12 candidates of Asaduddin Owaisi’s party won in the Modasa Municipality polls in North Gujarat and seven of its eight candidates emerged victorious in Godhra Municipality.59 train passengers, mostly Hindu devotees returning from Ayodhya, were burnt alive inside S-6 coach of Sabarmati express near Godhra station on February 27, 2002 in a conspiracy by Muslim miscreants. The incident triggered riots in the state, leading to deaths of hundreds of Muslims and also some Hindus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aimim-prevents-bjp-from-returning-to-power-in-gujarat-s-2002-epicentre-godhra-101616033494428.html
18-03-2021||India||I-T Department detects ₹400-cr black income after raids in Tamil Nadu||The Income Tax Department on Wednesday claimed to have detected undisclosed income of about ₹400 crore after it raided some entities based in poll-bound Tamil Nadu who handle "huge" cash and have offshore links.The Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT), which frames policy for the tax department, said in a statement that the raids were carried out on March 11 at 20 locations in Chennai, Coimbatore, Salem, Virudhunagar and Theni.The department also seized an "unaccounted" cash of ₹50 lakh, jewellery worth ₹3 crore and nine luxury vehicles worth ₹12.5 crore after the searches on a "group of individuals who are involved in handling huge amount of cash and routing unaccounted money through foreign entities and bank accounts of their related concerns"."The evidences found in the searched premises revealed that cash deposits of more than ₹100 crore were made through various entities in the guise of sale and purchase of agricultural commodities, whereas no such activity exists and no stock was found."The sale and purchase invoices were found to be fabricated by their employees," the CBDT claimed.Sales and stock were circulated among group entities to manipulate the turnover to obtain bank loans, it said."Many of these entities had not filed any tax return so far. While ₹150 crore was received by a group entity through a debenture issue from a foreign entity, the evidences found during the search revealed that this was a sham transaction and all the money went to the personal accounts of these individuals," the CBDT claimed.It said the entities also had imported spices wherein they over-invoiced the import cost to about ₹25 crore. "To this extent, money was siphoned-off from India and diverted to their personal accounts in other countries.  During the search, evidence was also found, which showed that numerous immovable properties have been purchased in the last 3-4 years in the prime locations of Chennai and other towns of Tamil Nadu at a value even lesser than circle rates," the CBDT alleged. Many of these properties were also not disclosed in the tax returns."More than 25 luxury cars were found during the search, and many were unaccounted. Evidence has also been found of the existence of undisclosed foreign bank accounts, foreign credit cards and investments in foreign entities," the statement said.The searches, it said, have resulted in the detection of undisclosed income of around ₹400 crore till now and relevant investigations under the Anti-Blackmoney Act will also be carried out. Tamil Nadu will witness a single phase voting on April 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/it-department-detects-rs-400-cr-black-income-after-raids-in-tamil-nadu-101616030156012.html
18-03-2021||India||Key sectors must be made disaster-resilient: PM Modi||The global community must review the performance of key sectors such as health and digital infrastructure during the Covid-19 pandemic, and come up with ways to make them more resilient in future, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Wednesday.Inaugurating an international conference on disaster resilient infrastructure, Modi cited the example of a winter storm knocking out a third of electricity generating capacity in the US state of Texas last month, and said countries making large investments in infrastructure, such as India, must ensure such investments are not at risk.Systems such as digital infrastructure, shipping lines and aviation networks cover the globe, and the effect of a disaster in one part of the world can quickly spread across countries, he said. Cooperation is a must for ensuring the resilience of the global system, he added.“We must take stock of the performance of some of the key infrastructure sectors particularly health infrastructure and the digital infrastructure, that played a central role during the pandemic. What are the lessons from these sectors? And how can we make them more resilient for the future,” Modi said.“When a bridge is lost, a telecom tower falls, power systems fail, or when a school is damaged, the loss is not just the direct damage. We should look at losses holistically....If we make our infrastructure resilient, we will reduce both direct and indirect losses and protect the livelihoods of millions,” Modi said at the conference that’s co-hosted by India and the United Kingdom.The Coalition for Disaster Resilient Infrastructure (CDRI), which is co-chaired by India and the UK, must embody the central promise of the sustainable development goals, which means “leave no one behind” and put the concerns of most vulnerable nations and communities first, Modi said.British Prime Minister Boris Johnson, who addressed the event virtually, said he and Modi have a shared vision for a sustainable future for the global community, and he was looking forward to discussing such issues during his upcoming visit to India in April.“If our battle with Covid-19 has taught us anything over the past year, it is that we must be ready for whatever challenges may be coming next,” he said.Vaccine Maitri has created goodwill for India: JaishankarThe Vaccine Maitri initiative, which has so far supplied made-in-India Covid-19 vaccines to 72 countries, demonstrated the quality of the country’s products and generated great international goodwill, external affairs minister S Jaishankar said on Wednesday.“Our reputation as the ‘pharmacy of the world’ has been reinforced,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/key-sectors-must-be-made-disaster-resilient-pm-modi-101616029746736.html
18-03-2021||India||4 removed from flight for flouting Covid-19 norms||The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) said on Wednesday four people onboard a flight from Jammu to New Delhi were deboarded for not following Covid-19 protocol, the first such incident to penalise people who don’t adhere to norms amid a surge in infections in the country.Four passengers on board Alliance Air flight 91 614 from Jammu to New Delhi on Tuesday were deboarded after being charged as “unruly/disruptive passengers” and handed over to security agencies at the Delhi airport, the aviation regulator said.The government on Saturday directed airport authorities and airlines to take strict action against those not complying with Covid-19 protocols at airports and inside planes. Those found flouting rules could be offloaded and handed over to security agencies, DGCA said on Saturday.“It was observed during Alliance Air flight 91 614 from Jammu to Delhi on 16 March 2021 that four (04) passengers… were not wearing their masks. Repeated Instructions requests were made by the crew including the Pilot In Command through PA system. They were not following the COVID-19 related protocols irrespective of repeated instructions,” the airline said in its communication to DGCA on Wednesday. “These four passengers were treated as unruly passengers as per CAR Section 3 Series M Part VI and all the recommended procedures were followed by the crew. All the four unruly passengers were handed over to security agencies on arrival at Delhi airport,” it added.This came days after the Delhi high court issued a set of guidelines that empower airline crew to offload any passenger not wearing masks properly and to put them on the no-fly list if they exhibit “stubborn reluctance”.The judge took note of the callous attitude of passengers at airports and passed directions to DGCA.“Alliance Air briefs passengers at every touch point, makes regular in-flight announcements. However, on constant request, when the passengers did not adhere to the laid down guidelines and could have endangered other fellow passengers, we apprised the concerned authorities,” the airline said in a statement.On Wednesday, DGCA also informed the Delhi high court that action is being taken against passengers not wearing masks properly despite repeated warnings and they will be de-boarded from planes before departure and treated as “unruly passengers”.DGCA, represented by additional solicitor general (ASG) Chetan Sharma, told a bench of justice Navin Chawla and justice C Hari Shankar that it has also take action against four passengers on the Jammu to Delhi flight on March 16 and declared them “unruly” for not wearing masks.The passengers were handed over to the security officials and action would be initiated against them under the civil aviation requirements (CAR), advocate Anjana Gosain, the central government’s standing counsel (CGSC), said.The court was hearing a plea it initiated after justice Hari Shankar, while travelling on a flight from Kolkata on March 5, observed that the passengers were not wearing masks properly and defied the repeated requests made by the judge himself.DGCA told the court that it issued a circular on March 13 relating to strict guidelines to be followed in the airports.“In case any passenger on board an aircraft refuses to wear mask or violates the ‘COVID-19 Protocol for passengers’ even after repeated warnings, during the course of the fight, such passenger may be treated as ‘Unruly Passenger’ as defined... Civil Aviation Requirements (CAR)...and the procedure in respect of handling such unruly passenger, as provided in above mentioned CAR, shall be followed by the concerned airlines,” it said adding that surprise checks are also being conducted.The bench, after noting the submissions of the counsels, said that proactive steps have been taken by the authorities while noting that the initiation of punitive action against the violators is a welcome step.India’s daily infection tally on Wednesday touched 35,836 – the highest single-day case increase in the country in over a 100 days, or since December 5, clearly underlining the rising second wave of infections.Delhi also continued its trend of rising infections as the city reported 536 new cases on Wednesday, the highest daily infections since January 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-removed-from-flight-for-flouting-covid-19-norms-101616026194713.html
18-03-2021||India||Stop 2nd surge to prevent pan-Indian outbreak: Modi||If India does not stop a second surge of Covid-19 cases, it could face another pan-Indian outbreak, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Wednesday during an urgent meeting with chief ministers, some of whom asked the Union government to open up the vaccination drive to allow more people to become eligible.The PM said 70 districts have logged an over 150% increase in Covid-19 cases recently, and that “quick and decisive steps” were needed to revamp safety protocols, scale up RT-PCR testing, and add more vaccination sites.“This is also a test of good governance,” the PM told the chief ministers in his first meeting with them since vaccination started in India on January 16, and stressed on his mantra of “davai bhi, kadai bhi” (treatment also, stringent protocols also).“We have to stop this rising second surge immediately, and for this, we need quick and decisive steps,” the PM said.The PM raised several key points — bringing focus back on the test-trace-treat strategy by ensuring at least 70% of tests are through the RT-PCR method, more contacts of patients are traced, and micro-containment zones are created; the need to accelerate vaccinations, reduce wastage, and prevent expiry of doses; and the importance of protecting villages and rural areas that have weaker health resources. “Our progress in the fight against Covid gives us confidence. But this should not turn into overconfidence. Our success should not turn into carelessness. We also need to ensure we don’t go into panic, or let fear spread. We have to be proactive in this phase,” he said.On Wednesday, Union health ministry separately listed out districts in 12 states and Union territories where infections have grown significantly. From a low of around 11,000 cases every day in the second week of February – the lowest levels recorded since the outbreak began in the country in March last year – India is now recording over 24,000 cases a day on a weekly average. On Wednesday, it added 35,836 cases, highest since December 5.Representatives of at least three states asked the PM at the meeting to consider allowing more people to seek coronavirus doses. At present, people above the age of 60 or those older than 45 but with certain medical conditions are eligible for doses.The demand to relax these conditions came from Maharashtra’s CM Uddhav Thackeray, Punjab CM Amarinder Singh and Kerala’s tourism minister K Surendran, filling in for CM Pinarayi Vijayan. According to officials in Punjab and Maharashtra, both the states pointed to a large number of infections among younger people to call for those groups to be included. Singh also suggested lawyers and judges should be added in the priority list.According to the Maharashtra CM’s office, Thackeray said: “Keeping in mind that there is young population among those who are getting infected, people above age 45, irrespective of comorbidities, should get vaccination”. According to a functionary present in the meeting, the PM replied we might not need to go to that level of vaccination.Several of the states also urged the Union government to send over more vaccine doses. “I have already informed the Union health ministry about the state’s plan to inoculate 300,000 people on a daily basis. At present, the state has a stock that will last only for the next 10 days,” said Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope. Similar demands were made by West Bengal and Karnataka.PM Modi outlined the need to accelerate vaccinations as well as the number of tests being carried out, and in particular highlighted regions where vaccine wastage was high. “We need to take the process of test-trace-treat as seriously as we did over the past year. Every infected person’s contacts should be traced in the quickest amount of time, and it is important to ensure at least 70% of all tests are through the RT-PCR method,” Modi said.Modi said governments must focus on ramping up testing in smaller cities. “Till now, over tier-2 and tier-3 cities largely avoided the worst of the outbreaks. Hence, the villages in their vicinities were spared. But if the virus now reaches these regions, our resources could fall short,” he said. The PM asked for micro-containment zones to be set up and noted that “in some places, local administration is not very strict on wearing masks. These issues must be resolved.” He noted that some states made certain recommendations about the vaccination process and that while the country has scaled up the process, it now needs to address wastage. “Telangana and Andhra Pradesh have 10% wastage of vaccines. UP has near 10% wastage. More beneficiaries should be mobilised...States must target zero wastage of vaccines,” Modi said, suggesting daily monitoring of vaccine usage. “If we waste vaccines, we are robbing someone’s right to get vaccinated. We cannot take that right away from anyone.”Since it began vaccinating people on January 16, India has delivered 36.4 million doses. In the last 24 hours, 1.4 million doses were delivered. “If more centres can be added and they work on a mission mode, we will reduce wastage... Also, keep in mind the expiry date of the vaccine. Use the earlier batches first,” Modi said, hailing how 3 million people were vaccinated on one single day.During the meeting, Union home minister Amit Shah highlighted districts that require special focus. Health secretary Rajesh Bhushan gave a presentation on the Covid situation and the vaccination strategy.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stop-2nd-surge-to-prevent-pan-indian-outbreak-modi-101616015307478.html
18-03-2021||India||CJI’s final push for collegium to appoint 1st SC judge in his tenure||Just over a month away from his retirement, Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde has made the final push for the collegium to make its first recommendation of a judge to be appointed to the Supreme Court during his 14-month tenure.On Wednesday, a meeting of the collegium took place to finalise the names of some high court judges for their elevation to the apex court but the deliberation could not come to a conclusion, people familiar with the development said on condition of anonymity.The other judges in the five-member collegium, headed by CJI Bobde, are justices NV Ramana, Rohinton F Nariman, Uday U Lalit and AM Khanwilkar.The discussion took place on a list of at least five names, drawn up by CJI Bobde, from among chief justices and senior judges of the high courts, the people cited above said. The views of the other four senior-most judges in the collegium were sought by the CJI, and no name was finalised on Wednesday for elevation. Another meeting has been scheduled after next week, the people added.Those being considered for elevation to the top court include chief justices of three high courts and two women high court judges. After justice Indu Malhotra’s retirement last week, the apex court is left with just one woman judge, justice Indira Banerjee.The Supreme Court, which has a sanctioned strength of 34 judges, has five vacancies at the moment.As a matter of convention, the CJI usually stops recommending names for appointment of judges a month before their retirement. CJI Bobde will demit office on April 23.There has been no consensus in the collegium over sending any name to the central government for appointment to the apex court since Justice Bobde took over as CJI in November 2019.The last time a CJI retired without making any new appointments to the Supreme Court during their tenure was during CJI HL Dattu’s tenure in 2015. That was owing to a standoff between the judiciary and the central government over the National Judicial Appointments Commission (NJAC) that aimed to redefine the appointment process.This time, however, the stalemate within the collegium was triggered by the lack of consensus on recommending justice Akil A Kureshi, currently chief justice of the Tripura high court, as a judge in the apex court.To be sure, the collegium headed by CHI Bobde has made several recommendations for appointments to the high courts.The collegium has been unable to decide on any name for the top court over the past six months because the discussion over justice Kureshi is yet to be resolved, the people said. Due to this, other recommendations have been held up too, they added.HT reported on February 21 that the impasse over justice Kureshi may cost the country the opportunity to have its first woman CJI since it has led to uncertainty over the timely elevation of justice BV Nagarathna from the Karnataka high court, who, if elevated now, could become India’s first woman CJI in 2027.Justice Kureshi was appointed as a judge in the Gujarat high court in 2004, and is scheduled to retire in March 2022, at the age of 62. Supreme Court judges retire at 65, and judges get an automatic extension of three years once elevated to the apex court.In May 2019, the Supreme Court collegium recommended justice Kureshi’s appointment as the chief justice of the Madhya Pradesh high court, but the central government expressed its reservations.This prompted the collegium to modify its recommendation in September 2019 and transfer justice Kureshi to a different high court – as chief justice of the Tripura high court, a relatively smaller high court than Madhya Pradesh’s.Under the procedure of judicial appointments, after the names are forwarded to it by the collegium, the Union law ministry has the option of sending the recommendations back to the collegium for review.But if the collegium resubmits them, the government has to approve the names — although there is no time frame mandated for this approval, which means the process can be delayed indefinitely.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cjis-final-push-for-collegium-to-appoint-1st-sc-judge-in-his-tenure-101616009551294.html
18-03-2021||India||Congress built sub-standard buildings: Puri on Central Vista criticism||Responding to Congress’ criticism on the Central Vista project in Parliament on Wednesday, Union housing minister Hardeep Puri said the Congress built “substandard” buildings including Krishi Bhawan, Shastri Bhawan and Nirman Bhawan adding that they are not fit to be used.“If buildings like Krishi Bhawan, Shastri Bhawan and Nirman Bhawan will have to come down, will you be sorry because you built those buildings and they were substandard buildings. They are not fit for offices,” Puri said during Question Hour in the Rajya Sabha.The minister was responding in Rajya Sabha to questions raised by Congress MP Amee Yajnik over the number of buildings set to be demolished for the redevelopment of the Central Vista.“We are now going to relocate you. Madam, we will relocate you to a new parliament building where you will have enough space,” he added.Puri also said the Centre has not taken any decision on how the old Parliament building will be used.“At this point of time, no comprehensive thought has been given to what precise use the old parliament building will be put to. Several suggestions keep coming, including that there should be an institute for democratic and parliament studies. These are merely suggestions. No decisions have been taken,” he said.The plan, being handled by the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs, involves having a new Parliament building in place by India’s 75th Independence Day in 2022, while the entire project, which includes constructing 11 administrative buildings to house all the government ministries, is slated to be finished by 2024. Tata Projects Limited was tasked with the construction of the new Parliament complex on September 29, 2020.Broadly, the plan also includes razing buildings such as Shastri Bhawan, Udyog Bhawan and Krishi Bhawan that house important government ministries to build a common secretariat for roughly 70,000 central government employees who are currently located across 30 buildings.“We hope that the next Winter Session of Parliament will be held in the new parliament building in 2022 which also happens to be the 75th year of Independence,” Puri said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-built-sub-standard-buildings-puri-on-central-vista-criticism-101616006291230.html
18-03-2021||India||Once a Cong bastion in Puducherry, Yanam to witness a close contest||Hyderabad Yanam, an assembly constituency of the Union Territory of Puducherry, geographically located in Andhra Pradesh, is witnessing an interesting battle in the ongoing elections to the 30-member assembly scheduled to be held on April 6. The Congress, which has been dominating this 17th century French colony for the last three decades, has virtually disappeared from the political scene with its five-time lawmaker and former health minister Malladi Krishna Rao quitting the party, triggering the collapse of the Narayanswamy government last month. Rao announced that he won’t be contesting the elections from Yanam again as he wanted to take a break from politics to devote more time to his family. Interestingly, Rao addressed his supporters at Yanam and declared his support to former chief minister N Rangasamy, founder-president of All India Namathu Rajiyam Congress (AINRC), which has now joined the AIADMK-BJP alliance in Puducherry. “As a result of Rao’s announcement, all his followers and other Congress functionaries quit the party and joined the AINRC en masse, giving a massive blow to the grand old party. Now, there is no candidate for the Congress to contest the assembly elections from Yanam,” said Ganga Prasad, a local political analyst. On Wednesday, Rangasamy filed his nominations from Yanam assembly constituency amidst much fanfare. A large number of erstwhile Congress workers and followers of Rao took part in the nomination process. The former CM has already filed his nomination from Thattanchavady constituency in Puducherry. According to Prasad, more than one-thirds of the total number of 37,747 voters in Yanam, all Telugus, hail from Agnikula Kshatriya (fishermen) community. “Malladi Krishna Rao also belongs to this community and had been winning the elections for the last five terms only because of their vote bank. Now that he has supported Rangasamy, these voters are expected to turn in his favour,” he said. However, Rangasamy is expected to face a tough challenge from 35-year-old Gollapalli Ashok, who filed his nomination as an independent. Ashok, originally a BJP leader, had been hoping to get the party ticket from Yanam, but with BJP allotting the seat to AINRC as part of alliance, he turned a rebel. “Ashok represents Kapu community, which is the second largest caste group in Yanam. He is pinning hopes on his caste, besides the anti-Malladi Krishna Rao group in the Congress as well,” he said. Another independent candidate Pemmadi Durga Prasad is also posing a tough challenge to the main parties. The DMK is yet to announce its candidate in Yanam, Prasad said. According to Sadanala Babu, a local whose family is of French nationality, said the major issue that plays a major role in the assembly elections in Yanam is lack of employment opportunities for the youth. “There are no industries, big or small, in this area. The only major industry Regency Ceramics was closed down following worst-ever clashes in January 2012, in which workers killed the factory manager. The youth are forced to migrate to neighbouring Andhra Pradesh towns in search of work. Otherwise, they would have to put up with fishing activity,” Babu said. For everything, including drinking water to irrigation to electricity supply, Yanam has to depend on Andhra Pradesh, which surrounds this tiny town from all sides. “Even the schools are affiliated to Andhra Pradesh secondary education board and colleges with AP universities. The only advantage is that students of Yanam have a quota in medical and engineering colleges in Puducherry, which are very popular,” Babu said. According to P Kumar, a vernacular reporter, a section of people in Yanam is of the view that if Puducherry gets the statehood, they would become part of Andhra Pradesh and they would get access to the welfare and developmental programmes of Andhra Pradesh government. “Many political parties including AINRC and AIADMK have promised Puducherry in the past to fight for its statehood. But majority people from Yanam, including Malladi Krishna Rao, opposed it saying Yanam would lose its identity if it is merged with AP. So, the demand remained only on paper,” Kumar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/once-a-cong-bastion-in-puducherry-yanam-to-witness-a-close-contest-101616006170166.html
18-03-2021||India||Police Violated Nirbhaya Act in Jarkiholi Probe: Petition in HC||A Bengaluru-based non-government organisation (NGO) on Wednesday filed a petition before the Karnataka High Court, claiming the investigation in the alleged sex tape case involving former state minister Ramesh Jarkiholi violated the provisions of the Nirbhaya Act, 2013.“Our organisation has filed an information of offences against the top brass of the Karnataka State Police such as Commissioner of Police, Bangalore City Police, DCP of Central Division, Bangalore City Police and the Inspector of Police at Cubbon Park PS for failing to carry out their duties in a disciplined manner, acting in a prejudiced manner against the said complainant as well as the purported victim…,” read the petition filed with the high court, a copy of which is available with HT.The petition alleged that officers of Bengaluru police displayed “gross incompetence by buckling under the pressure of the powerful ruling political class”. “In the said complaint against the powerful cabinet minister, the complainant is treated like an accused while the accused is treated as though he is the victim,” read the petition.Adarsh Iyer, the co-president of the NGO, said the contents of the complaint registered by activist Dinesh Kalahalli required an FIR under Section 376 C of the Indian Penal Code. “This section was amended under the Nirbhaya Act, 2013. The failure on the side of the police to file an FIR could invite imprisonment under Section 166 of IPC,” said Iyer.“Further, the Home Minister and the Commissioner of Police, Bangalore City Police acted upon the letter by accused Ramesh Jarkiholi and formed an SIT of top officers of the Karnataka State Police, which is a gross misuse of political and official power, respectively and at the expense of taxpayers’ money,” the petition added.The NGO requested the court to take suo motu action on the matter.A senior police officer, who did not wish to be named, said the department has not violated any norms.The controversy that led to the resignation of state’s former water resources minister Jarkiholi and the petition against police began on March 2, when social activist Dinesh Kalahalli lodged a complaint of sexual harassment and exploitation against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislator.Kalahalli, however, withdrew the complaint within five days, claiming he was distressed by the allegation that he had lodged the complaint for money. Bengaluru Cubbon Park police, which did not register an FIR demanding the woman featured in the purported tape to appear before them, subsequently dropped the investigation.On March 11 four days after the activist withdrew the complaint, Karnataka home minister Basavaraj Bommai announced the formation of a Special Investigation Team (SIT) to probe the case. While Cubbon Park police refused to file an FIR on the activist’s complaint, the SIT was formed even without the former minister lodging a complaint. Bommai, however, said the SIT was formed based on the letter sent by Jarkiholi.Two days later, Jarkiholi filed a police complaint against a group of unknown persons for making a “fake CD” and releasing it to Kalahalli and on social media. “It is an act of blackmailing, defamation, extortion and forgery, he said in his complaint. He added that the CD was a political conspiracy to get him step down from the minister’s post and that some people who could not “digest” his “political growth” were behind it.Meanwhile, hours after Jarkiholi filed the complaint, a woman claiming to be the person along with the former minister in the purported sex tape, requested the state home minister to provide her family and her police protection.“This is my request to the home minister (Basavarj) Bommai. I don’t know who and how made this video, but my reputation has been spoiled by this. I’m facing harassment. People are coming to my house and asking me about the video. My father and mother have tried to commit suicide twice,” said the woman in the video addressed to the home minister.Bommai announced that the SIT will provide protection to the woman. However, she did not respond to the SIT’s notices.The SIT, meanwhile, picked up five journalists for questioning and conducted multiple raids as part of the investigation. During the probe, two journalists, who were questioned by the SIT, went absconding. Three of the detained men are reporters working with regional TV channels, while the fourth is from Chikkamagaluru and works for a web channel.“A complaint was lodged by the minister alleging extortion using the sex tape. We are investigating it as per the law. For the woman’s complaint, we have asked her to appear before the police to give a complaint, she still has not done so,” said a senior police officer, on the condition of anonymity.The case took a political turn when the BJP alleged one of the absconding journalists, Naresh Gowda, has links with the Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president, DK Shivakumar. BJP’s social media handles also posted pictures of Shivakumar with the journalist, who is a suspect in the case.Shivakumar had claimed that there was a conspiracy to drag him in the controversy. “A few BJP leaders, including Basanagouda Yatnal and A H Vishwanath, have spoken about it. A suo motu complaint could have been registered based on their reactions. But the government did not do it,” he told media on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/plea-jarkiholi-probe-against-nirbhaya-act-101616005810113.html
18-03-2021||India||Food output to set new record this year despite pandemic||India’s annual food output is set to hit a new record in 2020-21 despite the Covid-19 pandemic, with the country estimated to post a higher yield for the fifth year in a row in the summer (kharif) harvest, and sowing for winter (rabi) crops poised to cross last year’s all-time high, official data shows.Foodgrain production is estimated to be 303.4 million tonnes in 2020-21, an increase of 2% over last year, according to the agriculture ministry’s second of four advance estimates. Farmers have planted winter crops on over nearly 68.5 million hectares, which is nearly 3% higher than last year.During the previous rabi season (2019-20), the sown area expanded by 10% to 66.6 million hectares. The sown area this year has touched 111% of normal, heightening the possibility of a bumper harvest.Ample food stocks help to keep a lid on food prices and inflation levels.Agriculture, which contributes 39% to the rural economy, was able to shake off the impacts of the coronavirus pandemic because of normal rains and ample supplies of subsidised inputs, such as fertilisers, during the pandemic — while announcing the Atma Nirbhar package, the government increased the fertiliser subsidy by an additional ₹68,000 crore to meet an anticipated higher demand.Throughout the peak pandemic months, the farm sector was the only bright spot in the Indian economy. It grew 3.4% in the June 2020 quarter, even as the rest of the economy fell deep into recession with a -24.4% growth due to a hard lockdown and curtailed business activities.Growth returned to positive territory in the December 2020 quarter, the latest available data, expanding 0.4%. Agriculture grew at 3.9% in the same period, compared to 3% in the previous quarter.According to the agriculture ministry’s data, the area under wheat, the main winter staple, expanded 3% to a record 34.6 million hectares. The average sown-area under wheat is about 30.3 million hectares. The area under gram expanded by 5% to 11.45 million hectares, the highest on record, surpassing last year’s 10.7 million hectares.The ministry has estimated the total kharif production to be 148 million tonnes, and rabi output to be 155.4 million tonnes.The rice output during the 2020-21 kharif season has been pegged at 103.8 million tonnes, according to the second advance estimate, higher than the first advance estimates of 102.4 million tonnes and last year’s output of 102.3 million tonnes. The higher summer output came on the back of a larger cropped area, which exceeded last year’s levels by 2 million hectares, with a push coming particularly in states such as Bihar, Jharkhand, Telangana West Bengal and Assam. Higher sowing was mainly on account of robust summer rains.“The farm economy has turned to be more resilient than the urban economy mainly because of sufficient rainfall. Higher procurement and ample stocks of fertilisers were able to meet higher demand despite the pandemic,” said economist R Mani, who was formerly with the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/food-output-to-set-new-record-this-yr-despite-pandemic-101616004370012.html
18-03-2021||India||Over 150% rise in Covid cases in 70 districts, states asked to boost testing||At least 70 districts spread over 12 states and union territories have logged an over 150% increase in Covid-19 cases over the last two weeks, the Union health ministry said on Wednesday, urging the administrations to ramp up testing as well as vaccinations in these regions in order to rein in the outbreak.The warning came on a day when the country recorded 35,836 cases, the highest since December 5. The number is now a clear indicator of the country having entered a second wave of infections, at least in some regions, after a low seen over a month ago.“The Centre has advised these states to look at ways to quickly increase the number of vaccinations in these districts that are also reporting increased positivity rate. The vaccination process should be more targeted and better focused in these areas,” said Rajesh Bhushan, Union health secretary, during the weekly media briefing on Covid-19 updates.The top officials also said the option of opening the vaccination drive up for more people is on the table but the focus at present is to maximise reach among those who qualify. “It is being considered by the experts but first, our aim is to cover as much elderly population as possible. Once this group is taken care of substantially, then other categories will be opened up,” said Dr VK Paul, member (health), Niti Aayog.India has till now given a little over 36 million doses of coronavirus vaccines. Till 7pm, 1.4 million doses had been administered on Wednesday.“Most of these districts are located in the western and northern part of India. In fact, these districts are located in certain specific states only. However, the way in which the positivity rate is increasing in most of these districts, the number of tests is not being increased accordingly,” he said.There are 55 other districts in 17 states that have reported an increase between 100 and 150% in the corresponding period (between March 1 and 15), the officials said at the briefing.“Our advice to these states, especially Maharashtra, which has 60% of the current active case load, is that they have to increase the number of tests. Among Covid-19 tests, proportion of RT-PCR test should be increased up to 70% at least, but should not go below that,” Bhushan added.The officials also said they are monitoring the Kumbh Mela in Haridwar, where experts fear an outbreak could occur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-150-rise-in-covid-cases-in-70-dists-states-asked-to-boost-testing-101616004309935.html
18-03-2021||India||At meeting with Modi, CMs seek expansion of vaccine coverage||Chief ministers of at least three states urged the Prime Minister to allow more people to become eligible for coronavirus vaccines, pointing out to growing cases in some of their regions where a large number of those becoming infected are from younger age groups.The remarks were made at an urgent meeting called by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to review the Covid-19 situation in the state. The PM said “quick and decisive” steps need to be taken to stop a recent spike in cases from turning into a full-fledged nationwide second wave.“Keeping in mind that there is young population among those who are getting infected, people above the age of 45, irrespective of comorbidities, should get vaccination,” Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said, according to his office.Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh urged the Centre to allow vaccination of all age groups in areas where Covid infection rates are high. He also called for occupation-based immunisation for school and college students and teachers, judges, bus drivers and conductors, elected representatives.The chief ministers said that they were ready to increase the number of vaccination centres, especially in private hospitals, to improve overall vaccination. Maharashtra, Gujarat, Karnataka and Bengal sought more doses in order to accelerate delivery. “Several private hospitals have come forward and registered themselves, but looking at their overall preparedness they will be allowed to operate to increase the vaccination numbers. Efforts will be made to take the daily vaccination to 300,000,” Thackeray said.Maharashtra also asked the Centre to relax the norm of requiring private hospitals to have 100 beds in order to qualify to deliver vaccines to 50. The chief minister also said the state-owned research institute in Mumbai — Haffkine Bio Pharmaceutical Corporation Limited – should be allowed to manufacture Covaxin as the state can produce 126 million doses through Haffkine.“We have demanded that if technology transfer from Bharat Biotech [which manufactures Covaxin] can be done to Haffkine Institute. We have two options; firstly, either we can manufacture it on our own or they provide technology and we use our space and equipment and we do it on fill and finish basis,” health minister Rajesh Tope said.In Punjab, as the daily positivity rate climbed to over 5%, the CM said half of the new cases are in people below the age of 40, and therefore, vaccinating them should be allowed in select areas. The state government has already started vaccination of younger people in Ludhiana.“Any area where weekly testing shows a doubling of positivity rates, everyone should be vaccinated,” Singh was quoted in an official statement, adding that this would lead to better outcomes than the periodic cycles of vaccination targeting a small section of the population in each cycle. He also asked that those below 45 and having kidney and liver diseases should be allowed for vaccination.From Kerala, with chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan busy in election campaigning, the state tourism minister Kadakampally Surendran and chief secretary VP Joy attended the virtual meeting called by the PM.They too sought wider access to vaccines. “We appraised the PM about measures we took to control the pandemic. Cases have dipped in Kerala in last three weeks,” said Surendran.After the meeting, Karnataka CM Yediyurappa said the state also sought permission to set up vaccination centres outside medical facilities: at places like old-age homes and apartment complexes.At present, around 150,000 doses are being given daily in Gujarat, and this number will be increased to 300,000 per day soon, Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani told the PM, according to a statement.Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khatter told the PM that a cluster approach for vaccination is being adopted to ensure every eligible recipient is reached. “Though vaccination for COVID-19 has been rolled out still we should religiously follow all the guidelines like wearing masks and maintaining social distancing to stay safe and to ensure containment of virus spread,” the CM said, according to a government statement.Chief ministers of some states like Bihar, Rajasthan, Andhra Pradesh did not make remarks at the meeting. Officials of some states such as Kerala, West Bengal and Assam, where CMs were busy in election campaign, did not participate in the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-meeting-with-modi-cms-seek-expansion-of-vaccine-coverage-101616004250661.html
18-03-2021||India||Experts trace the political and administrative roots of the Centre-Delhi tussle||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led Union government introduced a Bill in the Lok Sabha on Monday giving overarching powers over Delhi’s daily functions to the Centre-appointed Lieutenant Governor (L-G) even though the capital city has an elected government – ruled by the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) – in place.While Delhi is not an exception in terms of having a federal government exercise a range of powers in the national capital, and its state government has, over the past three decades, enjoyed more power than its counterparts elsewhere, experts believe that the Centre’s move reflects lack of trust in the local government and there was even need for clear structures in place. The national capital is currently mired in administrative overlapping and contested jurisdictions.Partha Mukhopadhyay, a senior fellow with the Centre for Policy Research, said: “Having a powerful local government in a national capital is not incompatible with national interest. It is a question of political culture. In Washington DC and Australian Capital Territory of Canberra, sub-national powers are indeed curtailed. But there are clear structures in place… What Delhi needs is more clarity. Its chief minister is a visible leader. It comes down to whether the national government and political parties have the maturity to be comfortable with federalism generally, and with strong local leadership in the national capital, in particular.”Niranjan Sahoo, a senior fellow with ORF’s governance and politics initiative, said: “A survey of major national capitals which I undertook shows that an overwhelming majority of national governments have serious reservations even on granting autonomy, let alone statehood for capital cities. Given that national capitals house critical infrastructure such as parliament, presidential estates, defence and foreign missions, most governments maintain strategic control over the city’s critical services like land and public order. The uncomfortable truth is that central governments lack complete trust in the ability of city governments.”Washington DC has a municipal corporation whose powers are curtailed by the federal government, which can overturn local laws and even approves the local budget. Canberra is run by an assembly which doubles up as a local executive but cannot make laws on subjects that include establishment of courts, police services and securities industry.Delhi has a 70-member assembly whose members are elected by the residents of the city. The political party with majority in the assembly forms the local government. Similarly, there are civic agencies which are independent of the city government. They include the three municipal corporations in the city in which leaders are elected through separate elections, a cantonment board and a municipal council that is in charge of the central area that houses the Parliament and Union government offices.However, the Union government appoints a lieutenant governor (L-G), who is considered the administrator of Delhi and whose office has under its jurisdiction crucial subjects such as police, land and public order. Such special status was granted to Delhi under a constitutional amendment in 1991. Laws cleared by the Delhi assembly are routed to the President for his assent through the office of the L-G. Subjects under the city government’s jurisdiction include education, health care, fire services, public buses, water supply, electricity and social welfare.However, accommodating such multiplicity of governing agencies for the national capital becomes difficult in day-to-day governance and has often led to frictions between the elected government in Delhi and the Union government which intervenes through the L-G – especially at times when two opposing political parties are in charge of the two governments. The current scenario is one such phase and, according to experts, have witnessed the worst of such frictions.The BJP today controls most Indian states but in the national capital’s assembly, its presence is limited to a mere eight out of 70 legislators. The AAP government in Delhi has had a long history of power tussle with the Centre now. If put into a timeline, it would be prominently marked by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s resignation in 2014 after failing to clear the Jan Lokpal Bill, major fights over appointments and transfers of bureaucrats, conflicts over getting files cleared by the L-G, which led to obstructions in launch of several flagship projects that include Mohalla Clinics, doorstep delivery of ration and CCTV in public places, and more.Praveen Rai, a political analyst with the Centre for Study of Developing Societies, said: “The power tussle between the Central and Delhi government has been a recurring feature and will continue unabated till it becomes a full state. But it seems like a distant reality, as AAP does not have the required numbers in the Parliament to pass a bill for Delhi’s full statehood. On the other hand, the BJP, like other national governments in the world, is not likely to relinquish its political supremacy over the national capital. The incessant frictions in the power sharing structure between the Central and state government is not only disruptive, but also slows down the development story of Delhi.”Sahoo said, “While there is no harm in aspiring for statehood, a long history of flip-flops by governments of every hue at the Centre suggests that it is like chasing a chimera. With overlapping and contested jurisdictions, it is imperative to institutionalise dispute resolution as has been adopted by national capitals around the world.”In 2018, the Supreme Court’s intervention brought some clarity and helped reduce the power tussle. In a judgment, the top court said that the L-G is bound by the aid and advice of the elected government in Delhi except for matters pertaining to land, police and public order. While the AAP asserts that the new Bill of the central government essentially overturns the Supreme Court judgment, the BJP claims it is aimed at bringing more clarity in Delhi’s administration.“If the current Bill is enacted, Delhi’s legislature will be made clearly subordinate to the Lieutenant Governor – a feature already frowned upon by the Supreme Court. This kind of second-guessing makes the democratic system irrelevant. Perhaps the Union Territory with Legislature is an oxymoron-like concept and it is time to end the charade,” said Mukhopadhyay.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/experts-trace-the-political-and-administrative-roots-of-the-centre-delhi-tussle-101615960088071.html
