22-03-2021||India||Mayawati attacks UP govt over Hathras case||BSP chief Mayawati on Monday targeted the Yogi Adityanath government over Hathras gangrape case, saying new facts emerging in the matter have raised serious questions on the working of the state government.Her remarks come in the backdrop of the Allahabad High Court directing the Hathras district judge and CRPF Inspector General, central sector, to inquire whether the prosecution witness and the lawyers of the Dalit girl who was allegedly raped and died due to injuries were threatened before a special judge during the trial on March 5.In a tweet, Mayawati said, the difficulties faced by the family of the Hathras gangrape victim in getting justice are well known, but the new facts in this regard revealed in the court have once again raised serious questions on working of the state government in ensuring justice to the victim.“The high court taking cognisance of new facts in the Hathras case and ordering an inquiry into threats to witnesses and other issues has put the UP government in the dock and the people have been forced to think as to how victims will get justice,”’ she said.“There is common perception that criminals rule in UP and it is very difficult to get justice,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mayawati-attacks-up-govt-over-hathras-case-101616436722161.html
22-03-2021||India||Amid Covid surge, norms flouted as Holi celebrations begin in Braj||Even as the state continues to add fresh cases to its Covid-19 tally, Holi celebrations began on a grand scale in Uttar Pradesh’s Braj region on Monday with hundreds of people converging at the Ladliji (Radha Rani) Temple in Mathura’s Barsana town to participate in the tradition of “Laddoo Holi”.Several images showed revellers engaged in Holi celebrations without wearing face masks or maintaining physical distancing.The revelry will continue on Tuesday in Barsana in the form of “Lathmaar Holi” – a practice that will be repeated in the neighbouring Nandgaon village on Wednesday.“Laddoo Holi” (in which priests throw laddoos [sweets] at the devotees) and “Lathmaar Holi” (in which revellers playfully hit each other with sticks) date back to ancient times when Lord Krishna used to actively participate in Holi celebrations, according to old-timers in the Braj region, comprising Mathura, Vrindavan and a few other districts in UP.“How can one play Holi with a mask on? There’s no limitation on celebrations, at least in Braj region,” said a priest at the Barsana temple.When asked to speak on record, the office-bearers of the temple promised to abide by Covid norms and denied any violation.The development comes at a time when neighbouring Uttarakhand is under spotlight for non-adherence to Covid protocols during Kumbh celebrations in Haridwar, with CM Tirath Singh Rawat saying on Saturday that “faith will help overcome Covid fears”. Rawat was detected Covid positive on Monday.Dr Bhoodev Singh, in-charge of the Covid cell in Mathura chief medical officer’s office, maintained the authorities were taking adequate measures. “About 300 antigen tests were conducted at the control room on the mela site, but no one tested positive. We also handed over masks to those coming without it. Devotees are being sensitised on Covid norms,” he said.He, though, ducked a query on the number of people fined for not wearing masks. “The district administration will take care of this issue,” he added.On Monday, Mathura recorded 11 fresh Covid-19 cases, the highest single-day case count for the city this year, said Dr Singh.UP reported538new Covid-19 cases on Monday, taking the number of active cases to 6,08,076.“We have asked hotel and guest house owners in Mathura to seek a Covid negative report from guests arriving from Maharashtra, Punjab, Kerala, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh,” he added.Veterans in Braj region have raised concern over non-compliance of Covid protocols during Holi celebrations.“Many have stopped wearing masks or are placing it on their chin. Authorities should act strict on violations. Festivals will keep coming each year but not a person’s life. The district administration should restrict the number of people in gatherings during the festive season,” said Mohan Swaroop Bhatia, an expert of Braj literature.In Mathura and Vrindavan, Holi celebrations begin on the day of Basant Panchami in mid-February and continue for 40 days in different forms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-covid-surge-norms-flouted-as-holi-celebrations-begin-in-braj-101616436787482.html
22-03-2021||India||Amidst Covid-19 surge in TN, Madras HC urges parties to follow norms||The Madras High Court on Monday urged political parties and candidates to follow safety protocols amid a rise in Covid-19 cases in the state with Chennai being a hotspot. The court also observed that it would do good if the Election Commission of India (ECI) issued a message on the same so that there is compliance in mask-wearing and social distancing.This was after the court dismissed a public interest litigation (PIL) that sought a prohibition on political parties from campaigning for the assembly elections slated for April 6 in Tamil Nadu to avoid crowds and prevent the spread of the coronavirus disease.It’s officially summer in the southern state and with heightened political activity, the state health authorities are bracing for a second wave after a steep fall in infections. The state’s higher education department on Monday ordered all colleges and universities to conduct classes and exams online starting March 23 after a meeting was held with vice-chancellors of all universities to avoid clusters in educational institutions.The state is back to increased RT-PCR testing, contact tracing and micro containment of streets to handle the surge, said health secretary J Radhakrishnan. “Ten days ago, the test positivity was around 1 per cent from 100 samples tested and now it is more than 2 per cent,” said Radhakrishnan. “We are doing random RT-PCR testing. We have directed all district-level election officials to oversee pandemic norms that are maintained in political party meetings,” he said.Two key candidates of actor-politician Kamal Haasan’s Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) tested positive for Covid-19 in Chennai. Late President Abdul Kalam’s former advisor V Ponraj, who is contesting from Chennai’s Anna Nagar, and former IAS officer Santosh Babu contesting from Velachery have tested positive. They will continue to campaign through digital platforms.While state leaders, including chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami and DMK president MK Stalin, have predominantly worn masks in public, campaign meetings follow no pandemic rules. Thousands gather together with no physical distancing and mask compliance. A day ago, Stalin while campaigning in Coimbatore embarrassed his partymen who weren’t wearing masks properly. The opposition leader wasn’t wearing a mask himself when he made the comment. He said he didn’t wear one as he was campaigning from inside his van and wasn’t in proximity to anyone.Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) chief TTV Dhinakaran released a statement on Monday urging people to be vigilant amidst rising cases and requested his cadre to avoid presenting shawls and bouquets.On Monday, the state reported 1,385 cases thereby making it the fourth consecutive day for the state to register more than 1,000 infections. Chennai reported 496 cases. The total number of cases is 868, 367 in the state from an overall of 18,854,356 samples tested.Tamil Nadu’s 259 labs conduct only RT-PCR testing which is the gold standard to detect the novel coronavirus. The government has ordered classes 9 to 11 to function online after a Covid-19 cluster was found in Thanjavur where 56 people, including students and teachers in schools, tested positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amidst-covid-19-surge-in-tn-madras-hc-urges-parties-to-follow-norms-101616436771706.html
22-03-2021||India||Covid-19: Panel to meet this week over Sputnik V approval||The subject expert committee of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) is likely to meet sometime this week to consider the emergency use application of the Russian coronavirus vaccine Sputnik V, according to officials aware of the matter, who asked not to be named. An approval to Sputnik V will add a third inoculation to India’s arsenal of vaccines, which could be crucial in the fight against the pandemic at a time when the country is grappling with a resurgence in cases. The dose, made by the Gamaleya Research Institute, is 91.6% effective in preventing Covid-19, according to clinical trial findings. “The committee looking into Covid related application could convene any time this week,” said an official in the know of things. During the last meeting on the matter, the experts asked for safety and immunogenicity data from Sputnik V’s phase II/III trials being conducted in India. Sputnik V’s backers, the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF), has tied up with five India-based pharma companies for production. The latest of these deals was announced on Monday. Virchow Biotech will produce 200 million doses, the RDIF announced. “Vaccine partnerships are the only way to overcome the pandemic. The world continues its fight against coronavirus and we see a growing interest in Sputnik V vaccine as it is one of the most efficient vaccines available. The agreement with Virchow Biotech is an important step to facilitate the full-scale local production of the vaccine in India and to supply our international partners globally,” said Kirill Dmitriev, chief executive officer f the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF). Virchow indicated the production is likely to be for “international partners” of RDIF. “The technology transfer is expected to be completed in the Q2 of 2021 followed by full-scale commercial production of Sputnik V. Virchow Biotech capacities will help facilitate global supply of Sputnik V to international partners of RDIF,” the statement read.Tummuru Murali, managing director of Virchow Biotech, said, “We are glad to sign a cooperation agreement with RDIF to produce the Sputnik V coronavirus vaccine. Virchow’s proven capabilities in large scale drug substance manufacturing should help meet the global demand for this vaccine. We are also happy to learn of the positive feedback that this vaccine has been receiving from all сountries.” On Friday, RDIF announced its partnership with Stelis Biopharma, the biopharmaceutical division of Strides, a global pharmaceutical company headquartered in India, to produce and supply a minimum of 200 million vaccine doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-panel-to-meet-this-week-over-sputnik-v-approval-101616436112131.html
22-03-2021||India||NREGS funds must be used to save water: PM||Prime minister Narendra Modi on Monday said maximum funds from the National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme should be utilised for projects to augment water conservation and supply till the onset of monsoon, as he launched the Jal Shakti Abhiyan’s second leg on the occasion of World Water Day. Modi launched the “Jal Shakti Abhiyan: Catch the Rain” campaign via video conferencing and also watched over an agreement between the Union minister of Jal Shakti Gajendra Shekhawat and the chief ministers of Madhya Pradesh, Shivraj Singh Chauhan and Uttar Pradesh, Yogi Aadityanath, to implement the Ken Betwa link project, the first project of the national perspective plan for the interlinking of rivers. The Jal Shakti Abhiyan is the Jal Shakti ministry’s flagship water-conservation campaign. The next leg of the programme, dubbed “catch the rain where it falls, when it falls”, will be rolled out across the country’s 734 districts covering over 600,000 villages. Modi listened to gram panchayat leaders from various parts of the country on ongoing efforts to conserve water. The prime minister said that the majority of rainwater during the monsoon months is simply washed away. Conserving rainwater will ease the pressure on groundwater in stressed areas. According to official data, 254 districts in the country are said to face acute water stress. He said the campaign, which will run from March through November, should focus on conserving every drop of water. “I would want to see that every penny of MNREGA till the rainy season comes, should be utilised for this purpose. Money available under MNREGA should not go anywhere else other than for whatever is required for readiness to conserve water,” the prime minister said. Modi said a major step had been taken for the Ken-Betwa link canal, adding that “rapid development is not possible without water security and effective water management”. He said that the vision of “India’s development and India’s self-reliance is dependent on our water sources and our water connectivity”. During the campaign, geotagging of all water bodies throughout the nation will be carried out, which shall form the basis for assessment of the rejuvenation efforts for water bodies across the country, an official said on condition of anonymity. According to data from the state-run policy think tank. NITI Aayog, nearly 600 million Indians face “high to extreme water stress” and the country’s water demand is likely to double by 2030, potentially costing a 6% loss in gross domestic product by 2050.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nregs-funds-must-be-used-to-save-water-pm-101616436051567.html
22-03-2021||India||UP, MP sign deal on linking of two rivers; experts flag concerns||Bhopal: Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh on Monday signed a Memorandum of Agreement (MoA) for starting work on country’s first major project interlinking two rain-fed rivers, Ken and Betwa, in the presence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, even as environmental activists said the project would spell doom for the Panna tiger reserve which is known for its critically endangered white-rumped vultures besides a thriving big cat population. The MoA was signed 18 years after the project was first conceived as a part of country’s ambitious programme to interlink rivers to provide water to areas facing scarcity. Officials said the delay was because of no agreement between the two states on sharing of water during the lean supply months, November to April. The Uttar Pradesh government, which was initially demanding 930 million cubic meter (MCM) water during the Rabi (winter crop) season, settled for 750 MCM while Madhya Pradesh will receive 1,834 MCM water, said an officer of the MP water resources department. According to the project report, 2,800 MCM of water will be diverted from the Ken basin to the water-deficit Betwa basin through a 73.8 meter high dam proposed on Ken at Daudhan in MP’s Chhattarpur district.The report also said 6,017 hectares forest land of Panna Tiger Reserve and the Ken Ghariyal Sanctuary would be submerged in the dam reservoir. MP chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said people of nine Madhya Pradesh districts, Sagar, Chhatarpur, Vidisha, Shivpuri, Raisen, Damoh, Panna and Tikamgarh, and four districts of Uttra Pradesh, Mahoba, Jhansi, Lalitpur and Banda will benefit from the project.“About 1 million hectares of land will get irrigated and 6.2 million people, mostly in water deficit Bundelkhand region, will get drinking water,” he added. There is, however, opposition to the project from the Panna royal family and environmentalists. “It is very sad that the government and experts overlooked the possible impact of the project on diamond mining in Panna and wildlife in the area. We will lose our world famous diamond site for ever,” said Maharani Jiteshwari Judevi of Panna royal family.Judevi said, “According to a report of 1938 on Diamond mines, the production of diamond took place naturally in Panna and it being excavated since 15th century. The seepage of water due to the dam will reduce the temperature and also reduce the level of nitrogen which is important for the natural production of diamond. I am raising this issue and I want a scientific study should be done to check the impact of dam water on diamond mine.” Himanshu Thakkar, convenor of South Asia Network on Dams, River and People (SANDRP) said it was “very unfortunate” that the Central and state governments signed an MoA on World Water Day even though the project would proved to be a curse for water conservation.“According to a report of the forest advisory committee, an estimated 4.6 million trees will be cut down for the project. This will lead to poor rainfall in an already parched Bundelkhand,” he added. He said that the project will also destroy Panna Tiger Reserve, home to over 52 tigers and several species of endangered vultures, including the white-rumped vulture. Of the nine vulture species found in India, six can be seen in Panna, which has run a successful vulture population revival programme.Several committees, including the Supreme Court-appointed Central Empowered Committee (CEC), have raised doubts about the project. A petition opposing the approval to the project is pending before the Supreme Court. “We are sure the project won’t get forest clearance,” Thakkar said. Former environment minister Jairam Ramesh feared the project would destroy local ecology. “The CMs of UP and MP will sign a pact today to link the Ken and Betwa rivers. This will all but destroy the Panna Tiger Reserve in MP, a success story in translocation and revival. I had suggested alternatives 10 years ago but alas,” he tweeted earlier in the day. Meanwhile, the Prime Minister’s Office said the project will “also pave the way for more interlinking of river projects to ensure that scarcity of water does not become an inhibitor for development in the country.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-mp-sign-deal-on-linking-of-two-rivers-experts-flag-concerns-101616436051029.html
22-03-2021||India||ISRO makes breakthrough demonstration of free-space Quantum Key Distribution over 300 metres||The Indian Space ResearchOrganisation (ISRO) said on Monday it has successfully demonstrated free-space Quantum Communication over a distance of 300 metres, for the first time in the country.A number of key technologies were developed indigenously to accomplish this major feat, which included the use of indigenously developed 'NAVIC' receiver for time synchronisation between the transmitter and receiver modules, and gimbal mechanism systems instead of bulky large-aperture telescopes for optical alignment, it said."The demonstration has included live videoconferencing using quantum-key-encrypted signals.This is a major milestone achievement for unconditionally secured satellite data communication using quantum technologies", the Bengaluru-headquartered space agency said in a statement.The Quantum Key Distribution (QKD) technology underpins Quantum Communication technology that ensures unconditional data security by virtue of the principles of quantum mechanics, which is not possible with the conventional encryption systems, ISRO explained.The conventional cryptosystems used for data-encryption rely on the complexity of mathematical algorithms, whereas the security offered by quantum communication is based on the laws of Physics."Therefore, quantum cryptography is considered as 'future-proof', since no future advancements in the computational power can break quantum-cryptosystem", according to ISRO.The free-space QKD was demonstrated at Space Applications Centre (SAC), Ahmedabad, between two line-of-sight buildings within the campus.The experiment was performed at night, in order to ensure that there is no interference of the direct sunlight."The experiment is a major breakthrough towards ISRO's goal of demonstrating Satellite Based Quantum Communication (SBQC), where ISRO is gearing up to demonstrate the technology between two Indian ground stations", it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/isro-makes-breakthrough-demonstration-of-free-space-quantum-key-distribution-over-300-metres-101616435127708.html
22-03-2021||India||‘Spend every penny under MNREGA for water conservation, supply’: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday said maximum funds from the National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme should be utilised for projects to augment water conservation and supply till the onset of monsoon. The prime minister’s comments came as he launched the Jal Shakti Abhiyan’s second leg on the occasion of World Water Day. Modi launched the “Jal Shakti Abhiyan: Catch the Rain’ campaign via video conferencing and also watched over an agreement between the Union minister of Jal Shakti Gajendra Shekhawat and the chief ministers of Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh to implement the Ken Betwa link project - the first project of the national perspective plan for the interlinking of rivers.The Jal Shakti Abhiyan is the Jal Shakti ministry’s flagship water-conservation campaign. The next leg of the programme, dubbed “catch the rain where it falls, when it falls”, will be rolled out across the country’s 734 districts covering over 600,000 villages.Also read: PM Modi hails BJP’s win in Goa municipal electionsModi listened to gram panchayat leaders from various parts of the country on ongoing efforts to conserve water.The prime minister said that the majority of rainwater during the monsoon months is simply washed away. Conserving rainwater will ease the pressure on groundwater in stressed areas. According to official data, 254 districts in the country are said to face acute water stress. He said the campaign, which will run from March through November, should focus on conserving every drop of water.“I would want to see that every penny of MNREGA, till the rainy season comes, should be utilised for this purpose. Money available under MNREGA should not go anywhere else other than for whatever is required for readiness to conserve water,” the prime minister said. Modi said a major step had been taken for the Ken-Betwa link canal, adding that “rapid development is not possible without water security and effective water management”. He said that the vision of “India’s development and India’s self-reliance is dependent on our water sources and our water connectivity”.During the campaign, geotagging of all water bodies throughout the nation will be carried out which shall form the basis for assessment of the rejuvenation efforts for water bodies across the country, an official said on condition of anonymity.According to data from the state-run policy think tank NITI Aayog, nearly 600 million Indians face “high to extreme water stress” and the country’s water demand is likely to double by 2030, potentially costing a 6 per cent loss in the gross domestic product (GDP) by 2050.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/spend-every-penny-under-mnrega-for-water-conservation-supply-pm-modi-101616435331611.html
22-03-2021||India||Spectators’ stand collapses at Kabaddi tournament in Telangana, at least 100 injured||At least 100 spectators were injured when a gallery stand collapsed minutes before the inauguration of the 47th junior national Kabaddi championship in Telangana’s Suryapet town on Monday, the police said.More than 5,000 spectators thronged the event which was organised by the Telangana Kabaddi Association in association with the Kabaddi Association of Suryapet district at the district police grounds.The event was to be inaugurated by state energy minister G Jagadish Reddy at the district police grounds. State sports minister V Srinivas Goud was also present on the occasion.According to Suryapet district superintendent of police (SP) R Bhaskaran, preliminary investigations revealed that the incident happened as the gallery stand was overcrowded.“We have moved the injured to Suryapet government hospital. Two of them, who sustained serious injuries, were taken to Hyderabad. If any others require better treatment, they would also be sent to Hyderabad. We are investigating the case,” Bhaskaran said, without elaborating further.An eyewitness told the local reporters that three different galleries were constructed with wooden planks and iron bars, each at a height of 20 ft and a width of 240 feet. “The total capacity of each stand is around 1,500. However, there was a heavy rush at the event and the spectators occupied the gallery more than its capacity which led to the sudden collapse of the stand,” the eyewitness said.Over 1,500 participants from 29 states were taking part in the sports event which was being organised in Telangana for the first time. The matches are being conducted on synthetic kabaddi mats on league-cum-knock out format under floodlights on all four days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/spectators-stand-collapses-at-kabaddi-tournament-in-telangana-at-least-100-injured-101616433231391.html
22-03-2021||India||PM Modi hails BJP's win in Goa municipal elections||Hailing the BJP's win in the Goa municipal elections, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said the results show the people's appreciation towards the party's development agenda. The ruling BJP on Monday won majority in five out of six municipal councils in Goa where elections were held on March 20.The party also won majority in the Corporation of City of Panaji (CCP) where election was held on the same day, poll officials said. Modi in a tweet said, "Thank you Goa for the continuous support to BJP. The results of the Municipal Elections 2021 show the people's appreciation towards our Party's development agenda.""I laud all hardworking BJP Karyakartas who went among people and worked hard during the campaign," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-hails-bjp-s-win-in-goa-municipal-elections-101616432760568.html
22-03-2021||India||Goa mulls Covid-19 negative certificate for some states: Health minister Rane||Goa health minister Vishwajit Rane on Monday said he would be placing a proposal in front of Chief Minister Pramod Sawant to make Covid-19 negative certificate mandatory for people flying in from neighbouring states like Maharashtra, Karnataka and Kerala.He said the proposal would be placed before the CM in the next couple of days, in order to stall any surge in cases in Goa.The decision on the Covid-19 negative certificate proposal will be taken by the CM, he added.He pointed out that Maharashtra had made it mandatory for people flying in from Goa to have Covid-19 negative certificates, though the number of cases were less here.The minister said weddings were the likely of cause of increase in cases and the state government was contemplating on putting a limit on attendees for such functions and at restaurants.Rane said the state will achieve a target of 2,500 coronavirus tests per day as mandated by the Union government and plans were afoot to scale up capacity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-mulls-covid-19-negative-certificate-for-some-states-health-minister-rane-101616431488662.html
22-03-2021||India||Parliament passes bill to club 7 castes in poll-bound Tamil Nadu under one nomenclature||The Rajya Sabha on Monday passed the Constitution (Scheduled Castes) Order (Amendment) Bill-2021 to club seven castes in poll-bound Tamil Nadu under a single nomenclature— Devendrakula Vellalars, amid allegations from the opposition that the bill was cleared with an eye on the upcoming polls.Assembly elections in Tamil Nadu are scheduled to be held on April 6.During the discussion of the bill, Union Social Justice and Empowerment minister Thaawar Chand Gehlot said the process, which started with the state government sending a proposal in 2015, took time to complete. “There is no connection whatsoever with politics or elections in Tamil Nadu,” he said, adding that the Registrar General of India (RGI) first vets proposals received from state governments, followed by an approval by the National Commission for Scheduled Tribes (NCST).The bill was cleared in Lok Sabha last week and it will now go to the President for his nod.Hitting out at the opposition camp on reservations, Gehlot asked, “Who ended the reservation for scheduled castes (SC) and scheduled tribes (ST) in the Aligarh Muslim University and the Jamia Millia Islamia University after declaring them minority institutions.” He added that the UPA Government did it. “We never even thought of ending reservation,” the minister said and asked who had defeated Ambedkar when he fought the Lok Sabha election.Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge during the discussion of the bill said that the Congress-led UPA had sanctioned work for the Dr Ambedkar National Memorial at Ambedkar’s residence at 26 Alipur Road in Delhi, and had allocated land for the Dr Ambedkar International Centre near Parliament while Gehlot argued that the work began during the Atal Bihari Vajpayee government and no land was acquired for the latter during the UPA.The Modi government acquired the land, built the memorial, and also inaugurated it, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-passes-bill-to-club-7-castes-in-poll-bound-tamil-nadu-under-one-nomenclature-101616431311440.html
22-03-2021||India||Cop dies as bullet goes off accidentally while cleaning gun in Punjab||A police constable died when the bullet went off accidentally when he was cleaning his gun here on Monday, a senior police official said.Police constable Joginder Singh was attached for security duty with Anil Sareen, chief spokesperson of the Punjab BJP, he said.Jatinder Kumar, Additional Commissioner of Police, said preliminary investigations revealed that the security guard was cleaning his AK-47 gun at Sareen's residence in Tagore Nagar here when it went off and pierced his chin and passed through his head.The constable died on the stop during the incident, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cop-dies-as-bullet-goes-off-accidentally-while-cleaning-gun-in-punjab-101616431034591.html
22-03-2021||India||Amid opposition, Parliament passes bill aimed at boosting private investment in mining sector||The Rajya Sabha on Monday passed Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Amendment Bill, 2021, aimed at boosting private investment in the mining sector even as opposition parties demanded a select committee scrutiny of the bill.“We want to bring private players into this because we have rich minerals like coal, gold, silver, but we are not being able to bring it out. That’s why we are bringing these changes and trying to redefine exploration,” Union mines minister Pralhad Joshi said in Parliament.Assuring members in Rajya Sabha, Joshi said the “progressive” bill will not curb the powers of states while creating more jobs. “I assure you that not a single iota of power of the states will be snatched or taken away by this bill.” Joshi also responded to the opposition’s call for a select committee probe on the bill.“Wide consultations on the bill were held. The bill was circulated to states and 10,500 comments were received. As many as 10 associations and six NGOs had recorded their comments,” the minister said. “As many as 143 mines have been given to states. Since 2015, these mines are with them. Neither those were allotted nor auctioned. Who suffered the loss? We are importing coal despite having the 4th largest resource of coal,” Joshi stated.Also read: Overseas students including Indians not allowed to return for now - ChinaCongress leaders Digvijay Singh and Jairam Ramesh, among other opposition members, pressed the government to send the bill to a select committee for scrutiny.“Eleven parties in House have requested that the bill to be referred to a select committee... consensus today is that the bill should go to select committee but the government is unlikely to agree and respect this consensus... by passing this bill, today we are going against the general consensus,” Ramesh said.During the discussion on the bill, Digvijay Singh said, “Don’t treat this bill as you had done with the farm laws.”AIADMK’s M Thambidurai said the minister should ensure that states’ rights are not taken away.Joshi said the bill’s objective is to generate employment in the sector and enhance the contribution of the mining sector in the total GDP of the country.“The major reason why we are lacking in the mining sector is that we do not have explored mines. Only 10 per cent of the Obvious Geological Potential (OGP) area has been explored so far and out of that we are mining only 5 per cent of the OGP,” he said.Earlier in the day, Rajya Sabha proceedings were adjourned till 2 pm amid an uproar over corruption allegations in Maharashtra during the Question Hour.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-opposition-parliament-passes-bill-aimed-at-boosting-private-investment-in-mining-sector-101616429871933.html
22-03-2021||India||News updates from HT: 'Not an inch to BJP without fight' says Mamata Banerjee ahead of WB polls and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Not an inch to BJP without a fight, says CM Mamata days ahead of pollsWith barely five days to go before the crucial assembly polls take off in West Bengal, Trinamool Congress chief Mamata Banerjee said on Monday that she will not leave an inch to the Bharatiya Janata Party without a fight. Read more‘They will definitely start’: Virat Kohli names the opening combination for 1st ODI against EnglandIndian skipper Virat Kohli on Monday confirmed that the duo of Shikhar Dhawan and Rohit Sharma will open the innings for India in the 1st ODI against England which will be played in Pune on Tuesday. Read more67th National Film Awards: Kangana Ranaut, Sushant Singh Rajput's Chhichhore win. See complete list of winners hereThe winners of the 67th National Film Awards were announced on Monday. Kangana Ranaut, Manoj Bajpayee, and Sushant Singh Rajput's last theatrical release, Chhichhore, won big awards. Read moreAxar Patel's special message to Anand Mahindra after his ‘Axar Shades’ selfie‘Axar Shades’ have taken over Twitter by storm thanks to business tycoon Anand Mahindra who posted about them. However, if you’ve been wondering what Axar Patel himself thinks about the tweets, here’s what he has to say. Read more'Still a dream...': Rahul Gandhi's roadshow in Kerala, jobs pitch ahead of pollsIndian National Congress party leader Rahul Gandhi campaigned in Kerala on March 22, weeks before the state chooses its new government. Gandhi held a roadshow in Kochi, and addressed youngsters of the state. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-not-an-inch-to-bjp-without-a-fight-says-mamata-banerjee-ahead-of-wb-polls-and-all-the-latest-news-101616426625670.html
22-03-2021||India||Kerala records 1,239 new Covid-19 cases, active caseload climbs to 24,081||Active cases in Kerala touched 24,081 as the state recorded 1,239 new coronavirus cases and 1,766 recoveries on Monday. The toll mounted to 4,507 with 12 more additional deaths. Six health workers were among those who tested positive. While the Covid-19 caseload rose to 11,05,816, as many as 10,76,571 people have been cured of the disease, Health minister K K Shailaja said in a press release.In the last 24 hours ending at 2 pm, 34,821 samples were tested and the test positivity rate was 3.56 per cent.So far, 1,26,96,542 samples have been sent for testing, the release said.Thiruvananthapuram reported the highest number of cases-175-today, followed by Kannur 125, Kozhikode 114, Kollam 112 and Ernakulam 106.Wayanad recorded only 24.Of the positive cases, 60 had come from outside the state and 1,067 were infected through contact. At least 1,26,125 people are under observation in various districts, including 3,743 in hospitals.PTI UD BN BN||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-records-1-239-new-covid-19-cases-active-caseload-climbs-to-24081-101616426220589.html
22-03-2021||India||Gandhi Peace Prizes for 2019, 2020 awarded to Sultan Qaboos and Mujibur Rahman||India on Monday announced that the Gandhi Peace Prize for the past two years will be conferred on late Omani Sultan Qaboos bin Said Al Said and Bangladeshi leader Sheikh Mujibur Rahman for their contributions to social and political transformation through non-violent methods. A special exception was made for the award to be conferred on the two leaders, as the selection procedure for the prize does not allow it to be awarded posthumously. The jury for the prize, chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, met on March 19 and unanimously selected Rahman as the recipient of the prize for 2020 and Sultan Qaboos, who died last year, as the recipient for 2019. People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that the selection procedure does not allow the Gandhi Peace Prize to be awarded posthumously. However, given the contributions of Sultan Qaboos and Rahman to peace, non-violence and amelioration of human sufferings and their special relationship with India, an exception was made as a special gesture to honour and celebrate them, the people said. The prize is given for social, economic and political transformation through non-violence and other Gandhian methods. The Gandhi Peace Prize recognises the “immense and unparalleled contribution” of Rahman in “inspiring the liberation of Bangladesh, bringing stability to a nation born out of strife, laying the foundation for the close and fraternal relations between India and Bangladesh, and promoting peace and non-violence in the Indian subcontinent”, an official statement said. The Gandhi Peace Prize for Sultan Qaboos recognises his “unparalleled vision and leadership” in strengthening India-Oman relations and his efforts to promote peace and non-violence in the Gulf. The award for Rahman, the father of the nation of Bangladesh, was announced days ahead of Modi’s visit to Dhaka during March 26-27 to participate in celebrations marking the birth centenary of Rahman, 50 years of the country’s independence and the golden jubilee of diplomatic relations between the two countries. Modi said “Bangabandhu”, as Rahman is popularly known, was a champion of human rights and freedom, and a hero to Indians as well. He said Rahman’s legacy and inspiration has made the “heritage of both countries more comprehensive and deep-rooted”, and the path shown by him has “laid a strong foundation for the partnership, progress and prosperity of both countries over the last decade”. India is honoured to commemorate Rahman’s legacy jointly with the Bangladeshi government and people as the neighbouring country celebrates his birth centenary, the official statement said. Modi had recalled Sultan Qaboos’ contribution to India-Oman ties when he passed away in January last year, saying that he was “a true friend of India and provided strong leadership for developing a strategic partnership” between the two sides. Sultan Qaboos’ twin policy of moderation and mediation in addressing international issues won him praise and respect across the globe, an official statement said. He played an important role in supporting peace efforts in various regional disputes and conflicts. The sultan had studied in India and always maintained a special relationship with the country. Under his leadership, India and Oman became strategic partners. The other members of the jury were the Chief Justice, the leader of the single largest Opposition party in the Lok Sabha, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla, and Bindeshwar Pathak, founder of Sulabh International Social Service Organisation. The award includes an amount of ₹1 crore, a citation, a plaque and a traditional handicraft or handloom item. Past awardees include former Tanzania president Julius Nyerere, Gerhard Fischer of Germany, the Ramakrishna Mission, Baba Amte, former South African president Nelson Mandela, the Grameen Bank of Bangladesh, Archbishop Desmond Tutu of South Africa, Chandi Prasad Bhatt and the Indian Space Research Organisation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gandhi-peace-prizes-for-2019-2020-awarded-to-sultan-qaboos-and-mujibur-rahman-101616426511384.html
22-03-2021||India||Overseas students including Indians not allowed to return for now: China||Indian students enrolled in Chinese universities but stranded in their home country will not be allowed to return for now because of the continuing and strict restrictions it has imposed on international travel related to the Covid-19 pandemic, Beijing has told New Delhi. Instead, Beijing has suggested that Indian students stay in contact with their universities in China and follow their instructions – in effect saying that they should continue with their online studies.In a statement issued on Monday, the Indian embassy in Beijing said the Chinese government’s bar on allowing foreign students to enter the country was still in place despite multiple requests to the Chinese ministries of foreign affairs and education to allow the students to return to the country to resume in-person classes.The embassy also clarified that the recent visa facilitation notification for foreigners who have been administered a Chinese vaccine did not apply to students, the Indian embassy said in a statement on the situation of Indian students on Monday.According to China’s education ministry, 4,92,185 international students from 196 countries and regions were studying in the country until the end of 2018.According to a country-wise breakup of foreign students in China, South Korea tops this list with more than 50,000 students. It is followed by Thailand and Pakistan with over 28,000 students each studying in China. At 23,000, Indian students are the fourth largest group.Also Read| Next round of India-China talks looks positive on Gogra-Hot Springs“Chinese authorities at various levels continue to maintain their position that, on account of last year’s announcement by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs…to suspend temporarily the entry of foreigners holding valid Chinese Visa and residence permits following the outbreak of Covid-19 in many countries in the world, overseas students are temporarily unable to enter China,” the Indian embassy said.Despite bringing the pandemic in the country under control, China continues to impose severe restrictions on incoming foreigners including a nearly-month long quarantine, and now, linking returns to travellers taking a China-made vaccine.The academic lives of nearly 23,000 Indian students who study in China, mostly in medical universities, have been upended because of the travel barriers: There is no sign that these restrictions will be lifted any time soon.Many Indian students had returned home in January, 2020, for Chinese New Year holidays, in the weeks ahead of the pandemic spreading in the central Chinese province of Hubei and before restrictions were placed on foreign travel; many more left in the weeks after the outbreak while some were evacuated from Wuhan, the capital of Hubei, in special flights.They have been unable to return to China since despite pleading with Chinese authorities through its embassies, consulates, and social media channels.It could of little solace to the stranded Indian students but Beijing has told New Delhi they are aware of the “…concerns of the students and have asked all relevant Chinese universities to maintain close contact with the students and keep them informed, besides continuing with the online courses.”“It has also been suggested by Chinese authorities that Indian students stay in touch with their universities and pursue their studies in accordance with the suggestions and guidance of the universities,” the statement added.Last week, the Chinese foreign ministry said academic institutions were to keep in close contact with those students abroad, make good arrangements for online courses, and properly address their legitimate concerns and appeals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/overseas-students-including-indians-not-allowed-to-return-for-now-china-101616424472180.html
22-03-2021||India||'Very important business': BJP asks LS members to be present in House on Tuesday||The Lok Sabha is set for a heavy day of legislative business on Tuesday, as the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) issued a whip to all its members to be present in the house."All BJP members in Lok Sabha are hereby informed that some very important legislative business will be taken up for discussion and passing in the Lok Sabha on Tuesday, the 23rd March 2021," the party's chief whip Rakesh Singh, said in release on Monday."All members of BJP in Lok Sabha are therefore, requested to be positively present in the House throughout the day on Tuesday, the 23rd March 2021 and support the government's stand," Singh further said in the whip.The discussion on Finance Bill tops the agenda of legislative business in Parliament on Tuesday. The government intends to pass the bill on Tuesday, which is the reason why the ruling party has issued the whip.The Lok Sabha last Wednesday passed the Appropriation Bill 2021-22, authorising the government to draw ₹117.16 lakh crore from the Consolidated Fund of India for its working as well as implementation of its programmes and schemes.This completes two-thirds of the exercise for approval of the Budget for 2021-22.The bill was introduced by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman. Once the Finance Bill is passed, the budget exercise is complete.Both appropriation and finance bills are classified as money bills which do not require the explicit consent of the Rajya Sabha. The upper house only discusses them and returns the bills.After passing the Finance Bill, it enters the statute as the Finance Act. Thus, the final Budget gets approved.According to list of business on the Lok Sabha website, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman will also table the Insurance (Amendment) Bill 2021, passed by the Rajya Sabha. The government will try to pass the bill on Tuesday.The Budget Session of the Parliament, which had commenced with the address of President Ram Nath Kovind on January 29, concluded on February 29. The second part of the session started on March 8 and is scheduled to conclude on April 8.Parliament has so far passed the J-K Appropriation Bill 2021, and Puducherry (Appropriation) Vote on Account Bill 2021. On Monday, the Lok Sabha cleared the NCT Bill too, which gives more power to Lieutenant Governor of Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/very-important-business-bjp-asks-ls-members-to-be-present-in-house-tomorrow-101616423826276.html
22-03-2021||India||Gallery made of wooden planks collapses during a Kabaddi match in Telangana, 100 spectators injured||At least 100 spectators were injured when a temporary gallery made of wooden planks collapsed minutes before the inauguration of a kabbadi tournament in Suryapet town of Telangana on Monday, police said. At least 20 of them are critically injured, they added.All the injured were rushed to a local hospital in Suryapet.The collapse was apparently due to the weak structure made of wood and other materials, news agency PTI reported. However, the exact cause of the mishap would be known only after investigation, PTI quoted the police as saying.The incident happened during the 47th national junior Kabaddi tournament in which players from other states were also participating. Three viewers gallery were erected for the match, once of them collapsed, the police said.Telangana energy minister G Jagadeesh Reddy met the injured spectators at the hospital in Suryapet where they were admitted.A footage of the accident and people falling down was broadcast by local TV news channels. The spectators were unable to move after the fall.The kabaddi tournament was being jointly organised by the Telangana Kabaddi Association and the Kabaddi Association of Suryapet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gallery-made-of-wooden-planks-collapses-during-a-kabaddi-match-in-telangana-100-spectators-injured-101616423336129.html
22-03-2021||India||NHAI suffers ₹814 cr toll loss in 3 states due to farmers' protest||National Highways Authority of India suffered a toll revenue loss of ₹814.4 crore till March 16 on account of farmers' protest in three states, Parliament was informed on Monday.Considering the heavy loss, state administrations have been requested to restore the user fee collection, Road, Transport, Highways and MSMEs Minister Nitin Gadkari said in a written reply to the Rajya Sabha."Loss of revenue due to farmers' protest has primarily occurred in the States of Punjab and Haryana and at a few plazas in Rajasthan," the minister said.The loss at ₹487 crore was the highest in Punjab, followed by ₹326 crore in Haryana and ₹1.40 crore in Rajasthan, he added."No loss of revenue is reported on account of farmers' protest in other States," the minister said.Listing the steps taken in this regard, Gadkari said the matter is being constantly taken up with district and state administration to restore the user fee collection, considering the heavy loss to the government."Request has been made to Government of Punjab for urgent intervention for the smooth functioning of fee plazas in Punjab," Gadkari said.NHAI has requested Chief Secretary Rajasthan for issuing necessary directions to the concerned officials for the resumption of user fee collection, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nhai-suffers-rs-814-cr-toll-loss-in-3-states-due-to-farmers-protest-101616421574881.html
22-03-2021||India||'Undergo narco tests': BJP leader's 'agni pariksha' challenge to Anil Deshmukh||As Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh faces the heat over allegations of corruption, a BJP leader has challenged him and chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to undergo 'narco tests' to prove that the state government is speaking the truth."Even Sita mata went through 'agni pariksha', so why can't they?" news agency ANI quoted BJP leader Ram Kadam as saying.If govt is speaking the truth then we demand they (Maharashtra Chief Minister & Home Minister) must undergo Narco test. Even Sita mata went through 'agni pariksha' so why can't they?: BJP leader Ram Kadam pic.twitter.com/KyR1S5UwQ9A political storm has been brewing in Maharashtra, following former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh's allegations that Deshmukh asked arrested cop Sachin Vaze to collect ₹100 crore a month from various establishments of the city through extortion. The ex-top cop moved the Supreme Court today, seeking directions for immediate "unbiased, uninfluenced, impartial and fair" CBI probe into alleged corrupt malpractices of Deshmukh.In his petition to the court, Singh claimed that Deshmukh held meetings at his residence with police officers, including Vaze of Crime Intelligence Unit, Mumbai, and Sanjay Patil, ACP Social Service Branch, Mumbai, bypassing their seniors.The issue formed the focal point today at the Lok Sabha, where the BJP demanded the resignation of the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government headed by Uddhav Thackeray. Raising the issue during Zero Hour in Lok Sabha amidst protests by the Shiv Sena and the NCP, BJP member Manoj Kotak pointed out that according to Singh's letter to the chief minister, the state's home minister had asked Vaze, now suspended, to collect ₹100 crore from bars and restaurants in the metropolis every month. Rakesh Singh, another BJP leader, said that the issue is so serious that it can't be termed a state subject as it has a national implication.The Shiv Sena, the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), and the Congress are part of the MVA government in Maharashtra. The coalition partners did their part in defending Deshmukh, with the Sena claiming that the BJP has been hatching a conspiracy to defame the Shiv Sena-Congress-NCP dispensation for the last 14 months so that it can form a government in the state. Congress, too, claimed that central agencies were being used against opposition ruled states for one or the other pretext.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/undergo-narco-tests-bjp-leader-s-agni-pariksha-challenge-to-anil-deshmukh-101616415804843.html
22-03-2021||India||Congress just like elephant, has one teeth to show off, other to chew: JP Nadda in Assam rally||BJP national president J P Nadda on Monday mocked the Congress, comparing it with an elephant having two sets of teeth - "one to show off and another to chew".Addressing an election rally at Tingkhong in Dibrugarh district, Nadda also accused the Congress of practising "politics of opportunism" and said Assam will head into "darkness" if the opposition party is voted to power."The Congress' only aim is politics of opportunism. They are with the Muslim League and fighting against the CPI(M) in Kerala, but joined hands with it in West Bengal and Assam...," Nadda said."Like a tusker, the Congress has two sets of teeth -- one to show off and another to chew. It says something and always does the opposite... It is dividing the society," the senior BJP leader said.In an apparent reference to Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi, who is also campaigning in the state, Nadda said the social-media handle of the opposition party shared pictures from Taiwan and Sri Lanka when "one leader" of the party visited tea gardens of Assam."She plucked tea leaves then. But as far as I know, tea leaves are plucked only after April. Then, why was this photo shoot? The Congress is cheating people," he said.The Congress had recently assured tea garden workers that it will hike their daily wages to ₹365 from the existing ₹117 "within six hours of forming the government".Repeatedly attacking the Congress, Nadda said the opposition party "means darkness", while the BJP stands for development."If you need darkness, then go with the Congress. But if you need development, hold the hands of Prime Minister Narendra Modi," Nadda said at the rally.The Congress has neglected Assam and the northeast since Independence, and did nothing to develop the region, he alleged."Because of Congress' double standard, the wheels of development had totally stopped. It attacked the civilisation of Assam, sidelining the state's culture. But, BJP brought development and protected Assam's culture and language," Nadda said.The opposition party never gave any importance to the safety of Assamese people, including not solving the Bodo problems for 50 years, he claimed."For a long time, our borders were open and anyone could come freely. It was a challenge to our security... The Congress does not have any intention, policy and agenda. It is only for grabbing power," he said.Attacking the Congress-AIUDF alliance, Nadda said former chief minister Tarun Gogoi never allied with the Badruddin Ajmal-led party, but his son has now embraced the AIUDF."This is nothing but opportunism. How are you going to protect the Assamese culture? By joining hands with Ajmal?" the BJP chief said.Gogoi's son Gaurav is a Lok Sabha MP and chairman of the Manifesto Committee of the Assam Congress.The Congress, which was in power for 15 years in Assam since 2001, has formed a 'Grand Alliance' with AIUDF, BPF, CPI, CPI(M), CPI(ML), Anchalik Gana Morcha (AGM), RJD and the Jimochayan (Deori) Peoples Party (JPP) to fight the upcoming Assembly election against the BJP-led NDA.Nadda also alleged that the Congress did nothing for the development of the tea garden workers, protection of 'Namghars' (a place of worship for Vaishnavite followers) and ending violence in Bodoland areas."During the Congress tenure, 2,155 people died, 2,004 security personnel lost their lives and 1,300 people were kidnapped in Bodo areas. When the BJP came, the Bodo agreement was signed, 4,000 assault rifles were surrendered and 2,300 cadres laid down arms," he claimed.Nadda accused the Congress of "latkana (delaying), atkana (stalling) and bhatkana (misleading)" people on development projects, "which have been cleared after the BJP formed government in Assam".During BJP's tenure, land pattas (deeds) were given to 3.3 lakh people, 135 mobile medical units were set up for tea gardens, ₹1,000 crore allocated for welfare of such areas, Bogibeel bridge over Brahmaputra was completed and ₹8,000 crore gas royalty was provided, he said."During the 13th Finance Commission, ₹50,000 crore was given to Assam. The 14th Finance Commission after BJP came to the Centre provided ₹1,55,000 crore to the state," Nadda said.He said former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh was a Rajya Sabha Member for 10 years, but "did not do anything" for the development of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-just-like-elephant-has-one-teeth-to-show-off-other-to-chew-jp-nadda-in-assam-rally-101616416540545.html
22-03-2021||India||Covid-19 -ve report mandatory for travellers from Punjab, Chandigarh: Karnataka||Karnataka on Monday made it mandatory for travellers arriving from Punjab and Chandigarh to produce negative Covid-19 test report. This comes at a time when Karnataka health minister Dr K Sudhakar said the second wave of Covid-19 has begun and sought people’s cooperation to contain the virus.“We are at the beginning of the second wave of coronavirus. Let us all join hands to control it because the next three months are crucial for us,” Sudhakar told media. He said he would discuss the Covid-19 situation and measures to be taken with Karnataka chief minister B S Yediyurappa.Punjab is among the states which have been red-flagged by the Centre over the spread of Covid-19. The Union health ministry said that Punjab, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh account for 80.5 per cent of the total new cases registered in the last 24 hours.Eight states and union territories, including Punjab and Chandigarh, have a weekly positivity rate more than the national average of 3.7 per cent, according to health ministry.Meanwhile, there was no let-up in the surge in Covid-19 cases in Punjab with the state recording 2,669 fresh infections, maximum this year so far, and 44 more fatalities on Sunday, according to state government's medical bulletin.Sudhakar also said that the state government is strictly screening incoming travellers from other Maharashtra and other high caseload states. The minister said that if travellers from these states are found not carrying the negative RT-PCR test report, they will be subjected to test at the border. Increasing penalty for not wearing mask is also being discussed, the ministrr further said.Karnataka is also seeking Union home ministry's support in enforcing strict screening at borders. However, the state government is not looking at semi-lockdown or lockdown at the moment, said Sudhakar.Last week, Karnataka saw its daily Covid-19 tally crossing the 1000-mark since November last year. On Sunday, 1,700 cases were reported in the state. Manipal Institute of technology from Udupi is the second biggest cluster in the state where more than 300 students have tested Covid-19 positive.Yediyurappa has appealed to the people to exercise caution as Covid-19 cases is on the rise at an alarming rate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-makes-it-mandatory-for-travellers-arriving-from-punjab-and-chandigarh-to-produce-negative-covid-19-test-report-101616416179058.html
22-03-2021||India||UP, MP seal Ken-Betwa linking project deal; environmentalists flag concerns||Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh on Monday signed a Memorandum of Agreement (MoA) for starting work on country’s first major interlinking of two monsoon rivers, Ken and Betwa, in the presence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, even as environment activists said the project would spell doom for the Panna tiger reserve which is known for critically endangered white-rumped vultures besides successful restoration of tiger population. The MoA was signed 18 years after the project was first conceived as a part of country’s ambitious programme to inter-link rivers to provide water to areas facing scarcity. Officials said the delay was because of no agreement between the two states on sharing of water during the lean supply months, November to April. The Uttar Pradesh government, which was initially demanding 930 million cubic meter (MCM) water during the Rabi season, settled for 750 MCM while MP will get 1,834 MCM water, said an officer of MP water resource department. According to the project report, 2,800 MCM of water will be diverted from Ken basin to water deficit Betwar basin through a 73.8 meter high dam proposed on Ken at Daudhan in MP’s Chhattarpur district.Also Read | Ken Betwa project could hit wildlife: ReportThe report also said 6,017 hectares forest land of Panna Tiger Reserve and Ken Ghariyal Sanctuary would be submerged in the dam reservoir. MP chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said people of nine Madhya Pradesh districts: Sagar, Chhatarpur, Vidisha, Shivpuri, Raisen, Damoh, Panna and Tikamgarh, and four districts of Uttra Pradesh -- Mahoba, Jhansi, Lalitpur and Banda -- will benefit from the project.“About 1 million hectares of land will get irrigated and 6.2 million people, mostly in water deficit Bundelkhand region, will get drinking water,” he added. There is, however, opposition to the project from the Panna royal family and environmentalists. “It is very sad that the government and experts overlooked the possible impact of the project on diamond mining in Panna and wildlife in the area. We will lose world famous diamond site for ever,” said Maharani Jiteshwari Judevi of Panna royal family.Himanshu Thakkar, convenor of South Asia Network on Dams, River and People (SANDRP) said it was “very unfortunate” that the Central and state governments signed an MoA on World Water Day even though the project would proved to be a curse for water conservation.“According to a report of the forest advisory committee, an estimated 4.6 million trees will be cut down for the project. This will lead to poor rainfall in an already parched Bundelkhand,” he added. He said that the project would destroy Panna Tiger Reserve, home to over 52 tigers and several of endangered vultures, including the white-rumped vulture. Of the nine vulture species found in India, six can be seen in Panna, which is running a vulture population revival programme.Several committees, including the Supreme Court-appointed Central Empowered Committee (CEC), had raised doubts about the project. A petition opposing the approval to the project is pending before the Supreme Court. “We are sure the project won’t get forest clearance,” Thakkar said. Former environment minister Jairam Ramesh feared the project would destroy local ecology. “The CMs of UP and MP will sign a pact today to link the Ken and Betwa rivers. This will all but destroy the Panna Tiger Reserve in MP, a success story in translocation and revival. I had suggested alternatives 10 years ago but alas,” he tweeted earlier in the day. State water resource minister Tulsiram Silawat said, “People should stop doing politics on this issue. The governments will spend more than ₹35,000 crore for development, not for destruction. It won’t destroy anything but will bring a smile to the faces of the people of Bundelkhand.” Meanwhile, the Prime Minister’s Office said the project will “also will pave the way for more interlinking of river projects to ensure that scarcity of water does not become an inhibitor for development in the country.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-mp-seal-ken-betwa-linking-project-deal-environmentalists-flag-concerns-101616415830773.html
22-03-2021||India||Central government's tax collection on petrol, diesel jumps 300% in 6 years||Central government's tax collections on petrol and diesel have jumped over 300 per cent in the last six years as excise duty on the two fuels was hiked, the Lok Sabha was informed on Monday.The central government collected ₹29,279 crore from excise duty on petrol and ₹42,881 crore on diesel in 2014-15 -- the first year of office of the Modi government.The collections on petrol and diesel rose to ₹2.94 lakh crore in the first 10 months of the current fiscal (2020-21), according to information furnished by Minister of State Anurag Singh Thakur in a written reply to a question in the Lok Sabha.Together with excise duty on natural gas, the central government in 2014-15 collected ₹74,158 crore which has gone up to ₹2.95 lakh crore in April 2020 to January 2021 period.He said taxes collected on petrol, diesel and natural gas as a percentage of total revenue have gone up from 5.4 per cent in 2014-15 to 12.2 per cent this fiscal.Excise duty on petrol has been raised from ₹9.48 per litre in 2014 to ₹32.90 a litre now while the same on diesel has gone up from ₹3.56 a litre to ₹31.80.Taxes make up for 60 per cent of the present retail price of petrol of ₹91.17 a litre in Delhi. Excise duty makes up for 36 per cent of the retail price.Over 53 per cent of the retail selling price of ₹81.47 a litre of diesel in Delhi is made up of taxes. As much as 39 per cent of the retail price comprises of central excise."The total central excise duty (including basic excise duty, cesses and surcharge) was increased by ₹3 per litre on petrol and diesel with effect from March 14, 2020. It was further revised upwards by ₹10 per litre on petrol and ₹13 per litre on diesel with effect from May 6, 2020," Thakur said.These increases took away the gain that would have accrued to consumers from a sharp drop in international oil prices.The hike in excise duty is similar to the increase in taxes the government did between November 2014 and January 2016.Over nine instalments, duty on petrol rate was hiked by ₹11.77 per litre and that on diesel by 13.47 a litre in those 15 months.The government had cut excise duty by ₹2 in October 2017, and by ₹1.50 a year later. But it raised excise duty by ₹2 per litre in July 2019."The excise duty rates have been calibrated to generate resources for infrastructure and other developmental items of expenditure keeping in view the present fiscal position," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/central-government-s-tax-collection-on-petrol-diesel-jumps-300-in-6-years-101616412359082.html
22-03-2021||India||West Bengal: 7-year-old killed in crude bomb explosion in Burdwan||A seven-year-old boy was killed and another child injured in a crude bomb explosion in Burdwan city in West Bengal on Monday, police said.The incident happened around 11 am in the city's Subhaspally area, they said.Sheikh Afroz (7) and Sheikh Ibrahim (9) were playing near their house when they hit a packet in which the crude bombs were kept, triggering the blast, Burdwan's inspector- in-charge Pintu Saha said.Locals rushed to the spot after hearing the explosion and took the two boys to the Bardhaman Medical College and Hospital where Afroz was declared dead, he said.Ibrahim is at present undergoing treatment, he added.The bomb squad has been informed about the incident and an investigation has been initiated, Saha said.The blast triggered tension in the area ahead of the elections.Afroz's uncle Sheikh Feroz told PTI that children of the locality play in that spot every morning but only two of them were out today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/west-bengal-7-year-old-killed-in-crude-bomb-explosion-in-burdwan-101616412600453.html
22-03-2021||India||News updates from HT: EC bans bike rallies 72 hours before poll day and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.EC bans bike rallies 72 hours before poll dayBike rallies, a favourite campaigning tool of several political parties, have been banned by the Election Commission of India (ECI) for upto 72 hours before polling in an area. Announcing this in a letter to all the state election commission offices in poll-bound states on Monday, the Election Commission said that bike rallies could be misused. Read moreSheikh Mujibir Rahman, Oman’s Sultan Qaboos named for India’s Gandhi Peace PrizeIndia on Monday named Bangladesh’s father of the nation, Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, and Oman’s longtime ruler Sultan Qaboos for the Gandhi Peace Prize, an official statement by the government said. Read moreIndia revises 2nd dose interval for Covishield to 4-8 weeksIndia’s top committee on coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccines has increased the interval between administering two doses of Covishield to four to eight weeks, from the existing four to six weeks, to increase the efficacy of the vaccine, said Union ministry of health and family welfare in a statement on Monday. Read moreBoris Johnson to call on EU, make a case for not banning Covid-19 vaccine exportUnited Kingdom (UK) Prime Minister Boris Johnson is expected to talk to his European Union (EU) counterparts later this week as a brewing row over Covid-19 vaccine supplies continues, news agency PTI reported on Monday, citing media reports. Read moreIndia vs England: Virat Kohli one century away from equaling Sachin Tendulkar's feat, breaking Ricky Ponting's recordIndia captain Virat Kohli will be on the verge of equalling Sachin Tendulkar's huge ODI feat and surpassing Ricky Ponting's massive record when he steps out to bat in the first ODI against England on Tuesday at Maharashtra Cricket Association Stadium, Pune. Read moreDucati Panigale V2 road test review: The definition of perfectionThe Ducati Panigale 959 passed on the baton to the Panigale V2 when the stricter emission norms kicked in last year. The V2 was then introduced in the later part of 2020 but the complications around the pandemic threw challenges that kept me away from getting my hands on the test unit for a proper road test. Read moreKartik Aaryan tests positive for Covid-19 two days after walking the ramp at Lakme Fashion Week, says 'dua karo'Actor Kartik Aaryan has tested positive for the coronavirus. He took to Instagram to share the news with his fans. Read moreAthiya Shetty turns showstopper in athleisure lehenga choli and jacket at LFWIt is all about athleisure now. From airport looks to casual day-out outfits and now even traditional clothes, everything is getting a loungewear twist and we are not complaining. Read moreWatch: Udhaynidhi responds to Kamal Haasan’s ‘DMK & AIADMK not worthy’ jibeDMK Leader Udhaynidhi Stalin has hit out at Kamal Haasan over his jive at the party. Makkal Needhi Maiam Chief Kamal Hassan had recently said that there is no question of lending support to either the AIADMK or the DMK post the elections as both are ‘not worthy of being supported.’ Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-ec-bans-bike-rallies-72-hours-before-poll-day-and-all-the-latest-news-101616409655479.html
22-03-2021||India||NIA files chargesheet against 3 in suspended J-K cop Davinder Singh's case||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Monday filed chargesheet against People’s Democratic Party (PDP) leader Waheed Para and two others in connection with a terror case in which suspended Jammu and Kashmir police officer Davinder Singh was arrested last year.The conspiracy case involves terror outfit Hizb-ul-Mujahideen. Singh, then serving DSP, was arrested by the agency in January, 2020. He was granted bail by a Delhi court on June 19 last year.The supplementary chargesheet against Para, Shaheen Ahmad Lone and Tafazul Hussain Parimoo has been filed under section 120B of the IPC, sections 17, 18, 38, 39 & 40 of the UA (P) Act, and section 25 (1AA) of Arms Act and section 6 of the Explosive Substances Act in NIA Special Court Jammu, according to a press release. Earlier, chargesheet had been filed against eight people in this case.Investigation by the central agency showed that Lone and Parimoo were part of gun running from across the Line of Control (LoC) for terrorists of Hizb-ul-Mujahideen and Lashkar e Taiba (LeT), the release added.Waheed Para on the other hand, was a part of a conspiracy which also raised and transferred funds to Hizbul terrorists for procuring terrorist hardware. the NIA said. The PDP leader played an important role in ‘sustaining political-separatist-terrorist nexus’ in the Union territory, the agency further said.Para was arrested by the agency on November 25 last year and was granted bail by the NIA court on January 9 this year. However, two days later, he was again held by the Jammu and Kashmir Police on January 11 and continues to remain in custody. Slamming his re-arrest, PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti alleged in February that Para was being kept under inhuman conditions and tortured to admit false allegations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-files-chargesheet-against-3-in-suspended-j-k-cop-davinder-singh-s-case-101616410987255.html
22-03-2021||India||Explained: Why govt recommended revision in second dose interval for Covishield||The central government on Monday wrote a letter to chief secretaries of states and administrators of union territories, asking them to increase the interval between the two doses of Covishield, one of the two Covid-19 vaccines being given across the country as part of nationwide inoculation drive.The vaccination drive was launched on January 16 after India's drug regulator cleared AstraZeneca-Oxford University's Covishield - manufactured by Serum Institute of India (SII) - and domestically made Bharat Biotech's Covaxin. In the first phase of the vaccination drive, healthcare and frontline workers who interacted with Covid-19 patients were given the shots of the vaccines. In the second phase, which began on March 1, people above the age of 60 and 45+ with comorbidities were chosen for vaccination.The Centre's today clarified that its advisory is only meant for Covishield and not Covaxin.Why did the Centre take this decision?In its communication sent to the states and union territories, the central government said that its National Technical Advisory Group on Immunization (NTAGI) and National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration revisited the current interval period being followed across the country in view of the emerging scientific evidence.During this meeting the recommendation, the two expert group revised the time interval to 4-8 weeks after the first dose, instead of earlier practiced interval of 4-6 weeks.The Union health ministry accepted the recommendations of these two groups and advised the states and union territories to ensure the administration of second dose of Covishield to beneficiaries within 4-8 weeks of giving the first dose.Why the time interval has been revised?The Centre said that scientific evidence shows that protection is enhanced if the second dose of Covishield is administered between 6-8 weeks, but not later than stipulated period of eight weeks.Pune-based SII, the world’s largest vaccine manufacturer in terms of numbers, partnered with the Oxford University to manufacture their Covid-19 vaccine in India.The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) granted an emergency use approval (EUA) for Covishield in India in January this year. Doses of the vaccines were transported from Pune to multiple hubs in the country.On Sunday, the central government placed orders for 120 million more doses of Covid-19 vaccines with SII and Bharat Biotech. Of the 120 million doses, 100 million will be of Covishield. The remaining will be of Covaxin.India aims to give doses to 300 million people - healthcare workers, frontline workers and those at highest risk due to their age or comorbid conditions - by the end of July. But experts now believe as many people as possible should now be allowed to take the doses in order to head off this new wave of cases.More than 4.50 crore vaccine doses have been administered through 7,33,597 sessions, as per the provisional report till 7 am on Monday. As on Day 65 of the vaccination drive (on Sunday), a total of 4,62,157 vaccine doses were given.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/explained-why-govt-increased-time-interval-between-2-doses-of-covishield-101616410069834.html
22-03-2021||India||Nature Safari in Bihar’s Rajgir to be inaugurated before Holi||The Nature Safari at Rajgir in Bihar’s Nalanda district, the first of its kind in the country will be opened for the visitors on March 26 this year, a senior official said.Chief Minister Nitish Kumar will inaugurate the safari and will dedicate it to the people. The much-awaited cabin car ropeway at Ratnagiri hills at Rajgir too will be launched on the occasion. The Nature Safari which has been developed by the department of forests, environment and climate change over 500-hectares of land at a cost of with ₹19 crore will offer visitors the unique experiences of glass sky walk, suspension bridge, adventure park and butterfly zone. The site also has an archery range, rock climbing walls and wrestling zone among other attractions.An eight-seater cabin car ropeway which has been developed recently by the state tourism will offer tourists a more convenient and much safer journey to the Vishwa Shanti Stupa atop the Ratnagiri hills at Rajgir. Gopal Singh, a senior forest official, said both the Nature Safari and the new ropeway will be launched before the festival of Holi.“The Safari is expected to evoke wide interest because of the unique experiences that it is going to offer. The glass sky walk is the first such facility in the country. Even the suspension bridge is expected to woo those who love adventure,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nature-safari-in-bihar-s-rajgir-to-be-inaugurated-before-holi-101616410130313.html
22-03-2021||India||'Protection enhanced': Centre asks states to increase interval between 2 doses of Covishield||The central government on Monday has asked the states and Union territories to increase the interval between the two doses of the Covishield, one of the two Covid-19 vaccines being given across the country as part of natiowide inoculation drive. The Centre has asked states to administer the second dose to beneficiaries after four to eight weeks of the first dose. The interval was earlier fixed at four to six weeks after the first dose.The decision, the government said, has been taken based on the recommendations of the country’s vaccine expert groups and communicated to all the state and union territories by Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan.Also read | India records nearly 47,000 new Covid-19 cases, 212 deaths; tally over 11.6 mn﻿In a statement, the Union health ministry said, “In view of the emerging scientific evidence, the interval between two doses of a specific COVID-19 vaccine i.e. COVISHIELD, has been revisited by National Technical Advisory Group on Immunization (NTAGI) and subsequently by National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for COVID-19 (NEGVAC) in its 20th meeting. During this meeting the recommendation has been revised to provide 2nd dose of COVISHIELD at 4-8 weeks’ interval after the 1st dose, instead of earlier practiced interval of 4-6 weeks.” The ministry also noted that the changes have been notified only for the Covishield vaccine and not Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin.The letter also said that the health ministry "has accepted the recommendations of NTAGI and NEGVAC and has thereafter advised the States and UTs to ensure the administration of second dose of COVISHIELD to beneficiaries within this stipulated time interval of 4-8 weeks after 1st dose.”Bhushan mentioned that protection from the Covishield vaccine is enhanced if the second dose is administered in six to eight weeks from the first dose and no later than eight weeks, citing existing scientific evidence. He has also urged the states to strictly adhere to the revised time intervals.Also read | Over 84% of India's daily Covid-19 cases reported from 6 statesAccording to the latest data from the ministry, 45,065,998 vaccine doses have been administered in the country as of 8am on Monday. Covishield developed by British pharmaceutical company AstraZeneca and manufactured by the Serum Institute of India and Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin have been administered to beneficiaries in the country’s vaccination drive, which began on January 16, 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/protection-enhanced-centre-asks-states-to-increase-interval-between-2-doses-of-covishield-101616407481417.html
22-03-2021||India||India revises 2nd dose interval for Covishield to 4-8 weeks||India’s top committee on coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccines has increased the interval between administering two doses of Covishield to four to eight weeks, from the existing four to six weeks, to increase the efficacy of the vaccine, said Union ministry of health and family welfare in a statement on Monday.“In view of the emerging scientific evidence, the interval between two doses of a specific Covid-19 vaccine i.e. Covishield, has been revisited by National Technical Advisory Group on Immunization (NTAGI) and subsequently by National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC) in its 20th meeting. During this meeting the recommendation has been revised to provide 2nd dose of Covishield at 4-8 weeks’ interval after the 1st dose, instead of earlier practiced interval of 4-6 weeks,” said the health ministry statement.Also Read | AstraZeneca vaccine found 79% effective in US trials: Key pointsHowever, the health ministry also emphasised that this decision of revised time interval between two doses was applicable only to Covishield, the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine locally manufactured by Serum Institute of India (SII), and not Covaxin, that is co-developed by Bharat Biotech and the Indian Council of Medical Research.Union health secretary, Rajesh Bhushan, on Monday, communicated the recommendation of the expert committee to the chief secretaries of all States and Union Territories. “…he has noted that the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Government of India has accepted the recommendations of NTAGI and NEGVAC and has thereafter advised the States and UTs to ensure the administration of 2nd dose of Covishield to beneficiaries within this stipulated time interval of 4-8 weeks after 1st dose,” the letter read. “Keeping the existing scientific evidence in view, it appears that protection is enhanced if the second dose of Covishield is administered between 6-8 weeks, but not later than stipulated period of 8 weeks,” it added.Bhushan also urged the states to instruct the officials concerned accordingly, to undertake necessary steps to widely disseminate the message of revised dosing interval amongst programme managers, vaccinators and recipients of Covishield vaccine, and ensure adherence to the revised dosing interval for maximum efficacy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-revises-2nd-dose-interval-for-covishield-to-4-8-weeks-101616410070269.html
22-03-2021||India||Bill to increase FDI in insurance sector gets Parliament's nod||A bill to increase foreign direct investment (FDI) in the insurance sector from 49% to 74% was approved by Parliament with the Lok Sabha giving green signal to the legislation by a voice vote on Monday.Piloting the Bill, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said that hiking the FDI limit in the insurance sector will help insurers to raise additional funds and tide over financial problems.The Insurance (Amendment) Bill, 2021 was earlier passed by the Rajya Sabha last week.The minister said that the government will provide funds to the public sector insurance companies but the private players will have to raise capital on their own.Observing that insurance companies are facing solvency related issues, she said, "if growth capital is hard to come by, there will be a stress situation. In order that the stress situation is not left unattended, we need to raise the FDI limit."The COVID-19 pandemic, Sitharaman said, has further added to the woes of the insurance companies.The minister further said that the FDI limit was being raised on the recommendations of the regulator IRDAI which had extensive consultations with stakeholders.The FDI inflow in the insurance sector, the minister said, had increased significantly after the government decided to raise the cap from 26% to 49% in 2015.As much as ₹26,000 crore has come as FDI in the insurance sector since 2015, she said, adding the asset under management (AUM) in this sector has grown by 76% during the last five years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bill-to-increase-fdi-in-insurance-sector-gets-parliament-s-nod-101616407943826.html
22-03-2021||India||Sheikh Mujibur Rahman named for Gandhi Peace Prize after Modi makes an exception||India on Monday named Bangladesh’s father of the nation, Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, and Oman’s longtime ruler Sultan Qaboos for the Gandhi Peace Prize, an official statement by the government said.This is the first time that the prestigious prize for 2019 and 2020 has been awarded posthumously.Sultan Qaboos bin Said Al Said of Oman was the Middle East’s longest-ruling monarch, and known internationally for his diplomatic balancing in the volatile Persian Gulf. He often served as a facilitator of talks between adversaries, Iran and the U.S. He was a key to meeting India’s energy security needs in the Persian Gulf.The award carries an amount of Rs. 1 crore, a citation, a plaque and an exquisite traditional handloom item.The decision to confer the award for 2020 on Sheikh Mujibur Rahman comes ahead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to Bangladesh, his first foreign trip since the outbreak of Covid-19. PM Modi will attend the national day programme of Bangladesh on March 26 as the guest of honour and participate in the commemoration of what New Delhi has described as “three epochal events” – Mujib Borsho, the birth centenary of Bangladesh’s father of the nation, Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, 50 years of diplomatic ties, and 50 years of Bangladesh’s war of liberation.PM Modi’s itinerary in Bangladesh includes visits to Sheikh Mujibur Rahman’s memorial in Tungipara, about 400 km from Dhaka. Tungipara is the place of birth of Mujibur Rahman. It is also also where the architect of the 1971 Bangladesh War of Independence lies buried inside a tomb called the ‘Bangabandhu mausoleum’.PM Modi will also pay respect to Harichand Thakur, the founder of a religious reformation movement Matua Mahasangha at his shrine in Orakandi. On March 27, PM Modi is scheduled to visit the famous Jeshoreshwari Kali temple in Satkhira.A large number of people from the Matua community migrated from Bangladesh to parts of Bengal and Assam over the last five decades to escape religious persecution. In Bengal, they are mostly concentrated in Nadia, North 24 Parganas, South 24 Parganas, Kolkata and Hooghly, districts that together have 16 of Bengal’s 42 Lok Sabha seats.PM Modi, who heads the jury for the Gandhi Peace Prize, called Bangabandhu a champion of human rights and freedom, and is a hero to Indians as well.An official statement said the prestigious award “recognizes the immense and unparalleled contribution of Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman in inspiring the liberation of Bangladesh, bringing stability to a nation born out of strife, laying the foundation for the close and fraternal relations between India and Bangladesh, and promoting peace and non-violence in the Indian subcontinent”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sheikh-mujibir-rahman-oman-s-sultan-qaboos-named-for-india-s-gandhi-peace-prize-101616409110277.html
22-03-2021||India||Election Commission bans bike rallies in states 72 hours before voting day||Bike rallies, a favourite campaigning tool of several political parties, have been banned by the Election Commission of India (ECI) for upto 72 hours before polling in an area. Announcing this in a letter to all the state election commission offices in poll-bound states on Monday, the Election Commission said that bike rallies could be misused.“It has been brought to the notice of the Commission that in some places bikes are used by some antisocial elements to intimidate the voters before the poll day and/or on poll day,” said the letter which has been signed by under secretary Sanjeev Kumar Prasad of ECI. “Kindly inform all concerned stakeholders including candidates/political parties and Commission’s observers for strict compliance,” instructed the note, which was issued Monday.Also Read | BJP president JP Nadda to hold 3 rallies in Assam on MondayAssembly elections are due to begin in West Bengal, Assam, Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Kerala from March 27. The results for all the states will be announced on May 2. In the last few weeks, both the Trinamool Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) have held bike rallies in Bengal while Assam minister Himanta Biswa Sarma also kicked off the BJP’s campaign in the state with a bike rally on March 7. Bike rallies have often been followed up with complaints from the rival side about the number of participating vehicles surpassing the prescribed limit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/election-commission-bans-bike-rallies-in-states-72-hours-before-voting-day-101616407250323.html
22-03-2021||India||After Pawar's remark on Anil Deshmukh, Fadnavis accuses him of diverting issue||The opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is keeping the heat on Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh, who has been accused of extortion by former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh. Reacting to Nationalist COngress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar's comments that Deshmukh was in hospital in February when Singh claimed he met arrested cop Sachin Vaze, Fadnavis said on Monday that the Maharashtra home minister was seen taking press conference during the said period."Shri Sharad Pawar ji said, from 15th to 27th February HM Anil Deshmukh was in home quarantine. But actually along with security guards & media he was seen taking press conference!" he tweeted attaching an old video from Deshmukh's Twitter handle of his media interaction.Shri Sharad Pawar ji said, from 15th to 27th February HM Anil Deshmukh was in home quarantine.But actually along with security guards & media he was seen taking press conference! https://t.co/r09U8MZW2mHe also accused Pawar of diverting the issue. "It seems Sharad Pawar ji is not briefed properly on Parambir Singh letter. In this lefter only, the SMS evidence shows that the meeting date was mentioned as end of February. Now who is diverting issue?" Fadnavis said in a subsequent tweet.It seems Sharad Pawar ji is not briefed properly on Parambir Singh letter.In this lefter only, the SMS evidence shows that the meeting date was mentioned as end of February.Now who is diverting issue? pic.twitter.com/CTHzQ7meZOAddressing the media at his house in Delhi, Pawar said on Monday that he is "absolutely clear that allegations made against Deshmukh are incorrect". “In view of fresh evidences that proves that Deshmukh was not in Nagpur it would not be fair to take Anil Deshmukh’s resignation,” he added.The NCP - one of the constituents of the ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) - has backed Deshmukh in the wake of allegations from Singh. After a meeting held at Pawar's residence in Delhi on Sunday, the party said Deshmukh won't resign.The Maharashtra home minister also defended himself, saying he was in home quarantine in February and stepped out for the first time on February 28th."A few journalists were waiting for me at the hospital gate after I got discharged on 15th February. I was feeling low and weak so I sat on the chair there and responded to their questions. Then I went straight to my car and went home. I was in home quarantine from February 15th to 27th. I stepped out of my house for the first time on February 28th," he said.The Shiv Sena, who leads the MVA, alleged that Param Bir Singh is a puppet of BJP government at the Centre. It also demanded probe into allegations against Singh by his subordinate officer."Param Bir Singh himself is a embroiled in corruption. On February 2, 2021, Anup Dange, an officer of Gamdevi Police station, wrote to Additional CS Home department complaining how Singh harassed Dange through Bharat Shah and Jitendra Navlani, who are connected to underworld," claimed Sena leader Vinayak Raut.Dange had taken action against a pub but Param Bir Singh called him at 2am and asked him not to file a case, he further alleged.The controversy around Deshmukh was triggered by a letter written by Singh to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray in which he claimed that Deshmukh gave Vaze a monthly extortion target of ₹100 crore from various establishments in Mumbai. Since the letter surfaced on Saturday, the MVA has been defending Deshmukh.Singh wrote the letter after his transfer from the post of Mumbai police commissioner to Maharashtra Home Guard. He has filed a petition in the Supreme Court against the transfer, calling it "arbitrary".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-pawar-s-remark-on-anil-deshmukh-fadnavis-accuses-him-of-diverting-issue-101616405731752.html
22-03-2021||India||Pakistani team arrives for meeting of permanent Indus commission||A delegation of Pakistani officials arrived in India via the Wagah land border crossing on Monday for a meeting of the permanent Indus commission, the first such talks in over two-and-a-half years. The delegation, led by Pakistan’s Indus water commissioner Mehr Ali Shah, will hold talks with the Indian team led by Indus water commissioner Pradeep Kumar Saxena in New Delhi during March 23-24. The talks are being held against the backdrop of a thaw in bilateral relations, which had taken a hit after the 2019 Pulwama suicide bombing and a subsequent military standoff. The last meeting of the permanent Indus commission was held in Lahore in August 2018. Last month, the Indian and Pakistani militaries recommitted themselves to the 2003 ceasefire on the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir, raising hopes for further improvements in bilateral ties. The decision to adhere to the truce on the volatile LoC was the apparent outcome of behind-the-scenes contacts between the two countries. Also Read | The Nehruvian imprint on Indus Waters TreatyAn eight-member delegation of Pakistan’s Commission on Indus Waters will leave for New Delhi on Monday for a two-day meeting of the Permanent Commission on Indus Waters to discuss with their Indian counterparts Pakistan’s objections to the design of Pakal Dul and Lower Kalnai hydroelectric plants/projects and other issues. The meeting is scheduled for Tuesday and Wednesday. The last meeting took place in August 2018 in Lahore. Officials said the gap between the two meetings was caused by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. After the 2018 meeting, a Pakistani delegation was invited by India to inspect the sites of the hydroelectric projects being constructed by India on Pakistani rivers. Recent comments by Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan and Pakistan Army chief General Qamar Bajwa about improving ties with India have also helped clear the environment, though India has said the onus is on Pakistan for creating an atmosphere conducive to a meaningful dialogue. During the meeting of the permanent Indus commission, the Pakistani side is expected to raise objections to the design of India’s Pakal Dul and Lower Kalnai hydroelectric plants. It is also expected to seek information on new projects planned by India on western rivers, and flood data arrangements for the flood season. The impact of India’s decision to scrap Jammu and Kashmir’s special status in August 2019 and the Covid-19 pandemic had affected the scheduling of meetings of the permanent Indus commission, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity. The Indus Waters Treaty of 1960, which was brokered by the World Bank, is one of the most durable agreements between India and Pakistan. It has survived several wars and disruptions in bilateral relations over the decades. The permanent Indus commission is required to meet at least once a year, alternately in India and Pakistan, under the terms of the treaty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistani-team-arrives-for-meeting-of-permanent-indus-commission-101616405930469.html
22-03-2021||India||Tiger found dead in UP’s Dudhwa tiger reserve||An adult tiger was found dead in the Kishanpur wildlife sanctuary in Dudhwa tiger reserve in Lakhimpur Kheri district of Uttar Pradesh late on Sunday evening. The carcass of the tiger, aged around eight years, was found lying near a canal, said Sanjay Kumar Pathak, chief conservator of forest (CCF), Dudhwa tiger reserve.Ruling out any foul play, he said, “No external injury marks were detected but a swelling around its neck was noticed. However, all vital organs were intact. The autopsy will be done by a panel of doctors at the Indian Veterinary Research Institute (IVRI) in Bareilly to ascertain the exact cause of death,” he added.This was the second tiger death in Kheri this month. An adult tiger was electrocuted in a field near Dokarpur village under south Kheri forest division on March 1, when it came in contact with an electric cable laid by poachers to hunt wild animals. On March 8, a female leopard was killed in a fight with another big cat in Haukna Matera jungles under Dhaurahra range of Dudhwa buffer zone.On January 27, a seven-month-old tiger cub was found dead due to illness in the Gola range forest area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tiger-found-dead-in-up-s-dudhwa-tiger-reserve-101616405570981.html
22-03-2021||India||India’s Virchow Group to make 200 mn doses of Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine||The makers of the Russian vaccine against Coronavirus disease (Covid-19), Sputnik V, on Monday announced that they partnered with another Indian pharmaceutical firm to manufacture 200 million vaccine doses. This is their fifth partnership in India for locally manufacturing the Russian Covid-19 vaccine that has shown an efficacy of 91.6%. “Vaccine partnerships are the only way to overcome the pandemic. The world continues its fight against coronavirus and we see a growing interest in Sputnik V vaccine as it is one of the most efficient vaccines available. The agreement with Virchow Biotech is an important step to facilitate the full-scale local production of the vaccine in India and to supply our international partners globally,” said Kirill Dmitriev, chief executive officer of the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF). Also Read | Stelis Biopharma to make 200 mn doses of Sputnik V Covid vaccineThe Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF, Russia’s sovereign wealth fund), and Virchow Biotech Private Limited (part of the Virchow Group), one of the leading vaccine and pharmaceutical producers in India, announced the agreement to produce in the country up to 200 million doses per year of Sputnik V, the world’s first registered vaccine against coronavirus, via an RDIF statement issued on Monday. “The technology transfer is expected to be completed in the 2Q of 2021 followed by full-scale commercial production of Sputnik V. Virchow Biotech capacities will help facilitate global supply of Sputnik V to international partners of RDIF,” the statement read. Tummuru Murali, managing director of Virchow Biotech, said, “We are glad to sign a cooperation agreement with RDIF to produce the Sputnik V coronavirus vaccine. Virchow’s proven capabilities in large scale drug substance manufacturing should help meet the global demand for this vaccine. We are also happy to learn of the positive feedback that this vaccine has been receiving from all сountries.” On Friday, RDIF announced its partnership with Stelis Biopharma Pvt. Ltd., the biopharmaceutical division of Strides, a global pharmaceutical company headquartered in India, to produce and supply a minimum of 200 million vaccine doses. Sputnik V is registered in 54 countries globally with total population of over 1.4 billion people. The efficacy of Sputnik V is 91.6% as confirmed by the data published in the Lancet. The vaccine is based on a proven and well-studied platform of human adenoviral vectors and uses two different vectors for the two shots in a course of vaccination, providing immunity with a longer duration than vaccines using the same delivery mechanism for both shots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-virchow-group-to-make-200-mn-doses-of-russia-s-sputnik-v-vaccine-101616405210054.html
22-03-2021||India||Telangana govt employees get 30% pay hike, retirement age increased by 3 years||Over nine lakh employees of the Telangana government will get a hike of 30% in their salaries with effect from April 1. The government has also decided to increase their retirement age from 58 years to 61 years, chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao announced in the state assembly on Monday.The decision was taken based on the recommendations made by the 11th pay revision commission headed by retired IAS officer C R Biswal in May 2018. The earlier pay revision for the employees was done in 2014 soon after the formation of Telangana, when the government had given 43% pay hike for the employees. Acknowledging that there was a delay in the implementation of pay revision due to the coronavirus pandemic that crippled the state’s economy completely, KCR, as the chief minister is popularly known, said his government had now decided to implement the pay revision to the best possible extent, as the financial position of the state was gradually limping back to normal. “We have decided to give 30% fitment (hike in basic salary) to the employees with effect from April 1,” the chief minister announced. The pay revision commission, in its report submitted to the government in January, recommended a salary hike of only 7%. He said the salary hike will be extended to all the government employees, grant-in-aid employees, work-charged employees, daily wages employees, full time contingent employees, part-time contingent employees and pensioners among others. “In all, the salary hike would benefit 9,17,797 employees of all categories,” he said. The pay hike is effective retrospectively from the last financial year. The chief minister said his government would pay arrears of the salary hike for the last 12 months to the employees, despite the fact that the state’s financial position was precarious due to drastic fall in revenues on account of Covid-19 pandemic. The arrears would be paid to the employees along with their other retirement benefits, he said. KCR also announced increase in the retirement gratuity to be paid to all the employees from the present ₹12 lakh to ₹16 lakh. “Similarly, the government has decided to reduce the age of eligibility for the retired employees from 75 to 70 years for the payment of additional quantum of pension of 15%,” he said. The chief minister said as per the promise he had made before the December 2018 assembly elections, the government was enhancing the age of superannuation of the employees from 58 to 61 years. The chief minister also reminded that the government had already completed the process of promotions to the eligible employees after holding a series of discussions with the employees’ and teachers’ unions. “So far, we have completed 80% of the promotion exercise and we shall take up the remaining promotions at the earliest. After all the eligible employees get the promotions, the vacancies arising thereon would be filled in due course,” he said. KCR announced constitution of a steering committee with representatives of employees’ unions and government officials to work out new guidelines for the implementation of Employees’ Health Scheme (EHS) for the state government employees, on the lines of CGHS being implemented for the central government employees. The government would take up inter-district transfer of employees for spouse cases, so that husband and wife working in different districts could now work in the same district. It also decided to repatriate Andhra employees working in Telangana to their native state and orders to this effect would be issued shortly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-govt-employees-get-30-pay-hike-retirement-age-increased-by-3-years-101616404670411.html
22-03-2021||India||Ex-Mumbai police chief Param Bir Singh moves SC for CBI probe against Deshmukh||Transferred over the bomb scare at billionaire Mukesh Ambani’s residence Antilia and the subsequent arrest of former police officer Sachin Vaze, former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh moved the Supreme Court on Monday, demanding a CBI probe against Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh over corruption charges. In his writ petition, Singh accused Deshmukh of interfering in various investigations and instructing the police officers to conduct probes in a particular manner as desired by him. “The petitioner has invoked writ jurisdiction of this Hon’ble Court to seek unbiased, uninfluenced, impartial and fair investigation in the corrupt malpractices of Shri Anil Deshmukh, the Hon’ble Home Minister of Government of Maharashtra, before the evidences are destroyed,” stated the plea, filed through advocate Abhinay. Also Read | Pawar again backs Anil Deshmukh, cites Covid-19 diagnosis to question Param BirIt added: “The petitioner submits that said Shri Anil Deshmukh had been holding meetings in February, 2021, at his residence with police officers, including Shri Sachin Vaze of Crime Intelligence Unit, Mumbai, and Shri Sanjay Patil, ACP Social Service Branch, Mumbai, bypassing their seniors and had instructed them that he had a target to accumulate ₹100 crore every month and had directed to collect money from various establishments and other sources.” Calling his transfer a malicious move, Singh contended that he was shunted out by an order on March 17 immediately after he brought Deshmukh’s corrupt practices in the knowledge of Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and other senior leaders. The petition further said: “The transfer of the petitioner in the aforesaid circumstances is for reasons smeared with malice, when there is no iota of material or evidence – far from proof – found or even imputed against the petitioner, and is solely based on conjectures, surmises and pure speculation, without detail of any sort against the petitioner having been noticed by anybody.” Singh said he was constrained to write a letter to the chief minister on March 22 regarding Deshmukh’s conduct after his transfer, followed by adverse media publicity by the minister, in violation of his right to reputation, dignity, equality and liberty. In this letter, Singh had alleged that Deshmukh asked Vaze to collect ₹100 crore for him every month—a charge which has been rejected by the state home minister. Senior counsel Mukul Rohatgi is expected to represent Singh in the Supreme Court. A date of hearing is still to be fixed for Singh’s petition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/exmumbai-police-chief-param-bir-singh-moves-sc-for-cbi-probe-against-deshmukh-101616404550091.html
22-03-2021||India||Bhopal: Doctors remove 16kg ovarian tumour after 6-hour-long surgery||Doctors at a private hospital in Bhopal removed a 16-kilogram tumour from the abdomen of a 20-year-old woman after performing a 6-hour-long surgery on Sunday.Hospital Manager Devendra Chandolia said it was an ovarian tumour and the surgery was performed successfully. The condition of the woman is stable."Two days back, she came from Rajgarh and her tumour was very large. She was having problems while eating and walking. This tumour is known as an ovarian tumour. The woman's weight was 48 kilogram and the weight of the tumour was 16 kg. This is major surgery," Chandolia told ANI."Chances of her survival would have diminished if it was not removed in time. The surgery went on for around six hours. She is out of danger," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhopal-doctors-remove-16kg-ovarian-tumour-after-6-hour-long-surgery-101616403661317.html
22-03-2021||India||Ex-Mumbai top cop Param Bir Singh moves Supreme Court against his transfer to Home Guard||Former Mumbai police commissioner Parambir Singh on Monday filed a petition before the Supreme Court about his transfer to Home Guard Department. He sought direction for immediate "unbiased, uninfluenced, impartial and fair" CBI probe into alleged corrupt malpractices of Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh.In his petition, Singh said that his transfer was done in an "arbitrary and illegal" manner "without the completion of the minimum fixed tenure of two years"."The said transfer was maliciously effected purportedly under Section 22N(2) of the Maharashtra Police Act, 1951 with the reason that the transfer was necessitated by “administrative exigencies”. It is settled law that the orders have to stand on the reasons contained in the same and no reasons can be supplemented later," the former top cop said in the petition.Singh also said that as commissioner of Mumbai police, he ensured that the investigation in the Ambani security threat case is carried out in a fair and transparent manner, and also did not obstructed the probe by the NIA.The transfer is smeared with malice, and is solely based on conjectures, surmises and pure speculation, the petition further said.Singh, a 1988 batch IPS officer, was last week transferred from the post of Mumbai police commissioner in the midst of a probe by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) into the recovery of an explosives-laden SUV which was found parked outside the south Mumbai residence of industrialist Mukesh Ambani on February 25.Reacting to his transfer, Deshmukh said that Singh was removed because some "serious lapses" surfaced in the police probe in the Ambani bomb scare case.But Singh hit back with a letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray which has since shaken the political field in Maharashtra. Singh claimed in the letter that Deshmukh asked arrested cop Sachin Vaze to extort money to the tune of ₹100 crore per month from various establishments in Mumbai like hotels and bars.While the constituents of the ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) have stood behind Deshmukh, meetings are being held by Shiv Sena, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Congress to discuss how to resolve the crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/param-bir-singh-moves-supreme-court-against-his-transfer-to-home-guard-101616403308708.html
22-03-2021||India||Goa municipal election results 2021: What we know so far||Counting of votes for the elections to six municipal councils, 30 wards of the Corporation of the City of Panjim (CCP), 22 panchayat wards and one zilla panchayat are currently underway in Goa. The polls were conducted on these seats on Saturday in which 310,000 voters participated, according to the state election commission. The Corporation of the City of Panjim recorded 70.19 per cent voter turnout, which was the lowest among all the corporations that went to the polls. The highest voter turnout was recorded in the Pernem Municipal Council at 91.02 per cent.The state election commission issued a standard operation procedure (SOP) to be followed during the counting process amid the coronavirus pandemic.Here’s what we know about the election results so far:1. Five candidates, one in Aalpoi and four in panchayats, have been declared winners unopposed.2. The Bharatiya Janata Party- (BJP) led panel won 25 out of 30 seats in the municipal elections in Panaji. The panel was led by newly-inducted Atanasio Monserrate, who joined the BJP in 2019 along with nine other Congress legislators. Although the municipal elections in Goa are not held along party lines, the respective local MLA fields a ‘panel’ of candidates that they publicly acknowledge of backing them. CCP has the highest number of candidates at 95 and 48 candidates are in the fray from Curchorem, 37 in Pernem, 31 at Canacona and 23 at Valpoi.3. Panaji MLA Monserrate’s son Rohit Monserrate won from Ward No 3 in the City of Panaji polls.4. Independent candidate Edwin (Cipru) Cardozo has been declared the winner in the Navelim zilla parishad by-poll. He was leading in the seat since the commencement of the voting process.5. A BJP-backed panel swept the Canacona municipal elections.6. Videsh Dessai, who is the brother-in-law of Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant, won the Cuncolim Municipal Council elections in Ward No 14.7. The BJP-backed panel has also won in the Bicholim municipal polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-municipal-election-results-2021-what-we-know-so-far-101616401217231.html
22-03-2021||India||Saradha scam: CBI carries out searches at offices of three SEBI officials||The CBI on Monday carried out searches at the offices of three Securities and Exchange Board of India officials in connection with their alleged role in saving Saradha Ponzi scheme scam operators, news agency PTI reported, citing officials. However, the names of the three officers have been withheld, they said. There are multiple FIRs against the Saradha Group in West Bengal, in which it has been alleged that thousands of investors were allegedly duped by company officials and their associates who swindled their deposits. The incident took West Bengal by storm and generated great controversy since several leaders of ruling Trinamool Congress were said to have been allegedly involved with the scam.Last week, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) questioned two Trinamool Congress (TMC) leaders, Madan Mitra and Vivek Gupta, in connection with the multi-crore chit fund scam. Both Mitra and Gupta have been fielded as TMC candidates for the upcoming assembly elections in the state.Also Read: ED quizzes two TMC leaders over Saradha case, ex-MP summonedThe central agency also summoned another former TMC MP, Ahmed Hassan Imran, and two former IPS officers, Rajat Majumdar and Surajit Kar Purkayastha, in connection with the same case on March 24 and 25. Earlier last week, TMC spokesperson Kunal Ghosh was summoned. It is to be noted that Ghosh and Mitra had earlier been arrested in connection with the incident but were later released on bail.Among other prominent leaders, Mukul Roy, then a TMC MP and a close aide of Mamata Banerjee, had initially been named in the case and was being investigated by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). In 2017, he joined the BJP. Presently, the ED has asked him to submit details of all the bank accounts that he and his wife have been in possession of since 2013.The Supreme Court had handed over the Saradha chit fund scam probe to the CBI and asked the state governments concerned to provide all logistical help to the agency team investigating the matter.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/saradha-scam-cbi-carries-out-searches-at-offices-of-three-sebi-officials-101616400353774.html
22-03-2021||India||'Vision of self-reliance India is dependent on water connectivity,' says PM Modi at 'Catch the Rain' campaign launch||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday stressed the importance of water conservation as he launched the Jal Shakti Abhiyan: Catch the Rain campaign virtually. Speaking during the launch, PM Modi called for participation from every citizen of the country and said that as the country is moving on the path of development, the crisis of water is also increasing.The launch was organised to mark World Water Day to raise awareness about water conservation in the country. Union minister for Jal Shakti Gajendra Singh Shekhawat and Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan were also part of the event."The water availability is very crucial for 21st century India," he also said.PM Modi also announced that after the launch of Jal Jeevan Mission, "about 4 crore new families have got tap connection in such a short time." "Just one and a half years ago, out of 19 crore rural families in our country, only 3.5 crore families used to get water from the tap," he said during the launch."India's development vision, its self-reliance is dependent on water connectivity. That's why our government. has prioritized water governance in its policies. More rain water harvesting facilities means less dependence on groundwater," PM Modi also said.The launch was organised to mark World Water Day to raise awareness about water conservation in the country. Union minister for Jal Shakti ministry, Gajendra Singh Shekhawat and chief minister of Shivraj Singh Chouhan were also part of the event.The program will be implemented between March 22 and November 30, covering the monsoon period in the country. During this campaign, geotagging of all water bodies throughout the nation will be carried out, an official said on condition of anonymity.On average India receives 1,170mm of rainfall, most of it during the summer monsoon months, but only 10-20% of that is currently tapped.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-launches-catch-the-rain-campaign-on-world-water-day-101616396788320.html
22-03-2021||India||Uttarakhand CM Tirath Singh Rawat tests positive for Covid-19||Uttarakhand chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat, who was expected to be in Delhi for a four-day visit, tweeted on Monday he has contracted the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and urged people he met in the last few days to get tested. “My corona test report came back positive. I am fine and I have no problem. I have isolated myself under the supervision of the doctors. Those of you who have come in close contact with me in the last few days, please be cautious and get yourself checked,” Rawat’s tweet, roughly translated from Hindi, read. “I wish everyone good health,” he also said.मेरी कोरोना टेस्ट रिपोर्ट पॉजिटिव आई है। मैं ठीक हूँ और मुझे कोई परेशानी नहीं है । डॉक्टर्स की निगरानी में मैंने स्वयं को आइसोलेट कर लिया है ।आप में से जो भी लोग गत कुछ दिनों में मेरे निकट संपर्क में आयें हैं, कृपया सावधानी बरतें और अपनी जाँच करवाएं।Rawat had met Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president JP Nadda at his residence in the national capital on Friday. News agency ANI reported citing an official from the chief minister's office that Rawat planned to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah and other cabinet ministers in Delhi during his visit.The Uttarakhand government has been asked by the Centre to put in place stringent measures to control the spread of the viral disease during the upcoming Mahakumbh scheduled to begin in Haridwar on April 1. Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan wrote to state chief secretary Om Prakash “strongly highlighting the concerns raised by the high-level central team in its visit to Uttarakhand and about the need of stringent measures to control the spread of Covid19 during Kumbh Mela”.The development comes a day after the Uttarakhand chief minister assured devotees that all “unnecessary” restrictions imposed to contain the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic will be removed for the event. Rawat also asserted that “faith is stronger than fear”.Uttarakhand was among the 15 states and Union territories that did not report any Covid-19 related deaths, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-cm-tirath-singh-rawat-tests-positive-for-covid19-101616399370240.html
22-03-2021||India||Bhima Koregaon case: NIA court refuses bail to Stan Swamy||A special NIA court in Mumbai on Monday rejected the bail plea of Stan Swamy, a tribal rights activist, booked in connection with being part of the conspiracy in connection with the Bhima Koregaon-Elgar Parishad case.Swamy had moved bail plea in November last year, claiming that he has been falsely implicated due to the nature of his writings about caste and land struggles of the people in India.The NIA arrested the 83-year-old activist in October last year on the basis of several letters found in his possession which it claimed established his connection with banned CPI (Maoist) organisation. While objecting to his plea, NIA claimed there are around 140 emails exchanged between Swamy and other accused – Anand Teltumbde, Gautam Navlakha and others. It also claimed that Swamy was a “staunch supporter” of organisation which work as fronts of CPI (Maoist). The probe agency recovered several letters from Wilson’s computer which were used to book other accused in the case.The defence also submitted a copy of a report from a Massachusetts-based digital forensics firm, Arsenal Consulting, which claimed that just few hours before the arrest of Rona Wilson, another accused in the case, his computer was tampered with.Also Read | Stan Swamy gets straw, sipper in jail, files fresh plea seeking his bagIn his bail plea, Swamy refuted NIA’s allegations and questioned the authenticity of letters that the agency submitted as evidence. “The prosecution has attached word and pdf copies of the letter. They are not even part of emails. That these alleged letters were ever sent or received is questionable,” said Swamy’s bail plea. Swamy had previously applied for bail on medical grounds, citing his Parkinson’s disease, but was denied it. Parkinson’s disease is a debilitating nervous disorder that can cause involuntary spasms and tremors that make it difficult for patients to carry out everyday actions, such as drinking water, without aid.Violence had erupted in the vicinity of a war memorial in Koregaon Bhima, on the outskirts of Pune city, on January 1, 2018, allegedly after provocative speeches made at the Elgar Parishad conclave. The Pune Police, which initially probed the case, claimed that the conclave was backed by outlawed Maoist groups. The NIA later took over the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhima-koregaon-case-nia-court-refuses-bail-to-stan-swamy-101616399149761.html
22-03-2021||India||Priced at ₹498-500 per share, Barbeque Nation IPO to open on Wednesday||Casual dining chain Barbeque Nation Hospitality on Monday fixed a price band of ₹498-500 per share for its initial share sale, which will open for public subscription on March 24.The three-day public issue will conclude on March 26, according to the company.Barbeque Nation Hospitality is backed by private equity investor CX Partners and renowned stock market investor Rakesh Jhunjhunwala's investment firm Alchemy Capital.The initial public offer comprises a fresh issue of shares worth ₹180 crore and an offer-for-sale of up to 54,57,470 equity shares.Equity shares aggregating up to ₹2 crore has been reserved for eligible employees.At the upper end of the price band, the IPO is expected to fetch ₹453 crore.The company has already raised ₹150 crore through a pre-IPO placement from Xponentia Capital and Jubilant Foodworks.Proceeds from the issue will be utilised to fund the company's capital expenditure for expansion and opening of new restaurants besides, prepayment or repayment of certain borrowings and expenses related to general corporate purposes.The company is promoted by Sayaji Hotels, Sayaji Housekeeping Services, Kayum Dhanani, Raoof Dhanani and Suchitra Dhanani and is backed by CX Partners, which made its first investment in 2013 and again in 2015. The promoters hold 60.24 per cent, CX Partners owns 33.79 per cent and Jhunjhunwala's investment firm Alchemy Capital holds 2.05 per cent of the company.The total operating revenue of the company in FY20 was ₹850.8 crore and the CAGR from FY17 to FY20 was at 19.5 per cent.Barbeque Nation Hospitality, which filed preliminary papers in February last year, received Sebi's approval in July 2020 to float the IPO.The issue is being managed by IIFL Securities, Axis Capital, Ambit Capital and SBI Capital Markets. Barbeque Nation Hospitality, owns and operates Barbeque Nation Restaurants. It also operates Toscano restaurants and UBQ by Barbeque Nation Restaurant.As of December 2020, Barbeque Nation Hospitality operates 147 outlets across India and six outlets across three countries -- UAE, Oman and Malaysia.Earlier in 2017, the company had filed IPO papers with Sebi seeking to raise ₹700 crore. However, the regulator kept the processing of the company's proposed IPO in abeyance "pending regulatory action for past violations" and finally approved the IPO plan in January 2018.Although, the company could not launch the initial share-sale due to adverse market conditions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/priced-at-rs-498-500-per-share-barbeque-nation-ipo-to-open-on-wednesday-101616398692760.html
22-03-2021||India||Over 84% of India's daily Covid-19 cases reported from 6 states||Six states cumulatively contributed to 84.49 per cent of the cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) registered in the last 24 hours from across the country, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Monday. Maharashtra, Punjab, Kerala, Karnataka, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh are among the states which have added most to the country’s daily tally of Covid-19 cases, the health ministry said.India reported 46,951 new infections between Sunday and Monday morning, the highest so far this year, taking the nationwide Covid-19 tally to 11,646,081, according to the health ministry’s dashboard. The spike in daily infections was the highest in 130 days—47,905 cases were recorded in a single day on November 12.Here’s a look at the six states which contributed the most to India’s new Covid-19 cases on Monday:﻿MaharashtraMaharashtra, which remains the worst affected state by the coronavirus pandemic, reported 30,535 Covid-19 cases on Sunday which was the highest rise in a single day since the pandemic began. With this, the overall tally of the state mounted to 24,79,682, and 99 fatalities pushed its death toll to 53,399.Read more: Night curfews, lockdown amid rising Covid-19 cases: Here's what states are doingPunjabPunjab recorded 2,644 infections on Sunday, which were the maximum new infections reported in the state this year, pushing the tally to 213,110. The state reported 44 more fatalities on Sunday.KeralaKerala added 1,875 coronavirus disease cases on Sunday, taking its infection tally to 1,104,577. As many as 2,251 people have been cured of the coronavirus disease and recoveries have gone up to 10,74,805. The death toll climbed to 4,495 with 13 recent fatalities in the southern state.KarnatakaCoronavirus disease cases in Karnataka crossed the 1,700-mark for the second straight day on Sunday as the infection count climbed to 970,202 with 1,715 people contracting Covid-19. The death toll edged up to 12,434 with two more fatalities reported on Sunday.Read more: Looking back at the lockdown and India’s Covid-19 journeyGujaratGujarat's Covid-19 tally increased by 1,580 on Sunday and reached 287,009. The death toll stood at 4,450 as seven more people succumbed to the viral disease on Sunday.Madhya PradeshMadhya Pradesh on Sunday recorded 1,322 Covid-19 cases, taking the state’s tally to 275,727, while the death toll rose by three and stood at 3,906.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-84-of-india-s-daily-covid-19-cases-reported-from-6-states-101616397417891.html
22-03-2021||India||News updates from HT: Sanjay Raut warns against President's rule in Maharashtra and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Sanjay Raut warns against President's rule in MaharashtraShiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Monday issued a warning over possible attempts to impose President’s rule in Maharashtra amid controversy after former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh accused state home minister Anil Deshmukh. Read moreAt least 400 mn accessed care in 70K Ayushman centres: Health ministryIndia has operationalised 70,000 health and wellness centres (HWCs), under Narendra Modi government’s flagship Ayushman Bharat-Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojna (AB-PMJAY), where at least 400 million individuals have been provided care in past three years, according to the health ministry. Read moreIn West Bengal, the battle for Muslim voteAfter he graduated from college in 2005, Munshi Bakibillah hoped to land a job with the government. What followed was a laborious exercise of filling out forms and writing exams. But there was no job. Read more'Good captaincy from Kohli to bring him on': Gambhir lauds India pacer's 'unbelievable over' that proved 'turning point'When Virat Kohli's fiery knock of 80* runs took India's total to 224/8 in 20 overs in the 5th T20I against England at Motera in Ahmedabad, it seemed like the target might be too much for Eoin Morgan's side to chase down. India's defense started with an absolute peach of a delivery from Bhuvneshwar Kumar in the first over itself that knocked over the dangerous Jason Roy. Read moreDisha Patani posts new fitness clip, Tiger's mom and sister are highly impressedWe have often seen Disha Patani doing martial arts and kickboxing in her gym but now the actress has shared snippets from her intense workout session and believe us when we say this, it will leave you breathless. The Bharat actor is quite serious when it comes to fitness and often keeps on incorporating new things in her routine to make her sessions more interesting. Read moreKaran Johar announces Shanaya Kapoor Bollywood launch with glamorous video, Suhana Khan goes 'yayy'Karan Johar has confirmed that Sanjay Kapoor and Maheep Kapoor's daughter Shanaya Kapoor will be launched under the Dharma banner. The filmmaker took to his Instagram and revealed Shanaya will be joining the squad of Dharma Cornerstone Agency (DCA) and will make her acting debut with Dharma Productions. Read moreBoy battling cancer ‘sworn in’ as police officer on 5th birthdayA little boy in Miami had a special birthday wish come true as he turned five - he got to be a police officer. In a post shared on Facebook and Instagram, the North Miami Police Department detailed how little Jeremiah, who has been battling cancer, had his special wish come true. The post is shared with pictures from Jeremiah’s birthday celebration and the share is winning people over. Read moreWatch: Four Lashkar-e-Taiba terrorists gunned down in encounter in J&K’s ShopianFour terrorists were killed in an encounter with security forces in Jammu & Kashmir’s Shopian. The eliminated terrorists were associated with Lashkar-e-Taiba, informed Kashmir police. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-sanjay-raut-warns-against-president-s-rule-in-maharashtra-and-all-the-latest-news-101616395054074.html
22-03-2021||India||BJP-backed panel sweeps corporation polls in Goa’s Panaji||The BJP’s gamble to back the panel set up by newly inducted Atanasio Monserrate at the cost of the party’s old guard paid off spectacularly in the municipal elections in Panaji with the panel winning 25 of the 30 seats.The panel was made up of a mix of old BJP candidates and those who realigned with the party after Monserrate switched sides in September 2019. Monserrate, who has a history of party hopping, joined the BJP in the autumn of 2019 along with nine other Congress legislators, has for long been the ‘opposition’ face in the city council for as long as the BJP-backed panel controlled the Mayor’s post.Although municipal elections in Goa are not held along party lines, the respective local MLA fields a ‘panel’ of candidates that he/she publicly acknowledge of backing them. In the case of Panaji a panel comprising of Bharatiya Janata Party backed candidates led by then chief minister and local MLA for 25 years Manohar Parrikar used to go head to head against a set of candidates set up by Monserrate, who was the MLA from the neighbouring Taleigao constituency, part of which falls under the Panaji municipal area. With Monserrate now in the BJP, the state party leadership has allowed him to decide which candidates are to be officially backed by the party and in the process several long time BJP supporters have been sidelined. The decision prompted a rebellion of sorts by those within the BJP who are uncomfortable at the fact that Monserrate, once their bete noire, is now calling the shots within the BJP.Leading the rebellion was former MLA Siddharth Kunaliencar, a former Parrikar aide along with Parrikar’s elder son Utpal Parrikar besides others who threw their weight behind candidates other than those set up by Monserrate. The Congress and AAP, which had jointly fielded candidates through a panel ‘Ami Ponnjekar’ (We the People of Panaji) did manage to hold on to their traditional stronghold winning core residential areas within the Panaji city including the upscale neighbourhoods of Miramar and Dona Paula. The elections in the capital city were held using EVMs while in the five other councils -- Pernem, Valpoi, Bicholim, Curchorem-Cacora and Cuncolim the elections were held using ballot paper with results expected to be finalised later in the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjpbacked-panel-sweeps-corporation-polls-in-goa-s-panaji-101616396929664.html
22-03-2021||India||Gujarat: Congress MLA says BJP candidates should have their homes pelted with stones||Congress MLA Chandrikaben Baria recently made a controversial statement in Morva Hadaf of Panchmahala district in Gujarat wherein she asked party workers to pelt stones on the house of the BJP candidates who won the recent panchayat elections, claiming they won by unfair means.The by-election for the Morva Hadaf seat is slated to be held on April 17 and Congress is putting all its efforts to win the seat as it is considered to be the stronghold of the party. Congress state president Amit Chavda on Sunday organised a meeting in the electoral constituency which was led by Baria, the Congress MLA of the constituency.During the meeting, Baria said, "BJP candidates who have won the recent panchayat elections should have their houses pelted with stones as they won with bogus votes using EVMs and by giving alcohol to voters."She then challenged Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani to contest against her in the upcoming state assembly elections."If I have to be defeated in the coming assembly elections, the Chief Minister will himself have to get into the field," the Congress MLA said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-congress-mla-asks-party-workers-to-pelt-stones-at-bjp-candidates-homes-101616394849105.html
22-03-2021||India||Nagaland begins integrated settled farming project||The Nagaland government has begun work on an innovative model of cluster agricultural development, Naga Model Integrated Settled Farming (NISF).The pilot project was launched at Boke-Botsa under Kohima district, where eight departments and a public undertaking – agriculture, sericulture, horticulture, animal husbandry and veterinary science, water resources, fishery and aquatic resources, land resources, soil and water conservation, and the Nagaland beekeeping and honey mission – are converging for the first time to work with the village community.Covid-19-induced lockdowns in 2020, which highlighted the gap in production and access to food, prompted the state government to look at the agricultural and allied sector in a new light. Chief minister Neiphiu Rio also said in his recent budget speech, “The agricultural and allied sectors are going to be the most important aspect of the state government’s strategy towards achieving a self-sustaining economy”.The project is based on the concept of settled farming because farming in most of the Naga villages still sees villagers living on hilltops for security, while their fields are located at the foothills. The settled farming concept looks to change this approach, saving the farmers the commuting time with the activities closer home.Also Read | MHA tells 4 N-E states to prevent influx of people from MyanmarAccording to agriculture production commissioner (APC) Nagaland, Y Kikheto Sema, the NISF pilot project area is slightly over 1,000 acres involving 145 farmers or landowners. Several samples of soil have been sent for health testing for agricultural purposes. Mapping of the area was carried out in November 2020 and farmers’ activities have already commenced in February. Road construction around the project site has also been completed.The government is also establishing a farm-to-market chain for marketing linkage and storage that will help farmers sell their produce in a bigger market. Sema said many of the Central government schemes were devised as per the conditions of the mainland states, while the topography and system of cultivation in Nagaland is different, making the schemes unsuitable for Naga farmers.Jhum, or shifting cultivation, though not economically viable and ecologically sustainable, is a major practice in the state. Sema said this practice was ultimately reducing the state’s forest cover and at the same time, making it difficult for the department(s) to connect with the farmers in consecutive cycles. He expressed hope that the NISF model would address these challenges.In the pilot project, the state government is looking to establish an organic vegetables market, about 200 fisheries, a commercial nursery, seed banks to preserve and promote traditional seeds, compost marketing, farmers training institution, custom hiring and repairing of farming tools and machinery.The aim is to turn the project into a model farming township, and ultimately a business model.Also Read | ‘Reckless’: Naga group on governor RN Ravi’s peace talks concluded statement“If it (the NISF pilot project) is successful, we will implement it in all districts. But its success also depends on all the stakeholders,” Sema stated.“The main aim of the project is to start an ecosystem of farming. If it is successful, it will not only give an entirely new direction to Nagaland, but to other states in the country as well – to lead the way for the next generation,” says Richard Belho, the project consultant. He admitted that the pilot was being started on a research and experiment basis, but was hopeful that it would take off well and attract the educated younger generation back to the field. “We never had a proper market structure. The activities introduced by various agri and allied departments often overlap with the farming community’s, thereby resulting in having to shelf the new activities after a few years of trial. With NISF, we are looking at sustainability- first for the farmer, then the village community, and finally the market,” Belho said. He said the departments will track the activities and document their successes and failures so that the future models can learn from the pilot project, he added.“If implemented properly, this project will enable farmers to multiply their production, become a contributing factor towards sufficiency and even export beyond the village. The projects are different from our normal practice as, for instance, the fishery ponds are being widened, scientific testing of soil is being done to assess suitability of crops etc.,” says Kechangulie Kense, one of the farmer-landowners at Boke-Botsa. He said he has taken up fishery and horticulture.“Farming was not an option earlier, but this settled farming project has changed my opinion and I want to seriously get involved in it,” Kense said.Another farmer and a village elder, Pfheliezhü, said he is upbeat about the project.The first impact and output from the project is expected within the next three to six months. However, the actual output will be the result yielded in the next three years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nagaland-begins-integrated-settled-farming-project-101616393989489.html
22-03-2021||India||4 terrorists killed, army personnel injured in J-K’s Shopian encounter||Security forces gunned down four terrorists in a gunbattle in south Kashmir’s Shopian district on Monday, police officials said. One personnel of the Indian Army was injured in the encounter that ensued after terrorists opened fire on security forces around midnight, they added.The encounter broke out after the security forces were carrying out a search operation in the Manihal area following information about the presence of terrorists. The gunbattle lasted for a couple of hours as the terrorists refused to surrender, PTI reported citing police personnel.More details regarding the encounter are awaited.Two terrorists were killed in an encounter in Rawalpora village in Shopian on March 16. The operation continued for three days. Police said among the dead was Vilayat Ahmad Lone alias Sajjad Afghani of Shopian. He was the Jaish-e-Mohammad ‘commander’ in Shopian.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-terrorists-killed-army-personnel-injured-in-j-k-s-shopian-encounter-101616391470575.html
22-03-2021||India||Next round of India-China talks looks positive on Gogra-Hot Springs||The 11th round of India-China military dialogue to be held this month is expected to record forward movement in disengagement of armies in the Gogra-Hot Springs area of East Ladakh, people aware of the development said, citing progress made by the two sides during the recent meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs.“The WMCC meeting was positive…,” a top government official said, citing agreements between the two sides at the March 12 meeting to ensure stability in the Ladakh sector and convene the next meeting of senior military commanders. The meeting between Indian and Chinese diplomats was convened to ensure the resumption of the disengagement process that was stalled after the withdrawal of troops from Pangong Lake banks in February.Senior military commanders of India and China last met on February 22, agreeing at their marathon 16-hour meeting to resolve outstanding issues in a “steady and orderly” manner. At the next meeting, the two sides are expected to discuss disengagement in the Gogra-Hot Springs area and restoration of unhindered patrolling rights in the Depsang bulge area.A military commander said there were reports that the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) was moving heavy equipment from the Line of Actual Control to the PLA’s headquarters in Rutog county near the northern bank of Pangong Lake. But he cautioned that the PLA was concentrating its deployment in Tibet and Xinjiang region across the LAC through long term military plans.Military officials, however, cautioned that there was a clear effort by the People’s Liberation Army to consolidate its hold in Tibet and Xinjiang regions through long term military plans.The PLA has been moving heavy equipment to Rutog base in the occupied Aksai Chin area of the union territory of Ladakh, a senior military commander said, referring to a continuing effort to upgrade the military infrastructure in this region.Indian national security planners noted that while the PLA has parked its heavy equipment in the depth areas at Rutog in Tibet and Xiadullah across Karakoram pass in Xinjiang, the new military infrastructure build-up allows PLA the capability to reach the LAC in a very short time. All the airbases servicing the east Ladakh region including Gar Gunsa in Ngari prefecture and Hotan airbase have blast pens, which protect fighters from bombing during an enemy attack.The PLA has dug into the mountain faces and parked rocket regiments inside to ensure that they escape any attack at the hands of the Indian Air Force in the worst-case scenario. The Chinese airbases that have built blast pens include Hotan, Gar Gunsa, Lhasa, Yarkand and Kashgar airbases.“It is quite evident that the PLA will monitor the LAC through electronic surveillance in the future with land force and air force kept on standby in the nearby bases. This way the PLA will not have to station its troops in very high altitude posts in subpolar temperatures while the capacity of the Red Army to deploy remains intact,” said a former Army Chief.The PLA’s electronic surveillance of LAC through radars and sensors also became clear when a massive exercise to lay down optical fibres was carried out during the Chinese aggression in Gogra general area (also called patrolling point 17A). Radars and electronic surveillance equipment have also been placed at Tienweindien (TWD) post across the Daulet Beg Oldi sector with troops stationed at Xiadulla military camps.The Chinese Army infra build-up along the 3,488-km LAC after its aggression on the north banks of Pangong Tso last May has been noted with concern by Indian military commanders as it will stretch the troops the year-round. The Indian Army has also prepared a counter plan where reserve forces are stationed near the LAC and are deployed through new roads, helicopters like Chinook or C-130 J aircraft in case of any conflagration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/11th-round-india-china-talks-look-positive-on-gogra-hot-springs-disengagement-101616391289405.html
22-03-2021||India||At least 400 mn accessed care in 70K Ayushman centres: Health ministry||India has operationalised 70,000 health and wellness centres (HWCs), under Narendra Modi government’s flagship Ayushman Bharat-Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojna (AB-PMJAY), where at least 400 million individuals have been provided care in past three years, according to the health ministry.“The feat of scaling up at this pace despite the Covid pandemic was enabled by a high degree of coordination between the Centre and States/Union Territories, foresight in planning, flexibility in adaptation, standardisation of processes, and regular interactions at all levels which enabled supportive monitoring and prompt redressal of issues. This is testimony to the process of effective decentralization and cooperative federalism,” said the health ministry in a statement issued on Sunday.The health and wellness centres form the primary pillar of Ayushman Bharat as it aims to provide universal and comprehensive primary healthcare through 150,000 centres that will be set up by transforming some of the existing sub health centres and primary health centres by 2022.Also Read | Over 70,000 health, wellness centres set up under Ayushman Bharat: MinistrySince the first health and wellness centre was launched in 2018, about 415 million individuals have accessed care at these centres, of which about 54% are women.As part of the government’s strategy to promote preventive healthcare, these health and wellness centres have also been screening individuals above the age of 30 for non-communicable diseases such as diabetes, hypertension, and breast, cervix, oral cancers, etc.So far, 90 million screenings have been conducted for hypertension, 74 million screenings for diabetes, 47 million for oral cancer, 24 million for breast cancer, and 17 million screenings for cervical cancer in women.About 75% of the total non-communicable diseases screenings were conducted during the pandemic period, from February 1, 2020 onwards.“These population-level screenings can be of immense help in detecting signs of cancer early, leading to better treatment outcome in most cases,” said Dr PK Julka, former head of radiation oncology department, New Delhi’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences.The government is also incrementally adding other primary healthcare services for mental health, ear nose throat, ophthalmology, oral health, geriatric and palliative health care, and trauma care etc., along with expanding essential medicines and diagnostics list under the scheme at these health and wellness centres.In 2019, the Centre announced that the ministry of Ayush (Ayurveda, Yoga and Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homoeopathy) will now be getting to run 10% of these centres exclusively through the alternative systems of medicine, and will be called Ayush Health and Wellness Centres (AHWCs).Teleconsultations by medical teams, another component of health and wellness centres, also picked up significantly during the pandemic, with at least 945,000 teleconsultations having been provided through these centres so far.As part of the government’s focus on holistic health, these centres also conduct various activities promoting wellness and healthy lifestyle. So far, these centres have conducted nearly 6.5 million wellness sessions.“Depending on the local context, States are undertaking various wellness activities including Yoga, local sports, Zumba (in NE States), etc. These centres also follow a calendar of 39 health promotion days spread over a year,” the statement read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-least-400-mn-accessed-care-in-70k-ayushman-centres-health-ministry-101616390929286.html
22-03-2021||India||Temperature falls as rain and snow lash Kashmir||The temperature dropped in Kashmir after rain in plains and snowfall in the upper reaches of the mountains from early hours on Monday, meteorologists said.India Meteorological Department (IMD) officials in Srinagar said the upper reaches of the mountains are witnessing fresh snowfall. Rain pounded Srinagar since the morning.The month of March has witnessed back-to-back rain and snowfall in the upper reaches of Kashmir. Director of IMD, Sonum Lotus said that widespread rain and snow are most likely to continue till Tuesday. “Heavy to very heavy rain and snow at scattered places of J&K. There could be avalanches, mudslides and water logging at some places so people should remain alert,” he saidSrinagar recorded a maximum of 0.7 degrees during the night while Jammu recorded 3.5 degrees. Gulmarg was the coldest place in Kashmir as night temperature was recorded at minus 0.5 degrees.Although the month of February had witnessed a number of snow spells, it also saw an abrupt increase in maximum temperatures. Kashmir experienced harshest winter in 30 years with temperatures plunging to record levels in the month of January. On January 31, Srinagar had recorded minus 8.8 degrees, lowest since the January of 1991.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/temperature-falls-as-rain-and-snow-lash-kashmir-101616389549386.html
22-03-2021||India||PM Modi to launch Jal Shakti Abhiyan today: All you need to know||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will launch the “Jal Shakti Abhiyan: Catch the Rain” campaign on World Water Day, celebrated on Monday, at 12.30pm through video conferencing. According to a statement issued by the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO), the campaign will be undertaken across the country, in both rural and urban areas, with the theme “catch the rain, where it falls, when it falls”. Here is all you need to know about the campaign:• The Jal Shakti Abhiyan is the Jal Shakti ministry’s flagship water-conservation campaign. The next leg of the programme, dubbed “catch the rain where it falls, when it falls”, will be rolled out across the country’s 734 districts covering over 600,000 villages.• During the campaign, geotagging of all water bodies throughout the nation will be carried out, an official said on condition of anonymity.• It will be implemented between March 22 and November 30, covering the monsoon period in the country.Also Read | Pollution in trans-boundary rivers in India-Bangladesh talks on water-sharing• An MoU to implement the Ken Betwa Link Project, the first project of the national perspective plan for interlinking of rivers, will also be signed by Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh chief ministers at the launch event. • This project involves the transfer of water from Ken to Betwa River through the construction of Daudhan Dam and a canal linking the two rivers, the Lower Orr project, Kotha barrage and Bina complex multipurpose project. • It will provide annual irrigation of 10.62 lakh hectare, drinking water supply to about 6.2 million people and also generate 103 MW of hydropower. • The campaign will be a ‘Jan Andolan’ (public movement) to start water conservation at the grassroot level through people’s participation, the PMO said. • After the event, gram sabhas will be held in all gram panchayats of each district (except in poll-bound states) to discuss issues related to water and water conservation. • According to data from the state-run policy think tank. NITI Aayog, nearly 600 million Indians face “high to extreme water stress” and the country’s water demand is likely to double by 2030.• India sustains 18% of the world’s population and 15% of global livestock with just about 4% of global fresh water resources. • India’s most water-stressed blocks are in Tamil Nadu (541) followed by Rajasthan (218), Uttar Pradesh (139) and Telangana (137).• On average India receives 1,170mm of rainfall, most of it during the summer monsoon months, but only 10-20% of that is currently tapped.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-launch-jal-shakti-abhiyan-today-all-you-need-to-know-101616386849149.html
22-03-2021||India||India records nearly 47,000 new Covid-19 cases, 212 deaths; tally over 11.6 mn||India recorded nearly 47,000 cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), in yet another spike in daily infections, indicating a resurgence of the virus in the world’s third-worst affected country after the United States and Brazil, the Union ministry of health and family welfare’s data showed on Monday. The country’s daily Covid-19 cases peaked at nearly 100,000 a day in September and were falling until late in February. There have been more than 40,000 coronavirus disease cases reported in the last three days, which have added 131,750 infections to India’s tally.According to the Union health ministry’s dashboard updated at 8am, India registered 46,951 cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 212 related fatalities, which have taken the country's cumulative tally past 11,646,081 and the death toll to 159,967 in the last 24 hours. The active caseload in the country was logged at 334,646 after 25,559 cases were added in 24 hours. With 21,180 recoveries between Sunday and Monday morning, 11,151,468 people have recovered from the viral disease so fay, according to the health ministry. The national recovery rate now stands at 95.75%.Also read | Night curfews, lockdown amid rising Covid-19 cases: Here's what states are doingThe ministry’s dashboard also showed that 4,50,65,998 people have been vaccinated against Covid-19 across the country to date. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said 23,44,45,774 samples were tested for Covid-19 up to Sunday and of these, 880,655 samples were tested on the same day.The health ministry said on Sunday Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Karnataka, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh account for 83.14 per cent of the new infections. Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Delhi, Karnataka, Gujarat and Haryana are displaying an upward trajectory in daily new cases, according to the ministry.The health ministry also warned that a huge gathering of devotees for the Kumbh Mela in Haridwar could send Covid-19 cases surging. Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan in a letter to Uttarakhand’s chief secretary strongly highlighting the concerns raised by a high-level central team about the need for stringent measures to control the spread of the disease. "The state has been informed that the daily testing numbers reported in Haridwar (i.e.50,000 Rapid Antigen Tests and 5,000 RTPCR tests) are not enough to effectively offset the huge number of expected pilgrim footfall. It has been advised that the share of RTPCR tests being conducted at present needs to be significantly increased as per the ICMR guidelines to ensure that the pilgrims and local population are appropriately tested," the letter read."The state government is also advised to undertake the following measures:- Follow scrupulously the SOPs issued by MoHFW. Display signages to disseminate the main points of these SoPs; Increase awareness of self-reporting, especially among local population, in case of symptoms suggestive of COVID-19," it added.The central team led by the director of the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) visited Uttarakhand on March 16-17 to review the medical and public health measures undertaken by the state for the ongoing Kumbh Mela in Haridwar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-nearly-47-000-new-covid-19-cases-212-deaths-tally-over-11-6-mn-101616385237769.html
22-03-2021||India||Railways issues guidelines for security of women, to keep database of offenders||The railway ministry on Saturday issued guidelines for the security of women across trains and stations and asked the Railway Protection Force (RPF) to analyse the data of crimes against women over the last five years and create a database of such criminals operating on railway premises.It also directed RPF to ensure that the free WiFi available at stations is not used to download pornography, as part of the national transporter’s new guidelines to prevent such incidents.“All the Post Commanders (PC) should get details of the incidents of crime against women including rape reported during last five years and should analyse data thoroughly. The reasons for such offences, gaps in security procedure, failures of security apparatus, modus operandi of criminals involved, vulnerable section of women, places, duration day, month and year, status of investigation/prosecution of past cases, arrest made, whereabouts of criminals and their associates etc. should be carefully examined in coordination with counterparts of Government Railway Police/Local Police, Station staff and NGOs,” the guidelines said.Also Read | Shatabdi fire probe: Railways mulls severe penalty for smoking in trains if it leads to property damageThe guidelines also said that abandoned structures in platforms/yards, abandoned quarters, buildings in isolated places which are unguarded/unattended should be demolished immediately. Till such time that they are demolished, they should be regularly checked as part of the duty staff’s beat, especially in the night or when the presence of people is minimal, they said.The guidelines also directed officials to keep close lookout for the ladies coach and deploy escorts at platforms when a train is arriving or departing stations. They also suggested sensitising both staff and passengers.“Railway is providing free internet services to the passengers. It should be ensured in coordination with the service providers that porn sites are not accessible through this service,” the order said.Based on the data analysis, the guidelines said that an action plan for the short term and the long term must be readied.While the short term plan should be implemented immediately and must include a keeping watch on suspects, regular visits to vulnerable spots by duty officers and staff during their rounds, the order said.The long term plan should include improvement of basic infrastructure, placing of CCTV cameras on the premises and other aspects of security which may take reasonable time, “should be chased with concerned authorities on regular basis and till such time it is completed, focus should be kept on temporary minor works that can be effective in improving the situation, which may be worked out and got implemented with bare minimum expenditure or with available resources,” the guidelines stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-issues-guidelines-for-security-of-women-to-keep-database-of-offenders-101616383368999.html
22-03-2021||India||News updates from HT: Rainfall, thunderstorms predicted in parts of Delhi today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Rainfall, thunderstorms predicted in parts of Delhi todayDelhi is likely to receive light to moderate rainfall on Monday coupled with thunder and dust storms, India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast on Sunday. Read moreFarmers’ protest: Key Delhi borders remain shut, traffic divertedTikri and Singhu borders, connecting Delhi and Haryana, remained completely closed on Monday as farmers continued their agitation against the three farm laws. One carriageway at Ghazipur border, however, remained open for those heading to Ghaziabad from Delhi, as the farmers continued blocking the other road of the elevated highway. Read moreNight curfews, lockdown amid rising Covid-19 cases: Here's what states are doingSeveral states and Union territories have imposed restrictions, including full lockdown and night curfew, as the numbers of cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) are surging across the country. State governments, including those in Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat, have tightened existing restrictions in major cities of several states. Read moreCovid-19 surge turns Manipal Institute of Technology into containment zoneOne hundred and forty six students from the Manipal Institute of Technology in Udupi, around 400 km west of Bengaluru, tested positive for covid-19 on Saturday, according to the nodal officer of the coastal district. Read more‘People can have conflicts, that's not uncommon’: Eoin Morgan responds to Kohli-Buttler spat in 5th T20IVirat Kohli-led team India on Saturday registered a terrific 36-run win over England in Ahmedabad to clinch the 5-match series 3-2. The Indian skipper played an unbeaten knock of 80 runs to help the hosts post a massive total of 224 for 2 in 20 overs. In reply, the visitors failed to chase the target and were restricted to 188 for 8. Read moreAahaana Kumra is criticised for her dark-face makeup as she pays tribute to Jhulan Goswami, cricketer says 'good job'Actor Aahaana Kumra has shared a bunch of pictures from one of her recent photoshoots, in which she pays tribute to Indian cricketer Jhulan Goswami. While many criticised Aahaana for her dark-face makeup in the pics, the cricketer was happy with her efforts. Read moreDeepika Padukone in ₹90k green leather pants-crop top is as sassy as it getsYou give her a saree, a lehenga, bell-bottom pants, an Over The Top red carpet gown or even a leather outfit, there is nothing that Deepika Padukone does not look chic in. The actor who actually has a drool-worthy wardrobe is lately showing us how she slays in leather. She recently shared an image of herself on social media dressed in an all-green ensemble along with a hilarious caption. Read moreOnions as nail art? Quirky creation baffles netizens. What do you think?Stickers, free-hand drawing, glitter, extensions or French tips - there are many options one can choose when it comes to nail art. But has the thought ever crossed your mind that a vegetable can be used for the purpose? Read moreWatch: Trapped after avalanche, J&K truck driver rescued by BRO team||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-rainfall-thunderstorms-predicted-in-parts-of-delhi-today-and-all-the-latest-news-101616381182935.html
22-03-2021||India||Facing heat, doctor at AIIMS-Patna says private practice rampant among peers||A doctor at Patna’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), facing charges of private practice, has denied the allegations and blamed the institute for selectively targeting him when many doctors were also doing the same.Doctors at AIIMS are not allowed to practice privately. They get non-practising allowance (NPA), which is generally 20% of their basic salary. Dr Shantam Mohan, assistant professor in the department of gastroenterology, has denied charges of unethical practice and laxity in work, after the AIIMS administration issued him a show-cause notice on March 13. While defending himself, Dr Mohan said: “There are many doctors at AIIMS who do private practice. I don’t.” “There are some doctors who do not even come to the institute regularly. All such suspects should have been issued show-cause notices. I have been selectively targeted because someone’s ego has been hurt as I do not pander to the powers that be. I diligently go for duty every working day at around 10am (the OPD registration is from 8am to 2pm),” said Dr Mohan. “Some doctors who did private practice have left the institute recently. There are others who still work at the institute and are currently into private practice. I have evidence against a few such doctors in terms of their private prescription and admission by patients, who used to consult them earlier,” he added. He did not name any of the doctors. Dr Mohan acknowledged that he used to practice privately before joining the AIIMS-Patna as an assistant professor on August 3, 2018. “The private clinic, where I used to practice, is currently run by my sister-in-law and I am not associated with it anymore,” he said. Dr Mohan had failed to turn up before a committee of senior faculty members, after the director convened a meeting, following a complaint against him by Dr Ramesh Kumar, associate professor and head, department of gastroenterology. “I was communicated about the meeting, convened at a short notice, through e-mail, which I could not check in time. However, I responded to the show-cause notice in around 30 hours of having received it, denying all the charges levelled against me,” said Dr Mohan. Dr Kumar had complained to the director about Dr Mohan’s alleged misconduct, compromising the institute’s work culture because of his late coming and reluctance to shoulder responsibility. Dr Mohan had earlier resigned from AIIMS during the peak of the Covid-19 pandemic in July, last year, only to take back his resignation after a month. “My friends advised me to complete three years as an assistant professor, which will make me eligible to apply as an associate professor in a government medical college sometime later. I’ll resign again on May 2 or 3 so that by the time I serve my three months’ notice period, I complete my term of three years as an assistant professor,” he said. In January, the gastroenterology department at AIIMS had initiated a three-year doctorate in medicine (DM) programme, with a student each having joined from New Delhi and West Bengal. The department is already handicapped, with only two faculty members, which is half its sanctioned faculty strength. Dr Ramesh Kumar said he was not authorised to speak to the media. “We have issued a show-cause notice to Dr Mohan because he is not very regular in work. He didn’t even come for the meeting, which I convened recently. We will first try and counsel and then see what is to be done about him,” said Dr Prabhat Kumar Singh, AIIMS-Patna director. Responding to allegations of private practice being rampant among doctors at AIIMS, Dr Singh said, “This is a sweeping allegation. I don’t deny the fact that there may be 3 or 5 doctors at our institute who indulge in private practice, but I’m determined to weed them out. We will act against them as soon as we get any complaint or an iota of evidence. I will not allow the AIIMS work culture to suffer and our image dented.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/facing-heat-doctor-at-aiims-patna-says-private-practice-rampant-among-peers-101616382528952.html
22-03-2021||India||Night curfews, lockdown amid rising Covid-19 cases: Here's what states are doing||Several states and Union territories have imposed restrictions, including full lockdown and night curfew, as the numbers of cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) are surging across the country. State governments, including those in Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat, have tightened existing restrictions in major cities of several states.On Sunday, India recorded 43,846 coronavirus disease cases in a day, the highest single-day rise so far this year, taking the nationwide tally to 11,599,130. The daily rise in infections was the highest recorded in 115 days after 44,489 cases were recorded in a span of 24 hours on November 26 last year. The active caseload has gone up to 309,087 and the recovery rate has further dropped to 95.96 per cent. The death toll increased to 159,755 with 197 daily fatalities on Sunday, the highest in 97 days.Here are the restrictions put in place by several states:Maharashtra: The government in the worst-hit Indian state has extended the new coronavirus guidelines till March 31. Night curfew has been announced in at least 10 districts including Aurangabad, Amravati, Yavatmal, Jalna and Parbhani. The state government has also ordered that theatres and auditoriums will run at 50 per cent capacity till March 31. Private sector offices have also been asked to operate with 50 per cent staff capacity and heads of government and semi-government offices, have been empowered to determine the number of employees to be called in.Punjab: The Punjab government has further tightened the guidelines in the 11 districts most affected by the pandemic. All educational institutions, except medical colleges, have been closed in these 11 districts till March 31. Examinations will also be postponed during this period. Night curfew has been imposed from 9pm to 5am in Mohali, Amritsar, Ludhiana, Patiala, Hoshiarpur, Jalandhar, Kapurthala, Ropar, Moga, SBS Nagar and Fatehgarh Sahib.Also read | 6 states contribute nearly 78% of daily cases in last 24 hoursGujarat: The Gujarat government will not allow any public function to be held on Holi due to increasing Covid-19 cases. Deputy chief minister Nitin Patel said that people will not be allowed to put colour on each other. Patel hoped that the people of Gujarat would follow the rules and not play Holi. However, the tradition of Holika Dahan will be allowed with a limited number of people.Madhya Pradesh: The Madhya Pradesh government has announced a complete lockdown every Sunday for the three most affected districts of Indore, Bhopal and Jabalpur. The Sunday lockdown has been imposed after seven months. Shops and other business establishments have been asked to remain closed in Gwalior, Ujjain Ratlam, Chhindwara, Burhanpur, Betul and Khargone from 10am to 6pm from last Wednesday. This will continue till further orders. School for Classes 1 to 8 will remain closed in Madhya Pradesh amid a spurt in Covid-19 cases.Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said the state government is going to introduce Sankalp Abhiyan from March 23 to ensure the use of mask and social distancing. “On this day, a siren will be blown in every district at 11am and 7pm and people will be requested to stop for two minutes to take a pledge of using masks and maintaining social distance,” said Chouhan.Rajasthan: The Rajasthan government has decided to impose a night curfew in eight cities from Monday and also made it mandatory for people visiting the state to carry a Covid-19 negative test report. Officials said the night curfew will be imposed in Ajmer, Bhilwara, Jaipur, Jodhpur, Kota, Udaipur, Sagwada (Dungarpur) and Kushalgarh (Banswara) from 11pm to 5am. Travellers coming to Rajasthan from other states will have to carry RT-PCR negative reports, not older than 72 hours, from March 25. If the RT-PCR test report of travellers is not negative, they would have to remain in quarantine for 15 days, officials said. Passengers will be screened at airports, bus stations and railway stations.Markets will remain closed in all the urban bodies of the state from March 22 after 10pm. Wherever more than five people are found to be infected, the area or apartment shall be declared a prohibited area. Rules in the prohibited area shall be strictly complied with under the supervision of the beat constable.Goa: The Goa government will take strict action against restaurants, hotels or entertainment areas that do not follow the rules related to Covid-19. A minister of the state government said that to prevent the spread of the virus, it is extremely important for everyone to wear masks and maintain social distance. He said that if people find any restaurant, hotel, institute in violation of the rules, then they can inform the government about it through e-mail. After this, necessary action will be initiated by the government.Also read | Covid case surge not a classic 2nd wave, says Harsh VardhanChhattisgarh: Schools, colleges and Anganwadi centres have been closed in Chhattisgarh from Sunday, state minister Ravindra Choubey said. Chief minister Bhupendra Baghel chaired a meeting of his cabinet ministers and senior officials on Sunday to ensure that all health protocols related to coronavirus are in place to check the spread of the virus ahead of the Holi festival. "It has been decided by the state government that in view of the spike in Covid-19 cases, all schools will remain closed till further orders. Except for Class 10 and 12 board exams, exams of all other classes will not take place and all students will be given general promotions," Baghel tweeted.Andaman and Nicobar: The administration of the Union territory of Andaman and Nicobar has made the negative Covid-19 report mandatory for visiting tourists. Deputy director (health) and nodal officer for Covid-19, Dr Avijit Roy, said that residents will also have to submit the negative test report to move from their island to another.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/night-curfews-lockdown-amid-rising-covid-19-cases-here-s-what-states-are-doing-101616381255532.html
22-03-2021||India||Covid-19: Maharashtra records highest single-day spike with over 30k fresh cases||Maharashtra on Sunday recorded its highest single-day spike with 30,535 new Covid-19 cases. Since the pandemic broke out in the state on March 9, 2020, the state has never recorded over 30,000 cases on a single day. Mumbai also recorded its highest single-day spike with 3,779 cases.The state also recorded 99 deaths on Sunday, 10 in Mumbai. The state’s tally has reached 2,479,682, while the number of fatalities is 53,399.Starting March 17, the state has been reporting more than 20,000 cases every day, taking the count to 132,354 new Covid cases in just five days.Also Read | A year of ‘Janta Curfew’: When Indians stayed home for 14 hoursNanded guardian minister Ashok Chavan said that an 11-day curfew will be imposed in the district starting March 24 midnight. A curfew restricts the assembly of more than five people.There are 210,120 active cases in the state, with the highest in Pune (42,015), followed by Nagpur (29,771), Mumbai (22,081), Thane (19,788) and Nashik (15,619).On Sunday, cities like Nagpur, Nashik, and Pune also recorded a high number of cases: 2,747;1,666 and 2,978 respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19maharashtra-records-highest-single-day-spike-with-over-30k-fresh-cases-101616381988855.html
22-03-2021||India||Rain, thunderstorm likely over several parts of NW India today||Widespread rain and thunderstorm activity is likely across the western Himalayan region and plains of northwest India including Delhi till Tuesday evening, according to India Meteorological Department.A Western Disturbance as a trough (area of low pressure) in the westerlies is affecting the region. An induced cyclonic circulation is also lying over northwest Rajasthan. Both of these systems are likely to intensify further and slowly move eastwards during the next two days. Moisture incursion is likely to increase over northwestern plains and the adjoining western Himalayan region with establishment and strengthening of southerly and south-westerly winds from north Arabian Sea from the night of March 21 to March 23. Under the influence of all these conditions, widespread rainfall or snowfall and thunderstorm with lightning are very likely over western Himalayan region (Jammu, Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit, Baltistan, Muzaffarabad, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand) during March 21 to 24. Widespread rainfall, thunderstorm with lightning is also likely over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi and west Uttar Pradesh on Monday and Tuesday. Hailstorm is likely both in some parts of the Himalayan region and plains on Monday and Tuesday.Also Read | IMD forecasts rainfall, thunderstorms in Delhi today; mercury may plummet“It is an intense Western Disturbance so there is likely to be widespread rains over northwest India. In Delhi, it’s likely to rain on Monday. There may be light rain or drizzle on March 23 also. Till March 27, temperatures are likely to remain relatively low and pleasant. There is likely to be heavy rain and hailstorm in Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir during the period. Widespread rain and thunderstorms are likely over Punjab and Haryana also,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre.A cyclonic circulation is lying over southeast Madhya Pradesh and neighbourhood and a north-south trough runs from coastal Karnataka to north Madhya Maharashtra. Under the influence of these systems, widespread rainfall is likely over parts of central, west India and south peninsular India during the next 3-4 days and over parts of east India during the next 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rain-thunderstorm-likely-over-several-parts-of-nw-india-today-101616380969974.html
22-03-2021||India||Covid-19 surge turns Manipal Institute of Technology into containment zone||One hundred and forty six students from the Manipal Institute of Technology in Udupi, around 400 km west of Bengaluru, tested positive for covid-19 on Saturday, according to the nodal officer of the coastal district. “The MIT (Manipal Institute of Technology) is a containment zone and 146 students tested positive today (Saturday),” Dr Prashant Bhat, the nodal officer of the district said Sunday.He said that there are about 5,800 students in quarantine and active surveillance was being carried out to contain the spread. He said that some students were allowed to leave after ascertaining that they have no contact history, ruling out other risks and a Covid-19 negative report.Udupi had seen a surge of cases in the second half of last year as well. The district has a significant number of its citizens settled in Persian Gulf countries who returned home during the lockdown.“As per the report, students had come in the second week of March. They had online classes and there was an examination due for which they had come from all over India. Maybe few had come from Maharashtra and Kerala as well. So, we doubt that the source of infection must be from either Maharashtra or Kerala,” Bhat added. On Saturday, MIT had communicated that entry and exit from this containment zone was restricted. The institution also appealed to students to stay inside their rooms during the containment period.“Meanwhile, we appeal to all of you to remain calm and make minimal movement out of your rooms until the District Authorities feel it is safe. We also appeal to students not to venture out in large groups to common areas such as Students Plaza, Gardens etc. Staying within the room is the best option and if possible, taking packed food to dine in the room is advisable to prevent crowding in the dining areas,” the institute said in circular to its students.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-surge-turns-manipal-institute-of-technology-turns-into-containment-zone-101616380368919.html
22-03-2021||India||A year of ‘Janta Curfew’: When Indians stayed home for 14 hours||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on March 19 last year announced that a ‘Janta Curfew’ will be in place on March 22 for 14 hours as India witnessed an increase in the daily cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Monday marks the first anniversary of ‘Janta Curfew’ announced by Prime Minister Modi in his address to the nation and it comes at a time when India is in the grip of the second wave of the pandemic.What was ‘Janta Curfew’?With the country witnessing a steady rise in its daily new cases of Covid-19, and countries around the world announcing measures to curb the spread of the pandemic, PM Modi urged people to observe ‘Janta Curfew’, which translates to People’s Curfew, from 7am to 9pm on March 20, 2020. This was seen as a way to prepare the citizens for a lockdown, in case one was needed in future.In his speech, PM Modi said, “Today, I seek some more cooperation from every citizen. It is Janta Curfew, a curfew for the people and imposed by the people themselves.”What did PM Modi say?In his address, the Prime Minister also urged people to come out in the balconies of their houses at 5pm and clang utensils for five minutes as a gesture of solidarity with each other and to express gratitude for the frontline warriors. Urging people to stay off the roads for a day, he said that emergency services would not come under the purview of the curfew.My address to the nation. #IndiaFightsCorona https://t.co/w3nMRwksxJWhat happened on the day of ‘Janta Curfew’?The ‘Janta Curfew’ was largely successful as people voluntarily stayed off roads and away from public places. The clanging of utensils began well before 5pm and continued even after 5:05pm, by when, according to PM Modi’s announcement, it should have come to a stop.What happened next?On March 24, PM Modi announced a 21-day nationwide lockdown. Later, it was extended thrice, with the final phase beginning on May 18, and concluding on May 31. From June 1 onwards, the country started reopening gradually, in what was termed as ‘Unlock.’What’s India’s Covid-19 situation now?Earlier this year, the number of daily cases fell below 10,000 while the number of active cases had also started coming down. However, starting late February/early March, the number of daily infections picked up and, on Sunday, the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) announced that 43,846 new cases and 197 related fatalities were recorded in the preceding 24 hours. India’s Covid-19 tally currently stands at 11,599,130 including 11,130,288 recovered cases, 309,087 active cases and 159,755 deaths.Also Read | 86.8% of India's Covid-related deaths recorded in these 6 statesIndia is also conducting the world’s largest vaccination drive against the viral disease which commenced on January 16. The second phase of the drive began on March 1 and is currently underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-year-of-janta-curfew-when-indians-stayed-home-for-14-hours-101616379607422.html
22-03-2021||India||4 militants killed in encounter in Kashmir’s Shopian||Four militants were killed in an encounter with security forces on Monday morning in South Kashmir’s Shopian district, police said.The encounter began after a team of security forces including the army, CRPF and the police launched an operation in Manihal village after a tip off about the presence of militants in the area.A Jammu and Kashmir police spokesperson said four bodies were recovered from the site of the encounter. One AK-47 rifle and three pistols were seized from the slain militants.An army man was also injured in the gun battle. Security forces have launched a combing operation after the encounter.The police spokesperson said Incriminating materials indicated that the four men were affiliated to the banned Lashkar-e-Taiba. They have not been identified but are suspected to be locals.Last week, three militants including two top commanders were killed in Rawalpora village in Shopian in a similar operation. The operation continued for three days. Police said among the dead was Vilayat Ahmad Lone alias Sajjad Afghani of Shopian. He was Jaish-e-Mohammad commander in Shopian.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-militants-killed-in-encounter-in-kashmir-s-shopian-101616377728630.html
22-03-2021||India||Watchdog alerts transport ministry over ‘intrusions’||The Union transport ministry on Sunday received an alert from the Indian Computer Emergency Response Team (Cert-IN) regarding “targeted intrusion activities” directed towards the country’s transport sector with “possible malicious intentions”, a senior official said.This comes after a slew of cyber security attacks on Indian government’s domains over the past few months. On February 25, HT reported about new phishing emails using compromised government accounts to target groups of officials, attempting to lure them into sharing their passwords on a page that mirrored the government’s official mail server sign-on website.“The Ministry of Road Transport and Highways received an alert from CERT-In regarding targeted intrusion activities directed towards Indian Transport sector with possible malicious intentions. The Ministry has advised departments and organisations under transport sector to strengthen the security posture of their infrastructure,” the transport ministry said in a statement.The ministry requested NIC, National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), National Highways and Infrastructure Development Corporation (NHIDCL), Indian Road Congress (IRC), Indian Academy of Highway Engineers (IAHE), state PWDs, testing agencies and automobile manufacturers to conduct the security audit of the entire IT system by CERT-In certified agencies. “The audit report and the ATR will be regularly submitted to the government,” the government said.The previous attack prompted the government’s IT departments to send out an alert to large groups of officials, according to emails seen by HT. The incident leverage compromised @gov.in or @nic.in email addresses issued by the National Informatics Centre (NIC), which may be more successful in luring the targets into sharing sensitive information.On February 21, HT also reported that the devices of multiple former defence personnel may have been compromised in a phishing attack launched through similar attacks carried out by government domain email addresses.Earlier this month, American cyber intelligence company Recorded Future also said it uncovered a suspected China-linked cyber operation that was focused on India’s electricity grid and other critical infrastructure. While the company did not link a wide power outage in Mumbai to the operation (which it titled RedEcho), it did not rule out a link. According to Recorded Future, RedEcho deployed a malware known as ShadowPad, which has been previously linked to Chinese cyber soldiers.Last year, NHAI reported a cyber attack on its email server and said prompt action resulted in no data loss. It shut down its server then as a precaution||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/watchdog-alerts-transport-ministry-over-intrusions-101616361721138.html
22-03-2021||India||Mothers who gave birth in police vans during the lockdown recount journey||When Kiran Aharwar went into labour on May 16 last year, her husband Ashok was despondent. The nation was under lockdown to arrest the spread of Covid-19, public transport was suspended, private vehicles were allowed at night only with special permission, and despite emergency services functioning in Delhi, medical facilities were stretched thin.Ashok dialled the local hospital but was told an ambulance would take two hours to reach their house in outer Delhi’s Rohini. With his wife’s condition deteriorating, an Asha worker in the neighbourhood called the local police station, hoping for some help.Within 10 minutes, a local police control room (PCR) vehicle had appeared. With the help of two officers, Aharwar was put in the car and it sped off to the local hospital.Aharwar, however, was well into labour. Ten minutes later, she delivered a healthy girl child, Shanvi, in the PCR van, with the help of two officers. None of the policemen were medically trained or had any special equipment to help with the delivery.They ensured the van was parked at an isolated spot to offer privacy and helped with the delivery.“After my baby was born, the policemen helped with the cleaning work before moving us to Sanjay Gandhi Hospital,” said Aharwar.Shanvi is among six babies delivered in PCR vans with the help of Delhi Police personnel during the lockdown months. Each of these children was born in a PCR van after their mother, while in labour pain, failed to find an ambulance and ended up dialling the police as last resort. Each of these cases involved police personnel helping deliver the baby without technical knowhow, using ordinary objects as makeshift medical equipment. In each case, the police personnel involved in helping were men.“These policemen went beyond their gender roles and boundaries and their general duties,” said Chinmoy Biswal, Delhi Police spokesperson.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Umed Singh, who was in charge of the PCR van in which Kiran delivered her baby, said they were in Aman Vihar, about four kilometres away, when they got a message about the emergency on the wireless set. Singh and the van’s driver, ASI Ramesh, immediately shifted the woman on the stretcher available in the vehicle.“We requested some women in the neighbourhood to accompany us, but they refused citing personal reasons. As it was an emergency situation, we did not waste any time and left for Sanjay Gandhi Memorial Hospital with the woman’s husband and a relative. The woman delivered the baby en route to hospital. We provided all possible assistance ,” said Singh, who is retiring from the force next year.Police data show that last year, 997 women in labour were rushed to hospitals in PCR vans. Only five of these instances were reported before the lockdown was imposed on March 25. Overall, through the year, nine babies were delivered in the vans – each of them involving male police personnel, the police data show.Nearly a year after their births, HT tracked down five of the six children born in PCR vans. The babies are healthy, but their parents struggle to recover from the financial shock and job loss suffered due to the pandemic.But they all say local police were in constant touch with them. Every month, they received a call from the local station. Occasionally, the officer paid them a visit. On International Women’s Day, March 8, these mothers were guests at celebration at the Delhi Police headquarters and the babies were showered with gifts.“The police’s phone calls and visits didn’t change my financial situation and struggles, but I know there is someone we can call if in an emergency,” said Anita Singh, one of the mothers.Six babies were delivered in PCR vans with the help of Delhi Police personnel during the lockdown months. Each of these children was born in a PCR van after their mother, while in labour pain, failed to find an ambulance and ended up dialling the police as the last resort. Each of these cases involved police personnel who helped deliver the baby despite no formal training, using ordinary objects as makeshift medical equipment. A year after the nationwide lockdown, Shiv Sunny and Karn Pratap Singh speak to the parents of five of these children.'My condition then was way too serious’: Kiran Aharwar and Ashok Kumar Aharwarparents to ShanviWhen Ashok Kumar Aharwar called an ambulance to attend to his wife Kiran in labour on May 16 last year, he was told that the vehicle could only come to his Rohini house two hours later. It was 11am but the nationwide lockdown kept public transport off the roads and medical services were stretched thin in dealing with surging Covid-19 patients.Kiran was in pain, so the family called the local Accredited Social Health Activist (ASHA) worker. She came within minutes, but the ambulance hadn’t reached. Desperate, the ASHA worker dialled the police station.The PCR van reached the Aharwar residence about 10 minutes later. Police personnel quickly put the family in the car and sped towards the local hospital. But before they reached, Kiran delivered the baby in the car. Police personnel helped her, parked the van by the roadside and covered it to give the mother privacy.When Kiran and her newborn baby, Shanvi, were eventually admitted to the hospital, she realised the scale of the medical emergency that had gripped the city. “There were two patients on every bed in the hospital. The rush was such that doctors decided to discharge me in two hours,” said Kiran.For Kiran, it was the second such experience in three years. Her first daughter, Tannu, too was born in a car on their way to a hospital in Chhatarpur in Madhya Pradesh. But this time, the condition was far more serious, and she was thankful to the policemen. “Until my baby was in my arms, I thought this time I would lose the child,” she said.Unlike many other families, the lockdown had a limited impact on the Aharwars. “I am a daily wage mason hired by a government contractor. When there was no work for a month during the lockdown, my contractor gave me some money to stop me from returning to my village,” said Ashok. He is paid Rs.400 as his daily wage.Ashok chose to stay back in Delhi, and found work easily when the economy reopened.‘Wouldn’t be able to bear if things went awry’: Sangeeta and Sant Kumar parents to HarshitaFor two hours on April 30, Sant Kumar made desperate phone calls to various ambulance services. His wife, Sangeeta, was in labour; his home was located right next to Outer Ring Road, but that did not make a difference. Every single ambulance service said they were too busy. Their neighbours advised them to call the police.Less than 10 minutes later, they were on their way to a hospital that was about four kilometers away. Sangeeta delivered a baby in the police van while two policemen helped her and his mother with the delivery.It was the toughest few minutes in the couple’s lives. “I am 35 and we were trying for a child for a long time. We wouldn’t have been able to bear the loss of our baby,” said Kumar.The responsibility wasn’t easy on them. Kumar lost his job during the lockdown, about a month before their daughter’s birth.“While mother’s milk doesn’t cost money, we had no money to buy me nutritional food. We depended on the meals provided by government,” said Sangeeta.“Not many children are born under such trying circumstances,” said Kumar.‘We borrowed money to ensure our baby did not lack anything’: Asha and Shravan Lalparents to DivyanshIn the early hours of May 19, Asha Lal went into labour. Her husband, Shravan, dialed several ambulance services but received no response. “When someone eventually did take the call, they plainly refused to attend to us,” said the daily wage labourer.Eventually, the family called an Accredited Social Health Activist (ASHA), Jyoti, who suggested they call the local police station.The ASHA worker’s husband owned an auto-rickshaw, but was afraid to take it out during the lockdown and the night curfew.A police van was outside the neighbourhood in five minutes but it was another 25 before Asha was on her way to the hospital.“All the three gates of the neighbourhood in which our shanty is located were locked at the time [to prevent the movement of people]. Because of this, it took us a lot of time to guide the PCR van to my home,” said Shravan.Their baby boy, Divyansh, was born in the PCR van, with help from the policemen.“If the gates were not locked, the police had responded quick enough for the delivery to happen in hospital,” said Asha.This was a period when Shravan was without work for three months, but the family did not let that hinder their care for their baby.“My husband and I ate meals offered by the government, but we borrowed money to ensure our baby did not lack anything,” said Asha.‘When the police van came, we knew situation wouldn’t hinder the delivery’: Anita Singh and Monu Singhparents to NiharikaAnita Singh went into labour on the night of May 1. Her husband, Monu Singh, was immediately worried. “There was strict enforcement of lockdown in our neighbourhood. Police were chasing people into their homes,” said Monu Singh, a resident of south Delhi’s Aya Nagar.When frantic calls to ambulance services yielded no results, the family decided to seek help from the police. Even neighbours who owned cars refused to venture out.Ten minutes later, Anita was riding out in a PCR van with her mother-in-law, and her husband following them on his motorcycle. Barely a couple of kilometers away, Anita delivered a baby girl, Niharika, in the police van. The usually busy road was deserted due to the lockdown, giving the family the necessary privacy during childbirth.The family was under great financial stress at the time because Monu lost his job as a security guard. They had to depend on his parents for survival.“To survive, we sought help from my father who works as a gardener at a farmhouse in Fatehpur Beri. He got me a job alongside him three months after the lockdown,” said Monu.But they were thankful to the police for their help. “When the PCR arrived, we knew our economic situation wouldn’t be a hindrance in the delivery,” said Monu Singh.‘I realised later that any more delay and I would have lost my baby’: Vandana Kumari, Suraj kumar parents to HimanshiWhen several ambulance services refused to attend to his pregnant wife Vandana in the early hours of May 1, Suraj Kumar panicked. The lockdown meant there was no public transport available. He planned to take her on his motorcycle and rush her to the nearest hospital in Rohini. But before he could roll out his motorcycle, neighbours advised him to call the police station.Minutes later, the police van arrived, and whisked Vandana away to the local hospital. On the way, Vandana gave birth to a baby girl, Himanshi, in the PCR van. It was a premature baby.When the family reached the hospital, tragic news awaited them. They were expecting twins but her other child was stillborn. Still, the family is grateful to the police for their response. “I realised later that any more delay and I would have lost my other baby,” said Vandana.They still regret not hurrying more. “We also erred in guiding the PCR van to our home. We weren’t able to explain our location properly which caused a little delay,” says Vandana’s mother-in-law, Veena Devi.The family says the local police have been kind. “They even called us to the station to ask about a few times,” said Devi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mothers-who-gave-birth-in-police-vans-during-the-lockdown-recount-journey-101616355497690.html
22-03-2021||India||Fresh surge takes active Covid cases past 345,000||A total of 47,005 new infections of Covid-19 were reported across India on Sunday, the highest single-day increase in cases since November 11 last year, pushing the number of active cases in the country close to the 350,000 mark, as the second wave of the outbreak continued to expand its footprint.In just the last five days, more than 200,000 new Covid-19 infections have been reported across the country and as many active cases have been added in the last 30 days, according to HT’s Covid-19 dashboard.As of Sunday night, there are 345,122 active cases in the country. The number of active cases in India crossed the million mark in the middle of September, when the first wave peaked, but it was dropping rapidly since. This receding trend, however, reversed a month ago with the start of the new wave of infections, according to data.Sunday’s 47,005 new cases came despite the fact that new case numbers generally drop on weekends on account of low testing. Of these, a record 30,535 cases came from Maharashtra – the third time in four days that the state set a new all-time record for single-day cases.There were 823 new cases in Delhi, the most number of daily cases in the Capital since December 14, as the positivity rate in the city remained above 1% for the second day in a row.Another 2,644 new cases were reported in Punjab, 1,715 new infections in Karnataka and 1,580 in Gujarat – all single-day record high in at least four months.A total of 204 people lost their lives to the viral disease on Sunday, taking the total number of deaths to 160,024.Tracking active cases is crucial because it reflects the actual spread of a virus in a region, as well as the load the country’s health care system is currently bearing. A higher caseload means that the virus has more hosts in a region, and thus has a higher chance of spreading to more people. Experts warned that this dangerous trend of rising active cases is unlikely to subside unless people across the country drop the laxity in Covid-19-appropriate behaviour that has developed due to low cases over the past few months.New infections have been rising the past month across India, marking the start of what is clearly the second wave of infections.Since the peak of the first Covid-19 wave in mid-September, the seven-day average of new infections across India, which denotes the country’s “Covid curve”, was consistently dropping for eight straight months till February 11, touching a low of 10,988 cases a day. Since then, this number has more than tripled – on average, 37,220 new cases were reported every day in the past week.Maharashtra, India’s worst-hit state, has majorly contributed to the rise of the second wave and makes up roughly two-thirds of the country’s daily case burden in the past week. The western state is also home to nearly two-thirds of all active infections in the country as on Sunday — 211,416.Other than Maharashtra, several other regions such as Punjab, Haryana, Karnataka, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Delhi have seen clear resurgence of Covid-19 cases over the past month, forcing several of them to reintroduce restrictions on public assembly and gatherings in an attempt to arrest rising cases.More than 44,641,471 doses of vaccines have been administered to 37,299,609 people across the country till Sunday night, as per Centre’s Co Win dashboard.According to experts, the biggest reason for the surge in cases is that people feel the pandemic is over and they are not following Covid-appropriate behaviour.“There are multiple reasons for the surge, but the main reason is that there is change in people’s attitude and they feel coronavirus is over. People should still restrict non-essential travel for some more time,” All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) director Randeep Guleria was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.Dr VK Paul, NITI Aayog member (Health), said that to remain free of this virus, it is very important that Covid-appropriate behaviour, containment strategy, readiness from the health infrastructure point of view as well as vaccination has to be brought in to fight the pandemic. He advised that in districts where cases are seemingly on the rise, vaccination of eligible individuals should be intensified and prioritised.Others said the rise in active cases was expected, given how fast cases have been rising in the past few weeks, and warned that it is increasing the load on the health care system at a time when it is already burdened with one of the largest vaccination drives in the world.“The active caseload directly depends on incidence of disease in the past 10 or so days. Clearly, the new cases have seen a jump, which is why the number of active cases has also gone up. Active cases going up would mean additional load on health infrastructure, which is not ideal at this stage. The best way to bring the active caseload down is to bring down the number of new cases that can be done by cutting the transmission cycle,” said Dr GC Khilnani, former head of pulmonology department, AIIMS.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fresh-surge-takes-active-covid-cases-past-345000-101616353678396.html
22-03-2021||India||Punjab CM didn’t fulfil poll promises: Arvind Kejriwal||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday held a Maha Kisan Panchayat in Punjab’s Moga and hit out at the Captain Amarinder Singh-led government, saying the Congress administration had not fulfilled any of the poll promises made by it before the 2017 elections.“In the run-up of the 2017 assembly polls, Capt Amarinder Singh had made several promises. But after assuming power for over four years, the chief minister is unable to deliver on announcements including debt waiver for farmers, jobs, providing smart phones and unemployment allowance,” he said.The AAP leader also portrayed his party as an alternative to both the Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party in the state that goes to polls next year.“Now, it is a time for Punjabis to remember that Punjab voters were cheated in the last elections and you should be ready for badla (revenge) from the Congress in the next polls,” he said.Kejriwal said that the AAP will stand shoulder-to-shoulder with farmers protesting against the contentious new agriculture laws, which last year triggered a widespread agitation by cultivators across the country.He also took on the central government over the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Bill, 2021, alleging that the BJP-led Union government wants to “snatch power” from the chief minister of Delhi by giving more rights in the functioning of the Capital city to the lieutenant governor.“Upset over AAP government’s refusal to grant permission to arrest protesting farmers in nine open jails, [Prime Minister Narendra] Modi is now conspiring to reduce more decision-making powers of the Delhi state government. But I assure you that the AAP government will not let the Centre harm the farmers who are fighting for their survival,” Kejriwal said.A large chunk of farmers protesting against the agriculture laws on the outskirts of Delhi since November last year are from Punjab.The AAP government has previously expressed support for the agitation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-cm-didn-t-fulfil-poll-promises-arvind-kejriwal-101616352811975.html
22-03-2021||India||TN leaders urge India to vote in favour of UN resolution against Sri Lanka||DMK president MK Stalin and other leaders on Sunday urged Central government leaders to support the United Nations Human Rights Council (UNHRC) resolution against Sri Lanka for war crimes against Tamils in the island nation. Stalin, in a statement, asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi not to take a pro-Sri Lanka stand while voting on the resolution that comes up on March 22 (at its 46th regular session). Stalin said that Modi’s silence “has caused shockwaves to Tamils around the world and in Tamil Nadu” after Sri Lankan foreign secretary Jayanath Colombage had said that India would vote in support of his country. “Union foreign minister Mr Jaisankar went to Sri Lanka. Mr Modi and Sri Lankan President Gotabaya Rajapaksa held telephone talks but none of the press reports said that the talks discussed the resolution,” said Stalin. He called for Modi to gather support from other member states in favour of the resolution.“While Tamils are anxiously waiting for India’s position, it is painful that the BJP government has allowed the Sri Lankan foreign secretary to decide India’s stand. Nine-crore Tamils living across the world will never forgive them if Tamil’s interests are betrayed,” he added.DMK’s ally, Marumalarchi Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (MDMK) chief Vaiko, a known sympathiser of the outlawed militant group Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE), said the BJP-led Centre won’t be forgiven if they favour Sri Lanka. The LTTE fought for an independent homeland for Tamil in Sri Lanka and was found responsible for assassinating former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi in Tamil Nadu’s Sriperumbudur over the issue. Leader of Pattali Makkal Katchi (PMK) and former Union minister Anbumani Ramadoss, who is in the NDA alliance in Tamil Nadu, wrote to external affairs minister Subrahmanyam Jaishankar on Sunday requesting to vote for the resolution on promoting reconciliation, accountability and human rights in Sri Lanka. He recalled that Modi in a public meeting in Chennai in February had assured that India was committed to ensuring that Tamils lived in Sri Lanka in peace, dignity and equality. “Justice for Tamils killed in the 2009 genocide in Sri Lanka remains elusive for the victims after 12 years,” Ramadoss said in his statement. “Peace in Sri Lanka and maintaining India’s position as the dominant ally are vital for our national interests,” he said, adding that Sri Lanka has changed its position with India and taken its relationship with China to a higher level.Also read: ‘Karunanidhi did not trust Stalin, how will people’, says Tamil Nadu CMIn the last twelve years, there have been seven resolutions on Sri Lanka at the UNHRC where India’s position varies from voting against Sri Lanka and abstaining as influenced by local coalition politics after a three-decade-long war between the army and the LTTE ended in 2009. Tamil Nadu’s politicians have consistently advocated for equal rights for Tamils who are a minority in the Sinhalese- Buddhist island nation and continue to seek devolution of powers through the 13th Amendment.Ahead of the vote in March 2013, the DMK pulled out of the UPA alliance which was in power at the centre for not doing enough to address the alleged human rights violations of Tamils. The DMK and ruling AIADMK, in their election manifesto for the assembly polls on April 6, made promises for Sri Lankan refugees living in the state from granting them dual citizenship to international probe to monthly payouts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tn-leaders-urge-india-to-vote-in-favour-of-un-resolution-against-sri-lanka-101616352766447.html
22-03-2021||India||World Water Day How city’s growth depleted quality of lakes||At around 6 am on Sunday, three coracles ventured into the over 150-acre lake in BTM Layout, a suburban neighbourhood in the southern side of Bengaluru. In about an hour, the coracles returned one-by-one with nets full of rohu (Labeo rohita), catla (Labeo catla) and the common carp (Cyprinus carpio) among the about 160 kg of fish. Morning joggers queued up to get the catch of the day, while many others just stood around the stall chattering on about the fish dumped on tarpaulins as it was weighed, cleaned and sold to customers. “The water in this lake is not fit for drinking. But the fish is good,” said Antony, the 51-year-old who has the contract to cultivate and sell the catch from the lake. He said the lake’s condition improved ever since authorities diverted the sewage water. This lake was developed by the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP, the city’s civic body) and is considered one of the more successful projects of the administration that has spent—and continues to spend—tens of crores into ‘rejuvenating’ water bodies in the city. The civic body has also partnered with corporates to channel CSR funds into lake rejuvenation but with little success to improve the quality of water. With the World Water Day being observed on March 22, the discussion on deteriorating quality of water, air and life in urban centres across India and other parts of the globe gains significance. Once known as the ‘land of lakes’, Bengaluru has seen a steady decline in the water bodies as a victim of its own success. It has led to a higher allocation of funds but with little attention to the quality of water and ecology, experts said. But lakes and tanks, which were part of the human-interventions in Bengaluru to mitigate the lack of river, are now found mostly in the pages of history books, experts said. At least 19 lakes of the remaining 205 (out of earlier estimates of at least 250) under the BBMP were termed as disused lakes due to encroachments, according to a February 2021 report by the CSIR-National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI). Some of the encroachments are by big builders, who name their projects “lake view” to attract more interest from potential buyers. Between 2008 and 2020, the BBMP claimed to have developed around 80 out of the 205 lakes with another 20 or so under various stages of completion.“None of the lakes have drinking standards water,” said a senior official of the BBMP, incharge of lakes. He said that until there is sewage water flowing theought storm water drains into these lakes, the quality of water cannot improve. “Until the BWSSB (Bengaluru Water supply and sewerage Boad) continues to allow sewage to enter these drains, it wont help the lake,” he said. The official added that despite the National Green Tribunal (NGT) order to stop inlet of sewage into these drains, the practice contiues. However, experts said that most of the money went into ‘ornamental’ developments like concrete walking/jogging tracks, gazebos, seating and fencing than implementing measures that improve the quality of water and its ecology. “Money is not spent on lake rejuvenation but cosmetic and beautification. That’s why the lakes, ecology and environment are in a bad state. But you will see a nice park around lakes, gyms, walking tracks and people have been misguided to believe that this is lake rejuvenation,” said V Ramprasad, one of the founders and coordinators of Friends of Lakes, a citizen-driven initiative to revive water bodies in Bengaluru. With the Vrishabhavathi river becoming a victim of over exploitation, sewage and encroachments, Bengaluru quenches its insatiable thirst by dipping into the Cauvery, about 100 km away. Thousands of crores is spent each year to divert water to Bengaluru, where leakages and lack of reuse of water have weighed on any sustainability goals India’s IT capital may have. Experts said that less than 5% city residents have implemented rainwater harvesting in a region known to get bountiful rains. Instead, the need for water in the city is met through borewells and supply through tankers, which snake around almost every inch of the city, delivering thousands of litres several times a day. Lakes are no longer an answer and have instead become casualties of Bengaluru’s economic success. The CSIR-NEERI report indicated that there were only around 21 lakes in the city where water is deemed fit for drinking. This data, however, has been contested by environmentalists, scientists and residents of the city. A report by the Karnataka State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB) in 2020 stated that not even one lake had fit-for-drinking water. “One of the places they (authorities) are going wrong is their investment in the waterbody and not the entire watershed. It should take care of sewage and solid waste networks in catchment areas that give the lake a chance at revival. But merely putting up a fence or taking out silt doesn’t mean anything,” Dr Vishwanath Srikantaiah, a water activist and urban planner, said. “For the money that is invested, the bang for the buck is absolutely minimal,” he added. Few big apartment complexes have installed STP (sewage treatment plants), but most of Bengaluru’s used water flows through a complex system of lakes and open channels or ‘tank cascade system’. Experts said the unregulated and unchecked development of Bengaluru in the last two decades — right around the IT boom — has led to the construction of apartments, mushrooming of layouts and other establishments. It has facilitated open channels, receiving more untreated water and industrial effluents, causing a range of impact on these ecosystems. Bellandur lake made global headlines for its toxic content and foam that often catches fire largely due to the sewage, metal and other harmful contents within the lake. Hundreds of crores have been allocated, but there is little to show as ‘rejuvenation’, experts said. Dr. Priyanka Jamwal, fellow at the Centre for Environment and Development at Ashoka Trust for Research in Ecology and the Environment or (ATREE), said there was no clarity on what authorities wanted in respect to rejuvenation. “For water quality they just say that they want to attain a trophic level. In a lake, it could be Oligotrophic, Mesotrophic, Eutrophic or hyper-eutrophic, which depends on the productivity of the lake. Hypereutrophic is highly contaminated that has a lot of algae while Oligotrophic lakes are present in pristine environments,” she said. ATREE has been monitoring Jakkur lake, considered one of the cleanest in the city for four years now, but even it has high content of faecal coliforms, nitrate and other contaminants that make it unfit for drinking unless treated. “It can be treated and made drinkable, but the amount of investment required is very high,” she added. About the fish from these lakes that are caught, sold and consumed, Jamwal said faecal coliforms die when the food is cooked at high temperature. However, Jamwal also pointed out that there are other heavy metals and contaminants bio-accumulated in the fish. “The point is that nobody is testing the fish,” she said..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/world-water-day-how-city-s-growth-depleted-quality-of-lakes-101616351985811.html
22-03-2021||India||Centre to soon issue guidelines on ecotourism||New Delhi: The Union environment ministry is set to issue, in around a month's time, guidelines that will open up wildlife rich forest areas across the country to eco-tourism, a move that officials say targets positioning India as a global destination for such travel.The “Guidelines on Ecotourism in Forest and Wildlife Areas, 2021”, aimed at promoting better understanding of nature and wildlife conservation while generating income and opportunities for local communities, are likely to be issued “in a month or so”, according to officials familiar with the matter who did not wish to be identified.Projects under it will include promotion of low-impact nature tourism, promotion of traditional ecological knowledge and heritage values of India’s wilderness, partnerships amongst various stakeholders etc., to realise India’s “potential as a global eco-tourism destination”.On March 8, the government published minutes of the 61st meeting of the standing committee of the national board for wildlife held on February 18 over the matter.“They (the guidelines) will be implemented in an ‘ecologically, culturally and economically sustainable manner’,” according to the minutes of the meeting.NBWL's standing committee has deferred the decision to approve the guidelines as the forest conservation division of the ministry felt the need to examine if they reconcile with the provisions of the Forest (Conservation) Act 1980. A number of tweaks are being made to the Act in order to make way for the eco-tourism plan, the officials quoted above said.HT reported on March 11 that the environment ministry’s forest advisory committee (FAC) in February eased norms for eco-tourism projects by allowing them to build “non-permanent” structures in protected areas without permission from the central government.The FAC, in its meeting held on February 17, also decided to delete two clauses (12.13 and 1.18) in guidelines on forest conservation published in the ministry’s Handbook on Forest (Conservation) Act 1980 and Forest (Conservation) Rules 2003. These clauses state that eco-tourism is a “non-forestry activity”, and thus require prior approval under the Forest (Conservation) Act 1980.“We have already made required changes in the handbook to categorise eco-tourism as a forestry activity. Now, the guidelines will specify exactly what we mean by low-impact tourism and how it should be implemented. They should be out in a month or so. The process of framing these guidelines started 3-4 years back and the NBWL has sought comments from a number of organisations to implement an eco-tourism strategy effectively,” said a senior official from the forest conservation division of the ministry.Another senior official confirmed that wildlife safaris will be included in the draft guidelines covering eco-tourism.The ministry has also started the process of amending the FC Act to make way for these guidelines to be implemented. An internal note has been circulated to various ministries on the amendments likely. Some of them are contentious. For example, the note suggests any work ancillary to conservation such as regeneration operations, setting up of check posts, construction of fencing, pillars, bridges, culverts, dams, trenches, waterholes, wildlife training infrastructure, zoos and safaris will be removed from the category of “non-forest” activities and hence does not require prior permission from the Centre.It also suggests that the Centre based on certain criteria cause certain forest areas to be delineated for the purpose of conservation for a fixed period and in such areas the use of forest land for non-forestry activities will not be permitted for that fixed period.“The amendments to the FC Act is an internal matter for now. We can assure you that we are taking an extremely cautious approach. We will go only to the extent of tweaking fine things. Tree plantations will be promoted in non-forest land as much as possible, eco-tourism in forest land will also be promoted. The eco-tourism guidelines are expected before the FC Act is amended,” the official said quoted in the first instance said.“Firstly, eco-tourism is not a permissible activity under the wildlife protection act or the forest conservation act yet. Even to set up a couple of structures in a wildlife reserve or national park, the permission of the NBWL is mandatory. They (Centre) can do these eco-tourism activities outside the national parks. Why do they need to set up inside? Even with eco-tourism pressures outside parks look at the condition of places like the Corbett Tiger Reserve. If you start opening up and breaking forest land there will be nothing left of our wildlife reserves and forests anymore. Already linear projects are wreaking havoc in protected areas. Tourism even with tents has a huge footprint,” said Ritwick Dutta, environmental lawyer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-to-soon-issue-guidelines-on-ecotourism-101616351926986.html
22-03-2021||India||Law on interfaith marriage not against any religion: Shivraj Singh Chouhan||On completing one year of his third term, Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan speaks to HT’s Chetan Chauhan and Madan Jaira of Hindi Hindustan about the challenges of Covid-19, a resurgence in infections and the revenue shortfall the state is facing. He also expressed confidence about the Bharatiya Janata Party winning elections in West Bengal and Assam. Edited excerpts:In a few days, you would complete a year in office in your third term. You took charge when Covid-19 was spreading fast. How do you rate your first year?When I took charge, there was no minister with me for one month and Covid-19 was spreading fast... We made arrangements for Covid-19 management, creating testing facility in the states, getting masks, PPE kits and making arrangement in hospitals. Another big challenge was that in March, wheat harvest starts in MP. We bought 1.39 crore metric tonne of wheat, which was even more than Punjab. During Covid-19, we provided work to all workers and ensured that those entering MP get food and buses. On the PM’s call, we turned the Covid-19 pandemic into an opportunity — started Aatmanirbhar in MP and started working on infrastructure, education, health, good governance and employment...You have been CM for almost 15 years. Your remarks about your other tenures?In the first tenure, we worked for better roads and brought laws to ensure Public Service Delivery law, first state to do so in India. In the second term, we promised 24-hour power when people were getting five to six hours of power; expanded irrigation network and started river linking projects. In the third one, we got nine awards for being the best agriculture state both by Manmohan Singh ji and Modi ji’s governments. We now have surplus agriculture produce. But, a lot more has to be done on bringing investment.Despite your claims, MP has very low per capital income and it is one of the lowest-ranked states on health parameters.When I took charge, MP was a Bimaru state and had Rs.13,000 per capita income. Now it is Rs.99,000; this year, we will cross Rs.1,00,000. Our GDP will cross Rs.10,000 lakh crore. We were a landlocked state and no industry came. Now, we have changed that...Protesting farmers are demanding a law to protect minimum support price. What is your view?There should be provisions to give farmers right price for their produce. I think we need to think about alternative ways to ensure the right price. We can provide the right price through schemes such as Bhavanter, in which the government pays the difference between the MSP and the market price to farmers. If the market is buying at less than MSP, the government can pay...There have been accusations that minority groups are being targeted through the MP Religion of Freedom Law.There is no question of targeting. It is same for all. If someone tries to lure someone through coercion, threat or any other wrong means, action would be taken. The law is not against any religion. People doing good work for communities can continue.The second wave of Covid-19 has started and cases in MP are also rising. What steps are being taken to control the spread?In mid-February, we had 141 new cases and we thought things were getting normal... But in the past 15 days, cases have increased and pace of spread has intensified. People are not wearing masks and are going to social programmes. We need to tell people about the severity of Covid again.How do you rate the BJP’s chances in West Bengal and Assam?I went to both the states and I am confident that the BJP wave is there in both. In Bengal, there is a wave of change. TMC has become a symbol of terror, murder and corruption... The Congress has damaged itself by allying with Badruddin Ajmal and BJP has brought all-round development.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/law-on-interfaith-marriage-not-against-any-religion-mp-cm-101616351925750.html
22-03-2021||India||Now, U’khand CM says US enslaved India for 200 yrs||After the “ripped jeans” faux pas, Uttarakhand’s new chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat on Sunday courted another controversy by saying “the US enslaved India for 200 years” and questioned people’s complaints about getting less subsidised ration during the pandemic, saying they should have had more children if they wanted better supplies.Rawat made these comments during a function in Ramnagar on Sunday in connection with the International Day of Forests. Rawat said at one time “we were ‘ghulam’ (slaves) of the US for 200 years, it (US) was ruling over the world, it was said the sun would never set for it, but now, in the present time, all that has gone...” He said the US was now struggling to control the pandemic. Rawat said the government gave 5kg rice per head to every household. “Those families who had 10 members got 50 kgs, those who had 20 members got one quintal, those who had two members got 10 kgs. People made stores, found buyers… such good rice came, they hadn’t taken it in their normal life… that too during ‘aapdha’ (disaster) time. But even after this, people were jealous of each other, that one got 10 kgs and another got one quintal… who is at fault in all this? He bore 20 children and you two children… why jealous? When there was time, you bore only two children, why not 20?”Last Tuesday, Rawat said at an event on containing substance abuse that “showing bare knees by wearing ripped jeans just to look like rich kids is the value given now which is just a race towards westernisation when the western world today is following us. Ripped jeans pave the way for societal breakdown”.State Congress spokesperson Garima Dasauni said, “Don’t know what has happened to the CM. Is it lack of wisdom or lack of education or is he doing it deliberately?....” He accused CM Rawat of insulting people for their poverty citing his statement on giving good quality rice in ration kits during the lockdown. “He said the government gave rice which people could never have afforded, which only insults the poor. Being the CM of the state, he should carefully look after his language...”The BJP, however, accused the Congress of “only seeing the negativity”. Devendra Bhasin, BJP state vice-president, said, “The CM spoke about employment schemes for the youth in Corbett Tiger Reserve but the Congress could see only the negative part because they have become devoid of issues. The CM is doing commendable work for the development of the state.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/now-u-khand-cm-says-us-enslaved-india-for-200-yrs-101616351527485.html
22-03-2021||India||CAA roll-out, 1 job per family on BJP manifesto for Bengal||Kolkata The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Sunday promised to implement the new citizenship law, ensure employment to one member of every family, set up modern hospitals, spend thousands of crores of rupees for development of infrastructure in Kolkata and other districts, and support farmers, fishermen, tribal people and backward classes if it comes to power after the eight-phase election beginning March 27. The promises were made in the BJP’s election manifesto called its “sankalp patra” which Union home minister Amit Shah released in Kolkata on Sunday evening. “Once we are in power, the first meeting of our cabinet will announce the implementation of the Citizenship Amendment Act,” said Shah. On February 11, Shah, while on a visit to Bengal, said the Centre will enforce the new citizenship law once vaccination across the country is over and the Covid-19 pandemic ends. He also said no Muslim will lose citizenship because of the law. Shah made the statement at an election rally at Thakurnagar in North 24 Parganas district while addressing the Dalit Matua community which has demanded the law’s immediate implementation. The fact that Shah released the document and spoke in Hindi triggered a sharp reaction from the Trinamool Congress (TMC) which has branded Shah, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and other central leaders of the BJP as “outsiders”.“This speaks of the BJP’s bankruptcy. The party has no competent Bengali leader to release a document meant for the state. It is an insult to the people of Bengal,” said TMC Lok Sabha member Saugata Roy. The 58-page document is divided in 13 parts with each focusing on women, farmers, health, the youth, governance, economic development, infrastructure, culture, tourism, social welfare schemes, regional development, Kolkata, and the environment. Some portions of the BJP’s manifesto had striking similarities with the TMC’s document released on March 17. The TMC manifesto promised to generate 500,000 employment opportunities every year, provide annual financial aid of ₹10,000 per annum to farmers and monthly assistance of ₹500 to all women of the general category and ₹1,000 to women of the scheduled caste and tribe categories. It also promised credit of ₹10 lakh to students at a low interest rate of 4%. In the BJP’s manifesto, there was special focus on women, with whom the document starts, and Bengali language and culture. The document also talks of a whistle-blower policy for unearthing corruption, three AIIMS-like hospitals in the north Bengal region where the BJP won seven of eight Lok Sabha seats in 2019, and a minimum wage of ₹350 for tea garden workers. The party promised to include the Hindu Mahishya and Tili communities in the Other Backward Class (OBC) category, something the TMC has also done. “Do not think whether it is possible to achieve these with the state’s budget. Experts have studied everything. All this will require 15% of the state’s budget. Don’t worry. I am a bania. I will not make promises without any calculation,” said Shah. “Release of election manifestos was reduced to a formality years ago but the BJP changed that. We call this sonkolpo patro (document of oath). These are not mere announcements for us. This document is based on our dream to create Sonar Bangla (golden Bengal),” said Shah. He spoke at length on the state’s rich heritage and contribution of great Bengalis to art, culture and history. While taking some of the names, Shah mentioned founders of two Dalit Hindu communities -- the Rajbanshis of north Bengal and the Matuas of south Bengal -- whose support is crucial for both the TMC and the BJP. During his trip to Thakurnagar last month, Shah announced an array of sops for the Matuas who are a part of the backward Namasudra community that can influence poll results in around 80 of the state’s 294 assembly seats. The BJP has sworn to overthrow the TMC government by winning more than 200 seats. “A resident of Gujarat with a resident of Madhya Pradesh by his (right) side, releases a manifesto and then makes a full speech in Hindi to create a #ShonarBangla #BengalElections2021,” Derek O’Brien, leader of the TMC in the Rajya Sabha, tweeted on Sunday evening, referring to Shah, who hails from Gujarat and BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya who comes from MP. Some of the key promises in the manifesto are 33% reservation for women in government jobs, annual assistance of ₹10,000 to 1.8 million farmers, annual assistance of ₹6,000 and mechanised boats for fishermen, medical insurance under the Ayushman Bharat scheme, zero infiltration across the international border, assistance of ₹10,000 for five years for refugees, a literary award similar to the Nobel Prize and named after Tagore, a film award styled after the Oscars and named after Satyajit Ray, and a monthly pension of ₹3,000 for widows. Political analyst and columnist Suvashis Maitra said, “If the BJP is capable of all this then it should tell people whether such projects have been implemented in Assam and Tripura. A lot of Bengalis live in these two states.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/caa-roll-out-1-job-per-family-on-bjp-manifesto-for-bengal-101616351745712.html
22-03-2021||India||PM to launch ‘Jal Shakti Abhiyan: Catch the Rain’||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will launch the “Jal Shakti Abhiyan: Catch the Rain” campaign via video conferencing on the occasion of World Water Day on Monday, an official statement said on Sunday.The Jal Shakti Abhiyan is the Jal Shakti ministry’s flagship water-conservation campaign. The next leg of the programme, dubbed “catch the rain where it falls, when it falls”, will be rolled out across the country’s 734 districts covering over 600,000 villages.It will be implemented between March 22 and November 30, covering the monsoon period in the country.During the campaign, geotagging of all water bodies throughout the nation will be carried out, which shall form the basis for assessment of the rejuvenation efforts for water bodies across the country, an official said on condition of anonymity.According to data from the state-run policy think tank. NITI Aayog, nearly 600 million Indians face “high to extreme water stress” and the country’s water demand is likely to double by 2030, potentially costing a 6% loss in gross domestic product by 2050.The programme will be rolled out across the country’s 734 districts covering over 600,000 villages. Under the scheme, the government focuses on rainwater harvesting and water conservation, including initiatives such as renovation of traditional water bodies and tanks, reuse of water and recharge structures watershed development and afforestation in 256 districts.“In the first phase interventions were made in 10,104,338 water conservation and rainwater harvesting projects 7,536,381 renovation of traditional and other water bodies, 7,485,025 reuse and recharge structures and 9,696,381 watershed development,” minister of state for Jal Shakti Rattan Lal Kataria said recently, quoting figures from his ministry.India sustains 18% of the world’s population and 15% of global livestock with just about 4% of global fresh water resources. India’s most water-stressed blocks are in Tamil Nadu (541) followed by Rajasthan (218), Uttar Pradesh (139) and Telangana (137).On average India receives 1,170mm of rainfall, most of it during the summer monsoon months, but only 10-20% of that is currently tapped. Teams of central government officials will visit each district to sensitise and motivate the public to undertake water harvesting and conservation measures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-to-launch-jal-shakti-abhiyan-catch-the-rain-101616351686222.html
22-03-2021||India||Ahead of Mahakumbh, Centre raises Covid flag||The Centre has raised concern about the potential surge of Covid-19 cases during the upcoming Mahakumbh and directed the Uttarakhand government to put in place stringent measures to control the spread of the viral illness at the religious congregation scheduled to begin in Haridwar on April 1.Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan wrote to state chief secretary Om Prakash “strongly highlighting the concerns raised by the high level central team in its visit to Uttarakhand and about the need of stringent measures to control the spread of Covid19 during Kumbh Mela”, the Union health ministry said in a statement on Sunday. The development comes a day after Uttarakhand chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat assured devotees that all “unnecessary” restrictions imposed to contain the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic will be removed for the event, and asserted that “faith is stronger than fear”. The CM’s statement also comes a time several states, including Maharashtra and Punjab, have introduced restrictions on gatherings and other curbs to stem the viral outbreak. The director of the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), Dr SK Singh, led the high level central team that visited Uttarakhand on March 16-17, 2021, to review the medical and public health preparedness measures undertaken by the state for the event. Bhushan, in his letter, pointed out that at least 12 states in the country have reported a spike in the daily number of Covid-19 cases in the past few weeks, and that pilgrims who are likely to visit Haridwar for the congregation could also be from among the affected states. There is a “potential of an upsurge in cases in the local population after the auspicious Shahi Snan days during the Kumbh Mela”, the statement read, referring to the Hindu ritual of taking a holy bath in river Ganga. States such as Maharashta, Punjab, Karnataka, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh accounted for 77.7% of the new cases on Saturday.The health secretary also said the daily coronavirus testing of 55,000 people in Haridwar was not enough given the large numbers of pilgrims expected, and that cases were already rising. “This positivity rate has the potential to rapidly turn into an upsurge in cases, given the expected large footfall during Kumbh,” Bhushan said. Despite a raging pandemic, at least 30 million people are expected to attend the curtailed Mahakumbh (one-month-long), believed to be the largest religious congregation held every 12 years. Normally, 120 million pilgrims attend the congregation that is usually a four-month-long event.  Among other measures that the Centre has advised Uttarakhand to put in place during the event are to ensure that Union health ministry’s standard operating procedures issued for the Kumbh are strictly followed, scale up testing in potential high transmission areas, and continue periodic testing of frontline workers before and after the shahi snan days. The advisory further states that in case of a sudden surge or a super-spreader event (when one infected individual goes on to infect several others), the state administration should promptly send samples for genome sequencing. This could help monitor if the outbreak is due to a variant that may be more infective than the predominant type of Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19. Much like the trend in the rest of the country, Uttarakhand has been seeing a resurgence of cases in the past month, in what the experts say could be the beginning of second wave of infections. In the past week, the state reported 80 cases a day on average – a rise of 174% from the 29 cases a day (seven-day average) it was reporting in the week ending February 25. Uttarakhand has so far reported over 98,000 cases, and has administered the coronavirus vaccine to 545,863 people, according to government data. Experts say following Covid-19 appropriate behaviour is the mainstay of controlling disease transmission.“It has been well-established that wearing a mask cuts down the transmission risk by about 85%, which is why government has been trying to promote wearing of a mask publicly in an aggressive manner. Other important measures are observing hand-hygiene and maintaining physical distancing,” said Dr RR Gangakhedkar, former head of epidemiology and communicable diseases, Indian Council of Medical Research, said on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-mahakumbh-centre-raises-covid-flag-101616351685689.html
22-03-2021||India||After beating plates, MP govt to blow sirens to create awareness about Covid-19||The Madhya Pradesh state government will blow a siren on March 23 after one year of beating thalis to make people aware of the surge in Covid-19 cases, said chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan. The chief minister said the state government is going to introduce Sankalp Abhiyan from March 23 to ensure the use of mask and social distancing. “On this day, a siren will be blown in every district at 11 AM and 7 PM and people will be requested to stop for 2 minutes to take a pledge of using masks and maintaining social distance,” said Chouhan. He said masks and social distancing were the best way to contain the spread of the virus. “Schools from classes 1 to 8 will remain closed in Madhya Pradesh amid a spurt in Covid-19 cases. In such an adverse condition, we can’t take the risk of opening schools,” said Chouhan. Earlier, school education minister Inder Singh Parmar had announced the opening of schools from Classes 1 to 8 from April 1. However, Congress took a jibe at the BJP-led state government for taking a non-serious decision to contain the spread. Former minister and Congress MLA PC Sharma said, “The government is not serious about Covid-19 which resulted in a number of positive cases increasing again. By imposing night curfew and blowing a siren, they thought that the virus will be killed like they did last year by beating thalis.” Instead of such an insane decision, they should come up with some serious steps to contain the spread of the virus, he added. After an increase in Covid-19 cases, the state government imposed a one–day lockdown on Sunday in three districts –Indore, Bhopal and Jabalpur. Schools and colleges will remain closed from March 21 to 31 in these three districts. On Saturday, 1322 Covid-19 positive cases have been recorded in MP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-beating-plates-mp-govt-to-blow-sirens-to-create-awareness-about-covid19-101616351566979.html
22-03-2021||India||Mansukh Hiran murder solved, Sachin Vaze prime accused: Maha ATS||The Maharashtra Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) arrested a policeman and a bookie in connection with the alleged murder of businessman Mansukh Hiran, an official said on Sunday, adding that suspended Mumbai police officer Sachin Vaze was being treated as prime accused in the case that the agency “has solved”.The two accused, identified as policeman Vinayak Shinde and bookie Naresh Gaur, were arrested late on Saturday, an ATS official said. However, the agency did not share any details of what the investigation revealed.Hiran’s wife, at the time of filing an FIR, raised suspicion about Vaze’s involvement in her husband’s death. In a press statement on Sunday, ATS said Vaze was being treated as the prime accused.Maharashtra ATS DIG Shivdeep Lande said: “The Maharashtra Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) have solved Mansukh Hiran’s death case.”Shinde is a convict in the 2006 Lakhan Bhaiya fake encounter case and he came out of jail on furlough last year, an official said, adding that Shinde was in touch with Vaze since then.“Sachin Vaze is a prime accused in the Hiran murder case. He had played a key role. During the probe, the ATS found that Gaur had provided five SIM cards to API Vaze and Shinde for the crime. Shinde used to help Vaze in his illegal activities,” the official added. He said ATS was investigating if more people were involved in the case.The Centre on Saturday suo motu handed over the probe into Hiran’s death to the National Investigation Agency (NIA), which has been probing a car laden with explosives found outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence last month.NIA will take over the case from the Maharashtra ATS, which has been investigating the possible murder of Hiran, a 48-year-old Thane-based auto spare parts dealer, who is linked to the Scorpio that was found with 20 loose gelatin sticks, and a threatening letter addressed to the Ambanis, outside their Antilia residence on February 25.NIA arrested suspended police officer Vaze on March 13 for purportedly planting the explosives in the Scorpio. ATS has also questioned Vaze over his role in Hiran’s death after it came to light through the statement of Hiran’s wife, Vimla, that the two knew each other.ATS arrested the two accused in the case hours after it was announced that the probe into the case of Hiran’s death was being transferred to the central agency.“The mystery of the highly sensitive Mansukh Hiran murder case has been solved. I heartily salute all my colleagues (in ATS), who had put efforts through day and night and complete the investigation in a lawful manner to achieve the result. This case was one of the most complex cases of my police career till date,” Lande wrote in a Facebook post.Lande did not respond to HT’s phone calls and messages for further details on the probe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hiran-murder-solved-vaze-prime-accused-maha-ats-101616351565735.html
22-03-2021||India||Karnataka farmers should lay siege on Bengaluru just like Delhi: Rakesh Tikait||Farmer leader Rakesh Tikait on Sunday asked the farming community in Karnataka to lay siege to Bengaluru with tractors, just like it was done in Delhi, in protest against the three contentious farm laws passed by the Centre.“You have to make a Delhi in Bengaluru… and surround the city from all directions,” Tikait said while addressing a protest rally in Shivamogga, about 320 km from Bengaluru on Sunday.“The protest must be done with tractors only,” he added.The farmers from all across the country, mainly from the states of Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh have been protesting against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act passed by Parliament last year.“Unless the three laws are repealed, and there is a law related to the MSP, you need to continue this agitation in Karnataka as well,” Tikait said.He added that agitation will have to continue against several contentious laws that aim at “grabbing lands from farmers” and forcing them to work as daily wagers in factories. Tikait said there were many such bills in the pipeline relating to milk, electricity, seeds and fertilizers, which were also being prepared to be introduced.He claimed that the privitisation of nationalised banks will result in farmers who have availed loans through Kisan Credit Cards, by pledging lands, will be forced to part with them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-farmers-should-lay-siege-on-bengaluru-just-like-delhi-rakesh-tikait-101616350549738.html
22-03-2021||India||Ashoka, its ex-professors move to salvage situation||Ashoka University and the two professors who resigned from it last week, political commentator Pratap Bhanu Mehta and noted economist Arvind Subramanian, on Sunday released a joint statement that sought to resolve a brewing controversy over the departures, with the varsity expressing “deep regret” at the recent events and acknowledging “lapses in institutional processes”.The statement was issued jointly by Ashoka University chancellor Rudrangshu Mukherjee, vice-chancellor Malabika Sarkar, chairman, Board of Trustees, Ashish Dhawan, Mehta, and Subramanian. “We acknowledge that there have been some lapses in institutional processes which we will work to rectify in consultation with all stakeholders. This will reaffirm our commitment to academic autonomy and freedom which have always been at the core of the Ashoka University ideals,” it read.“Pratap and Arvind would like to emphasize that Ashoka University is one of the most important projects in Indian higher education. They are sad to be leaving Ashoka, especially its outstanding students and faculty. They continue to believe strongly that Ashoka University should embody a liberal vision and commitment to academic freedom and autonomy. And they remain lifelong friends and well-wishers of the institution and are committed to its success wherever they are. They remain available for advice and consultation to the University in the future,” the statement said.Mukherjee separately wrote to faculty and students, saying the institution’s founders have never interfered with academic freedom.News of Mehta’s exit broke on Thursday — he resigned on March 15 — and caused a stir among students and faculty of the university, and the academic community across India and overseas. “After a meeting with Founders, it has become abundantly clear to me that my association with the University may be considered a political liability. My public writing in support of a politic that tries to honour constitutional values of freedom and equal respect for all citizens is perceived to carry risks for the university. In the interests of the University, I resign,” he said in his resignation letter. On Friday morning, his colleague and former chief economic adviser, Subramanian, resigned saying he was “devastated” by Mehta’s resignation, and it reflected the university’s inability to protect “academic freedom and expression”.Mehta also independently wrote to students at the university on Sunday, addressing them as “superheroes” and urged them not to “press” on the matter. “The underlying circumstances that led to the resignation will not change for the foreseeable future, in my case, at any rate. So, I must close this chapter. I urge you not to press on this matter. I know you will be disappointed. But if I may exercise one last bit of professorial discretion: your mission is larger than the fate of two Professors,” he wrote in the letter.“I hope the Trustees and Faculty will work with you to secure your renewed trust and confidence,” he added.Mukherjee and Dhawan also separately wrote to students, alumni, and parents on Sunday, saying that Ashoka University “will remain committed to academic freedom and intellectual independence”, and that the founders don’t “have even an iota of commercial or business interest” in the university. “I know that this week has been full of anguish but it is in these moments that it becomes critical for us to come together and move forward. I admit that the departures of Professors Mehta and Subramanian make us all feel a tremendous loss but there is nothing for you to fear. As an institution, we are committed to freedom in every aspect. Even as we evolve, this commitment will never fade,” Dhawan said in its letter.In his letter, chancellor Mukherjee said the founders never “interfered with academic freedom” at Ashoka University. The board of trustees also met the students’ body and the alumni council a day ahead of a two-day boycott of classes scheduled to be observed by the students. The strike was not called off by the time this report was filed||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/there-were-lapses-in-our-process-ashoka-university-on-mehta-subramanian-exits-101616307583123.html
22-03-2021||India||Number of pedallers rise in Bengaluru, but not enough space for cycling||The cycling community in Bengaluru may be growing but the city has perhaps not fared well in providing cycle-centric infrastructure to its residents. Even as the newly-developed cycle lanes in the Central Business District (CBD) appear to be a hit, riders feel the overall number of tracks available remains insufficient to enable them to pedal without running into traffic or pedestrians.Satya Shankran, Bengaluru’s first ‘Bicycle Mayor’ and founding member of Praja-Raag, a city-based citizens’ group, said the pace of the construction of bicycle lanes was pretty slow.Speaking to HT, Shankran said that as per the comprehensive mobility plan of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Pallike (BBMP), the original plan was to develop 174 km of cycle tracks in the city. “We took up the matter with the authorities and got it changed to developing 600 km in the next 10 years. But this is still not enough,” he said.He said the city has 14,000 km of roads, of which only around 2,000 km are 15 m wide or more and ideal for cycling. “Going by this, the current plan provides only 30% of the roads for cycle tracks. Even if we agree on these plans, the pace of development is slow,” he said.Over the years, the cycling community in the city has grown at a steady pace. While there is no official data on this, according to CycleToWork, an app that crowd sources information in Bengaluru, the use of cycle for commuting doubled between 2017 and 2020.While it was expected that the ridership would drop during the pandemic, it, however, increased threefold.Rajesh Jain, a software developer from Marathahalli, said one of the biggest problems with cycling tracks in the city is lack of continuity. “I understand that cycle lanes are present in the city but there needs to be a plan for a seamless track in the city. As of now, they are constructing tracks wherever smart city projects are coming up. But I’ve noticed that they are in patches. There should be a vision to connect the city using cycle lanes.”Meanwhile, the BBMP is planning to include cycle lanes in Bengaluru Smart City Limited (BSCL)’s plans to develop 35 km of roads in CBD. The latest cycle track being built by BSCL is the 5 km-long from Minsk Square to Basaveshwara Circle. DULT commissioner V Manjula said the department is conducting a field study to identify roads where lanes could be created. “DULT has submitted drawings for the roads already. It is up to the BBMP to take up projects.”DULT commissioner V Manjula said the department is conducting a field study to identify roads where these lanes could be created. “DULT has submitted drawings for the roads already. It is up to the BBMP to take up these projects.”Manjula added that the work on a 35 km-long cycle track between Silk Board and Lowry Junction, as part of the Non-Motorised Transit project, is underway.The DULT commissioner also said that the department has received crowdsourced maps and data on user preferences to identify new routes. It is also using the CycleToWork app for data on cycle rides by employees belonging to 156 organisations to develop infrastructure.Urban expert V Ravichandar said it is important to develop hubs every 5 km in the city with all facilities to ensure people do not have to travel long distances. “Once the need for long-distance travel within the city is limited, we shall see more people walking or using cycles and creating cycle lanes would encourage this further,” he said.According to the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways, in 2019, Bengaluru reported 47 accidents involving bicycles. At least 43 cyclists lost their lives while 29 others sustained severe injuries during this period.“We are also keen on getting the cycle lanes because it prevents accidents and encourages people to use bicycles. We are supporting this effort,” Ravikante Gowda, joint commissioner of police, traffic, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/number-of-pedallers-on-rise-in-city-but-not-enough-space-for-cycling-101616092638051.html
