26-03-2021||India||Bangladesh scripted new destiny 50 yrs ago: Sonia||New Delhi Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Friday extended her wishes to Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina on the occasion of Bangladesh’s 50th Independence Day, saying that the year 1971 was “transformative” for India as well. “Fifty years ago, the courageous people of Bangladesh had scripted a whole new destiny for themselves and transformed both history and geography of the sub-continent,” Sonia said in a video message to the neighbouring country. “Over the past five decades, Bangladesh’s remarkable achievements in social development, community participation, economic growth and other areas have been very impressive and have received global recognition,” she added. Drawing a parallel between the developments in India and Bangladesh in 1971, Sonia maintained that the period was “as much a transformative year for India as it was for Bangladesh”, referring to the rise of former Indian prime minister Indira Gandhi as a political leader as well as a statesman. “On this joyous occasion, and as someone who lived through the transformative hours, days, weeks and months of 1971 by Indira Gandhi’s side along with my husband Rajiv ji, I am personally delighted to share the pride of Sheikh Hasina and millions of her countrymen and women,” she said. Reminiscing the friendship between Indira and Bangladesh founding father ‘Bangabandu’ Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, whose birth centenary was also observed on Friday, Sonia said: “We in India have always had a special relationship with the people of Bangladesh. This has been in very large measures because of the role Indira Gandhi played in the historic events of 1971.” She added that the two leaders had established “bonds of mutual respect, admiration and deep friendship”. Sonia, who was also among the invitees to Dhaka for the celebrations, couldn’t travel to Dhaka due to Covid-19 restrictions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bangladesh-scripted-new-destiny-50-yrs-ago-sonia-101616782951949.html
26-03-2021||India||Indian, Pak armies hold flag meet on ceasefire agreement||NEW DELHIThe Indian and Pakistani armies on Friday held a flag meeting in the Poonch sector to ensure that both sides uphold the ceasefire along the Line of Control (LoC) in line with the understanding reached by the two director generals of military operations last month. The two militaries last month announced that they had begun observing a ceasefire along the LoC in Jammu and Kashmir from the midnight of February 24. Friday’s flag meet was held at the brigade commander level. “Post the DGMOs Understanding 2021, a Brigade Commander Level Flag Meeting was held between Indian and Pakistan Army at Poonch Rawalkot Crossing Point on 26 Mar 2021 to discuss implementation mechanism as per the understanding,” the Indian Army said on Twitter. “The ceasefire is holding good and the brigade-commander level flag meet was planned to ensure that both sides adhere to the understanding reached between the two DGMOs,” said a senior official. It is for the first time in about five to six years that the LoC has been silent which bodes well for the future, army chief General MM Naravane said at an event on Friday. He said three reasons behind Pakistan’s move for peace were Financial Action Task Force (FATF) sanctions, domestic compulsions and the situation on its Western border with Afghanistan. The 12 months preceding the announcement by the Indian and Pakistan militaries that they had begun observing a ceasefire along the LoC saw the highest number of border violations by the neigbouring army since the original ceasefire agreement in November 2003. Official figures obtained by HT show that the Pakistan Army violated the ceasefire at least a dozen times daily on an average between February 2020 and February 2021 when both sides agreed to strict observance of all agreements and understandings to observe a ceasefire along the LoC. The year 2020 witnessed 4,645 violations by Pakistan on the LoC, with August and September – the first anniversary of the Centre revoking the special status of the state on August 5, 2019 – accounting for the highest number of violations for any two consecutive months in 17 years. This figure for last year stood at more than 5,100 if the violations along the international border are also counted. Data shows August and September alone accounted for 835 ceasefire violations last year. Ceasefire violations by the Pakistani Army sharply increased over the last five years – recording a 10-fold jump since 2016 when the Indian Army carried out surgical strikes against terror pads in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir in response to the Pakistan-backed suicide attack on an army camp in Uri. The year 2016 accounted for 449 violations, with the numbers only rocketing in the following years – 881 (2017), 1,629 (2018) and 3,168 (2019). The unusual spike in ceasefire violations by the Pakistan army on the LoC in recent years was to help terrorist infiltrators sneak into Jammu and Kashmir to feed the terror machinery in the state and destabilise the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-pak-armies-hold-flag-meet-on-ceasefire-agreement-101616782951239.html
26-03-2021||India||PDP’s Para gave ₹5cr to Hurriyat tokeep Valley on boil: NIA charge sheet||New Delhi Peoples Democratic Party leader Waheed-ur-Rehman Para gave ₹5 crore to Hurriyat Conference to keep Kashmir on the boil after the encounter of Hizbul Mujahideen terrorist Burhan Wani, the National Investigation Agency has said in a charge sheet filed on Monday. This amount was given by Para “possibly on behalf of PDP to Hurriyat Conference for keeping the secessionist activities alive”, NIA added in the charge sheet. HT has reviewed excerpts of the charge sheet. Para was arrested on November 25 last year by the central agency after multiple rounds of questioning. In a statement issued later in the day, PDP additional spokesperson Najmu Saqib said the charges against Para were an attempt to muzzle the voices of Kashmir. “A through and through democrat who dedicated his life to strengthening the cause of the mainstream in Jammu And Kashmir, Waheed by putting his life and limb in harm’s way, is being punished for what he should’ve been appreciated for,” Saqib said.“We strongly believe that none of these frivolous charges would stand judicial scrutiny and Waheed would eventually get justice,” Saqib added.The charge sheet, which focuses on Para’s role in supporting terror and secessionist activities in Jammu and Kashmir, said “Para gave ₹5 crore in 2016 to Altaf Ahmad Shah alias Fantoosh to keep the situation boiling in Kashmir valley after the killing of HM terrorist Burhan Wani.”Funtoosh is separatist leader Syed Ali Shah Geelani’s son-in-law and a member of the All Parties Hurriyat Conference. He was arrested in July 2017 in a J&K terror funding case.According to the investigation agency, Funtoosh was a close associate of Para and the two maintained contact during the turmoil in the wake of Wani’s killing. Wani, 21-year-old Hizbul commander and the poster boy of militancy in Kashmir, was killed in an encounter with security forces on July 8, 2016. The encounter led to large scale stone pelting and public unrest in the Kashmir valley which went on for months. The encounter took place during the tenure of PDP president Mehbooba Mufti as the erstwhile state’s chief minister. Para has been named as accused in the supplementary charge sheet filed in NIA’s probe against suspended J&K police officer Davinder Singh, who was arrested in January 2020 for assisting HM terrorists.Elaborating on the PDP youth leader’s role in the case, NIA charge sheet said Para also gave ₹10 lakh to advocate Irfan Shafi Mir to hand over to HM terrorists, Syed Naveed Mushtaq alias Naveed Babu. Mir and Naveed were arrested with Singh last year.In February-March 2019, ahead of the Lok Sabha elections, “Irfan Mir called Para on secure social chat platform, Signal, and made him talk to Syed Naveed Mushtaq when he was staying in the rented house of Irfan Mir in Jammu. Para talked to Syed Naveed and asked him to take care of his party workers campaigning for parliament election in Pulwama”, the NIA charge sheet said. The charge sheet also said that Para gave another ₹10 lakh to Pakistan-based Lashkar-e-Taiba terrorist Abu Dujana, apart from providing logistical support to LeT commander Naved Jatt. The agency, however, did not mention the year of this exchange. Jatt, who was involved in the killing of journalist Shujaat Bukhari, was gunned down by security forces in November 2018. Subsequently, the agency added “Para was also involved in gun running racket in Kupwara area in 2016”. “He used to bring weapons in his vehicle accompanied by an escort vehicle as none of the security agencies used to check it [him being a politician],” NIA said. According to NIA, Para played a crucial role in sustaining the “political-separatist-terrorist” nexus in Jammu and Kashmir apart from financing the activities of the Hizbul Mujahideen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pdps-para-gave-5cr-to-hurriyat-tokeep-valley-on-boil-nia-charge-sheet-101616782890835.html
26-03-2021||India||Nikita Tomar murder: Court gives life imprisonment to both stalkers||Gurugram A fast-track court in Faridabad on Friday sentenced two men to life imprisonment and fined them ₹20,000 in the Nikita Tomar murder case that shocked the national capital region in October last year.Tauseef, who had been stalking the 21-year-old Tomar and shot her at point blank range, and his associate Rehaan were held guilty of murder, kidnapping, conspiracy and under sections of the Arms Act by additional sessions judge Sartaj Baswana on Wednesday. A large number of city residents, activists and family members of the victim packed the district court in Faridabad before the verdict was pronounced around 3.45pm. Under the Arms Act the men were given four years of imprisonment that will run concurrent with the life sentence, said Adal Singh Rawat, counsel for the victim’s family. “We will file a petition in the high court seeking death penalty for the brutal murder of Nikita. We respect the verdict of the court but after going through the judgement, we will approach the high court for justice,” said Rawat.Tomar was shot dead on October 26 outside her college in Ballabhgarh town of Faridabad by Tauseef, when he failed to abduct her along with his accomplice Rehaan, who drove the getaway car after the murder was committed, said police. The crime committed in broad daylight brought women’s safety in sharp focus and led to protests across Haryana. Faridabad police constituted a special investigation team and a charge sheet was filed within 11 days of the murder. The court sentenced the accused exactly five months after the incident.The father of the victim, Moolraj Tomar, expressed disappointment over the quantum of punishment.“We will approach the higher courts and seek death penalty for the convicts. We respect the court but will challenge the verdict,” he said. The family of the victim and its lawyers acknowledged that the speedy investigation conducted by Faridabad police and regular hearings in the fast-track court helped secure the conviction of the two accused.Sanjiv Singh Rao, senior counsel, said footage recovered from the place of occurrence and from a toll plaza nearby played a crucial role in identifying the perpetrators. “The phone call records of the accused helped in establishing that they were roaming around the college in Ballabhgarh and planning the crime for almost four days prior to the incident. The footage showed how the duo acted in tandem, helped each other and escaped after committing the grisly crime,” he said.Faridabad police on Friday preferred not to comment on the matter. A police spokesperson said the department did not want to comment on a court order. However, the Faridabad police did post a tweet saying, “Faridabad police #avengers end game for the killers of #NikitaTomar. Handed down life imprisonment for the cowardly act”.The defence counsel, however, maintained that this case did not come under the purview of capital punishment as it was not in the rarest of the rare category. “This case does not fall in the rarest of the rare category. Our submission was that the accused are medical students, have no previous convictions. The death was caused by a single bullet injury,” said Anees Khan, the defence counsel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nikita-tomar-murder-court-gives-life-imprisonment-to-both-stalkers-101616782890266.html
26-03-2021||India||Cannot be capital of illegal immigrants: Centre on plea seeks to stall Rohingya deportation||New Delhi: India cannot become “the international capital of illegal immigrants”, the Union government on Friday said in the Supreme Court while opposing a plea the seeks the release of at least 150 Rohingya refugees detained in a Jammu sub-jail and the stalling of their deportation.The government termed the Rohingya “absolutely illegal immigrants” who posed “serious threats to the national security” before a bench headed by the Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde. The Centre also contended that the right to settle in India could not be asserted by illegal immigrants under the garb of the Constitution’s Article 21, which guarantees the right to life and liberty. The bench reserved its verdict.On March 6, on the instructions of the ministry of home affairs, the J&K administration started a verification drive of the Rohingya, and moved some of them to a holding centre, pending their potential deportation. There are close to 7,000 Rohingya refugees in J&K, numbers that have increased since the late 2000s when they first arrived in the region after escaping from Myanmar, where they were facing religious persecution. India has previously deported Rohingya refugees, and this has been a long-standing demand of the BJP in J&K.Appearing for the Centre, Solicitor General (SG) Tushar Mehta submitted that a similar application to stop the deportation of Rohingya from Assam was dismissed by the top court in 2018, and that the present application must meet the same fate. “They are illegal immigrants. The continuance of the illegal immigration of Rohingyas into India and their continued stay in India, apart from being absolutely illegal is also found to be having serious national security ramifications and poses serious security threats,” the SG submitted before the bench, which also included justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian. He added that the Centre has begun the process of deporting Rohingya after receiving a confirmation from the Myanmar government regarding their nationality, and that the apex court should steer clear of the “diplomatic issue” since it fell within the exclusive domain of the Executive. Representing the J&K administration, senior advocate Harish Salve cautioned the bench against “starting a dangerous trend” by interfering with a subject related to illegal immigrants and diplomatic relations with another country. Arguing for the applicant, Mohammad Salimullah, advocate Prashant Bhushan alluded to a January 2020 judgment of the International Court of Justice (ICJ) that highlighted the persecution faced by the Rohingya in Myanmar. Bhushan said that an urgent intervention by the apex court was required since those “detained” in Jammu could at any time be deported back to Myanmar, from where they fled fearing oppression. The bench told Bhushan that it doesn’t support a genocide “of any kind anywhere” but what “happens in a foreign country is beyond our control”. “We are certain that there should be no genocide on this earth. We are not supporting genocide of any kind anywhere. But the question here is different. You did not tell us that a similar application by you had already been dismissed by this court,” the bench said. The SG and Salve also objected to Bhushan referencing the ICJ judgment, arguing that the ruling operated in the realm of the public international law, and could not override the local laws of a country. Salve added that India was not a party to the principle of non-refoulement, as mentioned in the Refugee Convention of 1951 treaties, and therefore judicial orders could not obligate the government to follow non-refoulement (which restrains it from expelling refugees fearing persecution in their home state). The Centre’s affidavit in the SC, seen by HT, maintained that it has to first secure the interests of its own citizens before those of illegal immigrants who, it said, were casting a burden on the already depleting natural resources of the country in addition to posing a security threat. “The Constitution makes it abundantly clear that India as a sovereign nation, has the first and foremost Constitutional obligation and duty towards its citizens and to ensure that the demographic and social structure of the country is not changed to its detriment, the resulting socio-economic problems do not occur to the prejudice of the citizens and the resources of the nation are utilised to fulfil the fundamental rights of its own citizens and are not diverted to the detriment of the citizens, due to influx of illegal migrants into the territory of India,” stated the affidavit. It also cited a 1991 SC judgment to state that although Article 21 (right to life and liberty) extended to foreign nationals, the fundamental right to reside and settle in this country, as mentioned in Article 19(1)(e) of the Constitution, was applicable only to its citizens. “Therefore, the foreign nationals concerned from Myanmar have been illegally residing within India and cannot plead for mercy under the garb of Article 21 as the vires of the same are not applicable to the individuals concerned from Myanmar,” the affidavit said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cannot-be-capital-of-illegal-immigrants-centre-on-plea-seeks-to-stall-rohingya-deportation-101616782830905.html
26-03-2021||India||States asked to regulate crowds before festivals amid covid spike||New Delhi The Centre on Friday directed all states and Union territories (UTs) to regulate the crowd and ensure strict enforcement of protocols ahead of various festivals in view of rising coronavirus cases in the country.With 62,267 cases within a span of 24 hours, the overall Covid-19 tally rose to 11,908,357, according the HT dashboard. The active caseload breached the 450,000-mark after four months. The death toll hit to 161,295 with 292 new fatalities.In a letter to chief secretaries of all states and UTs, Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla called for necessary measures to prevent the spread of the virus and directed states and UTs to issue instructions to district administrations and police authorities to “scrupulously enforce Covid appropriate behaviour and SOPs in all public gatherings during the upcoming festivals.”“In view of the upcoming festivals such as Holi, Shab-e-Barat, harvesting festivals, Easter, Eid-ul-Fitr etc, state governments and UT administrations should take necessary measures to regulate crowds during these festivals by ensuring strict observance of Covid appropriate behavior such as wearing of mask and maintaining social distancing as mandated in aforesaid guidelines and in National Directives for Covid-19 management,” Bhalla said in his letter. The official’s letter further mentioned that strict adherence to Covid-appropriate behavior in public places and gatherings will help break the chain of transmission and reduce the virus caseload in the country. “As has been emphasised time and again by health experts, strict adherence to Covid appropriate behaviour in public places and gatherings will help in breaking the chain of transmission and reduce the incidence of Covid cases in the country,” he said.In a fresh set of guidelines on March 23, the Centre had directed the states and UTs to enhance RT-PCR tests, ensure strict enforcement of test-track-treat protocol and increase the pace of vaccination to cover all priority groups. The Centre announced that all fresh cases will require to be isolated or quarantined at the earliest and provided timely treatment. All contacts of the infected cases will also have to be traced quickly and isolated, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-asked-to-regulate-crowds-before-festivals-amid-covid-spike-101616782530306.html
26-03-2021||India||Ahead of Mahakumbh, Covid cases jump in Haridwar||Rudrapur: The number of new Covid-19 cases in Haridwar, where millions are gathering for the Mahakumbh pilgrimage, has grown by over 250% in the last week compared to the first week of the month, and the test positivity rate on Friday was nearly three times of what it was on March 1, reinforcing fears that the gathering is fuelling a bigger outbreak.Between 30 and 50 million pilgrims are expected to visit the shortened month-long festival in April. Before the pandemic, over 120 million people were expected to visit a four-month Mahakumbh. The first shahi snan (royal bath) that kicked off the festivities on March 11 was attended by over 3.3 million people. The next is on April 1.In the first week of the month, 78 new cases were recorded in Haridwar. In the past seven days, this number has grown to 278. But the number of daily tests has not logged any significant increase – there were 4,715 tests on Friday and a little under 4,000 on March 1. On the first day of the month, only 16 cases were recorded, compared to 58 on Friday –a sharp increase in the positivity rate that is reflected over the week as well.As on Friday, Haridwar accounts for 385 active cases of total 1,162 in the state. Officials in other states are now beginning to record infections in pilgrims who went to Haridwar. On Friday, eight people from one family tested positive for Covid-19 in Madhya Pradesh’s Guna district, according to Guna district magistrate Kumar Purshotam. Chief medical officer Haridwar, Dr SK Jha said on Friday that given the expectation that up to 10 million pilgrims can arrive for the Shahi Snan on April 1, testing capacity is being increased and capacity to isolate pilgrims found positive is being strengthened. “Those with no negative Covid-19 reports would be returned. And those found positive through random testing would be isolated. We have capacity to isolate over 10,000 people, with the help of private hospitals. The testing on normal days will be increased as per the pilgrim rush and on Shahi Snan days, it can go even beyond 50,000. For last four days, we have been conducting tests of 3,000 to 5,000 people,” Jha said.The Uttarakhand high court on Wednesday directed the state government to ensure that pilgrims coming for Mahakumbh show a negative RT-PCR test taken not more than 72 hours earlier, after members of the court-appointed committee to check situation and arrangements in Mahakumbh submitted their reports to the court.On Sunday, Centre wrote to the state, stressing that the positivity rate in Haridwar has the potential to rapidly turning to an upsurge in cases, given the expected large footfall during Kumbh.On Friday, the administration announced some curbs on celebrations for Holi (which falls on Monday), allowing venues to host only 50% of their capacity and no single event can exceed an attendance of over 100 people. Anoop Nautiyal, founder of Dehradun-based think tank Social Development for Communities, who has been analysing Covid-19 data for the last year, said the testing numbers in Haridwar need to be scaled up over ten times in accordance with the expectations of the pilgrim influx. “On Thursday, they tested over 3,900 people. With such low testing at present, what can be the situation when one crore people will turn up. It won’t serve the purpose because even if Covid-19 infection is brought by few people into Kumbh area, it has potential to spread in millions”, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-mahakumbh-covid-cases-jump-in-haridwar-101616782470283.html
26-03-2021||India||9 Covid patients killed in fire at Mumbai hospital||Nine Covid-19 patients, mostly senior citizens, were killed on Friday after a massive fire broke out at Sunrise Hospital, located inside the Dreams Mall in Bhandup, officials said. Six of the dead were on ventilators. The fire started on first floor of the mall on Thursday night and soon spread to the third floor, which houses the hospital. Officials from the Mumbai Fire Brigade (MFB) said the firefighting system, including sprinklers, were not functioning. A notice for non-compliance of fire safety norms was issued to the mall in November 2020, they added.Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, who visited the spot, ordered an enquiry into the incident, announced ₹5 lakh compensation to the family of the deceased, and asked for their forgiveness. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation has ordered a fire audit of all the Covid-19 hospitals and health centres in the wake of the incident, and Mumbai’s mayor Kishori Pednekar has ordered an additional inquiry into how a Covid hospital was allowed to run inside a mall.“If there is any negligence or delay in it, it will be investigated and action will be taken against those who are responsible for it,” said chief minister Thackeray. “The hospital was functioning on a temporary permission that was due to end on March 31. Unfortunately, the fire started on the first floor [of the mall]. Many Covid patients were safely taken out of hospital.”Thackeray also pulled up the administration. “We wake up after such incidents and inquiries are ordered. I have already asked state authorities to carry out structural and fire audits of hospitals and Covid Care Centres and Jumbo facilities and ensure no such incidents happen. Some people who were on ventilators could not be saved. I ask for forgiveness for their families.”According to BMC, there were 78 patients in the hospital at the time of the incident. Two were already dead after failing to recover from Covid-related complications, and nine died due to the fire. The blaze was first reported at around 11.45pm on the first floor of the mall. MFB was yet to give details about the cause of the fire. Sunrise Hospital authorities contended in a statement that it responded responsibly to the incident, and called for an investigation to determine how the fire spread. “The fire was on the first floor of Dreams Mall, Bhandup, and not in the hospital. The smoke had reached up to Sunrise Hospital located at the top floor. All fire alarms beeped and hence all patients were safely evacuated due to the smoke to the fire refuge area .There were two dead bodies (due to Covid) which were also evacuated. There was no casualty due to fire. All patients were promptly shifted to Jumbo Covid centre (and some to other private hospitals). The patients were shifted alive, but there were few patients on ventilator and extremely critical. We believe that the casualties have not occurred due to fire, but either in transit or at other hospitals,” the hospital claimed.It further said that the hospital was started in “exceptional circumstances of Covid last year”, and was “functioning with all due compliances”. “The hospital staff did their best in safely evacuating patients on wheelchairs and beds to the refuge areas and by following the fire drills. The patients were then shifted with the help of local authorities... We have spoken to the authorities and request them to investigate and find the cause of the fire. The guilty need to be punished as the lives of people have been lost in the unfortunate incident,” the statement added.Hemant Parab, deputy chief fire officer, MFB, said the mall was in violation of safety norms. “In the backdrop of a fire last year in City Centre Mall, we had inspected this particular Dreams Mall. A notice was issued to them for non-compliance of fire safety violations due to certain concerns. During fire fighting also we observed that none of the fire safety mechanisms got activated inside the mall. We will conduct a detailed probe into the incident now.”Though the fire was brought under control by Friday afternoon, , firefighting was underway at the time of going to print. Till Friday evening, BMC had traced 46 patients who were evacuated from the hospital. Several of them shifted to nearby hospitals, whereas some opted to go back to their homes, the civic body said.A political slugfest also began after the incident, with the Bharatiya Janata Party blaming BMC of cutting corners to allow the hospital to function.“A case of homicide should be registered against the officials who allowed the operations of the hospital inside the mall. Despite repeated complaints by local BJP corporator Sakshi Dalvi, it was ignored due to political pressure. In reply to the complaint in writing, the Medical Officer Health Department of BMC said that they had issued a certificate of registration to Sunrise Hospital. The fire brigade also issued a no-objection certificate,” BJP corporator Prabhakar Shinde said. Former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, who also visited the spot, said, “It seems that the authorities have not learnt from past incidents in Bhandara or even in Apex Hospital in Mulund last year. The government has not woken up even after similar incidents in the past. We cannot expect anything better from the BMC considering its system is filled with corruption.”The BMC, on its part, said it will probe if there were any other violations. “The hospital had occupation certificate and also the fire compliance to operate, but we are told there were fire violations inside the mall. However, that is under fire department’s purview, but I have asked my staff to investigate whether there were any other structural violations inside the mall,” assistant municipal commissioner V Acharekar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/9-covid-patients-killed-in-fire-at-mumbai-hospital-101616782410302.html
26-03-2021||India||Gaganyaan, India's human space mission, will use 'green propulsion': ISRO||India's human space mission Gaganyaan is likely to have a green propellant, ISRO chief K Sivan said on Friday, stressing that it is working towards using green fuel in all its future launches.He said India is in talks with Australia to have a ground station at the Coco Islands for the Gaganyaan mission. In addition, ISRO wants to build a NAVIC ground station in Australia, he said.Speaking at the India Economic Conclave, Sivan said ISRO is not aspiring to be a world leader.He said ISRO's prime objective is to serve the nation and meet its space infrastructure, its needs in space transportation, space science as well as space applications for a wide range of socio-economic benefits as well as advancing the understanding of fundamental science.Replying to a question on using a green propellant for its launches, he said, "Green propulsion is essential. We are going to fly Gaganyaan with green propulsion. It is an essential requirement," he said.He said ISRO has already started the development of green propulsion."We are going to bring the green propulsion system in our launch vehicles because this is the need of the hour. We want to ensure that all toxic and hazardous propellants are avoided."(Its) development is going on fast track mode and very soon our rockets will replace with green propulsion. That is our aim," he said.On Gaganyaan, he said "each and every heart of the ISRO family is beating" for the ambitious programme.The programme was hit due to the coronavirus pandemic. ISRO was to initially send three Indians to space by 2022."Hardware flow has already started from industry and tests and developmental activities are progressing very well," he said.Sivan added that it expects to carry out the crew test as well as the first unmanned mission by the end of this year. This will be followed by one more unmanned mission flight."If everything goes well, we will conduct human space flight," Sivan said.On the Small Satellites Launch Vehicle (SSLV), Sivan said it is a "game-changer" in providing low-cost on-demand access to space for small satellites.The SSLV will be made by the industry on a much larger scale than PSLV, GSLV and GSLV Mark-III, he said. "The first flight (of SSLV) is targeted for this year-end," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gaganyaan-india-s-human-space-mission-will-use-green-propulsion-isro-101616776504769.html
26-03-2021||India||India, South Korea discuss maritime cooperation, defense issues||Indian and South Korean defense ministers met Friday to discuss maritime cooperation as part of the Indo-Pacific strategy and also cooperation in the defense industry and future technologies, officials said.India's defense ministry said in a tweet visiting Defense Minister Suh Wook also inaugurated an Indo-Korean friendship park in the Indian capital commemorating the contribution of Indian peacekeepers during the Korean War in 1950s.Watch: Rajnath Singh meets his South Korean counterpart Suh Wook, holds bilateral talksIndian media reports say both countries have been in discussions for military platforms and weapons, especially naval shipbuilding. Korean companies are keen to build minesweepers in the country and supply a self-propelled anti-aircraft defense system to the Indian military.Raj Kumar, an Indian defense ministry official, said all major Korean defense and shipbuilding companies have shown interest in India's defense acquisition program.He said that India has opened up the foreign direct investment in the defense sector up to 74% from earlier 49%. “I would invite the Korean defense industry to take advantage of these investor-friendly initiatives."The South Korean defense minister told Indian business leaders that the two countries have agreed to scale up cooperation in commerce as well as the defense sector. “The government and companies are proactively looking at defense cooperation.”The two countries have a logistics agreement helping the Indian navy while operating in the Indo-Pacific region.The South Korean minister ends his three-day visit on Saturday in the city of Agra to meet personnel of India’s 60 Para Field Hospital, which provided medical aid to United Nations and South Korean personnel during the Korean War.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-south-korea-discuss-maritime-cooperation-defense-issues-101616776431337.html
26-03-2021||India||Supreme Court reserves order on Gautam Navlakha’s bail plea||The Supreme Court on Friday reserved orders on a petition filed by civil rights activist Gautam Navlakha demanding bail on default after he pointed out that the National Investigation Agency (NIA) failed to file its charge sheet in the Bhima-Koregaon case within the stipulated period of 90 days.Navlakha is facing stringent charges under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act for his alleged links with banned organization – Communist Party of India (Maoist). Once charge sheet is not filed within the period of 90 days, an accused can seek default bail under Section 167(2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure.A bench of Justices UU Lalit and KM Joseph reserved its judgment after hearing senior advocate Kapil Sibal and advocate Nithya Ramakrishnan for Navlakha and Additional Solicitor General (ASG) SV Raju for NIA.Sibal argued that while calculating the period of arrest, the 34 days of his house arrest suffered by the petitioner between August 28, 2018 and October 1, 2018 should be counted. These 34 days were crucial towards calculating his period of custody as subsequently he was in 11-day police custody (April 14, 2020 to April 25, 2020) and 46 days of judicial custody (April 25, 2020 to June 10, 2020). This argument was rejected by the Bombay High Court on February 8 this year. The High Court had held, “It is not possible for us to fathom a situation where detention of the appellant (Navlakha) though held to be illegal and unlawful rendering the authorization by the Magistrate untenable should still be construed as an authorized detention for the purpose of Section 167(2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure.” Sibal argued in the top court that any kind of detention of an accused must be reckoned with the offence and here the offence for which the accused was in house arrest and later in judicial custody was the same. By change of nature of custody, there will be no effect on the period of detention undergone by the accused, he added.Contradicting him, ASG Raju argued that a detention can only be lawful if it was obtained under the orders passed by a Magistrate. In the case of house arrest, no order of Magistrate was obtained and hence it cannot be treated as legal custody. Navlakha was first arrested in connected with this case in August 2018 when the case was probed by the Maharashtra Police. After NIA took over the probe last year, Navlakha surrendered in April 2020. During the period of house arrest, Navlakha was not allowed to meet anybody and even the NIA did not have access to him. For this reason too, the HC supported the argument advanced by NIA to deny any relief to Navlakha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-reserves-order-on-gautam-navlakha-s-bail-plea-101616775750701.html
26-03-2021||India||Daily Covid-19 cases shoot up nearly 4 times in poll-bound Bengal in 40 days||The daily count of Covid-19 cases has shot up nearly four times in the past 40 days in West Bengal even as the crucial assembly polls are scheduled to take off in the eastern state from Saturday. The Indian Meteorological department has also warned of a possible heat wave in some districts of south Bengal and has advised people to stay indoors between 12 noon and 4 pm. Even though the entire country is witnessing a second wave with Covid-19 cases rising at an alarming rate, experts say that the mass gatherings during election campaign and people putting down their guard against the virus could be the possible reasons behind the rise in West Bengal. While the everyday Covid-19 cases had shot up to more than 4000 in late-October 2020 during the festive season, it had dropped to 133 on February 15 this year. On March 26, however, the state registered 646 new cases, a rise of around 4.8 times during the last 40 days. “If you see the rallies and road shows of political leaders in any district, you will hardly see anyone wearing a mask. Forget social distancing. These are ideal conditions that favour the spread of Covd-19,” said a senior official of the state health department. The eight-phase assembly elections will begin from March 27 with 30 assembly constituencies in five districts going to polls in the first phase on the first day itself. Polling is scheduled between 7 am and 6:30 pm. Top leaders of both the BJP and the TMC, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah and chief minister Mamata Banerjee among others have held rallies in these districts in the past few day and every time the political parties boast of people gathering in lakhs. “Any kind of festival, be it social, cultural or religious is bound to trigger a spike in Covid-19 cases as there would be a gathering and people tend to lower their guard. Political rallies and elections are no exception. The more restraint we show during such festivals the less would be the spike as we had seen during Durga Puja and other festivals last year. But the moment we lower our guards, cases will shoot up proportionately,” said Asis Manna, vice principal of the state-run Infectious Diseases Hospital in Kolkata. But hardly anyone in public rallies, political meetings and road shows could be seen wearing masks or maintaining social distance. Even political leaders and star campaigners, some of whom are senior citizens could also be spotted without masks. Last year when Covd-19 cases were raging in the state, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee had blamed political rallies and protests for rising Covid-19 cases among the police force, as police need to tackle the workers and political supporters during such events to maintain law and order. Data shared by the state government shows that even though Kolkata and North 24 Parganas, the two most densely populated districts, have the highest number of cases, some of the districts which are going to polls have also seen a rise in the past few days. While in Purulia cases have shot up three times from 4 to 12, in Paschim Midnapore cases have jumped from 1 to 12 between February 15 and March 25. On Friday, the maximum temperature in Kolkata touched 37 degrees Celsius, which was two degrees above normal. Some areas, such as Uluberia in Howrah, registered heat-waves, with the temperature soaring to 39.6 degrees Celsius, which was more than six degrees above normal. “Day temperature is likely to continue above normal by 2 degrees – 4 degrees over the districts of Gangetic West Bengal and heat wave condition is likely to prevail over the districts of East Midnapore, North and South 24 Parganas district during the next 2 – 3 days,” said a statement released by the IMD on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/daily-covid-19-cases-shoot-up-nearly-4-times-in-poll-bound-bengal-in-40-days-101616775089954.html
26-03-2021||India||Supreme Court reserves verdict in Maratha reservation case||The Supreme Court Friday reserved judgement on a batch of petitions challenging the Bombay High Court verdict which had upheld the grant of reservation to Marathas in admissions and government jobs in the state.A five-judge Constitution bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan concluded the hearing of arguments in the matter in which submissions were also advanced on whether the landmark 1992 Indra Sawhney verdict (called the Mandal judgement), which put a cap of 50 per cent on reservations, requires reconsideration by a larger bench.“KK Venugopal, Attorney General has addressed his arguments in reply to the submissions made in the writ petition... Tushar Mehta, Solicitor General appearing for the UOI (Union of India) and the state of Gujarat adopts the submission of the Attorney General. Hearing completed. Judgment reserved,” said the bench, which also comprised justices, L Nageswara Rao, S Abdul Nazeer, Hemant Gupta and S Ravindra Bhat.The bench had commenced hearing arguments in the matter on March 15.On March 8, the top court had said that it proposes to consider issues, including whether the judgement in the Indra Sawhney case needs to be referred to or requires re-look by a larger bench “in the light of subsequent constitutional amendments, judgments and changed social dynamics of the society”.The high court, while upholding the law in June 2019, had held that 16 per cent reservation was not justifiable and the quota should not exceed 12 per cent in employment and 13 per cent in admissions.The Centre had argued in the top court that Maharashtra has the legislative competence for granting reservation to Marathas and its decision is Constitutional as the 102nd amendment does not denude a state of the power to declare its list of Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC).The 102nd Constitution Amendment Act of 2018 inserted Articles 338B, which deals with the structure, duties and powers of the National Commission for Backward Class (NCBC), and 342A dealing with the power of the President to notify a particular caste as SEBC as also of Parliament to change the list.Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, had said that in its view, the SEBC Act 2018 of Maharashtra granting reservation to people of the Maratha community in the state in jobs and admissions is Constitutional.“The Centre is of the view that the Maharashtra SEBC Act is constitutional. We construe Article 342A gives enabling role to Central government to determine the SEBC,” Mehta had said, adding that the Centre adopts the submissions of the Attorney General and it should be considered as the view of the Union government.On March 18, the Attorney General had told the top court that the 102nd amendment to the Constitution does not deprive state legislatures to enact law determining the SEBC and conferring benefits on them.The apex court had on September 9 last year stayed the implementation of legislation and referred to a larger bench the batch of pleas challenging the validity of the law, but made it clear that the status of those who have availed of the benefits would not be disturbed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-reserves-verdict-in-maratha-reservation-case-101616774602426.html
26-03-2021||India||Punjab reports highest-ever single-day spike of over 3,000 new Covid-19 cases||Punjab recorded 3,176 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the highest-ever daily rise and 59 related deaths in the past 24 hours, according to the health bulletin released by the state government on Friday. The number of active cases in the state has risen to 22,652, which was around 19,000 during the start of the week, the bulletin also showed.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19Punjab on Thursday had breached this year’s record as the state reported 2,700 fresh Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours. The northern state has the major share in the active caseload of the country, which surpassed the 400,000-mark on Friday when it reported merely 60,000 fresh cases in the past 24 hours.The new cases have taken the coronavirus disease tally of the state to more than 226,000, with 1,816 patients discharged taking the recoveries to over 196,000 and the death toll of the state stands at 6,576.Punjab also has five districts among the 15 in the country with the highest number of Covid-19 cases. SAS Nagar, Jalandhar, Ludhiana, Patiala and Amritsar are coronavirus hotspots of the state and the country. Jalandhar reported the maximum number of new cases in the last 24 hours-494, closely followed by 409 cases in SAS Nagar and 395 new cases in Ludhiana.The number of containment zones in the state has increased from six to eight in a single day while the number of micro containment zones has decreased from 73 on Thursday to 71 on Friday, as per the health bulletin. Over 39,000 tests to detect the disease were conducted in the state on Friday, which is lesser than those done a day before. According to the bulletin, seven new patients were admitted to the intensive care units (ICU) of various hospitals and four new patients were put on ventilator support on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-reports-highest-ever-single-day-spike-of-over-3-000-new-covid-19-cases-101616765577167.html
26-03-2021||India||Maharashtra reports 36,902 new Covid-19 cases in another daily spike||Maharashtra recorded 36,902 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, the highest one-day rise since the pandemic began last year, the state’s health department said on Friday even as chief minister Uddhav Thackeray instructed officials to impose a night curfew from Sunday, March 28, to curb rising infections. With the new Covid-19 cases, the state’s tally stands at 26,37,735 and 112 fatalities in a single day have taken its death toll to 53,907, according to the bulletin. As many as 17,019 people were discharged in the last 24 hours and now there are 23,00,056 recoveries in the state. Maharashtra’s active cases of the coronavirus disease are 282,451, the bulletin also showed.The capital city of Mumbai reported 5513 new Covid-19 cases and 10 fatalities, taking its tally to 385,661 and death toll to 11,633, according to the bulletin. The state, which is worst-affected by the viral disease in the country, recorded 35,952 coronavirus infections on Thursday.Also read | Sharp rise in Maharashtra, Punjab, Karnataka, Chhattisgarh, GujaratThackeray, according to news agency PTI, warned of stricter restrictions if the people did not observe Covid-19 safety protocol. "I do not wish to impose lockdown. But there seems a possibility of healthcare facilities falling short given the rise in the number of coronavirus patients," Thackeray said in an official statement, PTI reported.Also read | Maharashtra Dy CM Ajit Pawar warns of stringent measures in PuneThe state government also issued guidelines for Holi, Good Friday and Easter, saying people should celebrate Holi in a simple manner and avoid crowding considering the rise in Covid-19 cases. "The festival should be celebrated in a simple manner, observing social distancing norms and without coming together in any way given the increasing spread of Covid-19. Rang Panchami too should be celebrated in a simple manner," the government said in a statement.Also read | Centre asks states, UTs to take measures against Covid-19 during festivalsIt also urged the Christian community to observe Good Friday on April 2 and Easter Sunday on April 4 in a simple manner. The government said, if a church is spacious, a maximum of 50 people should attend the prayer meet there during the holy week from March 28 to April 4. If the church is smaller in size, then a special prayer meet should be held in the presence of 10-25 people, and four to five special masses may be organised depending on the need, it said.It said adherence to Covid-19 protocols, including wearing masks, using hand sanitisers etc, must be ensured, adding that efforts must also be made to broadcast prayer meets online. “No religious programme that can attract a crowd in any way should be organised," the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-reports-36-902-new-covid-19-cases-in-another-daily-spike-101616772088568.html
26-03-2021||India||News updates from HT: Govt tells states, UTs to regulate crowds during festivals and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Centre asks states, UTs to take measures against Covid-19 during festivalsUnion home secretary Ajay Bhalla on Friday wrote to all states and Union territories to take necessary measures in view of upcoming festivals of Holi, Shab-e-Barat, Easter and Eid-ul-Fitr as cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) are on the rise across the country. Read moreNagpur sees highest-ever daily spike in Covid-19 cases since 2020 at 4,095Nagpur registered 4,095 fresh cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the highest since the beginning of the pandemic last year, 35 related deaths and 1,943 recoveries, taking the district’s caseload to 211,162, an official told news agency PTI on Friday. Read more'During our good times and bad...': Bangladesh PM expresses gratitude to IndiaBangladesh’s Sheikh Hasina on Friday expressed her gratitude to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who is on a two-day visit, and the people of India for supporting her country during its liberation war of 1971 and during ongoing the coronavirus pandemic. Read moreSuez blockage sets shipping rates racing, oil and gas tankers diverted awayReeling from the blockage in the Suez Canal, shipping rates for oil product tankers have nearly doubled this week, and several vessels were diverted away from the vital waterway as a giant container ship remained wedged between both banks. Read moreVaccine row escalates as France accuses UK of 'blackmail'A row over Covid-19 vaccine access escalated Friday, with France accusing Britain of "blackmail" in its dealings with the EU, and Russia and China of misusing vaccines to boost their foreign policy clout. Read more'Only a few players can do what he is doing across formats': Ian Bell lauds 'phenomenal' Rishabh PantIndia wicketkeeper-batsman Rishabh Pant showcased his talent with the bat once again on Friday as he smashed seven sixes and three fours to hammer 77 runs in 40 balls in the 2nd ODI against England in Pune. Pant came into the middle after India had lost captain Virat Kohli for 66, and needed someone to push on the accelerator. Read moreSaina movie review: Parineeti Chopra puts up a smashing show in over-simplistic biopic of a sports starThey say don't judge a book by its cover, and that's perfectly valid advice when you're watching Saina, the biopic of badminton player Saina Nehwal, starring Parineeti Chopra in the lead role. Read moreKriti Sanon asks 'Salsa anyone?' as she raises the temperature in ₹13k dressKriti Sanon's latest social media posts can easily be blamed for the sweltering heat and rising temperature, because they are indeed flaming hot! Taking to her Instagram profile, the Barielly ki Barfi actor asked her fans, "Salsa anyone?", as she posed sexily in a multi coloured wrap dress. Read moreFacebook launches Holi-themed avatars, here's how you can get themIn celebration of Holi that’s taking place on March 29, Facebook has launched Holi-themed avatars. Facebook said there have been more than four million people in India who made over 6.6 million posts and comments about Holi in the past two weeks. Read moreNCT Bill row: Does it curtail elected Delhi govt's power. And what next?The Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Bill, 2021bill was passed in the Rajya Sabha. The bill gives primacy to the Lieutenant Governor over the elected government in the capital. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-govt-tells-states-uts-to-regulate-crowds-during-festivals-101616770565465.html
26-03-2021||India||Fresh restrictions imposed in Maharashtra's Palghar amid rise in Covid cases||Considering the rise in Covid-19 cases, the administration in Maharashtra's Palghar district on Friday ordered the shutting of wedding venues, lawns and ceremonial halls from April 15.The district disaster management cell met during the day and decided to take some stringent measures in light of the spike in infections.As per the order, all wedding venues, lawns and other ceremonial halls will remain shut from April 15 onwards, the order stated.For weddings that will take place before April 15, organisers and management should follow the Covid-19 norms, it was stated.The order also regulated the timings of shops, markets, theatres, malls, places of worship and educational institutions in the district.The Covid-19 case count has gone up to 48,292 in Palghar district, while the toll stands at 1,215.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fresh-restrictions-imposed-in-maharashtra-s-palghar-amid-rise-in-covid-cases-101616769856860.html
26-03-2021||India||‘Bangladesh scripted a whole new history’: Sonia's video message to Hasina||Wishing Sheikh Hasina, the Bangladeshi premier and the people of India’s closest neighbour on their Golden Jubilee celebrations of independence and the birth centenary of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, Congress president Sonia Gandhi in a video message said, “Fifty years ago, the courageous people of Bangladesh scripted a whole new destiny for themselves and transformed both history and geography of the sub-continent”.Gandhi was invited to join the celebrations in Dhaka by Hasina but couldn’t travel due to Covid-19 related restrictions.In a video message, Gandhi lauded Bangladesh’s effort on various fronts and said, “Over the past five decades, Bangladesh’s remarkable achievements in social development, community participation, eco growth and other areas has been very impressive and has received global recognition.”Reminiscing about the friendship between former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi and Bangladesh’s founding father Sheikh Mujibar Rehman, Gandhi said, “We in India have always had a special relationship with the people of Bangladesh. This has been in very large measure because of the role Indira Gandhi played in historic events of 1971,” referring to India’s support for Bangladesh’s liberation war (Mukti-Jhuddo). She added that the two leaders had established “bonds of mutual respect, admiration and deep friendship”.Drawing a parallel between the developments in India and Bangladesh in 1971, Gandhi maintained that it was “as much a transformative year for India as it was for Bangladesh”, referring to the rise of India Gandhi as a political leader as well as a statesman.Looking back at the joyous occasion of the birth of Bangladesh, the Congress president also mentioned how both countries continue to face similar challenges.“Both our countries face many challenges-- economic, political and environmental. Most of all, both Bangladesh and India, which have been beacons for the celebrations of their diversity and are being called upon to protect and strengthen their composite heritage and their traditions of liberal pluralism,” Gandhi said.The Congress president, who was present in Delhi during the period of war, recalled how she and her late husband Rajiv Gandhi lived through that period.“On this joyous occasion, and as someone who lived through the transformative hours, days, weeks and months of 1971 by Indira Gandhi’s side along with my husband Rajiv ji, I am personally delighted to share the pride of Sheikh Hasina and millions of her countrymen and women,” Gandhi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1971-a-transformative-year-for-india-as-well-sonia-gandhi-s-message-to-sheikh-hasina-101616768609441.html
26-03-2021||India||Passing driving license test likely to get difficult. Here's why||Passing a driving license test in India is likely to get difficult as people will be required to pass a stringent skill test, including reversing vehicles with accuracy for qualification. The Union minister for road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari on Thursday told the Lok Sabha in a written reply about the new rules and passing percentage.Here’s all you need to know:The minister told Parliament that the passing percentage for the eligibility of a driving license in all Regional Transport Offices (RTO) has been fixed at 69 per cent.The candidates will be required to reverse the vehicle into a limited opening either to the right or left under control and reasonable accuracy to qualify the test. “In the case of a vehicle having a reverse gear, driving the vehicle backwards, reverse it into a limited opening either to the right or left under control and with reasonable accuracy is one of the parameters of qualifying in the driving skill test,” news agency PTI quoted Gadkari as saying.These measures are as per the provision of the Central Motor Vehicle Rules, 1989, to produce qualified drivers, he said.The applicants will be provided with a video link for the driving test demo at the time of booking an appointment for the test.Also Read | No more lockdowns in Telangana, says KCR amid Covid-19 surgePhysical or live demonstrations at the driving test track as well as on the LED screen in all Automated Driving Test Tracks (ADTTs) will be shown before the beginning of the actual skill test.Applicants can avail themselves hassle-free services to get a driving license as certain services linked to licenses and certificate registrations have been made completely online through Aadhaar authentication on a voluntary basis, the minister informed in another written reply. This has been done to reduce the footfall of applicants in the RTO offices in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic.In an advisory issued by the ministry of road transport and highways on Friday, the government has extended the validity of vehicle documents like driving licence (DL), registration certificate (RC) and permits till June 30 amid the surge in the Covid-19 cases.Gadkari said a day before that the license can be renewed anytime between one year before its expiry till one year after its expiry for the benefit of the citizens away from their hometowns, visiting abroad etc.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/passing-driving-license-test-likely-to-get-difficult-here-s-why-101616765723330.html
26-03-2021||India||Recent surge in Covid-19 cases being closely monitored: Harsh Vardhan||The recent surge in coronavirus cases in the country is being closely monitored and measures, including strict enforcement of Covid protocols and creating micro-containment zones, will be taken to keep a check the contagion, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said on Friday.Vaccination drive is going on and its pace is increasing with each passing day. Priority groups have been identified on the basis of recommendations of the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC), he said."The focus is protecting those at highest risk of mortality and those involved in pandemic response. As of Friday, 5.31 crore doses have been administered. In January, 2.4 lakh doses were being administered daily, whereas in the last week of March it was 20 lakh. Now, the government has expanded the coverage to citizens above 45 years."The pace of vaccination is going to increase. As for imposing restrictions, Covid-19 situation continues to evolve and change each day. The silver lining here is that we are better prepared now to tackle any challenges that the pandemic throws our way," he said.Steps, including include strict enforcement of Covid-19 protocols as well as creating micro-containment zones wherever needed will be used to keep a check on the rise in cases, he said at the 'India Economic Conclave' organised by Times Now.Commenting on the Covid-19 trajectory in India and the recent surge in cases, Vardhan said concerted efforts of the Centre and the states and the country's investment in the 'test, track and treat' strategy have resulted in India recording one of the lowest cases and deaths per million population."We have amply demonstrated that our policy of test, track and treat effectively contains the transmission of the virus."The health minister said a graded opening up of the economy and beginning commercial activities followed a sustained decline in Covid-19 epi-curve in the country."This was essential to negate the economic impact that Covid-19 has had globally, including India. Historically, the pandemics of the past have come in waves and Covid is no exception. This was amply witnessed when the second wave hit Europe and the Americas. It still eludes the scientific community why pandemics behave in this way," he said.Vardhan said physical distancing is an established non-pharmaceutical intervention to suppress and contain the transmission of Covid-19."The modality for ensuring physical distancing measures has to be evidence-based. In this context, partial lockdowns, such as night curfews or weekend lockdowns, would not have much impact on the transmission cycle.""As for the vaccine, there are still many critical unknowns, especially with regards to the impact on transmission and duration of protection these vaccines offer. Further, what is clear is it reduces the severity of the disease and hence impacts mortality."The health minister said the vaccination drive is being conducted in accordance with emerging science-based data analysed through algorithms which suggest that if a majority of the population are immunised then it is possible to get control over the disease."This is like achieving herd immunity through vaccination," he said.Six vaccines are at different stages of trial and will be granted permission as and when they complete all statutory requirements. The Drugs Controller General of India is looking on this matter, Vardhan added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/recent-surge-in-covid-19-cases-being-closely-monitored-harsh-vardhan-101616766647832.html
26-03-2021||India||ISRO revises launch schedule of GISAT-1 after "minor issue" with satellite||The Indian Space Research Organisation has revised the launch schedule of geo imaging satellite GISAT-1 on board GSLV-F10 rocket following a "minor issue" with the spacecraft. The Bengaluru-headquartered space agency was earlier looking to launch the satellite on March 28, subject to weather conditions. "There is a minor issue with the satellite", ISRO sources told PTI. "As of now, we are planning to launch it on April 18". GISAT-1 was originally planned to be launched from Sriharikota spaceport, about 100 kms north of Chennai, on March five last year but was postponed a day before the blast-off due to technical reasons. ISRO sources had earlier said the delay in the launch was due to Covid-19-induced lockdown which affected normal work. According to ISRO, GISAT-1 will facilitate near real-time observation of the Indian sub-continent, under cloud-free condition, at frequent intervals. Weighing about 2,268kg, GISAT-1 is the firststate-of- the-art agile earth observation satellite which will be placed in a Geosynchronous Transfer Orbit by GSLV-F10. "Subsequently, the satellite will reach the final geostationary orbit using its on board propulsion system", ISRO had said a few days before the planned launch in March last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/isro-revises-launch-schedule-of-gisat-1-after-minor-issue-with-satellite-101616766210941.html
26-03-2021||India||Centre asks states, UTs to take measures against Covid-19 during festivals||Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla on Friday wrote to all states and Union territories to take necessary measures in view of upcoming festivals of Holi, Shab-e-Barat, Easter and Eid-ul-Fitr as cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) are on the rise across the country. Bhalla asked them to take necessary measures to regulate crowds by ensuring strict observance of Covid-19 appropriate behaviour during upcoming festivals."In view of the upcoming festivals such as Holi, Shab e Barat, harvesting festivals, Easter, Eid-ul-Fitr etc, state governments, UT administrations should take necessary measures to regulate crowds during these festivals by ensuring strict observance of Covid appropriate behaviour such as wearing of mask and maintaining social distancing, as mandated in aforesaid guidelines and in the National Directives for Covid-19 management," Bhalla said in his letter.Bhalla said that he would urge the states and Union Territories to issue necessary instructions to the district administrations and police authorities to "scrupulously enforce Covid appropriate behaviour and SOPs in all public gatherings during the upcoming festivals." He further wrote that strict adherence to Covid appropriate behaviour in public places and gatherings will help in breaking the chain of transmission and reduce the incidences of Covid-19 cases in the country.Bhalla wrote to all states and Union territories on February 27, saying there is a need for maintaining caution and strict surveillance to fully overcome the Covid-19 pandemic. The government has urged states several times to ensure Covid protocols - like wearing masks and maintaining social distancing - are strictly followed.India saw a huge spike of 59,118 cases of the coronavirus disease in the last 24 hours, the Union ministry of health and family welfare’s data showed this morning, taking the country's tally to 11,846,652.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-asks-states-uts-to-take-measures-against-covid-19-during-festivals-101616763922736.html
26-03-2021||India||No more lockdowns in Telangana, says KCR amid Covid-19 surge||Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Friday announced that his government would not impose a fresh lockdown in the state in the wake of increasing number of Covid-19 infections.The state continued to witness a steady rise in the number of Covid-19 cases, with as many as 518 new infections being reported in a single day on Thursday, as per the official bulletin released on Friday morning. This is the highest number recorded in the state so far this year.The total number of positive cases in Telangana from the onset of the pandemic is 3,05,309, while the death toll has climbed to 1,683 with three more fatalities by Thursday night.Making a statement in the assembly on the last day of the budget session, the chief minister allayed the fears of the opposition over imposition of another round of lockdown in the state.“There will be no more lockdowns in Telangana. The government will not take any such hasty decisions,” KCR, as the chief minister is known, said. He, however, urged the people to strictly follow Covid-19 safety norms and avoid mass gatherings.“Self-discipline and self-control are the only solutions to contain the spread of the Coronavirus in the state. People should wear masks, sanitise their hands and maintain physical distance without fail,” he saidThe chief minister said the government was forced to close schools temporarily as a precautionary measure to safeguard children in the wake of increasing number of Covid-19 cases. “There are no immediate plans to impose any restrictions on any other field,” he said.He pointed out that the entire world was bearing the brunt of Covid-19 and Telangana was no exception. However, it was one of the best performing states in preventing the spread of the virus effectively.“So far, about 10.85 lakh people have been vaccinated as per guidelines issued by the Union government. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi and other officials from the Centre are in constant touch with the state government. The vaccines are being released equally between all the states and Telangana too is getting its quota of vaccines in a timely manner. We will vaccinate the entire population of the state as per the vaccines received,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-more-lockdowns-in-telangana-says-kcr-amid-covid-19-surge-101616764535973.html
26-03-2021||India||JICA to fund second phase of Bengaluru Metro, signs deal for loan of over ₹3717 crore||The Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) on Friday signed a loan agreement with the Indian government to extend financial support of approximately ₹3717 crore (JPY 52036 million) to help with the second phase of construction of the Bengaluru Metro.JICA has supported several metro projects in major cities of India like Delhi, Bengaluru, Chennai, Kolkata, Mumbai and Ahmedabad with loans of around ₹87,000 crore (JPY 1.3 trillion), according to a statement by the company.The latest loan will help with the on-going construction of Phase-II of the Bengaluru Metro which is under various stages of construction.“JICA has been promoting the development of quality infrastructure in Bengaluru, which facilitates sustained growth, and has been working for India and Japan’s robust bond. Bengaluru stood second in CO2 emissions followed by Delhi in 2015 and the project is expected to contribute to an estimated annual reduction of 89,952 tons of CO2 Greenhouse Gas emissions approximately by year 2031,” Matsumoto Katuso, chief representative of JICA in India said in a statement on Friday.The investment agency has so far funded several of the Bengaluru Metro stretches since March 2006.The latest funding will go towards the construction of around 80 km of metro rail network that covers line R6 (Nagawara to Gottigere, a distance of around 22.0 km), Phase 2A (Silk Board to KR Puram, around 20.0 km) and Phase 2B ( KR Puram to Kempegowda International Airport Terminal, around 38.0 km).Phases 2A and 2B of the Bengaluru Metro are scheduled to be completed by 2025.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jica-to-fund-second-phase-of-bengaluru-metro-signs-deal-for-loan-of-over-rs-3717-crore-101616762249256.html
26-03-2021||India||Covid cases: Sharp rise in Maharashtra, Punjab, Karnataka, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat||Five states -- Maharashtra, Punjab, Karnataka, Chhattisgarh and Gujarat -- have registered a sharp rise in daily COVID-19 cases, the Union Health Ministry said on Friday as India recorded 59,118 new infections, the highest single-day rise so far this year.After touching its lowest mark in mid-February, India's active COVID-19 caseload is on a steady rise and has breached the 4-lakh mark again after around three-and-half months.As of date, there are 4.21 lakh active cases in the country, a net rise of 25,874 infections in a day."Three states -- Maharashtra, Kerala and Punjab -- together account for 73.64 per cent of the total active cases in the country," the health ministry said.As for daily COVID-19 cases, Maharashtra reported the highest 35,952 infections in a day, followed by 2,661 in Punjab and 2,523 in Karnataka. According to the ministry, Maharashtra, Punjab, Karnataka, Chhattisgarh, Kerala and Gujarat collectively account for 80 per cent of the new COVID-19 cases. Ten states -- Maharashtra, Gujarat, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Delhi Tamil Nadu, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Haryana and Rajasthan -- are displaying an upward trajectory in daily new cases, it highlighted India's cumulative recoveries stand at 1,12,64,637 with 32,987 people recuperating in a day. Besides, 257 deaths were reported in a day.Six states account for 78.6 per cent of the new deaths with Maharashtra reporting 111 fatalities and Punjab 43, the health ministry said.Fourteen states and Union Territories have not reported any COVID-19 deaths in a day. These are Rajasthan, Jammu and Kashmir, Jharkhand, Odisha, Puducherry, Lakshadweep, Sikkim, Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu, Ladakh, Manipur, Tripura, Mizoram, the Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Arunachal Pradesh.Meanwhile, over 5.5 crore vaccine doses have been administered through 9,01,887 sessions throughout the country according to a provisional report till 7 am on Friday.These include 80,34,547 healthcare and 85,99,981 frontline workers who have received the first dose, 51,04,398 healthcare and 33,98,570 frontline workers who have been administered the second dose.Also, 55,99,772 beneficiaries aged more than 45 years with specific comorbidities and 2,47,67,172 senior citizens have been given the first dose of vaccine.On March 25, day 69 of the vaccination drive, more than 23 lakh vaccine doses were given, of which 21,54,934 beneficiaries were vaccinated across 40,595 sessions for 1st dose and 2,03,797 healthcare and frontline workers received the second dose of vaccine.Ten states -- Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka, West Bengal, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Maharashtra -- account for nearly 70 per cent of the vaccine doses given in a day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-cases-sharp-rise-in-maharashtra-punjab-karnataka-chhattisgarh-gujarat-101616760357201.html
26-03-2021||India||Amaravati land scam: SC defers judgment on plea by ex-Andhra HC judge||The Supreme Court on Friday delayed its judgment on a petition by former Andhra Pradesh high court judge V Eswaraiah against an investigation into an alleged phone conversation between him and a suspended judicial officer. The two are accused of plotting against judges of the constitutional courts during the conversation.The deferment order was passed after the court was informed that the phone of the former judicial officer, Ramakrishna, had “mysteriously” gone missing after he was arrested in an unconnected case.Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, who appeared for one of the petitioners before the Andhra Pradesh high court, alleged the loss of the phone is deliberate to subvert the inquiry into the conversation.Also Read | Supreme Court refuses to stop sale of electoral bonds ahead of assembly pollsTaking on record this development, a bench, headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan, deferred the pronouncement of the order and fixed April 5 as the next date for hearing.Earlier, the retired judge filed an affidavit in the Supreme Court admitting he was “trying to collect more evidence” on the alleged involvement of the daughters of a sitting top court judge in a land scam in Andhra Pradesh’s Amaravati. The sitting judge, the leaked conversation and a First Information Report registered in connection with the Amaravati land cases make it clear, is Justice NV Ramana.The high court cited a “serious conspiracy” to destabilise the judiciary and ordered the investigation into the conversation. In August, it named retired Supreme Court judge RV Raveendran to look into the genuineness of the alleged conversation, the persons involved, and undisclosed interests of a third party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amaravati-land-scam-sc-defers-judgment-on-plea-by-ex-andhra-hc-judge-101616760449716.html
26-03-2021||India||New Covid-19 SOPs in Goa by March 27, says CM Pramod Sawant||Goa will draft new standard operating procedures (SOPs) by Saturday to tackle the Covid-19 situation in the state, Chief Minister Pramod Sawant said in the Assembly on Friday.He was responding to a calling attention motion by Independent MLA Rohan Khaunte on the rise in number of cases over the past few days.Khaunte said 32 staff of an offshore casino had been detected with the infection, and while they were shifted to a building, the casino was allowed to continue operations.Health minister Vishwajit Rane said the staff would be moved out of the building and it will be denotified as a micro containment zone, while periodic testing of staff at the casino will be made mandatory.The minister also ruled out making Covid-19 negative certificates mandatory for those flying into the state from Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala etc as "there is no guarantee that the certificate which they bring along is genuine".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-covid-19-sops-in-goa-by-march-27-says-cm-pramod-sawant-101616759070890.html
26-03-2021||India||Centre deploys teams to Chhattisgarh, Chandigarh to assess Covid-19 situation amid surge||The Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) has rushed two high-level multidisciplinary teams to Chhattisgarh and Chandigarh on Friday in view of the surge in the number of Covid-19 cases being reported in the state and the Union territory (UT).The ministry on Friday said the teams will assess the Covid-19 situation, ascertain the reason for the surge, assist in undertaking gap analysis and recommend required control and containment measures.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19Chhattisgarh is among the five states, which have reported the highest surge in the number of daily coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases as India registered nearly 60,000 infections on Friday. Chhattisgarh contributed 2,419 infections to the 59,118 cases reported across the country in the last 24 hours, the health ministry data showed.The team to Chhattisgarh is headed by Dr SK Singh, director of the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), and also has experts from All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Raipur, and All India Institute of Hygiene and Public Health. A team lead by Vijoy Kumar Singh, an additional secretary and financial advisor with the ministry of textiles, with experts from RML Hospital and Safdarjung Hospital in New Delhi has gone to Chandigarh.The deployed teams will visit the most affected districts or hotspots in the state and the UT to assess the on-ground implementation of public health services and will share their key findings as well as mitigation measures with the chief secretary or chief administrator.“The deployed teams shall visit the most affected districts/hotspots in the State/UT to take stock of the on-ground implementation of public health interventions. They will share the key findings, recommendations and remedial measures to be taken up with the Chief Secretary/Chief Administrator,” the ministry said.The latest deployment of the teams comes after the recent rise in the number of Covid-19 cases as well as deaths in the state and the UT. Chandigarh reported its highest deaths from Covid-19 this year on Thursday as it logged three deaths.The central government has been deputing teams to visit states and UTs from time to time under the ‘Whole of government’ approach to strengthen the efforts of governments of various states and UTs for Covid management. The teams interact with the authorities to get a first-hand understanding of the challenges and issues faced by them so as to enhance their ongoing management. The reports of the teams are shared with the states for further follow-up and compliance which is monitored by the health ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-deploys-teams-to-chhattisgarh-chandigarh-to-assess-covid-19-situation-amid-surge-101616758025057.html
26-03-2021||India||News updates from HT: Polls in Bengal's Jangal Mahal driven by deprivation and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.In Bengal’s Jangal Mahal, a political battle driven by deprivation and identityThe thick forest of Sal that separates Nilmani Murmu’s hut from the former Maoist stronghold of Lalgarh also sustains her livelihood. Read MoreNikita Tomar murder case convicts sentenced to life imprisonmentNikita Tomar murder case convicts Touseef and Rehaan and were sentenced to life imprisonment by a Faridabad court on Friday. Read MoreIn Kerala and Tamil Nadu, Congress’ new booth management planOn Wednesday morning, a Congress candidate in poll-bound Kerala’s Kochi got an email from the party headquarters in Delhi asking him to check three booths in his constituency for alleged bogus voters of the ruling Left Democratic Front (LDF). Read More'Rishabh Pant sitting on bench must be weighing on India team management': Sanjay Manjrekar on India XI in 2nd ODIIndia batsman Rishabh Pant missed out on the playing XI in the first ODI against England in Pune earlier this week. Read MoreMonkey escapes tiger attack by tricking the big cat. Watch incredible clipThe Internet is filled with videos which showcase interactions between animals of different species. Read MoreSapphire ring to golden hair: Kristen Stewart embodies Princess Diana in new picPrincess Diana was the ultimate global fashion icon. Read More‘China won’t be wealthiest, most powerful country on my watch’: Joe BidenUS President Joe Biden lashed out at China and said that it will not become the wealthiest or the most powerful country in the world on his watch. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-polls-in-bengal-s-jangal-mahal-driven-by-deprivation-and-all-the-latest-news-101616756989710.html
26-03-2021||India||PM Modi meets 'Muktijoddhas' of 1971 Bangladesh Liberation War||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday met Bangladeshi political and community leaders in Dhaka, including representatives of minorities and 'Muktijoddhas', the fighters of the 1971 Bangladesh Liberation War.Prime Minister Narendra Modi met 'Muktijodhas', the liberation war fighters of Bangladesh, in Dhaka today pic.twitter.com/avBVi9oLhVThe Prime Minister is on a two-day visit to Dhaka, where he is slated to attend the celebrations of the golden jubilee of Bangladesh's independence, the birth centenary of ‘Bangabandhu’ Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, and hold talks with his counterpart Sheikh Hasina.The fact that Modi met the country's freedom fighters, so named after 'Muktijuddho' (literally, "the fight for freedom"), sends a strong message of India-Bangladesh solidarity, which has its roots in the subcontinent's history.On March 25, 50 years ago, the Pakistan army led a genocidal crackdown in Dhaka, which had changed the course of the history of the Indian subcontinent. It led to the Liberation War, the division of Pakistan, and the creation of Bangladesh.India, moved by the plight of millions of war-ravaged Bengali civilians, had initially been providing diplomatic, economic, and military support to Bangladeshi nationalists but later joined the war on December 3, 1971, following a series of preemptive airstrikes by Pakistan. The 'Mukti Bahini' ("liberation army"), the guerilla resistance movement, played a decisive factor in India’s quick victory and the liberation of Bangladesh: The Pakistan army surrendered on December 16, 1971, less than two weeks after the war broke out.Speaking at an event in Dhaka, Prime Minister remembered the bloodied history which led to India joining Bangladesh in its struggle for independence against Pakistan."The pictures of atrocities that the Pakistan Army inflicted on the people here used to distract us. For many days, those pictures didn't let us sleep," ANI quoted Modi as saying.He added, "I would like to remind brothers and sisters in Bangladesh with pride, being involved in the struggle for independence of Bangladesh was one of the first movements of my life. I must have been 20-22 years old when I and my colleagues did Satyagraha for Bangladesh's freedom."The pictures of atrocities that the Pakistan Army inflicted on the people here used to distract us. For many days those pictures didn't let us sleep: PM Narendra Modi in Dhaka, Bangladesh pic.twitter.com/AF5Jn5fdlbI would like to remind brothers & sisters in Bangladesh with pride, being involved in the struggle for independence of Bangladesh was one of first movements of my life. I must have been 20-22 years old when I&my colleagues did Satyagraha for Bangladesh's freedom: PM Modi in Dhaka pic.twitter.com/f6O68ldPfnAfter the 1971 war, Sheikh Mujib earned the title of 'Bangabandhu' ("friend of Bengal") and India secured a permanent place in the history of Bangladesh's freedom struggle.With Prime Minister Modi's two-day visit to remember Mujib, the "father of the nation" of Bangladesh, and celebrate the golden jubilee of the 1971 liberation war, the optics puts forth a new frontier for diplomatic ties between the two countries — that India’s relations with Bangladesh have gone way beyond symbolism. It is now part of an integrated vision of the Prime Minister for the development of eastern India, with the help and support of Bangladesh.Also Read: Delhi-Dhaka ties move beyond symbolism, seek to power growth and connectivityModi, who is visiting Bangladesh on his first trip to a foreign country since the outbreak of the coronavirus, was received by the country's Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina at Dhaka's Hazrat Shahjalal International Airport upon his arrival. A salute of 19 guns and a Guard of honour were accorded to Prime Minister Modi at the airport. In a statement, the Union Ministry of External Affairs MEA said that as part of his two-day visit to Bangladesh, Modi met the community leaders, including representatives of minorities in Bangladesh, the 'Mukhtijoddhas', friends of India and youth icons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-meets-muktijoddhas-of-1971-bangladesh-liberation-war-101616753496058.html
26-03-2021||India||Nikita Tomar murder case: Convicts sentenced to life imprisonment||A fast-track-court in Haryana’s Faridabad on Friday sentenced two men to life imprisonment for shooting a 21-year-old college student at point-blank range outside her college in Ballabhgarh in October last year. Touseef, the prime accused in the case, and his aide Rehaan were convicted on Wednesday by the fast-track court for conspiracy, kidnapping, and homicide. Mohammad Azruddin, the third accused in the case who allegedly supplied weapons to the other two, was acquitted by the court.“Nikita Tomar murder (26/10/2020, accused Touseef arrested the same evening, 27/10/2020 Rehaan arrested, 28/10/2020 Azruddin arrested, 6/11/2020 challan produced in court, 24/3/2021 verdict announced, 26/3/2021 sentence to be pronounced,” a tweet by the Faridabad police said.Also Read: Nikita Tomar murder: 2, including prime accused, found guilty by Haryana courtA CCTV footage of the crime showed the accused trying to force Tomar, a final-year student of commerce, into their vehicle on October 26, 2020, while she was on her way home after exiting her college. The murder led to a huge uproar.Meanwhile, the woman's family claimed that Touseef had been stalking her and pressuring her into marrying him and changing her religion. A special investigation team (SIT), which was formed on October 27, 2020, filed a 700-page charge sheet on November 6 that year, listing 60 witnesses in the murder case and as part of the investigation, fingerprints were matched from three samples — from the car, the pistol, and the woman’s arm. The team was led by Anil Kumar Yadav, assistant commissioner of police (crime).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nikita-tomar-murder-case-convicts-tausif-rehan-sentenced-to-life-imprisonment-101616755283069.html
26-03-2021||India||‘Modi took leadership, we joined in’: Bangladesh minister hails India’s Covid-19 efforts||Bangladesh foreign minister AK Abdul Momen on Friday praised Prime Narendra Modi’s leadership in India’s efforts to provide other nations with the vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), which has wreaked havoc across the globe infecting and killing millions.“I think India did a great job... As early as March 15, 2020, Indian PM called all SAARC leaders and came forward to help, to work together. Since Covid-19 is a global issue we have to work together in collaboration. The Indian PM took leadership, we joined in,” the Bangladesh minister was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.His remark comes on a day when PM Modi is in the neighbouring country for a two-day trip marking Bangladesh’s National Day. His visit was earlier scheduled in March last year but was postponed due to the coronavirus pandemic.Thanking India and Modi for the vaccine supply, Momen told ANI, “India provided 2 million vaccines as a gift and PM Modi, on the 50th anniversary of Bangladesh and 100th anniversary of the father of our nation, is giving another 1.2 million vaccines as a gift. They have assured that the contract will be met on time. We would like to buy more.” He added that Modi has assured his counterpart Sheikh Hasina that if India develops a vaccine, Bangladesh will get it at the same time. “He kept his word and with this, he has won the hearts and minds of people. We paid for it in advance,” the foreign minister said.At present, there are 584,395 confirmed cases in Bangladesh and 8,797 has died of the viral disease so far. Momen said he looked forward to a new Indian subcontinent with improved waterways connectivity. “We have developed strong connections with our neighbours, particularly India. We have developed very strong connectivity by road, railways, waterways as well as air routes. We have more to do in waterways because it is cost-effective,” he was quoted as saying by ANI.The foreign minister also called for other neighbouring countries like Nepal, Bhutan, and Myanmar to come together for better connectivity between South Asian countries. “I am looking for a day that we will not need any passport to travel within this region,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-took-leadership-we-joined-in-bangladesh-minister-hails-india-s-covid-19-efforts-101616753688727.html
26-03-2021||India||India can’t become capital of illegal migrants: Govt on Rohingyas’ deportation||India cannot become the “international capital of illegal migrants”, the Centre told the Supreme Court on Friday while opposing a plea seeking release and protection of over 150 Rohingyas sent to a holding centre in Jammu as part of a process to identify undocumented immigrants for deportation to Myanmar.In an affidavit, the Centre called Rohingyas “absolutely illegal migrants” who posed “serious threats to the national security” as a Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde-led bench reserved its order on the plea.The Jammu & Kashmir administration began the process of identifying undocumented immigrants on March 6. Over 150 of them were sent to the holding centre under the Foreigners Act. Officials insisted due process of law was followed and added the immigrants sent to the centre did not have valid travel documents.Also Read | Aid workers struggle to reunite Rohingya children separated by deadly fireHundreds of thousands of Muslim Rohingya have since 2017 fled Myanmar to escape persecution and many of them have been staying in India. The UN has called a Myanmar army’s campaign against the Rohingya “a textbook example of ethnic cleansing”.The government underlined “illegal migrants” cannot assert the right to settle in India under the Constitution’s Article 21 (the right to life and liberty).Solicitor general Tushar Mehta, who appeared for the Centre, submitted the Supreme Court dismissed a similar application to stop the deportation of Rohingyas in Assam in 2018. He added the fresh plea must meet the same fate.“The continuance of the illegal immigration of Rohingyas into India and their continued stay in India, apart from being absolutely illegal, is also found to be having serious national security ramifications and poses serious security threats,” Mehta told the bench, which also includes justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian.Mehta said the Centre has begun the process for deporting Rohingyas after receiving a confirmation from Myanmar regarding their nationality. He added the court should steer clear of the “diplomatic issue” since it falls within the exclusive domain of the executive.Senior advocate Harish Salve, who represented the Jammu & Kashmir administration, cautioned the bench against “starting a dangerous trend” by interfering with a subject that related to “illegal migrants” and diplomatic relations.Advocate Prashant Bhushan, who argued for the petitioner Salimullah, cited the International Court of Justice (ICJ)’s January 2020 judgment on the persecution of Rohingyas in Myanmar and how they were subjected to serious crimes in violation of international humanitarian laws. Bhushan said an urgent intervention of the Supreme Court was required since those held in Jammu could be deported to Myanmar from where they fled fearing prosecution.The bench told Bhushan: “You are saying that they might be massacred once sent back to Myanmar. What happens in a foreign country is beyond our control... We are certain that there should be no genocide on this earth. We are not supporting the genocide of any kind anywhere. But the question here is different. You did not tell us that a similar application by you had already been dismissed by this court.”Salve said ICJ’s judgment was in the realm of the public international law and could not override local laws of a country. He added India was not a party to the principle of non-refoulement as mentioned in the 1951 Refugee Convention.The principle under international human rights law guarantees people should not be returned to a country where they would face torture, cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment and other irreparable harm.Salve said India is not obliged to follow non-refoulment, which would restrain it from expelling a refugee fearing persecution.The affidavit, seen by HT, maintained India has to secure the interests of its own citizens before catering to the interests of illegal migrants “casting a burden on the already-depleting natural resources of the country”.“The Constitution makes it abundantly clear that India, as a sovereign nation, has the first and foremost Constitutional obligation and duty towards its citizens and to ensure that the demographic and social structure of the country is not changed to its detriment, the resulting socio-economic problems do not occur to the prejudice of the citizens and the resources of the nation are utilized to fulfil the fundamental rights of its own citizens and are not diverted to the detriment of the citizens, due to influx of illegal migrants into the territory of India,” the affidavit said.It cited a 1991 Supreme Court judgment that said although Constitution’s Article 21 (the right to life and liberty) extended to foreign nationals, the fundamental right to reside and settle in India under Article 19(1)(e) was applicable only to citizens.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-can-t-become-capital-of-illegal-migrants-govt-on-rohingyas-deportation-101616754569448.html
26-03-2021||India||Indore imposes restrictions on public gatherings amid surge in Covid cases||In the wake of an increasing number of Covid-19 cases in Madhya Pradesh, the Crisis Management Committee in Indore has curtailed the timing of markets ahead of Holi. All religious places will also be closed till further orders.The committee on Thursday decided that markets will be closed at 9 pm instead of 10 pm. All the religious places will be closed till further orders and their congregations will not be allowed. People will not be allowed to sit in restaurants while takeaways are permitted.50 people will be allowed in the marriage ceremony while at a funeral 20 people will be permitted.There will be a lockdown each Sunday. Apart from this, restrictions will also be imposed and Monday on the occasion of the Holi festival.However, the violation of the rules will be leading to strict action.Yesterday, Cabinet Minister Tulsi Silawat considered imposing a two-day lockdown in the city.In the meeting with officials, it was discussed that besides Sunday, a lockdown of two days would be observed on Holi"This matter will also be discussed with the people and the proposal will be sent to the government after which a decision will be taken. Chief Minister Shivraj Singh has already said that in Indore festivals of all religions should be celebrated at home," Silawat told reporters after the meeting.Meanwhile, Indore has reported 612 fresh cases of Covid-19 in the last 24 hours yesterday.Madhya Pradesh, which is among the ten states displaying an upward trajectory in daily new cases, as per the Union Health Ministry yesterday reported 1,712 fresh Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indore-imposes-restrictions-on-public-gatherings-amid-surge-in-covid-cases-101616753209952.html
26-03-2021||India||Govt extends validity of driving licence, vehicle documents till June||The government on Friday extended the validity of motor vehicle documents like driving licence (DL), registration certificate (RC) and permits till June 30, 2021, in view of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic.In an advisory to states, the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways (MoRTH) said it is extending the validity of fitness, permit, driving licence, registration and other documents whose extension of validity could not be granted due to lockdown and which had expired since February 1, 2020, or would expire by March 31, 2021.It had earlier issued advisories dated March 30, 2020, June 9, 2020, August 24, 2020, and December 27, 2020, in connection with extension of validity of documents related to the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988, and Central Motor Vehicle Rules, 1989.It is advised that the validity of the documents that have expired since February 1,, the same may be treated to be valid till June 30, 2021, the ministry said in an advisory to states.Enforcement authorities are advised to treat such documents valid till June 30, 2021, the MoRTH said adding that "this will help out citizens in availing transport-related services".Stating that this may be last advisory in this regard, the ministry has asked the states to implement this advisory in letter and spirit, so that citizens are not harassed or face difficulties.Earlier through various notifications, it was advised that the validity of fitness, permit (all types), licence, registration or any other concerned documents may be treated to be valid till March 31, 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-extends-validity-of-driving-licence-vehicle-documents-till-jun-101616753993901.html
26-03-2021||India||FCI turns to tech to shield its procurement system from fraudsters||During the 2020 kharif, or summer-sown season, food bowl Punjab’s paddy output stood at nearly 18.1 million tonnes. The Food Corporation of India (FCI), the state-run food-stocking agency responsible for procuring grains from farmers at support prices, ended up buying 20.3 million tonnes of paddy from the state, or 11% more than the state produced.Procurement, which refers to the government’s buying of farm produce at assured prices, is an “open-ended” process. This means FCI has to buy all produce farmers and traders bring to its procurement centres.This “open-ended” procurement process also makes the system vulnerable to scams. It is easy for unscrupulous traders to game the system by selling rice already sold to FCI during previous seasons.In states such as Punjab and Haryana, where the agricultural produce market committees’ procurement yards are within reach of every farmer, the stocks procured by the state’s agencies are transferred to rice mills where they are milled over the next five months. After the paddy is milled, the rice is handed over to FCI. The agency stores it in its own or hired silos.Also Read | Govt procures paddy worth ₹1.06 lakh crore so far this kharif seasonFrequently, traders buy foodgrains at lower than government-assured prices from poorer states such as Bihar, transport the produce to Punjab and Haryana, where the procurement system is robust, and profit from it. These are the likely reasons why FCI ended up buying more paddy from Punjab than the state actually produced last year.To prevent such practices, which bloats the government’s food subsidy bill, the government is turning to technology. FCI will soon introduce gadgets at its procurement centres that will show the “age of rice”. It is part of a proposed national programme to detect old rice being recirculated and resold to FCI by middlemen and traders who hoard rice.“Rice-age testing is already on in Andhra Pradesh. Its successful implementation there means that the FCI will roll it out across the country, mainly in procurement-heavy states,” said food secretary Sudhangshu Pandey.The gadgets being used in Andhra Pradesh to detect rice age involves pouring certain chemicals on a sample of rice. If the rice is freshly milled, then it turns to a certain colour that indicates it has been freshly harvested.FCI has also come out with a draft proposal to change the quality norms that apply to rice and wheat bought by it, according to a copy of the proposal seen by the HT, which could limit the total quantity of foodgrains procured by the agency.The agency’s draft proposal recommends that only wheat with a moisture content of 12% or less will be fit for procurement, down from 14% currently. Similarly, the agency has proposed reducing the permissible limit of “foreign matter” in rice it procures to 1% from 2% currently.FCI’s draft proposal says the changes are necessary to meet international standards of foodgrains for easy export.“However, it can adversely impact costs of farmers, who need to ensure proper post-harvest processing to meet higher standards of procurement,” said RN Mani, an agro-economist formerly with Tamil Nadu Agricultural University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fci-turns-to-tech-to-shield-its-procurement-system-from-fraudsters-101616752468647.html
26-03-2021||India||Govt trying to dismantle PDP: Mehbooba Mufti||PDP president Mehbooba Mufti on Friday accused the Centre of trying to dismantle her party by luring and threatening its members. Her remarks come a day after she was grilled for five hours by the Enforcement Directorate at its Srinagar office in connection with a money laundering case.In a tweet, the former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister charged, "GOI (Government of India) is trying to dismantle PDP by luring & threatening its members. Investigative agencies like ED are being used to intimidate me." Accusing the government of trying to subject her to political vendetta, she said, "To make matters worse, Im being denied of my fundamental right to a passport. If this isn't political vendetta then what is?". After the questioning, Mufti had told reporters that dissent has been criminalised in the country and central agencies like NIA, CBI and ED were being misused to silence the opposition."Dissent has been criminalised in this country. ED, CBI and NIA are being misused to silence the opposition tactically," she charged.She further charged that anyone opposing the current government was hounded by trumped up charges like sedition or money laundering."This country is not being run by the Constitution but the agenda of a particular political party," she alleged. Asked about the questions put forth to her by the ED, the PDP chief said she was asked about the sale of her ancestral land in Bijbehara area of Anantnag district and the use of the Chief Minister's discretionary funds.PTI MIJ DV DV||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-trying-to-dismantle-pdp-mehbooba-mufti-101616751481774.html
26-03-2021||India||PM Modi speaks to President's son, enquires about Kovind's health||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday spoke to President Ram Nath Kovind's son, Prashant, and enquired about the President's health and prayed for his well-being.PM @narendramodi spoke to Rashtrapati Ji's son. He enquired about the President's health and prayed for his well-being.Earlier in the day, Kovind visited the Army Hospital (Research And Referral) in Delhi for a check-up after complaining of chest discomfort, hospital authorities said in a statement.A medical bulletin said Kovind is undergoing a routine check-up and is under observation. His condition is said to be stable.Earlier this month, Kovind took the first dose of the vaccine against Covid-19 “President thanked all doctors, nurses, health workers and administrators who are successfully implementing the largest vaccination drive in history and urged all eligible citizens to get vaccinated,” his office wrote on Twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-speaks-to-president-s-son-enquires-about-kovind-s-health-101616749275008.html
26-03-2021||India||PM arrives in Bangladesh on 2-day visit; to attend National Day celebrations||Bangladesh rolled out the red carpet for Prime Minister Narendra Modi as he began a two-day visit on Friday, with Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina and other ministers personally receiving the Indian leader on his arrival. Modi will be the only foreign leader at the main National Day celebrations marking 50 years of Bangladesh’s independence on Friday. He will also participate in events commemorating the birth centenary of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, the father of the nation, and 50 years of diplomatic relations between the two sides. This is the prime minister’s first foreign visit since the Covid-19 outbreak last year, and he said in a statement issued ahead of his departure that the trip will underline India’s support for the Bangladesh’s economic and developmental achievements. In a special gesture, Hasina and members of her cabinet welcomed Modi at Hazrat Shahjalal International Airport. The prime minister was accorded a 19-gun salute and a guard of honour. Also Read | ‘Special visit begins with a special gesture’ tweets PMOIn a tweet posted in Bangla, Modi said: “I have reached Dhaka. Thanks to Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina for giving me a special welcome at the airport. This visit will contribute to further strengthening our bilateral relations.” Soon after his arrival, Modi visited the Jatiyo Sriti Shoudho or the National Martyrs’ Memorial that pays tributes to the valour and the sacrifice of those who died in Bangladesh’s liberation war in 1971. The monument, located in Savar, 35 km northwest of the capital Dhaka, was designed by Syed Mainul Hossain. Bugles played The Last Post as the Bangladesh flag was hoisted at half mast, and Modi placed a wreath and stood in silence in front of the memorial as a mark of respect to the martyrs. Modi planted a sapling of the Arjun tree at the memorial complex and signed the visitor’s book. He wrote: “I pay my heartfelt tribute to the patriotic martyrs of Bangladesh whose glorious sacrifices enabled the birth of this great nation. May every visitor to this revered ground honour the sacred memory of the millions who were slain but not silenced. “Their valour will continue to inspire future generations to fight injustice and defend the cause of righteousness. On behalf of the people of India, I pray that the eternal flame at Savar remains a lasting reminder of the noble victory of truth and courage over deceit and oppression.” Later, Modi met community leaders, including representatives of Bangladesh’s minorities, freedom fighters and youth icons. He also met leaders from the 14-party ruling alliance led by its convener. Discussions centred on different aspects of bilateral relations were held during the meeting, officials said. Modi subsequently held another meeting with leaders of Bangladesh’s Opposition parties. Besides holding talks with his Bangladeshi counterpart, Modi will also offer prayers to Goddess Kali at Jashoreshwari Kali temple, one of 51 Shaktipeeths in the Puranic tradition, and interacted with representatives of the Matua community at Orakandi, from where Sri Sri Harichandra Thakur disseminated his message. Foreign secretary Harsh Shringla has said Bangladesh is located at the intersection of India’s “Neighbourhood First” and “Act East” polices, and New Delhi has launched several connectivity initiatives over the past year, especially projects that will improve access to the seven northeastern states by rail and riverways.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pmarrives-in-bangladesh-on-2-day-visit-to-attend-national-day-celebrations-101616751268479.html
26-03-2021||India||SC directs Punjab to hand over custody of Mukhtar Ansari to UP police in 2 weeks||New Delhi, Mar 26 (PTI) The Supreme Court on Friday directed the Punjab government to hand over the custody of gangster-turned-politician Mukhtar Ansari, who is lodged in Rupnagar jail there, to Uttar Pradesh Police.A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and R S Reddy said that the custody should be handed over to the state of Uttar Pradesh within two weeks.The top court delivered the verdict on the plea of the Uttar Pradesh government seeking a direction to the Punjab government and Rupnagar jail authority to immediately hand over the custody of Ansari, to the district jail Banda.On March 4, the top court was told by the Punjab government that the Yogi Adityanath-led government has got no fundamental right to seek Ansari’s transfer from Rupnagar jail to the district jail in Banda in Uttar Pradesh.Ansari is lodged in district jail Rupnagar in Punjab in connection with an alleged extortion case since January 2019.He is also accused in several cases of heinous crimes lodged in Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-directs-punjab-to-hand-over-custody-of-mukhtar-ansari-to-up-police-in-2-weeks-101616750797368.html
26-03-2021||India||2 die while cleaning septic tank for ₹3000 in east Delhi||Two men died allegedly after inhaling toxic gases while cleaning a septic tank of a banquet hall in east Delhi's Ghazipur, police said on Friday.Lokesh (35) and Prem Chand (40), residents of Trilokpuri, entered the tank to clean it on Thursday evening and were found dead inside it subsequently, the police said, adding that the deceased were not given any protective gear and were offered ₹3,000 for the work.The bodies have been sent for post-mortem, they said."The housekeeping staff of the banquet hall called the two men for cleaning the tank at 7.30 pm and around 10 pm, they were found dead," Deputy Commissioner of Police (East) Deepak Yadav said.Teams from the fire department, Delhi Disaster Management Authority and MCD visited the spot, he said, adding that the two men were taken to a hospital, where they were declared brought dead.A case under section 304A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and section 9 of the Prohibition of Employment as Manual Scavengers and their Rehabilitation Act has been registered, the DCP said. Further investigation is underway, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-die-while-cleaning-septic-tank-for-rs-3000-in-east-delhi-101616750145576.html
26-03-2021||India||Modi thinks he is only the Prime Minister of the Hindi heartland: MK Stalin||Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) chief, MK Stalin, 68, will contest the Tamil Nadu assembly elections on April 6. While he has been in the electoral fray for decades, this is the first time he will contest as the party’s chief minister’s candidate, bearing the legacy of the Dravidian party after the demise of his father M Karunanidhi in 2018. Since he began his political journey in the DMK as a teenager, Stalin has been the party’s youth wing leader, a six-time legislator, Chennai mayor, deputy chief minister, rural development minister and now Opposition leader. As he prepares for his biggest battle, Stalin speaks to HT about his political beliefs and the current electoral situation. Excerpts:What have you learnt being out of power for a decade? Whether in power or in the Opposition, I have learnt to work for the welfare of the people. It is because the DMK is the party that is always with people in their joy and sorrow. DMK was launched not only for power but essentially for social empowerment of the deprived class and downtrodden in society. DMK works for the welfare of the people and fights for the rights of the women. I have always led the party in such a way that those in power act on people’s demand. Hence, DMK is with people’s power always and it is the party with mass support always. Also Read | The political life of DMK’s MK StalinDid you believe that the Edappadi Palaniswami-led government would complete its term or are you surprised? He was barely known before 2016; how do you feel that you will be fighting him as your primary rival? DMK is a party which stands for ideology. We never tried to come to power through the back door. Even during the chaos in AIADMK due to ill health and death of former chief minister Jayalalithaa, DMK clarified time and again that it will not come to power through the back door. If you see the massive corruption in Palaniswami regime and the way in which he allowed his ministers to plunder the treasury, one cannot be surprised at the continuance of Palaniswami government till the end of its term. Even now, he is known only by the advertisement campaign done by spending government money, and not by his deeds. The people know him now only for his poor performance and failures on all fronts during these four years of misgovernance. What is your view on Narendra Modi? The Bharatiya Janata Party has been investing in infrastructure projects and increasing its booth-level strength to gain a footing in Tamil Nadu. What do you think of its prospects?Prime Minister Modi is thinking that he is the Prime Minister of only the Hindi heartland. He has no interest in the development of Tamil Nadu and for that matter, any states ruled by non-NDA (National Democratic Alliance) parties. From the beginning, Modi has been only demeaning cooperative federalism and is in a hurry to usurp of the power of states. The State List and Concurrent List, which are part of the Constitution, is under constant threat under the BJP regime at the Centre. As far as Tamil Nadu is concerned, they used the AIADMK only to communalise the otherwise communally harmonious land of Tamil Nadu. No infrastructure projects for Tamil Nadu have been implemented during Modi government. AIIMS at Madurai, announced six years back, is a non-starter even today. The people of Tamil Nadu believe that both AIADMK and BJP are one and the same and hence, they will reject BJP and also its allies AIADMK in the state. Also Read | Udhayanidhi Stalin gets creative at his rally, displays note, brick, old photosIf the situation demands, in a post-poll scenario, would you be open to joining hands with the BJP? Your father defended DMK aligning with BJP between 1999 and 2003. It’s not been a political untouchable.DMK is the champion of secular values and a party for democracy. How do you expect such a post-poll scenario? DMK will not align with the BJP politically and we are in the secular alliance, led by the Congress nationally. Do you think the AIADMK’s alliance with BJP is the biggest factor against it and do you think anti-Hindi sentiment is still strong in Tamil Nadu? I have already said that AIADMK and BJP are one and the same. Both are disrespecting the sentiments of youth of Tamil Nadu. Both are depriving lakhs of youngsters in Tamil Nadu of employment opportunities. Both are destroying the educational opportunities for the youngsters of Tamil Nadu. More than a dozen young girls and boys died by suicide because of the NEET exam but both AIADMK and BJP governments remained mute spectators. Medical education of rural youth has been snatched by BJP and, even now, it is introducing NEET for nursing education also. Tamil Nadu is always opposed to the act of imposition of Hindi, which ignores and insults the mother tongue — classical Tamil. That sentiment is rampant in the state and it will reflect in the election. You were 13 when you began organising youth wing functions and you’ve worked your way up in administration and politically in different capacities within the DMK. What is your response to the AIADMK-BJP criticism against dynastic politics since your son Udhayanidhi was appointed as youth wing secretary, he’s one of your star campaigners and is contesting from Chepauk? DMK is the family of cadres because they are committed to the noblest Dravidian ideology. When you are wedded to one particular ideology, that too for the upliftment of the people and development of the state, you cannot expect that he or she will switch over to a different party and a different ideology. Adopting his father’s or his father’s party ideology cannot be termed as dynasty politics. Just because he is my son, I cannot compel him to adopt a different ideology. That is the position of those in DMK. Are you grooming him the way your father groomed you for politics?But one thing is sure — either me or any one in party cannot groom their sons in politics just because they are in DMK. For growing in DMK, one has to work hard, reach out to the people and fight for the state’s welfare. The AIADMK and BJP’s criticism is born out of frustration, aimed to hide their corrupt and communal alliance from the eyes of people who have suffered in the last ten years of misrule of AIADMK. If your father, M Karunanidhi was alive, what advice do you think he would give you at this juncture? He would have advised me to go to the people with the slogan of “throw the communal and corrupt forces out of Tamil Nadu” and “Restore the pride and self-respect of Tamil Nadu”. Now I am doing exactly what he would have wished and hence even in his absence, I am following the ideology that was near and dear to his heart only. Political observers say that DMK won’t be able to repeat its sweep of 2019 in 2021. What in your assessment has changed or went wrong after you won 38/39 in the 2019 parliamentary elections because subsequently the gains in by-polls and civic polls were not enough. Do you think you will sweep 2021 elections with your mission 200 or do you assess this to be a close election?Despite all blatant misuse of power by the AIADMK government, the people of Tamil Nadu gave us a massive victory in rural local body election. AIADMK was rattled at the victory of DMK and that is why they did not conduct urban local body elections. In the by-elections too, the DMK won more seats than the AIADMK. The 2019 Parliamentary election victory will be repeated now and the DMK and its alliance parties would sweep all the 234 assembly seats. What are your top priorities if you come to power and how would they be different from your father’s? I have promised that the grievance petitions received from the people during “Stalin in Your Constituency Programme” would be solved within 100 days of coming to power. That would be my first priority. In Trichy, I announced “Stalin’s Seven Assurances” - which is a vision document of DMK for Tamil Nadu for the next 10 years. DMK Manifesto is the hero as usual. Hence, I have clear priorities at my hand. My government will be the one which will be guided by the noble visions of Perarignar Anna (DMK founder CN Annadurai) and Muthamizharignar Kalaignar (M Karunanidhi).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-thinks-he-is-only-the-prime-minister-of-the-hindi-heartland-mk-stalin-101616749408579.html
26-03-2021||India||Bharat Bandh in Photos: 4 Shatabdi trains cancelled as protesters block tracks||Farmers have called for a 12-hour nationwide ‘bandh’ on Friday which has impacted road and rail transport services, especially in the northern states of Punjab and Haryana.The agitators were spotted sitting at 32 locations across Punjab and Haryana to stop the movement of trains. “The 32 locations where train movement has been disrupted fall under the Delhi, Ambala and Ferozepur divisions of the railways,” PTI reported quoting a railway spokesperson.Farmers are observing a bandh between 6am and 6pm to mark four months of the farmers' agitation at Delhi's three borders - Singhu, Ghazipur and Tikri. The demonstrators have gathered at several highways and roads in Haryana and Punjab including, in Bathinda, Ludhiana, Amritsar, Patiala, Mohali, Rohtak, Jhajjar and Bhiwani districts.Here’s a look at Bharat Bandh in pictures:﻿||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-bandh-in-photos-4-shatabdi-trains-cancelled-as-protesters-block-tracks-101616746804347.html
26-03-2021||India||For ‘special welcome’ in Dhaka, Modi thanks Bangladesh PM Sheikh Hasina||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday thanked Bangladesh premier Sheikh Hasina for personally receiving him at the Dhaka airport on his arrival in the country on a two-day visit.“Landed in Dhaka. I thank PM Sheikh Hasina for the special welcome at the airport. This visit will contribute to even stronger bilateral relations between our nations,” PM Modi tweeted, sharing a photo of the Bangladesh Prime Minister welcoming him at the airport.Landed in Dhaka. I thank PM Sheikh Hasina for the special welcome at the airport. This visit will contribute to even stronger bilateral relations between our nations. pic.twitter.com/oWFydFH2BGThe Prime Minister also tweeted the message in Bengali, a language shared between the two countries. In India, Bengali is spoken in the state of West Bengal, which borders Bangladesh, while it is the official language of India’s neighbour in the east.ঢাকা পৌঁছলাম। বিমানবন্দরে বিশেষ অভ্যর্থনা জানানোর জন্য প্রধানমন্ত্রী শেখ হাসিনাকে ধন্যবাদ। এই সফর আমাদের দ্বিপক্ষীয় সম্পর্ক আরও দৃঢ় করার ক্ষেত্রে অবদান রাখবে। pic.twitter.com/TVOZad1KFEThe Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) also tweeted images of PM Modi’s arrival in Dhaka. “A special visit begins with a special gesture. PM Sheikh Hasina welcomes PM @narendramodi at Dhaka airport,” the PMO tweeted.A special visit begins with a special gesture. PM Sheikh Hasina welcomes PM @narendramodi at Dhaka airport. pic.twitter.com/5zyKWpIepvThe visit to Bangladesh is PM Modi’s first foreign visit since the beginning of the coronavirus pandemic. He was initially scheduled to visit the country last March, but had to postpone his programme due to the rapidly spreading disease. The current visit comes on the invitation extended by PM Sheikh Hasina to participate in Bangladesh’s National Day celebrations.National Day, or the Independence Day of Bangladesh, is celebrated annually on March 26. It was on this date in 1971 that East Pakistan, as the country was then called, declared its “independence” from Pakistan. Bangladesh was recognised in 1972, months after formally getting independence from Pakistan, following the Indo-Pak war of December 1971.Last year’s National Day celebrations would have also commemorated the 100th birth anniversary of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, who is also known as Bangladesh’s “Father of the Nation.” Rahman was the country’s first President and later became Prime Minister but was assassinated in 1975. PM Sheikh Hasina is his daughter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/for-special-welcome-in-dhaka-modi-thanks-bangladesh-pm-sheikh-hasina-101616746170783.html
26-03-2021||India||News updates from HT: All-Indian crew of vessel behind Suez Canal logjam safe and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Strong winds resulted in grounding of MV Ever given, crew safeMV Ever Given, the massive Japanese-owned container vessel that has created a logjam in the Suez Canal after it ran aground this week, has an all-Indian crew of 25 members who are all currently safe. Read MoreTrains halted, shops closed: How Bharat Bandh called by farmers is panning outNearly five hours into the 12-hour nationwide blockade, called by farmers protesting against agricultural legislation enacted by the government scores of farmers and activists have blocked major highways, rail routes and ensured the closure of markets across several regions. Read MoreHeat stress in India can reduce industrial output: StudyFor every one-degree Celsius (°C) rise in annual temperatures over average temperatures for the 1980-2000 period, Indian industrial plants likely produced 2% less revenue. Read MoreSubstantial potential in India for AMG brand: Mercedes boss Martin SchwenkMercedes-Benz has been on a product offensive in India with a special eye out on first-time buyers in the luxury car segment. Read MoreMira Rajput in Rs.3K contrasting shirt and pants does summer chic look rightComfy cotton shirts teamed with a pair of breezy pants seems to be the dress code this summer and looks like Mira Rajput did get the memo as she is acing this style. Read MoreMumbai Police shares mask-related post with Zack Snyder's Justice League twistAre you a regular user of Instagram? Then there is a possibility that you have noticed the various posts shared by Mumbai Police. Read MoreFrom cooperative to coercive federalism: Fallouts of Delhi law | On The RecordRajya Sabha cleared the NCT bill which empowers the Lieutenant Governor of Delhi with powers over all of the Delhi Government's decisions. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-all-indian-crew-of-vessel-behind-suez-canal-logjam-safe-and-all-the-latest-news-101616744544002.html
26-03-2021||India||President Ram Nath Kovind undergoes check-up at Army hospital in Delhi after complaining of chest discomfort; kept under||President Ram Nath Kovind visited the Army hospital in Delhi on Friday following chest discomfort in the morning, hospital authorities said in a statement. They added that the president is undergoing routine check-up and is under observation.His condition was stated to be stable.Earlier in the day, Kovind extended greetings to his counterpart Abdul Hamid and the people of Bangladesh, on their country's 50th Independence Day. “On behalf of the people of India and on my own behalf, I extend warm greetings and felicitations to Your Excellency, the Government and the people of Bangladesh on the occasion of your National Day. India and Bangladesh are celebrating 50 years of our exemplary and unique bilateral ties," he was quoted as saying by ANI.Kovind took the first dose of the vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) earlier this month. “President thanked all doctors, nurses, health workers and administrators who are successfully implementing the largest vaccination drive in history and urged all eligible citizens to get vaccinated,” his office wrote on Twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/president-ram-nath-kovind-undergoes-check-up-at-army-hospital-in-delhi-after-complaining-of-chest-discomfort-kept-under-observation-101616744628349.html
26-03-2021||India||Bangladesh visit: PM Modi uses new Boeing VVIP aircraft for first time on foreign trip||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday went from Delhi to Dhaka on a new custom-made VVIP aircraft, using it for the first time on a foreign journey.The prime minister is on a two-day visit to Bangladesh.India and Bangladesh are currently celebrating the golden jubilee of the 1971 war victory. India had defeated Pakistan in December 1971, which led to the creation of Bangladesh.The B777 aircraft, which has registration number VT-ALW, was delivered by Boeing to the Indian government in October last year. The aircraft, which has call sign AI1 or Air India One, departed from Delhi around 8 am and landed at the Dhaka airport around 10.30 am on Friday, government officials said.Another custom-made B777 aircraft, with registration number VT-ALV, was also delivered by the American aircraft giant to the Indian government in October last year. Both custom-made planes are to fly only president, vice president and prime minister of the country.These two aircraft were part of Air India's commercial fleet for a few months in 2018 before they were sent back to Boeing for retrofitting for VVIP travel. The B777 planes have state-of-the-art missile defence systems called Large Aircraft Infrared Countermeasures and Self-Protection Suites. PTI DSP NSD NSD||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bangladesh-visit-pm-modi-uses-new-boeing-vvip-aircraft-for-first-time-on-foreign-trip-101616743435124.html
26-03-2021||India||Heat stress in India can reduce industrial output: Study||For every one-degree Celsius (°C) rise in annual temperatures over average temperatures for the 1980-2000 period, Indian industrial plants likely produced 2% less revenue, according to a research paper co-authored by economists and experts from Delhi’s Indian Statistical Institute and the University of Chicago. The researchers used data from around 58,000 factories in India to arrive at the correlation.With the government’s focus on transforming India into a manufacturing hub, the findings of the paper are significant.Anant Sudarshan, South Asia Director, Energy Policy Institute, University of Chicago, said the effect of high temperatures on lower crop yields has been previously established. “This paper shows that rising temperatures can also hurt economic output in other sectors by reducing the productivity of human labour. The damage is greatest when already warm days become hotter,” Sudarshan said in a statement on Thursday.The statement added if India wishes to succeed in becoming a manufacturing powerhouse using cheap labour, it needs to think hard about how to adapt to a hotter world.“That 1°C rise over the baseline only puts a number to the possible impact on industrial output. But the effect of this temperature rise is more pronounced when warm days become hotter. So, the rise in average temperatures in [the] summer season directly impacts productivity,” said Sudarshan.The paper, which has been accepted for publication in the University of Chicago’s Journal of Political Economy, said the losses are mainly due to a reduction in the output elasticity of labour.Factory workers may produce less while at work due to heat stress and also be absent more often, according to the study.The analysis of long-term national-level data for the study was supplemented with that on workers involved in cloth weaving, garment sewing, and steel industries to separately identify these two effects. The researchers found the output of individual workers and teams declines on hot days as well as in weeks with more hot days.The cloth weaving factories studied are in Surat, the National Capital Region, Hyderabad and Chhindwara. The steel production data is from Bhilai. The researchers obtained payment slips for each day and digitised these to generate a worker-level dataset of daily output and attendance. They also sourced weather data from public weather stations and India Meteorological Department to map the impact.The multi-year study indicates that climate control in the workplace removes productivity declines, but not absenteeism possibly because workers remain exposed to high temperatures at home and outside.E Somanathan, a professor at the Indian Statistical Institute, said in the absence of climate control, worker productivity declines on hot days. “...we spot absenteeism even for workers in factories with cooling facilities. When you compound that with limited adoption of climate control technologies in manufacturing industries, you know that we are dealing with a complex problem here.” Somanathan added it is entirely possible that the industrial sector might respond to high temperatures by increasing automation and shifting away from labour-intensive sectors in hot parts of the world. “These adaptive responses may negatively influence wage inequality,” he said in a statement.M Rajeevan Nair, secretary, ministry of earth sciences, said he has not read the paper, but they know the frequency, intensity, and duration of heatwaves are going up in central and northwest India as well as the heat-wave zone along the east coast. “New modelling studies are showing that even if we managed to keep global warming under 1.5°C, heat waves will rise. Heatwaves can be fatal, so we have to be very well prepared. India Meteorological Department and National Disaster Management Authority are preparing heat action plans for states.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heat-stress-in-india-can-reduce-industrial-output-study-101616743348655.html
26-03-2021||India||Supreme Court refuses relief to Sushant Singh Rajput’s sister||The Supreme Court on Friday dismissed a petition filed by Priyanka Singh, the sister of late actor Sushant Singh Rajput, challenging the FIR of abetment to suicide registered against her in Mumbai on a complaint by actor Rhea Chakraborty.A three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde said, “We are not inclined to entertain. Dismissed.”Priyanka Singh had approached the Supreme Court after the Bombay high court on February 15 refused to quash the FIR against her while allowing the quashing of FIR against her sister Meetu Singh.According to the FIR, by Chakraborty accused the two sisters of prescribing medicines for Sushant Singh Rajput and sought a probe against them for alleged abetment to suicide under Indian Penal Code Section 306 and other relevant provisions of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act.Also Read | Don’t object to Rhea bail, disagree with some HC observations: NCB to SCPriyanka Singh was represented in the Supreme Court by senior advocate Vikas Singh who said that in August 2020 when the top court transferred the FIR in connection with the late actor’s death to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), it held that subsequent proceedings arising out of the FIR will be probed by CBI.Despite this direction, the Bombay high court did not quash the proceedings, Vikas Singh argued.Moreover Priyanka Singh had maintained that no second FIR could be possible after inquest proceedings were closed by Maharashtra Police.The FIR was registered at Bandra police station on September 7, 2020. The actor allegedly killed himself on June 8 last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-refuses-relief-to-sushant-singh-rajput-s-sister-101616741787993.html
26-03-2021||India||Not a born politician but learning fast: Metro Man on track with his 2nd innings||In traditional Kerala mundu (dhoti), blue striped shirt and dotting sandal paste on his forehead, 'Metro Man' E Sreedharan gently discourages when youngsters try to touch his feet in reverence during the campaign trail.Last week, when some women washed his feet during a meeting, there was a controversy. Though he tried his best to explain that it was a custom to greet guests in some areas of Palakkad, his opponents refused to buy it saying he enjoys “feudalist traditions.”A man of few words, his camp of followers have to often remind him to wave his hands when the waiting crowd greets him. And he follows directions of the seasoned leaders, who accompany him, in letter and spirit. In sweltering heat (Palakkad is usually the hottest district in the state) the 88-yr-old enjoys his fresh innings.“I am not a born politician. But I am fast learning the lessons of politics. It is a different ball game. A civil engineer for six decades, I was familiar with the heat and dust but here both are quite different but I enjoy them,” the oldest poll candidate in the state admits that he’s still a student of politics.When an aged man reminded him near the Victoria College, one of the oldest educational institutions of Kerala founded in 1887, that he has to cut down his campaign during warm hours, he thanked him profusely.“Look, some people are concerned about my age, some are genuine but others take a dig. Age is just a number and I have enough energy left in me. If I can serve people at this age what is wrong in it,” he explains. With his entry, the innocuous constituency draws enough national attention. Union home minister Amit Shah had already visited the VIP constituency on Wednesday and PM Modi is arriving in March-end seeking votes for him.“He’s leading the NDA battle in Kerala,” Shah said during his roadshow in Kanjikkode, an industrial hub.Displaying his trademark gentle behaviour and smile, he reaches out to masses with folded hands. “Sir, you don’t have to bow before us. You made our state and country proud. We feel sad when you come to us with folded hands,” a college girl at Victoria College told Sreedharan. He thanked her and reminded her that Victoria is his alma mater. He and the former Chief Election Commissioner were classmates at Victoria College.“If you elect me I will develop the area and make Palakkad one of the best cities in the country. I have enough ideas but you have to help me,” he told another crowd in Petta in the city. It is a fact that it is a gentleman’s game in Palakkad with no mud-slinging or personal attacks. His entry catapulted the constituency into headlines.“The BJP is the most misunderstood party in Kerala and its opponents compete themselves to discredit it. Both fronts damaged the state beyond repair. Under PM’s Modi dynamic leadership, the country is surging ahead and its signs are visible in Kerala also and the party will be a kingmaker soon,” he said.Photos of Pambhan bridge in Rameswaram, Konkan Railway and Delhi Metro pop up (his main contributions) at some places but he refuses to mention them in any meetings. “We have to look ahead,” comes in his reply whenever he is asked about his professional feats.But his opponents agree he chose a “wrong party”. “He is a man of high integrity and stature. But he joined a party that is wedded to divisive ideology. People are best judges, let them decide,” said his main rival, young sitting legislator Shafi Parambhil of the Congress.In the 2016 assembly election, Parambhil had defeated Shobha Surendran of the BJP with over 17,000 votes. CPI(M) candidate NN Krishnadas, a former MP, came third here. This time also the main fight is between the Congress and the BJP but CPI(M) candidate CP Pramod claims the main fight to be between his party and the BJP.An engineer by profession, the ‘Metro Man’ is banking on the growth trajectory of the BJP in Palakkad. In 2011, the party’s vote share stood at 19.86 per cent which went up to 29.08 per cent in 2016. In the fierce three-cornered contest, five per cent more will make much impact, his followers vouch. The party thinks that Sreedharan will able to add a large number of independent votes and he can cross the bridge easily.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-a-born-politician-but-learning-fast-metro-man-on-track-with-his-2nd-innings-101616741488038.html
26-03-2021||India||‘Special visit begins with a special gesture’ tweets PMO as Sheikh Hasina greets PM Modi in Dhaka||Bangladesh Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina was present at the Dhaka airport on Friday to welcome Prime Minister Narendra Modi to Bangladesh, details of which were tweeted by the Prime Minister’s office (PMO). PM Modi is visiting Bangladesh to take part in the neighbouring country’s National Day celebrations.“A special visit begins with a special gesture. PM Sheikh Hasina welcomes PM Narendra Modi at Dhaka airport,” tweeted the PMO.A special visit begins with a special gesture. PM Sheikh Hasina welcomes PM @narendramodi at Dhaka airport. pic.twitter.com/5zyKWpIepvA masked Hasina was seen greeting her Indian counterpart with a bouquet of flowers as he alighted onto the runway. This is the Prime Minister’s first diplomatic foreign visit since the Covid-19 pandemic began last year.Bangladesh is all slated to celebrate 50 years of Independence from Pakistan on March 26. Invitations for the same had also been extended to Sri Lanka, Nepal, Maldives, and Bhutan, but PM Modi will be the only leader to join the celebrations in-person. He is scheduled to deliver a speech at the national parade ground in Dhaka, in commemoration of the event.PM Modi will also visit the mausoleum of 'Bangabandhu' Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, considered to be the father of Bangladesh, and the father of the incumbent Prime Minister. “As I leave for Bangladesh tomorrow, I look forward to remembering the life and ideals of Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, and celebrate 50 years of Bangladesh’s War of Liberation, as well as our diplomatic ties,” the Prime Minister had tweeted on Thursday.He is also scheduled to visit two Hindu temples, the Jeshoreshwari Kali temple in Satkhira and the Matua temple in Orakandi, on March 27. Both these temples hold special significance for the Matua community, a significant number of which reside in poll-bound Bengal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/special-visit-begins-with-a-special-gesture-tweets-pmo-as-sheikh-hasina-greets-pm-modi-in-dhaka-101616740365281.html
26-03-2021||India||Supreme Court refuses to stop sale of electoral bonds ahead of assembly polls||The Supreme Court on Friday declined to stop the fresh sale of electoral bonds from April 1 till it decides on the validity of the instrument used for donating money to political parties. A bench, headed by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde, held that the electoral bonds were being issued periodically after a consultation with the Election Commission of India and that there was no change in circumstances that required it to put brakes on the sale at this juncture. The bench, which also included justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, underlined that electoral bonds had been sold in the last three years in specified months as well. The court order came on an interim application moved by the Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR), which requested that the court restrain the sale of these bonds ahead of the assembly elections in four states and a Union Territory. The elections start on March 27, and end on April 29. The counting of votes is on May 2. Also Read | EC supports electoral bonds, seeks transparency: Here’s what it told SCEarlier, the ADR questioned what it called “anonymous funding to political parties”, adding transparency in elections was a right of voters not under the Right to Information Act but as a matter of right in a democracy. Advocate Prashant Bhushan, representing ADR, argued that there was a serious apprehension that any further sale of electoral bonds before the upcoming state elections in West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Assam, would further increase illegal and illicit funding of political parties through shell companies. Rebutting the allegations, attorney general KK Venugopal, appearing for the Centre, referred to certain checks and balances. He said that parties were required to file their income tax returns each year showing how they expended the money. The political party could face deregistration if it was found to participate in anti-national or illegal activities. Venugopal also said that the use of bonds was essential for the country as it curbed black money being used in elections. On its part, the Election Commission (EC) told the Supreme Court that it supported the existing system of political party funding through electoral bonds, although it added that it would like the process to be more transparent.Senior advocate Rakesh Dwivedi appearing for EC said, “The Commission is supporting electoral bonds and not opposing it. If we don’t support it we will go into a pre-existing system of receiving donations through cash. Electoral bonds goes one step forward as all bonds have to be obtained from the bank only. This way there is accountability. But we are also asking for transparency. That can be considered later by the court.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-refuses-to-stop-sale-of-electoral-bonds-ahead-of-assembly-polls-101616740407768.html
26-03-2021||India||'Satyagraha' ends injustice, arrogance: Rahul Gandhi on Bharat Bandh||Extending support to farmers observing 'Bharat Bandh' today to mark the completion of four months of their agitation against the central farm laws, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday said 'satyagraha' ends atrocities, injustice and arrogance."India's history shows that 'satyagraha' ends atrocities, injustice and arrogance. The movement should be in national interest and peaceful," Gandhi tweeted.Farmers are observing 'Bharat Bandh' today to mark the completion of four months of their agitation against the central farm laws.The bandh, called by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), will be observed till 6 pm.Roads and trains will be blocked and services are expected to remain suspended, except for ambulance and other essential services.Farmers have been protesting at the different border of Delhi since November last year against the three newly enacted farm laws -- Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/satyagraha-ends-injustice-arrogance-rahul-gandhi-on-bharat-bandh-101616739561591.html
26-03-2021||India||Supreme Court refuses to stay sale of fresh electoral bonds from April 1 ahead of polls in 4 states and union territory||The Supreme Court on Friday refused to stay the sale of fresh set of electoral bonds from April 1 to April 10, during the Assembly elections in West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Assam, Kerala, and the union territory of Puducherry.The court said that the bonds, introduced under a scheme in 2018, have been issued periodically "with no impediment". A three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde said that in April last year interim orders were passed by the court directing political parties to submit receipts of electoral bonds to EC in a sealed cover. This was held by the court of being a sufficient safeguard.The apex court’s order came on an application moved by the Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR), which had requested the court to restrain sales of these bonds ahead of the assembly elections. The ADR claimed that bonds should not be issued as “it legalised bribery by companies to political parties”.The Election Commission of India, however, backed the sale of bonds but raised concerns over its transparency. Senior advocate Rakesh Dwivedi appearing for EC said, “The Commission is supporting electoral bonds and not opposing it. If we don’t support it we will go into a pre-existing system of receiving donations through cash. Electoral bonds goes one step forward as all bonds have to be obtained from the bank only. This way there is accountability. But we are also asking for transparency. That can be considered later by the Court.”The court had reserved the order in the case on March 24 after hearing arguments from all the parties.During the hearing, the Attorney General of India KK Venugopal assured the court that funds received through electoral bonds were white money that could only be issued through cheque and demand draft, and for which Know Your Customer (KYC) norms had to be followed, according to news agency PTI.Meanwhile, advocate Prashant Bhushan appearing for ADR, cited a letter written by the Governor of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) Shaktikanta Das, which states that the electoral bond scheme was fraught with risk and would impact India's financial system. PTI reported. He was also quoted as saying that the RBI raised serious objections and said this will facilitate money laundering through shell company.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-refuses-to-stay-sale-of-fresh-electoral-bonds-from-april-1-ahead-of-polls-in-4-states-and-union-territory-of-puducherry-101616738398545.html
26-03-2021||India||Trains halted, shops closed: How Bharat Bandh called by farmers is panning out||Nearly five hours into the 12-hour nationwide blockade, called by farmers protesting against agricultural legislation enacted by the government, scores of farmers and activists have blocked major highways, rail routes and ensured the closure of markets across several regions. Friday’s Bharat Bandh, from 6am to 6pm, marks the completion of four months of the farmer’s agitation.The farmers have been camping at various borders of Delhi since November 26 last year demanding a complete rollback of the new farm laws.Farmer union leader Rakesh Tikait, who was in Haryana's Yamunanagar last night on Thursday has asserted that the nationwide shutdown will be a success and will have the support of many. "We are demanding that the three laws should be taken back for the last four months and the government has to accept the demands," he said.While the blockade has been called across states, its impact was majorly seen in the northern states of Punjab and Haryana and Delhi. The farmers have gathered at several highways and roads in the two states including in Bathinda, Ludhiana, Amritsar, Patiala, Mohali, Rohtak, Jhajjar and Bhiwani districts.Some of the protesters also blocked the Ambala-Delhi highway near Ambala Cantt, police said. According to officials, heavy security has been deployed in the two states.The shutdown was also observed in the southern state of Andhra Pradesh where members of Left parties held demonstrations at Maddilapalem junction against the Centre’s agriculture laws and privatisation of Vizag steel plant, news agency ANI said, adding that a rally will be organised at National Highway-16, which is connected between Kolkata to Chennai, later in the day.The Samkyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) has appealed to protesters to be peaceful and not get involved in any kind of illegitimate debate and conflict during the 'bandh'. "All shops, malls, markets and institutions will remain closed under complete Bharat Bandh. All minor and big roads and trains will be blocked. All services will remain suspended except for ambulance and other essential services. The effect of Bharat Bandh will be observed inside Delhi as well," the umbrella body of protesting unions said in a statement, according to PTI. In a video message, SKM leader Darshan Pal said that supplies of vegetables and milk will also stopped by the protesting farmers.The farmers and the central leadership have so far held 11 rounds of meetings that have failed to end the impasse over the legislation cleared during the monsoon session of Parliament last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-bandh-latest-updates-trains-halted-shops-closed-how-nationwide-blockade-called-by-farmers-is-panning-out-101616737018393.html
26-03-2021||India||Left parties participate in Bharat bandh in Visakhapatnam to protest farm laws, privatisation of Vizag steel pla||The members of Left parties on Thursday participated in Bharat bandh and held demonstrations at Maddilapalem junction against the Centre over agriculture laws and privatisation of Vizag steel plant.Later in the day, the rally will be organised at National Highway-16, which is connected between Kolkata to Chennai.Protesters have demanded the cancellation of agriculture laws and against the Centre's decision to privatise Visakhapatnam Steel Plant.Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy has shown alternate ways besides privatisation that will yield profits, said YSRCP MP Vijayasai ReddyReddy also hit out at the Telugu Desam Party (TDP), who have also expressed opposition against the same and participated in the bandh."The state government is directly fighting the steel plant privatisation and Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy has shown alternative ways. If they are practised, profits will come. The YSRCP opposes the decision to privatise the steel plant," he said.Farmers are observing 'bandh" Bharat Bandh' today to mark the completion of four months of their agitation against the central farm laws.The bandh, called by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), will be observed till 6 pm. All roads and trains will be blocked and all services are expected to remain suspended, except for ambulance and other essential services.According to a statement issued by the SKM, the bandh has been called for the repeal of three agricultural laws, for law on Minimum Support Prices (MSP) and procurement, cancellation of all police cases against farmers, rollback of "electricity bill and pollution bill" and for reducing prices of diesel, petrol and gas.The release also said that the bandh call has been given "against the anti-farmer government" on completion of four months of farmers' struggle in Delhi.Farmers have been protesting at the different border of Delhi since November last year against the three newly enacted farm laws -- Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/left-parties-participate-in-bharat-bandh-in-visakhapatnam-to-protest-farm-laws-privatisation-of-vizag-steel-plant-101616735675430.html
26-03-2021||India||SC to deliver order on stopping fresh sale of electoral bonds ahead of polls||The Supreme Court will Friday deliver its order on a plea to stop the fresh sale of electoral bonds from April 1 till the top court decides on the validity of the instrument used for donating money to the political parties. A bench, headed by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde, will pronounce its order on the interim application moved by the Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR), which has requested that the court restrain the sale of these bonds ahead of the assembly elections in four states and a Union Territory. The elections start on March 27, and end on April 29. The counting of votes is on May 2. Before the bench, which also included justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, ADR questioned what it called “anonymous funding to political parties”, adding transparency in elections was a right of voters not under the Right to Information Act but as a matter of right in a democracy. Also Read | EC supports electoral bonds, seeks transparency: Here’s what it told SCAdvocate Prashant Bhushan, representing ADR, argued that there was a serious apprehension that any further sale of electoral bonds before the upcoming state elections in West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Assam, would further increase illegal and illicit funding of political parties through shell companies. Rebutting the allegations, attorney general KK Venugopal, appearing for the Centre, referred to certain checks and balances. He said that parties were required to file their income tax returns each year showing how they expended the money. The political party could face deregistration if it was found to participate in anti-national or illegal activities. Venugopal also said that the use of bonds was essential for the country as it curbed black money being used in elections. On its part, the Election Commission (EC) told the Supreme Court that it supported the existing system of political party funding through electoral bonds, although it added that it would like the process to be more transparent.Senior advocate Rakesh Dwivedi appearing for EC said, “The Commission is supporting electoral bonds and not opposing it. If we don’t support it we will go into a pre-existing system of receiving donations through cash. Electoral bonds goes one step forward as all bonds have to be obtained from the bank only. This way there is accountability. But we are also asking for transparency. That can be considered later by the court.” The new application has been moved in a pending petition on this issue by the same organisation filed in 2017. ADR pointed out that the petition challenging electoral bonds wa pending in the Supreme Court since September 2017. The matter was last heard on January 20 last year, following which ADR requested the court in October last year to list the matter ahead of the assembly elections in Bihar.In its PIL, ADR sought that the amendments carried out to the Finance Act providing an anonymous route for political parties to receive corporate funding through electoral bonds be struck down. These donations enjoy 100% tax exemption as they don’t have to be reported to the Income Tax department either, the petition added. “The Electoral Bonds Scheme has opened the floodgates to unlimited corporate donations to political parties and anonymous financing by Indian as well as foreign companies which can have serious repercussions on the Indian democracy,” that application filed by ADR stated, adding that the Finance Act of 2017 exempts use of electoral bonds from disclosure under the Representation of Peoples Act. ADR moved applications in March 2019 and again in November 2019 to stay the implementation of the Electoral Bond Scheme but they were not granted. In April 2019, the Supreme Court, in an interim order, asked political parties to disclose to the Election Commission in sealed covers details of donations received by way of electoral bonds. In the same order, the top court observed that the matter of electoral bonds gives rise to “weighty issues which have a tremendous bearing on the sanctity of the electoral process in the country” which require an in-depth hearing. Out of more than ₹6,000 crore worth of Electoral Bonds sold so far, nearly ₹2,551 crore were sold in 2018-19. As per the annual audit report submitted by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) with the Election Commission, the party received the highest amount of electoral bonds amounting to ₹1450.89 crore i.e. 56.9% of the total. The Congress received nearly ₹383.26 crore which is 15% of the total. The amount received by the BJP in 2018-19 was nearly seven times the amount it received the previous year and alone constituted 60.2% of the total income, which in the previous year was only 20.4%. Electoral bonds received by Congress in 2018-19 amounted to ₹383.26 crore whereas it was only ₹5 crore in 2017-18. Electoral bonds accounted for 41.7% of the total income earned by INC in 2018-19, while it was only 2.5% of the income in 2017-18.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-to-deliver-order-on-stopping-fresh-sale-of-electoral-bonds-ahead-of-polls-101616736087670.html
26-03-2021||India||ECI transfers Trichy collector, SP after seizing 1 crore cash from district||The Election Commission of India (ECI) on Thursday transferred the Tiruchirapalli district collector, sub-collector and superintendent of police - S Sivarasu, Nishant Krishna and P Raja - after cash worth ₹1 crore was seized a day ago.ECI secretary Malay Mallick in a statement said that he directed the transfers based on a report of special observers related to the cash seizure on March 24. They have been transferred to non-election posts and new officials have been brought to the three posts.Also read: Income tax raids at DMK leader’s premises in ChennaiAccording to an official in Trichy, the cash was found in a sack on a roadside and was seized by the election flying squad. Local agencies reported that the squad was chasing a car suspected of having this cash after two groups of people were arguing on the road and they drove away on seeing the police.The development comes a day after the ECI ordered a transfer of Coimbatore district collector S Rajamani and city commissioner of police Sumit Sharan to non-election posts based on ‘inputs received’. DMK’s legal wing had approached the ECI complaining of inaction after party functionaries complained to Rajamani against AIADMK cadre.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eci-transfers-trichy-collector-sp-after-seizing-1-crore-cash-from-district-101616735247421.html
26-03-2021||India||SC flags army’s structure that discriminates against women officers: Key points||The Supreme Court on Thursday came down hard on what it called “male for male” structures in the army that prevented several deserving women short-service commission officers from being considered for permanent commission. Here is all you need to know about the observation:• The court held that such systems were an affront to human dignity and should change for future batches.• It dealt a blow to the army selection board decision of November by which only 277 of 615 eligible women short-service commission officers were granted permanent commission.• The court allowed the remaining officers who lost out on the opportunity to get a second chance. • The court said the women officers to be considered will have to achieve the 60% merit cut-off, fulfil the medical criteria and qualify the vigilance and disciplinary clearance.• It said the pattern of evaluation by excluding subsequent achievements of the petitioners and failing to account for the inherent patterns of discrimination that were produced as a consequence of casual grading and skewed incentive structures have resulted in indirect and systemic discrimination. Also Read | Supreme Court orders status quo on water supply to Delhi• The court said the discrimination has caused economic and psychological harm and an affront to their dignity• “We must recognise here that the structures of our society have been created by males and for males. As a result, certain structures that may seem to be the ‘norm’... are a reflection of the insidious patriarchal system,” the court said.• It hit out at the criteria of benchmarking women officers against their male counterparts as indirectly discriminatory.• The court had in February last year ruled in the favour of women being eligible for permanent commission in the army’s non-combat streams.• As per a list supplied by the army to the court, only 422 of 615 officers fulfilled the merit and discipline criteria. • The court said barring the 277 who got selected and 57 who opted out of permanent commission, nearly 280 women officers would have a fresh chance to be considered. • This includes 88 officers whose results were withheld.• In all, 86 women officers approached the court claiming that the selection board formed by the army pursuant to the court order was a rejection board that benchmarked women against men for consideration of annual confidential reports. • Most of the women who were now aged 40-50 were required to show top medical fitness at the time of the fifth and tenth year of service when their male counterparts were considered.• The court said some of the finest women officers who have served the Indian Army and brought distinction by their performance and achievements have been excluded by refusing to consider their achievements on the specious ground that these were after the 5th/10th year of service. • It noted a few names of officers who received presidential honours and excelled in sporting events but were not granted permanent commission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-flags-army-s-structure-that-discriminates-against-women-officers-key-points-101616732127092.html
26-03-2021||India||India’s second Covid wave may be worse than the first: Key points||Covid-19 cases in India are rising at a rate not seen since May last year, and the daily infections in two states have already hit record highs. Here is all you need to know about the rise:• It indicates the country’s second wave may be worse than the first wave despite the vaccination drive.• India on Thursday reported 59,074 new Covid-19 infections, the highest in a single day since October 17, or in 159 days• The country’s second Covid-19 wave continued to push daily case numbers up to levels not seen since the first wave was brought under control last November.• The daily infection trajectory in two states — Maharashtra and Gujarat — has already surpassed the peaks of their first wave.• Punjab is close to crossing its previous peak.• Data shows the Indian outbreak has again started spreading geographically. • This spread, measured by counting districts reporting at least one new case in the past week, fell to a nine-month low of 447 on February 19.Also Read | India’s daily Covid-19 count surpasses 59,000 for the first time since Oct 17• Since then, these districts have been increasing again and this number stood at 550 by March 23.• For the week ending March 25, India reported 47,442 new infections every day on average, the highest the seven-day average has touched since October 28. • While in absolute numbers, this is the worst the case rate has been in four months, the numbers get more alarming if we look at the rate that this is increasing in. • Just seven days ago, the national seven-day average of daily cases was 28,551. • This means that in just a week, the rate of new infections has increased by 66%. • This is the largest week-on-week case growth witnessed in the country since May 10.• An important distinction between the case trajectory in May and today is the sheer volume of cases.• In May, there were only around 3,500 new cases across India every day, against the current new infection rate of over 47,000 new cases every day.• This means that the case rate in the second wave is growing much faster than what was seen even when the peak of the first wave was ravaging through August and September. • If such a week-on-week growth rate persists, then the second wave may surpass the peak of the first wave in April.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-second-covid-wave-may-be-worse-than-the-first-key-points-101616731347422.html
26-03-2021||India||India’s daily Covid-19 count surpasses 59,000 for the first time since Oct 17||India witnessed a jump of 59,118 in its Covid-19 tally on Friday, which took the nationwide numbers to 11,846,652, according to figures released by the Union ministry of health and family welfare. The daily toll from the disease also continued to rise and remained above 200 (257 to be exact) taking total fatalities to 160,949.Continuing the upward trend, the active caseload breached the four lakh-mark as the tally went up by 25,874 cases to 4,21,066. Currently, the active cases account for 3.35% of the total caseload in the country.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 hereThe pace at which the cases are rising in the country indicates that the second Covid-19 wave may be much worse than the first wave, which was brought under control by November last year. The daily infection trajectory in Maharashtra and Gujarat has already surpassed the peaks of their first wave while Punjab is close to crossing its previous peak.On Thursday, the health ministry said, Maharashtra, Punjab, Kerala, Karnataka, Chhattisgarh, and Gujarat account for 81% of the daily new cases. “Three states, Maharashtra, Kerala and Punjab, account for 74.32% of total active cases in the country. Maharashtra alone accounts for 62.91% of the total active cases,” it added.For the week ending March 25, India reported 47,442 new infections every day on average. This is the highest the seven-day average has touched since October 28. In terms of real figures, this is the worst the case rate has been in four months.Following the sudden surge in the last two months, the government has stepped up the vaccination drive and has allowed all citizens above 45 years of age to get vaccinated from April 1 onwards. They will not need to produce any comorbidities certificate.India has also put on the hold the expansion of vaccine exports in order to meet the domestic demands first. The rollout will be carried out in a phased manner and delivery schedules are expected to be calibrated in sync with domestic requirements, people familiar with developments said on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-daily-covid-19-count-surpasses-59-000-for-the-first-time-since-oct-17-101616730502695.html
26-03-2021||India||Active cases of Covid-19 cross 4 lakh mark, up by 52,000 in 2 days||The resurgence of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic in the country has led to a more worrying situation. The number of active cases in the country crossed the four lakh-mark on Friday.The last one lakh cases came in just five days, according to Union health ministry data. After Thursday's highest-ever single-day spike of 26,735 active cases, the count went up by 25,874 on Friday, the ministry's data showed. The active case tally now stands at 4,21,066.The count of just two days shows that the country's active cases have increased by over 52,000. Also Read: Second surge of Covid-19 infections quicker than first waveIndia, meanwhile, recorded 59,118 fresh cases of the infection in the last 24 hours, the health ministry data showed on Friday morning. The surge is driven by rapid spread of the infection in six states, which account for 81 per cent of the new cases, according to health ministry.These states are Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Karnataka, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu and Madhya Pradesh.Of these, Maharashtra recorded 35,952 new infections on Thursday, its highest single-day spike ever since the pandemic hit India. The state also recorded 111 Covid-19 fatalities. In the past seven days, the state has recorded 657 Covid-related deaths.Mumbai also recorded an all-time high of 5,505 new cases. It also recorded 13 deaths.According to the health ministry, 10 states - Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Chandigarh, Karnataka, Haryana, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Punjab and Madhya Pradesh - are displaying an upward trajectory in daily new cases.The total number of recoveries in the country surged to 11,264,637 on Friday with 32987 people recovered from the disease in the last 24 hours. The ministry said on Thursday that the national recovery rate is 95.28 per cent.As a sign of relief, the cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country crossed the 5.46 crore mark on Thursday evening. A total of 5,46,65,820 vaccine doses have been given, according to the provisional report till 7 pm.The countrywide vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16 with healthcare workers (HCWs) getting inoculated and vaccination of the frontline workers (FLWs) started from February 2.To check the rapid spread of the disease, the Centre has opened vaccination for everyone above the age of 45 from April 1. Till now, under the second phase which began on March 1, those who are over 60 years of age and people aged 45 and above with specified comorbid conditions are being inoculated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/active-cases-of-covid-19-cross-4-lakh-mark-up-by-52-000-in-2-days-101616729842812.html
26-03-2021||India||NIA recreates scene of Mansukh Hiran murder; to confront Sachin Vaze today||National Investigation Agency (NIA) officials on Thursday night recreated the purported crime scene of businessman Mansukh Hiran’s murder at Thane Creek with the help of forensic experts, people familiar with the development told HT. Hiran’s Scorpio was allegedly used by arrested Mumbai Police assistant inspector Sachin Vaze to plant explosives outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence on February 25, to regain his reputation. The central agency is also questioning Vinayak Shinde (a convicted constable) and Naresh Gour (a bookie), who were arrested by the Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) earlier this week for allegedly killing Hiran at the behest of Vaze. NIA, while taking custody of Vaze on Thursday, said they need to interrogate him as both cases are connected. Officials cited above said they will confront Vaze with Shinde and Gour on Friday to unearth the entire conspiracy. An initial examination of several witnesses revealed that Hiran was killed after he refused to take the blame for parking the explosive-laden SUV on Carmichael Road that day (600 metres from Antilia), they said. Also Read | Being made a scapegoat, says Sachin Vaze; in custody till April 3Hiran’s autopsy report is also being analysed by a team of investigators and medical experts to look into the cause of death. Hiran’s body was found at the creek with his mouth stuffed with handkerchiefs and covered with a scarf, and all his personal belongings, including his ring, chain and wrist watch, were missing. Hiran’s wife Vimla had told the cops that her husband left home in an auto-rickshaw the previous night and had even filed a missing complaint. NIA officials, who didn’t want to be named, said they will record statements from Hiran’s family members as well. The agency is also analysing mobile phones, emails and documents of Shinde and Gour. It will also look into financial dealings of Vaze and other officers of Crime Intelligence Unit (CIU) – which was headed by Vaze, officials said. As reported by HT exclusively, Vaze had planned the explosives in front of Antilia allegedly to prove his worth to Mumbai Police. Vaze was suspended for three years, from 2004 to 2007. He left the police in 2007. He was reinstated in 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-recreates-scene-of-mansukh-hiran-murder-to-confront-sachin-vaze-today-101616729127031.html
26-03-2021||India||News updates from HT: PM leaves for Bangladesh visit and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.PM Modi begins 2-day visit to Bangladesh from todayThe Prime Minister is scheduled to visit Bangladesh on the invitation of his counterpart Sheikh Hasina to participate in the neighbouring country’s National Day celebrations on March 26. Read moreUDF holds dawn-to-dusk shutdown in Kerala's Idukki against ruling LDFThe Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) has organised a dawn-to-dusk shutdown in Kerala's Idukki district. The opposition front is protesting against the ruling Left Democratic Front (LDF) for not amending the land assignment act. Read moreAishwary Pratap Tomar offers India hope in rifle 3 positions20-year-old Tomar has made a rapid transition from being one of the most talented juniors to winning his first senior international World Cup medal. Read moreAnkita Lokhande shares cryptic post after being trolled for comments on Sushant Singh Rajput: 'I almost said something'Actor Ankita Lokhande, who has been a target for trolls for her recent statements about late actor and former boyfriend Sushant Singh Rajput, has shared a cryptic post which seems to be a message to the trolls. Read moreSonam Kapoor teaches how to accessorise a look, gives ode to Paris with earringsSonam Kapoor recently took to Instagram and gave an ode to the city of love with her accessories by teaming her simple outfit with a pair of statement-making earrings that featured the Eiffel Tower. Read moreWoman creates record for furthest arrow shot using feet. See picsGuinness World Records (GWR) often takes to their various social media platforms to share tales of incredible records made by people from all across the world. Read moreNIA takes Sachin Vaze to creek where Mansukh Hiren’s body was foundNIA officials took Sachin Vaze to creek where Mansukh Hiren’s body was found. Around seven to eight NIA officials took Vaze to Reti Bunder creek on Thursday. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-pm-leaves-for-bangladesh-visit-and-all-the-latest-news-101616726153200.html
26-03-2021||India||Maharashtra records 35,952 Covid cases; is first state to give over 5 mn doses||Maharashtra on Thursday recorded more than 30,000 Covid-19 cases for a second day in a row with 35,952 new infections, its highest single-day spike. The state also recorded 111 Covid-19 fatalities. In the past seven days, the state has recorded 657 Covid-related deaths.Mumbai also recorded an all-time high of 5,505 new cases. It also recorded 13 deaths. Maharashtra also became the first state in the country to administer more than five million doses since the nationwide vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16.Also Read | Second surge of Covid-19 infections quicker than first waveThe state government, on Thursday, said that the drive will be scaled up further in the coming days. According to data released by the Maharashtra public health department, as of Thursday 7am, the state had administered 5,014,714 doses, followed by Rajasthan (4,994,574), Uttar Pradesh (4,756,799), Gujarat (4,381,814), and West Bengal (4,250,140).Dr Pradeep Vyas, principal secretary, public health department of the state government, said, “Maharashtra is at the top in the number of Covid vaccine doses administered in the country. We are also the first state to cross the 5-million doses benchmark. We will further scale up the vaccination.” On Thursday, 270,937 citizens were administered the vaccine across 3,302 centres, the state government said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-records-35-952-covid-cases-is-first-state-to-give-over-5-mn-doses-101616728706921.html
26-03-2021||India||PM Modi likely to inaugurate new train service between Dhaka and Jalpaiguri: All you need to know||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is embarking on a two-day visit to Bangladesh on Thursday, his first international visit in 15 months due to the outbreak of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.PM Modi, who is visiting Bangladesh on the invitation of his counterpart Sheikh Hasina, will participate in the neighbouring country’s National Day celebrations on March 26. It also coincides with the birth centenary of Bangladesh's founding leader Sheikh Mujibur Rahman.The neighbouring country has been celebrating the occasions with a 10-day series of events which started on March 17.Here is everything you need to know about the new train service between the two countries:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dhaka-and-jalpaiguri-may-be-connected-through-rail-link-all-you-need-to-know-101616726980663.html
26-03-2021||India||CBI raids over 100 locations across India in bank fraud cases||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) Thursday conducted searches over 100 places in 11 states and Union territories (UTs) in connection with more than 30 cases of bank fraud amounting to over ₹3,700 crore.As per a statement, the searches are part of a special drive to nab fraudusters after complaints were received from different nationalised banks across the country.The complainants include Indian Overseas Bank, Union Bank of India, Bank of Baroda, Punjab National Bank, State Bank of India, IDBI, Canara Bank, Indian Bank and Central Bank of India.Searches were conducted in various cities and towns including Kanpur, Delhi, Ghaziabad, Mathura, Noida, Gurugram, Chennai, Thiruvarur, Vellore, Tiruppur, Bangalore, Guntur, Hyderabad, Bellary, Vadodara, Kolkata, West Godavari, Surat, Mumbai, Bhopal, Nimadi, Tirupati Visakhapatnam, Ahmedabad, Rajkot, Karnal, Jaipur and Sri Ganganagar.Several incriminating objects including documents and other material and digital evidence were recovered during the searches."The CBI has been receiving a number of complaints from various banks alleging cheating, diversion of funds, submission of fake/forged documents by different defaulting firms while obtaining loans/credit facilities etc. There have been allegations that such firms have been turning defaulters resulting in the loans becoming Non-Performing Assets (NPAs), thus causing heavy loss to the public sector banks," the statement added.The cases have been registered by the CBI and a thorough investigation is being carried out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-raids-over-100-locations-across-india-in-bank-fraud-cases-101616726998388.html
26-03-2021||India||12-hour Bharat Bandh: A look at situation in early hours of blockade||A 12-hour ‘Bharat Bandh’, called by farmers protesting against the three contentious central agricultural laws, began at 6am on Friday. The pan-India blockade has been called to mark the completion of four months of protests against the laws, which began on the borders of Delhi on November 26 last year.Here’s an update on the situation in the early hours of the bandh:1. Farmers in Punjab’s Amritsar have blocked railway tracks at Wallah. Punjab, and its neighbouring state of Haryana, are likely to witness a full, 12-hour bandh as majority of protesters are from the two northern states.Also Read | Farmers’ Bharat Bandh may impact normal life in Punjab, Haryana today2. Farmers’ unions have also blocked Bhai Ghaniya Chowk in Bhatinda, an intersection which connects the city with Amritsar, Chandigarh and Ferozepur, as well as Rajasthan.Ambala: Protesters block GT Road and railway track near Shahpur, in view of 12-hour 'Bharat Bandh' call by Samyukt Kisan Morcha against Centre's Farm Laws#Haryana pic.twitter.com/1D6k4qjPlN3. In Delhi, which witnessed clashes between police and protesters on January 26, the Delhi Police have said that they have made arrangements to ensure normal life is not disrupted due to the bandh.4. Farmers blocked the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh Ghazipur border in view of the 12-hour bandh call. “Traffic movement is closed on both carriageways of Ghazipur border,” news agency ANI quoted Delhi Police as saying, earlier in the day.Protesters block the Ghazipur border (Delhi-UP border) in view of 12-hour 'Bharat Bandh' call by Samyukt Kisan Morcha against Centre's Farm Laws pic.twitter.com/JnmmPXixJd5. In Uttar Pradesh’s Ghaziabad, traders' bodies have decided to stay ‘neutral’ during the bandh. It was also decided during a meeting on Thursday that nobody would be forced to shut their shops or compelled to open business.6. Among southern states, the blockade is likely to be most effective in Andhra Pradesh, where the ruling YSR Congress has extended its support to the bandh call. Meanwhile, in the eastern state of Odisha, the government on Thursday announced the closure of all educational institutions on March 26, while all government employees have been asked to reach office before 9:30am.7. The opposition Congress has extended its support to the Bharat Bandh. The party, which has a government in Punjab, has been supporting the movement since the very beginning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/12hour-bharat-bandh-begins-a-look-at-situation-in-early-hours-of-blockade-101616726299952.html
26-03-2021||NA||LIVE: Cumulative number of Covid vaccine doses given crosses 5.69 crore: Govt||India's tally of cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has reached 11,846,652 million as the country finds itself in the midst of a second wave of the pandemic. There were 59,118 new cases in the last 24 hours, as per the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) dashboard on Friday morning. Maharashtra continued to be the epicentre of the surge, as the state recorded 35,952 new cases on Thursday, its highest since the beginning of the pandemic.Meanwhile, the global tally of cases currently stands at over 125 million while more than 2.75 million people have succumbed to the infection, according to the Johns Hopkins University. With an infection tally exceeding 30 million, and a death toll topping 546,000, the United States has the highest numbers globally on both counts.Follow all the updates here:Italy reports 457 coronavirus deaths on Friday, 23,987 new casesItaly reported 457 coronavirus-related deaths on Friday against 460 the day before, the health ministry said, while the daily tally of new infections rose to 23,987 from 23,696 the day before.Actor Paresh Rawal tests positive for Covid-19Actor Paresh Rawal tests positive for Covid-19.Will be forced to impose lockdown in Maharashtra, warns Ajit PawarMaharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar has said there will be no option left, but to impose a strict lockdown in the state if Covid-19 norms continue to be floated in the state till April 2.Jharkhand govt issues guidelines prohibiting celebration of upcoming festivalsJharkhand govt issues guidelines prohibiting celebration of Holi, Shab-e-Barat, Navratri, Ramnavami, Easter, etc at public places in the state. People may celebrate Holi with family members in their respective houses.All processions shall continue to remain prohibited.Delhi reports 1,534 new Covid-19 cases, 9 deaths in last 24 hoursDelhi reports 1,534 new Covid-19 cases, 971 recoveries, and 9 deaths in the last 24 hoursTotal cases: 6,54,276Total recoveries: 6,37,238Death toll: 10,987Active cases: 6,051Cumulative number of Covid vaccine doses given crosses 5.69 cr: GovtThe cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has crossed 5.69 crore, the Union Health Ministry said on Friday.WHO urges countries to donate 10 million vaccine doses 'immediately' to CovaxThe World Health Organization chief on Friday urged countries to donate to the Covax scheme for bringing Covid-19 jabs to poorer nations, saying it urgently needed 10 million vaccine doses.Pune sees 7,090 Covid-19 cases, 37 deaths, 2,165 recoveriesPune district reported 7,090 Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, taking its tally to 4,99,784, while the day also 37 deaths and 2,165 people getting discharged, an official said on Friday.Jharkhand reports 308 new Covid-19 casesJharkhand reports 308 new Covid-19 cases, 81 recoveries and 3 deaths.Total cases: 1,22,281Total recoveries: 1,19,779Total deaths: 1103Active cases: 1399UK records 6,187 Covid-19 cases and 70 deathsThe United Kingdom recorded 6,187 new cases of Covid-19 on Friday and 70 deaths of people who had tested positive for the disease within 28 days, official data showed.Italy to reopen schools, ease lockdown in Rome regionItaly will reopen schools for younger students and ease the coronavirus lockdown on Rome and its surrounding region, the government announced on FridayMumbai reports more than 5,000 fresh Covid-19 casesMumbai reports 5513 new Covid-19 cases, taking the total number of cases to 3,85,628.Maharashtra reports 36,902 new Covid-19 cases in last 24 hoursMaharashtra reports 36,902 new positive cases, 17,019 discharges and 112 deaths on Friday.Nagaland reports one new Covid-19 case, takes tally to 12,229Nagaland's Covid-19 tally rose to 12,229 on Friday as one more person tested positive for the infection, PTI reported health minister S Pangnyu Phom as saying.More than 50 people not allowed to gather for Holi celebrations in UttarakhandIn wake of the Covid-19 situation in the state, more than 50 people will not be allowed to gather for Holi celebrations, said Uttarakhand Chief Secretary Om Prakash.Punjab reports highest single day spike of over 3,000 new Covid-19 casesPunjab reports highest single day spike of more than 3,000 new Covid-19 cases and 59 deaths in the last 24 hours.Maharashtra CM orders night curfew from March 28 amid Covid-19 surgeIn view of the increasing number of coronavirus patients in the state, CM has instructed to impose a curfew in the state from Sunday night (March 28) to avoid congestion, implement some strict measures to curb growing infection & implement it effectively, said CM's Secretariat, reported ANI.Gujarat reports 2,190 fresh Covid-19 cases, six deaths in last 24 hoursGujarat reports 2,190 new Covid-19 cases, 1,422 discharges and 6 deaths, in the last 24 hours.Jammu and Kashmir logs 210 new coronavirus casesJammu and Kashmir reports 210 new Covid-19 cases, taking the total number of cases to 1,29,413.Uttarakhand reports 186 new Covid-19 casesUttarakhand reports 186 fresh Covid-19 cases and one death in the last 24 hours, taking active cases to 1,162 and death toll to 1,708, reports ANI.Maharashtra: Nagpur reports 4,095 new Covid-19 casesNagpur district reported 4095 new Covid-19 cases, 1943 recoveries and 35 Death, in the last 24 hours, as per Civil Surgeon, reported ANI.Tamil Nadu registers near to 2,000 new Covid-19 casesTamil Nadu logs 1,971 new Covid-19 cases, 1,131 recoveries and nine deaths in the last 24 hours. Case tally reaches 8,75,190 with toll at over 12,000.Maharashtra CM chairs meeting to review Covid-19 situationMaharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray chairs a meeting of all divisional commissioners, collectors, SPs, and senior doctors of district hospitals to review Covid-19 situation in the state, through video conference.Karnataka reports 2,566 new Covid-19 casesKarnataka reports 2566 new Covid-19 cases, 1207 discharges and 19 deaths today. Active cases tally reaches 19,553 and death toll stands at 12,484.No question, intention of hiding Covid-19 numbers: Karnataka health ministerKarnataka Health Minister K Sudhakar said on Friday all factual data on Covid-19 is being made public. There was no question of hiding numbers and the government has no such intention nor is it possible to hide any details, PTI reported the minister as saying.Chandigarh reports 248 new Covid-19 casesChandigarh reports 248 new Covid-19 cases. The number of active cases now at 2,392 and death toll stands at 372, health bulletin showed.UP reports over 1,000 new Covid-19 casesUttar Pradesh recorded over 1,000 fresh Covid-19 cases after a period of three months, while the death toll rose to 8,779 on Friday with six more fatalities, an official said.Chhattisgarh govt to fine ₹500 for not wearing masks in public placesChhattisgarh government has decided to impose a fine of ₹500 for not wearing a mask in public places, informed the state health and family welfare department on Thursday.Delhi minister Gopal Rai receives first jab of Covid-19 vaccineDelhi minister Gopal Rai on Friday took the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine at the Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Hospital here and appealed to all eligible people to participate in the inoculation drive, reports PTI.Britain approves 20-second Covid-19 testBritain's medicine regulator has approved a 20-second Covid-19 test, the product's distributor said on Friday as it launched a testing system it said could be used in airports, sports venues and businesses, reports Reuters.Puducherry reports 96 new Covid-19 cases The union territory of Puducherry logged 96 fresh coronavirus cases during the last 24 hours taking the overall tally to 40,836, a senior official of the Directorate of Health and Family Welfare Services said on Friday, reports PTI.Ukraine witnesses record spike in Covid-19 casesUkraine registered a record daily high of 18,132 new Covid-19 cases, health minister Maksym Stepanov said on Friday. The previous record was the 16,669 cases registered a day earlier.Maharashtra CM to chair meet with district collectorsMaharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to chair meet with of all district collectors today to review the Covid-19 situation in the state. Maharashtra, and its capital Mumbai, witnessed their worst single-day spike on Thursday.Germany to list France as "Covid-19 high-risk zone": MerkelGerman chancellor Angela Merkel has announced that Germany will consider France as a "high risk zone for Covid-19" in a move that will come into effect from from Friday.Covid-19 vaccine recipient dies in ThailandA man, who was vaccinated against Covid-19 on March 3, died on March 13, Thai officials confirmed on Friday. The cause of death was from an abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) and rupture, senior health official Sopon Mekton said, adding the country's vaccination campaign would continue.Over 238 million samples tested for Covid-19: ICMRCOVID-19 Testing Update. For more details visit: https://t.co/dI1pqvXAsZ @MoHFW_INDIA @DeptHealthRes #ICMRFIGHTSCOVID19 #IndiaFightsCOVID19 #CoronaUpdatesInIndia #COVID19 #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/m0hIvM6DnZTotal 238,604,638 samples tested up to 25 March 2021, says Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).Covid-19 caseload in Maharashtra's Thane nears 300,000Maharashtra's Thane district recorded 3,318 new Covid-19 cases and seven deaths on Thursday. Caseload reaches 299,341 including 6,420 deaths. 270,830 recoveries thus far while active cases at 22,091.India's active Covid-19 caseload crosses 421,000India's active Covid-19 caseload reaches 421,066 with a increase of 25,874 cases while recoveries rise to 11,264,637 with 32,987 more discharges in last 24 hours.India records over 59,000 new Covid-19 cases and 257 deathsIndia records 59,118 new Covid-19 cases as tally reaches 11,846,652. Death toll rises to 160,949 with 257 fresh fatalities. This is first time since October 17 last year that more than 59,000 fresh cases have been recorded.31 new UK Covid-19 variant cases in US's Washoe CountyWashoe County health officials have said they’ve identified 31 new cases of the Covid-19 variant that originated in the United Kingdom since they first confirmed more than a dozen in the Reno-Sparks area about two weeks ago.Maharashtra, Gujarat among states to witness highest single-day spikeMaharashtra, Gujarat and Chhattisgarh were among states which, on Thursday, witnessed their highest single-day spike thus far. The three states recorded 35,952, 1,961 and 2,419 new cases respectively.Mexico's Covid-19 death toll tops 200,000Mexico's death toll reaches 200,000 making it the third-highest globally after tolls in the US and Brazil, respectively. Mexico's Covid-19 fatality toll now stands at 200,211, the health ministry said in its daily update.Over 54.6 million vaccine doses administered in IndiaOver 54.6 million Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in India. More than 1.5 million doses administered till 7pm on Thursday: Health ministryChina reports 11 new Covid-19 casesChina reported 11 new Covid-19 cases on March 25, as many as it did on March 24, as per the country's health authorities. Infection tally reaches 90,147 while the death toll remained unchanged at 4,636.Brazil reports over 100,000 new Covid-19 casesBrazil's Covid-19 tally tops 12.3 million as the country saw more than 100,000 new cases on Thursday. More than 300,000 people have also succumbed to the infection in Brazil thus far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-india-world-latest-news-covid-19-death-toll-march-26-2021-101616718124052.html
26-03-2021||India||PM Modi begins 2-day visit to Bangladesh from today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said his visit to Bangladesh this week, his first foreign trip after the onset of the Covid-19 outbreak, will serve to underline India’s support for the neighbouring country’s economic and developmental achievements.In a statement issued a day ahead of his two-day visit to the country, Modi said he was happy that his first foreign visit ever since the outbreak of the pandemic will be to “our friendly neighbouring country, with which India shares deep cultural, linguistic and people-to-people ties”.The Prime Minister is scheduled to visit Bangladesh on the invitation of his counterpart Sheikh Hasina to participate in the neighbouring country’s National Day celebrations on March 26.“My visit will not only be an occasion to convey appreciation for Bangladesh’s remarkable economic and developmental strides under Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina’s visionary leadership, but also to commit India’s abiding support for these achievements,” he said. “I will also express India’s support and solidarity for Bangladesh’s fight against Covid-19,” he added. Modi said he was looking forward to participating in the National Day celebrations, which will also commemorate the birth centenary of “Bangabandhu” Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, the father of the nation of Bangladesh.On Monday, India announced that the Gandhi Peace Prize for the year 2020 would be conferred on the Bangladeshi leader for his “immense and unparalleled contribution” in “inspiring the liberation of Bangladesh”. “Bangabandhu was one of the tallest leaders of the last century, whose life and ideals continue to inspire millions,” Modi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-begins-2-day-visit-to-bangladesh-from-today-101616716951665.html
26-03-2021||India||60-hr lockdown announced in Maha’s Wardha from March 27 after Covid spike||The Wardha district administration in Maharashtra on Thursday imposed a 60-hour lockdown from March 27 in view of spike in Covid-19 cases in the district, officials said. The district has had at least 200 positive cases every day over the past two weeks.In the order released on Thursday, district collector Prerna Deshabhratar said: “A 60-hour lockdown will be imposed in the district from Saturday 8pm to Tuesday 8am while all essential shops, medical stores and the MIDC industrial area will remain open during the lockdown.” The district administration has also imposed a fine of ₹2,000 if any one violates home quarantine rule.The district reported 251 cases on Thursday and four persons died of Covid-19 in the last 24 hours. The decision to impose a lockdown was also taken in view of the Holi festival, as the district administration wanted to keep a check on public gatherings, officials said.Meanwhile, Nagpur district recorded over 3, 500 Covid-19 cases for the fourth consecutive day, with 3,579 people testing positive on Thursday. Forty-seven deaths were reported in the district in the last 24 hours.The rise in Covid-19 fatalities has baffled the district administration.In view of the prevailing situation, restrictions imposed in Nagpur district will continue with some relaxations till March 31. Nagpur has been under complete lockdown since March 15, and some relaxations were done from March 21.As per the new guidelines, restaurants can operate till 7pm while all shops can remain open till 4pm, and all offices in Nagpur city -- private and government -- can function with 25% staff in Nagpur city. Shops dealing in essential commodities are exempted from the 4pm deadline.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/60hr-lockdown-announced-in-maha-s-wardha-from-march-27-after-covid-spike-101616714441936.html
26-03-2021||India||Fast-track court begins trial five years after Akhlaq’s murder||A fast-track court on Thursday started the trial in the murder of Mohammad Akhlaq five years after he was allegedly lynched by a mob over suspicion of storing beef in his house in Dadri’s Bisada village. Akhlaq’s son Danish, then 22, was seriously injured while trying to save his father.The victim’s family could not appear before the court on Thursday, the first day for the trial, after the charges were framed against the suspects on February 25 this year for the September 28, 2015, incident.The matter is being heard in the court of Dr Anil Kumar Singh, additional district judge, Fast Track Court – 1.“The charges were framed against the suspects recently. The defence lawyers moved discharge applications but they were rejected by the court. Now, the trial has begun in this case. The victim’s kin and witnesses are required to testify in the court for evidence,” said Yusuf Saifi, counsel for Akhlaq’s family.Saifi added that his clients did not receive the court summon for appearance. “They may attend the next hearing on April 14, once they receive summons,” he said. Akhlaq’s daughter Shaishta, son Danish, and wife Ikraman, are among the key witnesses in this case.Of the 18 suspects, two persons have died and three suspects were juveniles at the time of the incident. The court has framed charges against the 13 adult suspects. The accused who were minors at the time of Akhlaq’s killing will be tried by the Juvenile Justice Board , said Saifi.The government has given security to Akhlaq’s elder son Sartaj and brother Jaan Mohammad.Akhlaq was beaten to death and his son severely assaulted on September 29 by a mob in his village which accused him of eating beef. The mob -- which gathered following a public announcement from a nearby temple -- attacked Akhlaq and his son, Danish, even as family members kept screaming that the meat was not ’beef’. Later, a report by a veterinary officer with the Uttar Pradesh government revealed that the meat found in Akhlaq’s house was not beef.“The suspects have denied the charges. The court will begin the trial now,” said Ram Saran Nagar, counsel for the accused Hariom and Bhim.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fasttrack-court-begins-trial-five-years-after-akhlaq-s-murder-101616714266085.html
26-03-2021||India||Genome analysis for reinfection cases in capital||Samples of anyone with a past history of Covid-19 who tests positive again, or those who catch the disease after getting two doses of a vaccine, will be mandatorily sent for whole genome sequencing, the Delhi government ordered on Thursday. The decision is aimed at augmenting surveillance to look for any concerning variants.The decision comes a day after the Centre said it found the presence of a novel variant of Sars-Cov-2 in Delhi in nine samples, while 65 others had the UK variant B.1.1.7. It is yet to be established how the novel variant changes the nature of the virus, but it contains two mutations (E484Q and L452R) that could make it spread more readily or evade the immunity conferred by a past infection or a vaccine. The directorate general of health services (DGHS) directive also said that each district has to send 12 samples (three each of mild, moderate, severe and critical cases) of Covid-19 positive cases per week to the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) for whole genome sequencing. “This will help us in detecting which strain is causing most of the infections here – whether it is the new variant, other variants such as UK, South Africa or Brazil, or something else,” said a senior official from Delhi’s health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/genome-analysis-for-reinfection-cases-in-capital-101616713934675.html
26-03-2021||India||Being made a scapegoat, says Sachin Vaze; in custody till April 3||A special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court on Thursday extended the custody of suspended Mumbai policeman Sachin Vaze till April 3 after the federal investigative agency told the court that it found 62 cartridges from his residence which were unaccounted for and that 25 bullets issued by the police department to him were missing.NIA officials have said that Vaze is the man behind the Antilla explosives case. On February 25, a green Scorpio was found parked outside billionaire Mukesh Ambani’s residence. It contained a bag with 20 loose sticks of gelatin (with no detonator or timer) and a threatening letter addressed to Ambani and his wife. Vaze, who used to head the Crime Intelligence Unit (CIU) of Mumbai Police’s Crime Branch, was initially in charge of the case.NIA took over the probe on March 9 following an order by the Union home ministry and arrested Vaze on March 13. It is also probing Vaze’s role in the death of Mansukh Hiran, a Thane businessman linked to the car.Additional solicitor general Anil Singh, representing NIA, told the court that Vaze was issued 30 bullets by his department, but NIA was able to find only five at his Thane residence during searches. Singh said that NIA had seized 62 cartridges from Vaze’s house that are unaccounted for.“I have been made a scapegoat in this entire incident and have nothing to do with the crime,” Vaze told the court on Thursday. “I was the investigating officer for one-and-a-half days and I did what was required to investigate the case... Not only me, but all Crime Branch officers and Mumbai Police also did (what was required),” Vaze said. “But suddenly something changed and when I went to NIA on March 13, I was put under arrest,” he told the judge through his lawyer, senior advocate Abad Ponda.NIA on Wednesday said it would invoke sections of the stringent Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA), an anti-terror law, against Vaze. The sections deal with conspiring to commit a terror act.ASG Singh told the court of special NIA judge PR Sintre on Thursday that the agency wanted to probe how Vaze managed to accumulate such a sizable stock of ammunition. He told the court that Vaze has not been cooperating and was yet to reveal crucial information such as the provenance of the loose gelatin sticks.Ponda said that since there was no detonator, the case did not fall under UAPA. The scope of the anti-terrorist law, Ponda said, extended only if there was an intention to hurt the unity, sovereignty, integrity and security of the country and target a community. The judge extended Vaze’s remand by 15 days instead of 30, as is permissible under the UAPA.The murderThe ASG said the murder of Thane businessman Mansukh Hiran was connected to the bomb scare and needed to be probed.Hiran, an auto parts dealer who was previously known to Vaze, had borrowed the Scorpio vehicle between November and the first week of February. His body washed up ashore the Reti Bunder creek on March 5.Following his death, Hiran’s wife sought a probe against Vaze.NIA took Vaze to the creek on Thursday night to reconstruct the crime scene.At a press conference held earlier this week, Maharashtra ATS chief Jaijeet Singh -- whose unit was involved in Hiran death probe -- said Vaze was the “mastermind” and the murder was carried out by Naresh Gor (a bookie) and Vinayak Shinde (a former constable).Both men are now in the custody of NIA, which was also handed over the murder case files, evidence and post mortem reports on Thursday.Sharing details of the investigation, an NIA officer told HT, “As part of his plan to produce a sensational case in Mumbai and then solve it in record time, the arrested assistant police inspector, who was in charge of the CIU, asked Hiran to leave his Scorpio on the highway on February 17.”“Hiran, after leaving the car on Mulund-Airoli Road, met Vaze near Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus the same day, and handed over the keys as asked by the officer. Vaze then asked Hiran to lodge a complaint (of a missing car), which Hiran filed on February 18,” the officer added.Once he was made the investigating officer, Vaze asked Hiran to take the rap, but the latter demurred, said a second NIA officer. NIA officials believe Vaze’s plan was to create a link between Hiran (once he confessed) and some Pakistani terror group or suspect, to make it look like a conspiracy planned by Pakistan’s spy agency Inter Services Intelligence. The officials admitted this remains a theory yet to be proved.New leadsNIA officials said they have Vaze’s call records, showing multiple calls to and from Hiran in February and much before that. They also claim to have his location data, his presence at various locations as seen in CCTV footage, and testimony from witnesses.NIA told the court on Thursday that Vaze, during the time he was tasked to investigate the explosives in the Scorpio, allegedly collected and destroyed CCTV footage of several places.ASG Singh said that at least seven relevant Digital Video Recordings were destroyed by the accused, but the agency collected at least 112 TB data in the form of Call Detail Records (CDR) and Internet Protocol Detail Records (IPDR) and the team wished to confront Vaze with this.NIA also said it has collected forensic evidence such as burnt clothes, ₹5.73 lakh cash with a note counting machine, several number plates, as well as other samples from five cars, including a Mercedes Vaze drove and an Innova of the Crime Branch.Explosives plantedFrom February 17 to 25, the Scorpio was with Vaze and his associates in CIU, investigations revealed. On February 25, a fourth NIA investigator said, Vaze and a constable of CIU went in a convoy of two cars — the Scorpio and an Innova — to Carmichael Road around 2:20am to drop the Scorpio, laden with gelatin sticks, near Ambani’s residence, Antilia. A threat letter, addressed to Ambani and his wife, Nita, had already been placed beforehand in the vehicle. “Vaze and the constable took turns to drive Scorpio and then they returned in the Innova,” the officer said.“But, around 4.30am, Vaze returned to the spot to check the Scorpio as he thought he had left his identity card in it by mistake,” the officer added. This visit, NIA officials said, has been established by CCTV footage from Mulund toll naka, where the Innova can be seen re-entering Mumbai from Thane around 4am after leaving the city half-an-hour earlier.NIA officials said the agency will likely make the constable, whom they did not name, a witness rather than charge him in conspiracy.(With inputs from Neeraj Chauhan)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/being-made-a-scapegoat-says-sachin-vaze-in-custody-till-april-3-101616713186464.html
26-03-2021||India||Army’s criteria go against women: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Thursday came down hard on what it called “male for male” structures in the army that resulted in several deserving women short-service commission officers from being considered for permanent commission, holding that such systems were an affront to human dignity and should change for future batches.Dealing a blow to the army selection board decision of November by which only 277 of 615 eligible women short-service commission officers (WSSCOs) were granted permanent commission, the bench allowed the remaining officers who lost out on the opportunity to get a second chance. The court said the women officers to be considered will have to achieve the 60% merit cut-off, fulfil the medical criteria and qualify the vigilance and disciplinary clearance.“The pattern of evaluation, by excluding subsequent achievements of the petitioners and failing to account for the inherent patterns of discrimination that were produced as a consequence of casual grading and skewed incentive structures, has resulted in indirect and systemic discrimination. This discrimination has caused an economic and psychological harm and an affront to their dignity,” a bench of justices DY Chandrachud and MR Shah said.“We must recognise here that the structures of our society have been created by males and for males. As a result, certain structures that may seem to be the ‘norm’... are a reflection of the insidious patriarchal system,” the bench said, attacking the criteria of benchmarking women officers against their male counterparts as indirectly discriminatory.The court had in February last year held in favour of women being eligible for permanent commission in the army’s non-combat streams. As per a list supplied by the army to the court, only 422 of 615 officers fulfilled the merit and discipline criteria. As per the SC judgment, barring the 277 who got selected and 57 who opted out of permanent commission, nearly 280 women officers would have a fresh chance to be considered. This includes 88 officers whose results were withheld.In all, 86 women officers approached the court claiming that the selection board formed by the army pursuant to the court order was a rejection board that benchmarked women against men for consideration of annual confidential reports. Most of the women who were now aged 40-50 were required to show top medical fitness at the time of the fifth and tenth year of service when their male counterparts were considered.On the merit criteria, the court said, “Some of the finest women officers who have served the Indian Army and brought distinction by their performance and achievements have been excluded by refusing to consider their achievements on the specious ground that these were after the 5th/10th year of service.” It noted a few names of officers who received presidential honours and excelled in sporting events but not granted permanent commission.In its 137-page judgment, the court was profuse in its praise for the women officers who showed the tenacity of fighting a protracted legal battle despite hardships of serving in the army and gender stereotypes.The court noted with anguish that “such lack of consideration given to the recent performance of WSSCOs for grant of PC (permanent commission) is a disservice not just to these officers who have served the nation, but also to the Indian Army, which on one hand salutes these officers by awarding them honours and decorations, and on the other hand, fails to assess the true value of these honours when it matters the most — to be treated on an equal footing as male officers who are granted PC.”The army had supported such benchmarking by citing previous internal orders providing for grant of 250 permanent commissions in a year provided that the officers met the 60% cut-off grade. The court directed the army to revise its criteria for evaluation of ACRs and cut-offs for grant of permanent commissions to future batches.Justice Chandrachud, writing the judgment, observed: “A superficial sense of equality is not in the true spirit of the Constitution and attempts to make equality only symbolic… It is not enough to proudly state that women officers are allowed to serve the nation in the armed forces, when the true picture of their service conditions tells a different story.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/armys-criteria-go-against-women-supreme-court-101616712958188.html
26-03-2021||India||Major fire breaks out in Mumbai's Dreams Mall, rescue operation underway||A major fire broke out inside Dreams Mall in Mumbai's Bhandup, which also accommodates a Covid-19 hospital on the third floor, on early Friday morning.All the patients have been shifted to a safer refuge area and oxygen support has been made available for patients who are currently being taken care of by the doctors, Mumbai Mirror reported.The visuals from the spot showed smoke billowing from the mall building and patients being shifted out.Officials said that the evacuation of patients from the hospital, fire dousing and rescue operations are underway."The cause of fire is yet to be ascertained. I have seen a hospital at the mall for the first time. We have shifted 70 patients, including Covid-19 infected, to another hospital," Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar told news agency ANI, adding that action will be taken against those responsible.This is a developing story. More details awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/major-fire-breaks-out-in-mumbai-s-dreams-mall-rescue-operation-underway-101616710872591.html
26-03-2021||India||RT-PCR negative report now must to enter Bengaluru||Amid a continuous surge in Covid-19 cases, Karnataka health minister K Sudhakar on Thursday announced that travellers to Bengaluru from any state will require a negative Covid-19 RT-PCR test report (with the test having been taken within the previous 72 hours) from April 1.The minister said the decision was taken for Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) limits as the city continued to report the highest number of cases in the state. On Thursday, Bengaluru registered 1,623 fresh cases out of the total of 2,523 from across the state.“There is a spike in cases every day. It is increasingly found in passengers arriving in the city from other states. As of now, the requirement (of a test report) is for those coming from Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab and Chandigarh (to Bengaluru). But going forward, it is applicable to visitors from all states ,“ the minister said.However, only visitors from Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab and Chandigarh need negative Covid-19 RT-PCR test reports for travelling to other parts of Karnataka.Government officials said people without test reports will be tested, and asked to be in quarantine till the results are available. They also added that the requirement isn’t just for visitors but also Bengaluru and Karnataka residents who travel outside the state and then return.Stating that 60% of the cases in Bengaluru have a history of inter-state travel, Sudhakar said the government will revive the practice of stamping the hands of those who need to undergo home isolation. “Many young people who are supposed to undergo home isolation are freely walking around because they are asymptomatic 9and there is no way of knowing they need to be in quarantine). We need to curb this,” he said.The government has also decided to resume its Quarantine Watch application which was suspended after the state witnessed a drop in Covid cases, to monitor those undergoing home isolation.On Thursday, the State Disaster Management Board has directed the commissioner of BBMP, all deputy commissioners, and all authorities concerned to prevent public gatherings during upcoming festivals such as Holi and Good Friday.On Wednesday, the state government proposed imposing strict penalties on establishments such as hotels, departmental stores and organisers of public events or large gatherings who fail to enforce safety protocols.In a late night order, the government announced a fine of ₹5,000-10,000 on all establishments found violating safety protocols such as wearing masks and maintaining physical distancing.“The owners of the establishment will be responsible for: a) ensuring compulsory wearing of masks and social distancing; b) enforcing restrictions on the number of persons to be allowed,” the order read.As a precautionary measure, the government has limited the number of wedding attendees to 500 in open spaces and 200 in closed areas; it has permitted a gathering of 50 to 100 people in birthday parties and funerals, depending on whether they are held in enclosed or open spaces; and it has restricted the number of attendees to 500 at religious and political events.There are currently 18,207 active coronavirus cases in Karnataka. As many as 12,471 people have succumbed to the virus while 978,478 patients have recovered. According to the Union health ministry, 3,044,524 (a little over three million) vaccine doses have been administered in the state so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rtpcr-negative-report-now-must-to-enter-bengaluru-101616706350902.html
26-03-2021||India||CBI may probe only key bank frauds||The government is considering having the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) look into some extraordinary bank frauds, with specialised agencies such as the Serious Fraud Investigation Office (SFIO) being asked to investigate most other cases -- a move aimed at allaying the fear of being prosecuted for purely commercial decisions that is forcing bankers to go slow on lending.CBI may be kept out of most loan default cases, two people familiar with the thinking in the government said on condition of anonymity. The economy, recovering from the devastating impact of the still ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, needs higher credit growth, but bank employees are hesitating to sanction loans fearing CBI, they added.The ministries of home, finance and corporate affairs, SFIO, CBI and the Indian Banks’ Association (IBA) did not respond to email queries seeking comment.India’s economy shrank by 24.4% in the three months ended June 30 and 7.3% in the three months ended October, before entering growth territory and expanding by 0.4% in the three months ended December 31. The government has estimated the entire year’s GDP contraction at 8%.Higher credit growth is one of the requirements to accelerate gross domestic product (GDP), one of the two people said. According to the latest data of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) annualised non-food bank credit growth in January this year was slower at 5.7% compared to 8.5% in the same period last year. Credit to industry, however, contracted by 1.3% in January 2021 as compared to 2.5% growth in January 2020, it said.In December 2019, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said at the HT Leadership Summit that bank employees should not be penalised for “genuine business decisions”. The same month, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said honest bankers need not to fear the three Cs – CBI, the Central Vigilance Commission (CVC) and the Comptroller and Auditor General of India (CAG).But numbers present the rationale behind the fear.In just three years, from 2018 till 2020, CBI registered bank fraud cases involving amounts over ₹1 lakh crore, according to an HT analysis of the agency’s first information reports (FIRs). In 2020 alone, the agency registered over 200 bank fraud cases, involving amount totaling ₹70,000 crore, the highest ever in a year. In 2019, close to 100 bank fraud cases were filed by CBI involving around ₹20,000 crore .The agency has also hired around 50 bank officials on deputation in last few years to assist it in banking investigations.To be sure, it is likely that high-profile cases involving significant defaults, or fugitive borrowers, will still be investigated by the agency. For instance, CBI has been investigating the IDBI Bank - Kingfisher Airlines case, involving the latter’s promoter, Vijay Mallya.It is also likely that CBI will investigate bank fraud cases where the promoters have fled the country. The government informed the parliament in September last year that 38 people, named in bank fraud cases, fled India between 2015 and 2019.Soumya Datta, general secretary, All India Bank Officers’ Confederation (AIBOC) said: “The proposed move (restricting CBI’s role in the banking sector) will certainly benefit all stakeholders. We have already raised our concerns to the government that there is a fear psychosis in the banking industry.”Datta said that officials are often scared to lend and the bankers are not inclined to settle bad loans to avoid harassment by the investigative agencies. A senior executive of a large state-owned bank said on condition of anonymity that “bank officials do not want to take even legitimate decisions that could invite attention of agencies like CBI and jeopardise their careers”.Abhishek A Rastogi, partner at law firm Khaitan & Company, said the proposed move to give larger responsibility to SFIO for handling bulk of bank-related cases is pragmatic and will address larger number of cases while saving CBI’s time and resources so that it can focus on big-ticket cases.“Robust credit culture is the need of the hour for revival of the economy and the efforts of the government to augment growth by improving the credit culture can be achieved with not only strong principles and actions but also pragmatic deterrents and rewards within the lending organisations,” he said.A former CBI director said on condition of anonymity that “CBI should only register big fraud cases and smaller cases can be given to the states’ economic offences wing”. He added that the floor “for example, cases above ₹500 crore” has to be decided by the government..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-may-probe-only-key-bank-frauds-101616706344918.html
26-03-2021||India||Growth, Assamese identity key issues in polls: Sarma||Guwahati Assam finance minister and Bharatiya Janata Party leader Himanta Biswa Sarma said that identity and development will be the key issues in the assembly polls scheduled to start on March 27.The party, head of the ruling coalition in the state, has set a target of winning over 100 seats along with its allies in the 126-member Assam assembly, he said. The BJP itself, Sarma claimed, would improve its tally “significantly”.“The BJP is contesting more seats than the last time; our allies have given us more space,” Sarma added.In the 2016 state polls, the BJP won 60 of the 89 seats it contested. In the upcoming three-phase elections, the party is contesting 92 seats, while its allies, the United People’s Party Liberal (UPPL) and the Asom Gana Parishad (AGP), will contest eight and 26 seats respectively.“This election will be fought on the issues of identity and development in equal measure,” Sarma said.While the party is facing anti-incumbency and a backlash in some regions of the state over the National Register of Citizens (NRC) and the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA), Sarma said the state government’s welfare schemes will help the BJP increase its tally.The party is banking on improving its tally in 47 seats in the Upper Assam region where anti-CAA sentiment was a major concern for the party. The BJP won 35 of these 47 seats in 2016.“Our target is to add at least 5 to 6 more seats here. Whether we will be able to maintain the lead in the second and third phase we will have to see, because there is a chance of losing about 10 seats in the second and the third phase [where the opposition has more strongholds]. At the end, the party will eventually make up for the losses because we are contesting more seats,” Sarma said.Violent protests erupted in 2019 after Parliament approved the Citizenship Amendment Bill which seeks to fast-track the grant of citizenship to non-Muslim minorities from neighbouring countries of Pakistan, Bangladesh and Afghanistan. In Assam, where fear of outsiders translated into a seven-year long protest ending with the signing of the Assam Accord in 1985, some people saw the law as an instrument that would legitimise the claims of outsiders. The Assam Accord set the deadline for foreigners or outsiders entering the state to be treated as residents (and granted citizenship) as March 1975. CAA shifted this to December 2014, creating a stir in the state.Two regional parties, the Assam Jatiya Parishad (AJP) and the Raijor Dal, are hoping to dent the BJP’s vote share in the region, banking on the anti-CAA sentiment.Sarma, however, dismissed these concerns. “They will not affect our traditional vote bank. These parties [AJP and RD] will dent the Congress vote bank by about 2000-3000 votes in all the constituencies.”The updated NRC for Assam, released in August 2019, excluded 1.9 million of the nearly 33 million applicants. Calling the list faulty, the BJP said that the names of many genuine citizens were left out. The NRC is yet to be notified.In lower Assam, where there is a significant Muslim population in constituencies such as Barpeta, Bongaigaon, and Nalbari , the BJP is confident that alliance with Badruddin Ajmal’s AIUDF may end up hurting the Congress. While admitting that the Congress-AIUDF combine has a “good chance” in the region, Sarma said a shift from the “strategic alliance” between the Congress and the AIUDF to a “formal alliance” has upset traditional Congress voters.“In seats such as Nazira, which were once seen as strongholds of the Congress, people are not voting for them because of the alliance [with AIUDF],” Sarma pointed out, adding that a “strategic alliance” or announcement of a deeper alliance after tge first phase of polling may have actually helped the Congress.The BJP believes the Congress will lose between six to seven seats in its strongholds. “The alliance may help them in lower and middle Assam, but there is the loss that the party will face in the Northern and upper part of the state,” he said.The Congress, which has come under sharp attack from the BJP for its alliance with the allegedly communal AIDUF, has said that the ruling party is trying to polarize voters. “They had no problems contesting the district council elections sitting in Ajmal’s lap. When they wanted seats in the Rajya Sabha they went to Ajmal for his votes and now when he has rejected them he has suddenly become communal. The BJP’s three principles of fighting an election are divide and rule, distract and rule and distort and rule,” said Congress spokesperson Gourav Vallabh.Sarma said that the conflict with Ajmal is “civilisational”. “Our culture is different, and reconciliation is not easily possible. This conflict was not started by Ajmal, he is the symbol of what is inimical to us. He symbolizes civilisational conflict,” he said.“He is an Indian but not an Assamese. From 1935, the late Gopinath Bordoloi started the Congress versus Muslim League fight, it was then taken up by the AGP and now depends on the BJP. This is a real battle in Assam, which we call a civilisational conflict.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/growth-assamese-identity-key-issues-in-polls-sarma-101616706326863.html
26-03-2021||India||Raipur bans entry to tourist spots amid Covid-19 spike||The Raipur district administration on Thursday banned the entry of people at tourism spots and prohibited religious, social, political and other gathering to contain the spread of Covid-19 after a fresh spike in cases has hit Chhattisgarh hard over the past 11 days, leading to more than 100 deaths.Raipur has also made seven days’ home quarantine mandatory for anyone entering the city from other states.Chhattisgarh reported 2,419 Covid-19 cases on Thursday, the state’s highest single-day spike in the last four months. On November 23 last year, Chhattisgarh had recorded 2,061 cases. Raipur district reported 573 new cases on Thursday.With 14 more Covid-19 deaths in 24 hours, the statewide toll mounted to 4,025, a health official said. Officials said that cases have been rising sharply since March 13, when Chhattisgarh recorded 543 cases.According to a statement on Wednesday by the district administration, Holi celebrations and other public gatherings have been banned (Holi falls on March 29), although the ritual of ‘Holika Dahan’, the previous evening, has been permitted in groups of no larger than five people.“All kinds of religious festivals, cultural and political programmes, sports, exhibitions and fairs, functions and public programmes have been banned. Religious places will remain open for only paying obeisance and people can enter places of worship individually, but organising any kind of group or public programmes will be prohibited,” the statement said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/raipur-bans-entry-to-tourist-spots-amid-covid-19-spike-101616706320846.html
26-03-2021||India||Supreme Court orders status quo on water supply to Delhi||Noting that the right to drinking water is a fundamental right, the Supreme Court on Thursday cut short any attempt by Punjab and Haryana governments and the central agency of Bhakra Beas Management Board (BBMB) to curtail supply of water to Delhi on account of repair work of the Bhakra Nangal channel.Anticipating a water scarcity, the Delhi Jal Board (DJB) had rushed to the Supreme Court to seek stay of any repair work undertaken by the BBMB in the months of April and May. “We have no problem with the repairs being carried out. But do not touch it in April when there is a peak demand of water in the city,” senior advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi submitted for DJB. The Nangal Hydel Channel supplies 232 million gallons of water a day to Delhi. Closure of the two gates supplying water to the Capital will lead to a 25 per cent shortage, said DJB’s petition filed through advocate Gautam Narayan.A three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde noted that the matter was “serious” and issued notice to Punjab, Haryana and BBMB seeking their responses within a day. “The respondents are directed to maintain status quo on supply of water to Delhi till tomorrow i.e. 26th March,” added the bench, also comprising Justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian.This is the second petition by DJB before the top court. Earlier, the Jal Board filed a petition accusing Haryana Government for releasing untreated water into Yamuna leading to high ammonia levels in water that posed a health hazard to denizens.The Haryana government had disputed this position and claimed that the problem was at Delhi’s end. On Thursday, the Delhi government again accused Haryana of supplying less water to Delhi. Senior advocate Vikas Singh who appeared for Delhi told the Court that the water level at Wazirabad barrage that supplies water to Wazirabad, Okhla and Chandrawal water treatment plants had reduced by six feet. For Haryana, senior advocate Shyam Divan contradicted the statement and claimed that not a single drop was being withheld from Delhi. Singh urged the Court to consider sending a Court commissioner for an on-the-spot verification.The bench said, “Since it’s a matter of fundamental right to water we will not entertain any technical objections and if required we may appoint a commissioner to visit the spot.”Over the past few months, DJB had written six letters to Punjab, Haryana and BBMB citing postponement of repairs of the Hydel channel to the monsoon months of July-August but received no response. Top officers of DJB had even visited Punjab in this connection. The bench wished to know the nature of repairs being carried out. “If repair is integral to the water channel, we won’t stop them,” bench said. Singhvi assured that the repairs can be carried out later as well and requested for a stay till the matter is taken up.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-orders-status-quo-on-water-supply-to-delhi-101616706315066.html
26-03-2021||India||‘No vaccine shortage, states have used only 54 of 80 million doses sent’||States across the country have together used up 54 million of the roughly 80 million doses of coronavirus vaccines distributed till now, according to government figures as of 8pm on Thursday, as officials maintained that the country has adequate doses for now while more are expected to be shipped within the next week.On average, over the week, India has administered 2.3 million doses a day. At this rate, accounting for wastage of about 6.5% (as estimated by the government), the existing stock will last for around eight days.Last week, India placed orders for 120 million more doses. “We expect these shipments to begin over the weekend – almost certainly before the end of the month,” said a person aware of the vaccine logistics, asking not to be named.Government officials have not shared details of stocks in different regions, and multiple states, including Odisha, Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan, West Bengal and Maharashtra, have in the past month raised concerns of looming shortages over the past month.“India has enough supplies to vaccinate its vulnerable population,” Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said on the sidelines of the ministry’s weekly media briefing on Covid-19 on Wednesday. “Centre has distributed 80,700,000 Covid-19 vaccine doses to all states and union territories so far, and has enough supplies to cater to country’s demands” he added.“We are receiving the vaccine doses regularly, there is no problem with the supply. There is no shortage in the institute,” said Dr DK Sharma, medical superintendent, All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Delhi.A senior Delhi government official, who asked not to be named, too said that there was no shortage in the state.India’s vaccine stocks appear to be on a stronger footing, especially when compared to the European Union where low stocks have triggered police raids on warehouses and diplomatic disputes with other nations such as the UK and Australia.The situation in the country is helped by the capacity of India’s pharma industry – Serum Institute of India, which is manufacturing Covishield (the dose developed as AZD1222 by Oxford-AstraZeneca), is the world’s largest vaccine maker by volume. SII CEO Adar Poonawalla has in the past said he expects production capacity to reach 100 million doses a month this year.“In case of emergencies, we are equipped to ship large tranches at short notice to any part of the country,” the person quoted above added.While India’s vaccination rate is the second highest in the world (behind US), it also has a large population it needs to target. With the country having entered its second wave of the pandemic, with cases accelerating at the fastest pace seen yet, experts are calling for people and the government to do more to quicken the vaccination campaign.“Vaccine hesitancy is common whenever there is a new vaccine in market, and since it is one of the key measures to control the outbreak, the primary job of all stakeholders is to ensure concerns regarding vaccines are allayed. The government is making an effort in this direction,” said Dr GC Khilnani, former head, department of pulmonology, AIIMS, Delhi.Government experts have reiterated on several occasions recently that both vaccines approved for use in India are safe, and there was no clotting reported related to Covishled in the country as was the case abroad due to which some European countries paused use of Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine.The other vaccine in use is Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin.“Covishield is safe and there is no signal of concern regarding it as of now,” said Dr VK Paul, member (health), Niti Aayog during the briefing on Wednesday.India’s adverse effect monitoring mechanism did not find any concerns, he added.ICMR director general Dr Balram Bhargava, at the same briefing, also said both doses were effective against the UK and the Brazilian variants of Sars-Cov-2. Research, however, is on to know whether the vaccines are effective against the South African variant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-vaccine-shortage-states-have-used-only-54-of-80-million-doses-sent-101616706292931.html
26-03-2021||India||Farmers’ Bharat Bandh may impact normal life in Punjab, Haryana today||A call for a 12-hour Bharat Bandh by Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), a coalition of farmers’ unions, on Friday is likely to have an impact in Punjab, Haryana, western Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan.The strike, in protest against the three contentious farm laws, is slated to be observed from 6 am till 6 pm. All business establishments, road and rail services will remain suspended during this period.The 32 farmers’ bodies, which are part of SKM, are making efforts to ensure the bandh impact is also felt in other parts of the country, farmer leaders said.Thousands of farmers from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, among other states, have been staging a sit-in along Delhi borders, mainly Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur, since November 27, seeking repeal of the farm laws – Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act – passed in Parliament in the Monsoon Session. The protesting farmers fear that the new agricultural laws will dismantle the Minimum Support price (MSP) and corporatise farming.Despite 12 rounds of talks, the farmers and the Centre have failed to resolve the stalemate.According to Bharat Kisan Union (BKU) (Dakaunda) general secretary Jagmohan Singh, an appeal has been issued to all trade unions and traders, banks and government offices to remain shut to make the strike a success.“Samyukt Kisan Morcha has appealed to all sections of the society to participate,” Singh said, adding that farm leaders also visited markets and met representatives of trade unions to seek their support for the bandh.Farm leaders such as BKU spokesperson Rakesh Tikait and Swaraj India chief Yogendra Yadav have visited several states in the past one month to create awareness and seek support of local farm bodies for the strike.“Many trade and bank unions who are protesting against selling of the government public sector enterprises have extended their support to the bandh call,” Singh said.No road and rail movement will be allowed during the strike.“Farm unions will block the state and national highways and key rail routes to halt the movement of traffic,” the BKU leader said.In Haryana, Balwant Nambardar, head of Phogat khap, said farmers have decided to block railways at five points and roads across 30 locations in Bhiwani and Dadri districts. “We have asked the farmers to reach their nearby protest site to observe a complete bandh,” he said.INLD state president Nafe Singh Rathee assured the support of his party workers for the bandh.’In Rajasthan, SKM convenor Sanjay Madhav said all shops and markets, barring medical stores, petrol pumps and ambulance services, will remain shut. “Farmers will block the service lane and also Delhi-Jaipur lane on Jaipur-Delhi National Highway at Shahjahanpur along Rajasthan-Haryana border where farmers have been agitating for the last four months,” he said.However, Kota Vyapar Mahasangh president Kranti Jain said no bandh would be observed in the state as the festival season is round the corner.The 32 farmers’ bodies, which are part of SKM, are making efforts to ensure the bandh impact is also felt in other parts of the country, according to farm leaders.Meanwhile in Bihar, Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tejashwi Yadav has decided to club the Bharat Bandh with Bihar Bandh called by his party to protest against the forceful removal of party legislators from the state assembly on Tuesday.“To protest against the death of democracy by chief minister (Nitish Kumar), beating of MLAs, inflation, stand against farm bills, I call for Bihar Bandh on March 26,” Yadav tweeted.In Andhra Pradesh, the protesting workers at Visakhapatnam Steel Plant along with political parties have decided to observe a shutdown in the port city to protest against the Centre’s decision to privatise the steel plant as well as lend support to the farmers’ in their cause.Police officials in various states have said that extra force would be deployed to prevent any untoward incident. Punjab police additional director general (law and order) Ishwar Singh said the field staff have been directed to remain alert while patrolling and setting up of check points have increased.Sonipat superintendent of police Jashandeep Randhawa said he has held a meeting with senior district police officials to maintain law and order at Kundli border among other areas in the district.The bandh is also likely to have an impact in the four election-bound states and one Union territory – Tamil Nadu, Kerala, West Bengal, Assam and Puducherry. In West Bengal, peasant front leaders of Left parties said meetings would be held in this regard (bandh call).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-bharat-bandh-may-impact-normal-life-in-punjab-haryana-today-101616706281948.html
26-03-2021||India||Covid-19 graph continues to soar: Capital adds 1,515 new infections||The Covid-19 surge in the Capital continued unabated on Thursday as Delhi recorded its highest single-day case spike of the year, adding 1,515 new infections — the most since December 16, as experts urged authorities to consider stepping up curbs to prevent infections from spiralling beyond control.The seven-day average of new cases, known as case trajectory, crossed the 1,000-mark for the first time in 91 days, with the city adding an average of 1,016 cases per day over the past week.The positivity rate also increased to 1.69%, even as the city ramped up testing. For six days now, the test positivity rate, which experts regard as a crucial metric to gauge the spread of an infection, has remained over 1% since it dipped below that number in December last year.On Wednesday, numbers from which are reported a day later in Thursday’s bulletin, the city tested 89,836 samples for the infection. Of these, almost 65% samples were tested using the more accurate RT-PCR method. Just over 78,000 tests were conducted on average daily during the last seven days in comparison. Just over 71,000 tests were conducted the week before and over 65,000 tests the week before that.Experts called for immediate measures such as curtailing all “non-essential” activities and large gatherings to prevent a surge in cases as seen in states such as Maharashtra. “There is a need for some restrictions such as curtailing the number of people at weddings, restricting travel between states, closing non-essential services such as bars, restaurants, and cinemas. And these need to be brought in now before we see a surge like in Maharashtra. The case fatality rate in Delhi as well as the country has come down since last year because of the better understanding about the disease, however it still kills. It is a myth that this time around the virus is causing milder infections,” said Dr GC Khilnani, former head of the department of pulmonology at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences.Four deaths on average were reported each day over the past seven days, up from two deaths that were reported the week before. Five deaths due to the viral infection were reported in Thursday’s bulletin.The case spike has bought with it a significant increase in hospitalisations as well. There were 1,094 people with the infection admitted to city hospitals as on Wednesday night, meaning one in five beds earmarked for Covid-19 are already occupied. A total of 5,740 beds in city hospitals are reserved for the treatment of the infection which has so far claimed 10,978 lives in the city.Other than restrictions on transport, experts have also recommended that travel for events such as the Kumbh Mela be restricted.“In cities where the cases are going up, restrictions have to be put in place. People have to be asked to avoid unnecessary travel and there have to be restrictions on the number of people allowed on modes of public transport,” said Dr Rajinder K Dhamija, professor of medicine and head of the department of neurology at Lady Hardinge Medical College.In addition to the traditional methods of controlling the infection, the experts have also called for increasing the pace of vaccination.“There is a need to enhance vaccination on a war footing. But, nobody seems to be worried about what is happening; I do not see a sense of urgency anywhere. In addition to the people over the age of 45 years and the healthcare and frontline workers, the government should also start vaccinating all the teachers and ancillary staff at schools and colleges so that they can be reopened,” said Dr T Jacob John, former head of the department of virology at Christian Medical College-Vellore.However, the vaccination drive has failed to pick up pace in Delhi despite the government announcing that more vaccination centres will be opened up and they will remain open till 9 pm. Since the extended drive began on Monday, on average 34,027 jabs were administered each day. In comparison, 46,769 shots – both first and second dose – had been given on Saturday, according to government data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-graph-continues-to-soar-capital-adds-1-515-new-infections-101616706266820.html
26-03-2021||India||NHRC issues notice to UP DGP over arrest of 10 people in ‘fake’ case in Etah||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) on Thursday issued notice to director general of police (DGP), Uttar Pradesh over arrest of ten people in an alleged false case by the policemen in Etah district.In a press statement, deputy director, NHRC, Jaimini Kumar Srivastava said, the NHRC has taken suo motu cognizance of a media report that in Etah district, two policemen got involved in a squabble at a ‘dhaba’ (eatery) over payment of bill for the food they consumed. The policemen then falsely implicated and arrested ten people including the brother of the owner of the eatery and eight customers in an alleged encounter with them. The persons reportedly arrested by the police are presently lodged in the judicial custody, he said.The Commission has issued a notice to the DGP calling for a report in the matter within six weeks. A copy of the proceedings has also been sent to the Member Secretary, Uttar Pradesh State Legal Aid Services Authority to ensure free legal aid to the arrested people, if not provided, he said.Issuing the notice, the Commission observed that the contents of the media report, if true, raise serious issue of violation of Human Rights. The incident, apparently, is a classic example of failure of entire system of checks and balances. Hence, fair investigation is required to be conducted to know as to from where the policemen could manage to procure these items, Srivastava said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nhrc-issues-notice-to-up-dgp-over-arrest-of-10-people-in-fake-case-in-etah-101616706261864.html
26-03-2021||India||Reopening of IGI’s Terminal 1 delayed till May||The reopening of Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International Airport’s Terminal 1 has been delayed again at a time when Covid cases are rising again in the country, officials aware of the development said on condition of anonymity.The terminal, which was to open on March 28, is now likely to be opened only in May, one of the officials cited above said, adding that the decision was taken as the Union ministry of civil aviation has only allowed 80% air traffic movement at airports, which can be handled by Terminals 2 and 3.Terminal 1 was shut on March 25 last year, two days after international flight operations were suspended due to the Covid-19 outbreak. Two months later, when air operations in the country resumed on May 25, only Terminal 3 was opened. Terminal 2 eventually resumed functioning on October 1, while Terminal 1 continued to stay shut to facilitate ongoing expansion work.The Delhi airport operator, DIAL (Delhi International Airport Ltd), was planning to resume operations at Terminal 1 on Thursday as the government was expected to allow 100% air traffic movement. The reopening was first pushed to March 28, and has now been delayed further because the government is yet to take a call on when full-fledged flight movements will be permitted.“The airport operator was planning to open only a portion of the terminal, with the ongoing expansion work continuing in the remaining area. Around 200 flight movements were planned from Terminal 1 on resumption of operations, and we were expecting a daily passenger footfall of roughly 35,000 to 50,000. Two airlines — IndiGo and SpiceJet — were to shift their operations to the Terminal 1. The reopening of the terminal has now been postponed by about four to five weeks at least,” said an official who asked not to be named.He added that this will give the airport operator time to resume operations from a much wider area of Terminal 1, which will help enhance passenger experience when it does become functional again.A second official, who asked not to be named, said all the planning for the reopening was in place — airlines had scheduled their flight operations, and they have now been asked to inform flyers about the change.The Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), which secures the airport and conducts security checks at the Security Hold Area inside the terminal, had also planned its deployment.“We have not officially been told about the postponement. We were present at the terminal throughout, even when it was shut. As the reopening was planned, we had decided to strategically deploy our commandos inside the terminal at different points and on the periphery of the building, following a detailed survey. Whenever the airport operator decides to resume operations from Terminal 1, we will be ready to provide adequate security,” a senior CISF officer said, asking not to be named.Spice Jet and IndiGo declined to comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/reopening-of-igi-s-terminal-1-delayed-till-may-101616699246673.html
26-03-2021||India||Govt plans round table meeting to brainstorm long-term pollution control plan||Environment minister Gopal Rai on Thursday announced a round table conference next month to be attended by experts and different organisations to formulate a long-term action plan to tackle pollution in the national capital. The announcement was made after Rai held a review meeting with officials from the environment department and Delhi Pollution Control Committee on Thursday.“On April 12 and 13, Delhi will hold a round table conference at the Secretariat. Environment experts and others will be called to the conference, so that we can formulate the next action plan…We will take suggestions of experts and different organisations working on pollution and then the Delhi government will discuss and develop an action plan,” Rai said.Last year, the Delhi government ran an anti-dust campaign in Delhi, used a bio-decomposer to stop stubble burning, held a ”red light on, car off” campaign, started a green war room at the Secretariat to monitor and coordinate efforts by different agencies to control air pollution, and also launched the Green Delhi app.The government said after the meeting, officials would engage in the formulation of the action plan based on the advice given by experts. Rai also called for monitoring of all pollution hot spots in Delhi and said agencies related to construction work should be aware of dust pollution norms.“Regular monitoring of all hot spots in Delhi should happen. I am ordering action on complaints that are coming to the green war room. The second important point was discussed on dust pollution. We took action in many places, especially last year. The public works department and the municipal corporations have also been instructed to spray water continuously on roads,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-plans-round-table-meeting-to-brainstorm-long-term-pollution-control-plan-101616699273638.html
26-03-2021||India||11 bills cleared in truncated budget session of Parliament||Indian Parliament’s truncated budget session ended on Wednesday after both Houses cleared 11 bills including the controversial legislation that defined the Delhi government as LG. It was the second session to be held amid the Covid-19 pandemic, after last year’s monsoon session.None of the 13 bills introduced in the session has been referred to parliamentary Committees. According to the PRS Legislative Research, in the current Lok Sabha, so far just 11% of the introduced Bills have been referred for parliamentary scrutiny. The rate is much lower than the 14th (60%), 15th (71%), and 16th (27%) Lok Sabhas.The session was cut short by 10 days as many lawmakers wanted to return to their states ahead of the ensuing assembly elections in four states and the union territory of Puducherry.The Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha saw massive protests over soaring fuel prices and vocal opposition to the three contentious farm bills washed out almost the entire first week. But both Houses worked overtime and the Lok Sabha eventually clocked 114% productivity and the Rajya Sabha, 85% in the second half of the budget session that began on March 8.For the first time since the pandemic began, both Houses of Parliament returned to their usual schedule and social distancing norms were partially waived off even as a large section of the MPs remained busy in the poll campaign. The changes were made on account of low attendance, but also a recognition of the low incidence of cases when the session began, and the launch of India’s Covid-19 vaccine drive in January. Unfortunately, the session ended with a surging second wave of infections across the country.The Question Hour and the Zero Hour also returned in the daily schedule after the last session (monsoon, 2020) dispensed with both.The session started with the President’s address, and Prime Minister Narendra Modi gave his first speech in Parliament after the enactment of the three contentious farm laws in which he told farmers that the government’s doors are always open for talks.The Lok Sabha alone cleared 18 bills, at times worked till midnight and recorded participation of 146 lawmakers in the budget debate that alone lasted for almost 15 hours. After the first week was washed out in disruptions, the Lower House sat late for more than 48 hours to make up for the lost time.Amid the second wave of the Covid pandemic, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla, who played a key role in resolving the stalemate in the first week, tested positive and missed the last four days of the session. This is the first time, Birla, working without a deputy Speaker since June 2019, missed the proceedings.In his valedictory address, Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu informed that the Upper House spent 104 hours and 23 minutes against the total scheduled time of 116 hours and 31 minutes. It lost 21 hours and 26 minutes due to disruptions but worked for extra 14 hours and 28 minutes. Naidu pointed out that the overall productivity of the last five sessions including the latest one was about 94%.Naidu admitted that while efforts are on to improve functioning of the House panels, “there are some areas of concern, such as less attendance of Members and the duration of the meetings, which need further improvement.” He asked party leaders to “sensitize their members” to take the committees’ work “seriously”.The Lok Sabha issued a statement to underline that a total of 583 matters of Urgent Public Importance and a total of 405 matters under Rule 377 were taken up while 48 statements were given by ministers. In the Rajya Sabha, the Union Budget was discussed for 10 hours and 43 minutes on three days. As many as 199 Members participated in the discussion on bills in the Upper House.The next session of Parliament is scheduled to meet in July but the final schedule will be decided keeping in mind the Covid situation.In a press conference after the end of the session, the Congress criticised the government for not sending a single bill to House panels for scrutiny. The Congress’ chief whip in the Rajya Sabha Jairam Ramesh said: “All these bills will be challenged in courts in the future. The government can claim it was a productive session. But it was possible only because the Congress offered a constructive support to the government to run Parliament.”Leader of Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge, Ramesh and Congress Lok Sabha leader Ravneet Singh Bittu also alleged that the government is selling off public assets to a handful of industrialists. They also added that the Congress was not in the favour of adjourning the session two weeks before its scheduled close.“We highlighted fuel price rise and all issues of the people before the House. But the government brazenly runs the House as it has brute majority. In UPA days, we used to listen to all members,” said Kharge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/11-bills-cleared-in-truncated-budget-session-of-parliament-101616699287720.html
26-03-2021||India||Woman sub-inspector in shoot-out operation to nab two men on Delhi Police’s most wanted list||A shoot-out led by a crime branch team comprising a woman sub-inspector, in the early hours of Thursday on Bhairon Marg in central Delhi, ended in the arrest of two “most wanted” men, who carried a reward on their arrest, the police said later in the day.Sub-inspector Priyanka Sharma and assistant commissioner of police Pankaj Singh were allegedly fired upon by the two men, but their bulletproof vests saved them and they went on to arrest (alleged) gangster Rohit Choudhary and his accomplice, Parveen (single name only), the police said. Choudhary, 35, carried a cash reward of ₹3.5 lakh on his arrest, while Praveen carried a reward of ₹2 lakh.On Thursday, the photograph of Sharma, the only woman among 10 policemen, wearing a bulletproof vest was widely circulated on social media -- the novelty being that although Delhi Police has around 8,000 women personnel, it is rare for a woman officer to be involved in a shoot-out. Women personnel are mostly posted in the traffic wing, at police stations or with other units. A few women IPS officers are also heading districts as deputy commissioners or are leading teams in the crime branch.Police said 35-year-old Sharma had joined the Delhi Police in 2010. She was recruited as a constable, but she later cleared an exam and was appointed as sub-inspector. She started working with the crime branch in 2019 and has spent nearly three years with the unit.Retired Delhi Police officer Ashok Chand, who served the force for around 35 years and headed the special cell and crime branch, said in his knowledge, a woman officer has been part of a shoot-out for the first time. “Women have always assisted search parties and surveillance teams in such cases. However, for a shoot-out, this may be a first,” Chand said.Police said the two men were involved in multiple cases of murder, attempts to murder, kidnapping, extortion, illegal use of arms and assault. Last year, in October, Choudhary was also booked under the Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act, 1999, police said.Following their arrest, police have also recovered two SUVs -- a black Endeavour and a white Fortuner. Police said the Fortuner was a bulletproof vehicle.Additional commissioner of police (crime) Shibesh Singh said his teams had been keeping a watch on the movements of both Choudhary and Parveen for the past few months.“On Thursday, following a tipoff that the suspects would be coming near Bhairon Temple on Bhairon Marg, a trap was laid. Around 5am, a blue Toyota Glanza was spotted approaching the police barricade. The Glanza driver tried to break through the barricades and when our team tried to reach the car, the occupants opened fire at our team,” Singh said.While one bullet hit ACP Singh, another struck S-I Sharma. However, since both officers were kitted out in bulletproof vests, both escaped with minor injuries.The additional commissioner said his team returned the fire. Both occupants got out of the car and started fleeing when they were hit by a bullet each in their legs.“Both men were caught and we recovered two loaded semi-automatic pistols from them. They were taken to Ram Manohar Lohia hospital for treatment and were arrested for attempt to murder and under other relevant sections,” the officer said.Singh said a total of six rounds were fired during the encounter, of which four were fired by the police team. During the search of their car, police also recovered several fake identity documents, mobile phones and internet dongles. The identity documents were used by the men to stay at different hotels and mobile phones and dongles were used for communicating with the other gang members, police said.Later on Thursday, a video was widely shared on social media in which two women, identifying themselves as wives of Choudhary and Parveen, claimed that their husbands had been picked up by the police a day before from Palwal, Haryana. The women purportedly said if anything happens to their spouses, the Delhi Police will be held responsible.HT could not independently verify the authenticity of the video or the claims made by the women.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-sub-inspector-in-shoot-out-operation-to-nab-two-men-on-delhi-police-s-most-wanted-list-101616699292854.html
26-03-2021||India||J&K logs 172 fresh virus cases||Jammu and Kashmir on Thursday recorded 172 fresh virus cases, taking the total cases to 1,29,203, while the death toll stood at 1,983 with no fresh fatalities.Officials said as many as 131 positive cases were reported from Kashmir division while 41 fresh cases were reported from Jammu division.Covid cases are rising constantly this month. Since March 17, Jammu and Kashmir has reported over 100 fresh cases daily with a major portion of them in Kashmir valley. On Wednesday the UT recorded 195 cases, highest after January 1(256 cases) and 2(244 cases).Ninety-two more patients have recovered and were discharged from different hospitals, including 78 from Kashmir division and 14 from Jammu division.Officials said 1, 25,627 had have recovered in the UT, taking the recovery rate to 97.23%. The active cases have reached 1,593 while the total number of tests conducted in the UT has crossed 58.58 lakh.Kashmir division has 1,209 active cases, including 747 in Srinagar district alone, while there are 384 active cases in Jammu division. A total 1,251 people have succumbed to the disease in Kashmir and 732 in Jammu.In Kashmir, the highest jump in fresh cases was witnessed in Srinagar, where 65 more people tested positive including 25 travellers, while 30 more cases were reported in Baramulla and 16 in Budgam.In Jammu division, 34 cases were recorded in Jammu district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jk-logs-172-fresh-virus-cases-101616704287719.html
26-03-2021||India||Supreme Court pulls up govt over delay in appointment of judges||The Supreme Court on Thursday, criticised the central government for delaying the process of appointment of judges, lamenting that it has been sitting on some recommendations for more than 19 months despite the final nod of the collegium.A bench headed by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde underlined that 55 names were pending with the government for more than six months and sought a categorical answer from the government on the timeline to notify appointments of some judges and sending the rest of the names to the collegium for further consideration. The numbers include some final recommendations and some names proposed in the first stage of the appointment.“There are other names too, but these 55 names are the most delayed ones, pending with the government for more than six months. This has gone beyond any degree of reasonable time period,” said the bench, which also included justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Surya Kant.Justice Kaul referred to a chart prepared by him to demonstrate the vacancy positions in each high court and the pendency of the names at different levels in the appointment process, regretting that problems occurred at every stage.“There should be a reasonable time frame within which the law ministry must respond after receiving the recommendations from the collegium. There are many cases in which there is no response for eight months or even one year. After names are recommended by the collegium, the ministry must make appointment s or send back these names with their objection,” justice Kaul told attorney general KK Venugopal, who appeared for the government.The SC collegium comprises the CJI and two most senior judges of the apex court and decides on matters of appointment of high court and Supreme Court judges.The bench added that after the SC collegium forwards the names of judges to be appointed to the high court to the (Union) government, it (the government) is supposed to take the views of the state government concerned, get a report from the Intelligence Bureau, and then, send the names back to the collegium for further consideration -- but that there appears to be no deadline for this process.“There seems to be no time limit within which this is being done. There are 45 names pending with you for more than 6 months but they are yet to be sent (back) to the collegium. Ten names have been cleared by the collegium finally and under the existing memorandum of procedure, you have to either appoint them or send them back with objections. Once we reiterate the same names, you will have to appoint them. But these 10 names, neither have they been appointed nor have we heard anything about them from the government,” the bench told the A-G.Justice Kaul, reading out from the chart, pointed out there were five names for appointments in the Calcutta HC that are pending with the government for 19 months, since July 25, 2019, despite the final recommendation of the SC collegium. Similarly, one name for the Jammu and Kashmir high court has been pending for 17 months and four names for the Delhi HC, for seven months.About the 45 other names that were still to be referred by the government to the collegium for consideration, justice Kaul said, two names for the Himachal Pradesh HC have been pending for 14 months; 21 names for the Rajasthan HC, for 9 months; 9 names for the Calcutta HC and two names for the Gauhati HC, for 8 months; five names for the Punjab and Haryana HC, for 7 months; and 6 names for the Madhya Pradesh HC, 6 months.“We are really concerned about these 45 names pending with you for more than six months but they are yet to be sent to the collegium. Also, the other 10 names, you must tell us when you are going to notify those appointments. We can pass an order that you will make a statement, or you can tell us that you will make a statement on the next date,” the bench told Venugopal.It also told the A-G that there were 80 names pending with the government but the focus at present was on having clarity regarding these 55 names first. Venugopal assured the bench that he would be able to make a statement on the next date of hearing on April 8 after receiving appropriate instructions from the law ministry.During the hearing, the bench also expressed concern that there were 240 vacancies in high courts for which no names had been recommended by the HC collegium. “That is also a concern, and we are addressing them. We will go step by step,” observed the court.As on March 22, 2021, the 25 high courts in the country have a staggering vacancy of 420 judges -- more than a third of the total positions. There are only 661 judges out of the total sanctioned strength of 1,080.However, there are only 180 names in contemplation for appointment as high court judges against the shortage of 420 judges. Of the 180 names being considered, a majority of the names (131) are pending with the central government with the oldest recommendations for appointment going back to July 2019 for appointment to the Calcutta high court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-pulls-up-govt-over-delay-in-appointment-of-judges-101616699301692.html
26-03-2021||India||Himachal logs 315 new infections, two deaths||Himachal Pradesh on Thursday recorded 315 Covid-19 infections, the highest single-day spike this year, taking the state’s tally to 61,616 while the death toll mounted to 1,016 after two more patients succumbed to the contagion. Of the new cases, 102 were reported in Una, 64 in Kangra, 47 in Solan, 37 in Sirmaur, 23 in Hamirpur, 17 in Bilaspur, 12 in Shimla, five in Chamba, four in Kullu, three in Mandi and one in Kinnaur. The active cases have climbed to 1,903 and recoveries have reached 58,679 after 64 people recuperated. Shimla remains the worst-hit district with 10,739 cases, followed by Mandi with 10,395 cases, and Kangra with 9,137 cases. Solan has 7,166 cases, Kullu 4,506, Sirmaur 3,833, Una 3,794, Hamirpur 3,265, Bilaspur 3,130, Chamba 2,997, Kinnaur 1,395, and Lahaul-Spiti 1,259.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/himachal-logs-315-new-infections-two-deaths-101616703145072.html
26-03-2021||India||With highest-ever budget allocation, focus on development: J&K L-G||Lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha on Friday termed the ₹1,08,621-crore budget approved by the central government for Jammu and Kashmir as historic. “The budget has been provided to rebuild the economy, create jobs and secure the future of the people of Jammu and Kashmir,” Sinha said. He observed that the quantum jump in the budget allocation in all sectors spoke volumes about the Prime Minister’s resolve towards development of J&K. “J&K had been getting a larger per capita budget than other states even in the past. However, we will ensure that work is being done on ground and the money is being utilised for the welfare of the people without discrimination, besides tapping into the potential of the sectors which are less explored,” he said. On the budget allocation for the Jal Shakti department, Sinha said that with a quantum jump of ₹5,102 crore, taking the total to ₹6,346 crore, the government was hoping to achieve the target under the Prime Minister’s ambitious ‘Har Ghar Nal Se Jal’ programme within the time frame. He said that a provision for ₹2,008 crore has been kept for agriculture and horticulture sectors, which was ₹695 crore more than the previous budget allocation. “For rural development, ₹4,817 crore has been allocated, which is ₹342 crore more than previous years. The tourism sector budget has been given a ₹509 crore hike, taking the budget allocation to ₹786 crore, he said. On health and medical education , he observed that the sector had witnessed a major transformation in the last two years. “And, for the year 2021-22, the sector has an allocation of ₹1,456 crore, ₹190 crore more than the previous year,” he said. Rehabilitation of Kashmiri migrant pandits in valley maybe on cards, hints LGHinting that a proper rehabilitation plan for migrant Kashmiri Pandits maybe in the pipeline, Sinha on Thursday said a lot has been thought about the community and soon “something is going to happen which you have not even imagined”.“The provision of the budget for relief and rehabilitation of Kashmiri Pandits has also increased. For the welfare of Kashmiri Pandit community, work on 6,000 jobs for them has been accelerated,” he said. For empowerment of district development councils (DDCs) and block development councils (BDCs), a provision of ₹200 crore for 20 DDCs ( ₹10 crore for each DDC) of Jammu and Kashmir, besides ₹25 lakh has been kept for each BDC. Further, ₹30 crore has been earmarked for establishment of DDC/BDC offices and ₹1313 crore has been allocated for Panchayati Raj Institutions (PRIs)/Urban Local Bodies (ULBs), he said. Underscoring the targets set by the government aimed at creating more livelihood opportunities and accelerating the development process, the lieutenant governor said as many as 25,000 youth have been provided with financial support under different schemes. On PDP youth leader Waheed-ur-Rehman Parra’s alleged nexus with militants and his terror funding links, Sinha said , “We have institutions in the country and they work honestly. Let them work independently and probe, I think, will be taken it to its logical conclusion”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-highest-ever-budget-allocation-focus-on-development-j-k-lg-101616702606113.html
26-03-2021||India||Railway employee, 3 others killed; LJP leader shot at in Bihar||Four people, including a railway employee, were killed and an LJP functionary was shot at in separate incidents in Bihar in the last 24 hours.Former state general secretary of LJP’s youth wing, Premchand Yadav (40), was attacked while returning home around 1am after attending a function at Kitapur village.The attack triggered violent protests by his associates in Bhojpur district.Yadav, a resident of Kusumha locality of Ayer police station area, was waylaid near a canal falling under the jurisdiction of Jagdishpur police station, by unidentified miscreants. They shot at him from point blank rage and escaped from the spot.Police said one of the bullets hit Yadav’s head. He was rushed to a private nursing home in critical condition.Bhojpur SP Harkishore Rai said prima-facie the reason behind the incident appears to be old enmity. “We are waiting for his statement,” he added.In another incident, armed assailants gunned down one Deepu Choudhary and injured another person, Ajay Choudhary, in Bhojpur. Police said Choudhary was the nephew of notorious gangster Butan Choudhary and was killed in gang war.Four motorcycle-borne assailants intercepted the duo and opened fire at them.In Begusarai, unidentified criminals shot dead a railway employee at a railway colony falling under the jurisdiction of Barauni police station. The victim Satish Choudhary (45) was posted as a technician in an electric powerhouse.The incident took place when Choudhary was returning home after his duty. Two miscreants barged into his quarter and shot at him. Railway DSP Gaurav Pandey said the reason behind the incident is yet to be ascertained.In Gopalganj, police recovered a half-burnt body of an unidentified woman from Narhawa village. The body had injury marks on the face, said the police. Police suspect that the woman was killed elsewhere, and her body was thrown in Gopalpur police station area.In rural Patna, the Barh police recovered a woman’s body from Bedhna Kal Baba locality. Police said efforts are on to identify the deceased.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railway-employee-3-others-killed-ljp-leader-shot-at-in-bihar-101616702244991.html
26-03-2021||India||Civilians maimed in Pak shelling in Poonch to get artificial limbs||In a bid to improve the lives of civilians maimed during Pakistan’s shelling and firing along the Line of Control, the Indian Army in collaboration with a New Delhi-based NGO will be proving artificial limbs to the victims in Poonch district. An artificial limbs fitment measurement camp was also organised on Thursday. “The Banwat Battalion of Poonch Brigade organised an artificial limbs fitment measurement camp and took measurements of disabled civilians, who lost their limbs during the ceasefire violations and other action along the LoC,” said defence spokesperson Lt Col Devender Anand. A team from the Kiwanis Club, New Delhi, had the measurements of 32 specially-abled people taken free of cost. Beneficiaries had come from different villages of Poonch such as Kausaliyan, Gagriyan, Chool, Saujiyan, Dhanna, Dokri, and Kasba among others, the spokesperson said, adding that it was all the more vital to hold the camp because of its proximity to the line of control and lack of accessibility to hospitals. The NGO will return in a couple of months with artificial limbs for those fitted on Thursday, the spokesperson said, adding that the NGO wanted to provide prosthetics to the needy in a phased manner and wants to cover villages along the LoC that bore the maximum brunt of Pakistan’s shelling in recent times. “Such measurement camps by the Indian Army in remote villages near the border fence in Poonch strengthens the bond between the forces and the people. Such events go a long way in developing goodwill and a sense of togetherness in laying foundation of a patriotic and motivated next generation,” he said. Though the renewed truce between India and Pakistan along the 744 km long line of control (LoC) and 200-km International Border (IB) has brought much needed relief to the villagers as guns have fallen silent on either side of the divide since February 25, many villagers —young and old, men and women — have been maimed in Pak shelling and firing over the years. During Indo-Pak hostilities. Kathua, Samba, Jammu, Poonch and Rajouri districts in Jammu region bear the maximum brunt of shelling, as a result of which hapless villagers either get killed or maimed. Ghulam Nabi of Saujiyan village said that Pak shelling always posed a serious threat to farmers, children, shepherds and cattle. “Those who die are fortunate. Those who lose their limbs suffer as do their families,” he said. Another local Rifat Bi of Kasba village hoped that the ceasefire agreement remains intact and is honoured in letter and spirit by Pakistan. “It will be a boon for people like us who live on the LoC,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/civilians-maimed-in-pak-shelling-in-poonch-to-get-artificial-limbs-101616701765133.html
26-03-2021||India||RJD and its allies call for Bihar Bandh today||The Rashtriya Janata Dal and Left parties have called for a Bihar Bandh (shutdown) on March 26, in protest against the alleged assault on legislators during an agitation against the Bihar Special Armed Police Bill, 2021, inside the state Assembly on Tuesday.Leader of the Opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on Thursday said the shutdown had been called against the autocratic attitude of chief minister Nitish Kumar and the way police were allowed entry into the Assembly to evict legislators protesting against the Bill.“The state police have become Janata Dal (United) police. The police were deployed inside the Assembly to get a Bill passed which would give them unbridled powers,” he said at a press conference.Yadav also hit out at the CM for trying to justify the police action inside the Assembly by reasoning that police were called because of the chaos created by Opposition members.“Doesn’t the Opposition have the right to protest inside the House over a bill or any other issue? That does not mean police can be called to evict MLAs and drag out even women legislators. I have footage of how the police and others behaved on that day inside the Assembly,. All democratic values and ethics were thrown to the wind,” said Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rjd-and-its-allies-call-for-bihar-bandh-today-101616701346597.html
26-03-2021||India||SC notice to Punjab, Haryana govts and Bhakra board on water supply to Delhi||Noting that drinking water is a fundamental right, the Supreme Court on Thursday issued notices to the Punjab and Haryana governments and the Bhakra Beas Management Board (BBMB) on a petition by the Delhi Jal Board (DJB) that repair work on Nangal Hydel channel gates will lead to a severe water crisis in Delhi.A three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde noted that the matter was “serious”, and sought responses from Punjab, Haryana and BBMB within a day. “The respondents are directed to maintain status quo on supply of water to Delhi till tomorrow i.e. 26th March,” added the bench, which also comprised justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian.Delhi receives at least 232 MGD (million gallons per day) of water through the channel, which helps meet nearly 25% of the city’s daily water requirement, estimated to be around 935 MGD.Anticipating a water scarcity, DJB rushed to the Supreme Court to seek a stay on repairs scheduled to be undertaken by BBMB in April and May.“We have no problem with the repairs being carried out. But do not touch it in April when there is a peak demand of water in the city,” senior advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi submitted for DJB.Over the past few months, DJB has written six letters to Punjab, Haryana and BBMB, citing postponement of repairs of the hydel channel to the monsoon months of July-August, but received no response, Singhvi. Top officers of DJB visited Punjab early this month over this issue.The bench wanted to know the nature of repairs being carried out. “If repair is integral to the water channel, we won’t stop them,” the bench said. Singhvi assured the court that the repairs can be carried out later as well, and requested for a stay till the matter is taken up.This is the second petition by DJB before the top court concerning the supply of water to the Capital. In January, it filed a petition accusing the Haryana government of releasing untreated water into the Yamuna, leading to high ammonia levels in the water that posed a health hazard to residents of the national capital.The Haryana government claimed that the problem was at Delhi’s end. This second petition is still pending in the court and will be taken up on Friday along with the fresh petition filed by DJB.On Thursday, the Delhi government again accused Haryana of limiting the water supply to Delhi. Senior advocate Vikas Singh, who appeared for Delhi, told the court that the water level at Wazirabad barrage, which supplies water to the Wazirabad, Okhla and Chandrawal water treatment plants, reduced by six feet. Singh did not specify the period over which the water level has declined.For Haryana, senior advocate Shyam Divan contradicted the statement and claimed that “not even a single drop was being withheld from Delhi”. Singh then urged the apex court to consider sending a court commissioner for spot verification.The bench said: “Since it’s a matter of fundamental right to water we will not entertain any technical objections and if required we may appoint a commissioner to visit the spot.”The Delhi government could not be reached for a comment.The spokesperson for BBMB rejected reports that water flow to Delhi will stop as hoax. He said that the board has given assurance to the Centre that the drinking water for Delhi will continue to flow from Nangal hydel channel. He said the normal water flow in the channel is 11,500 cusecs, which reduces to 8,000-9,000 cusecs during repair work.“Delhi Jal Board is supplied 500 cusecs of water daily from the channel. The Haryana government has to ensure that the water flow to Delhi doesn’t reduce. The board had decided to a partial close of the channel for repairs by taking all partner states into confidence,” he said.Spokespersons for the Punjab and Haryana government did not respond to queries till the time of going to print.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-notice-to-punjab-haryana-govts-and-bhakra-board-on-water-supply-to-delhi-101616699305705.html
26-03-2021||India||Tigress Sundari back in Madhya Pradesh as translocation project fails||A tigress was translocated to Kanha Tiger Reserve (KTR) from Satkosia Tiger Reserve in Odisha in the wee hours of Thursday, a forest official said.Tigress Sundari, who was relocated from Bandhavgarh Tiger Reserve three years ago as part of a rehabilitation programme, returned to the state after travelling about 700 km, the official added.The tiger was tranquilized and brought in a van fitted with a cage and released in Ghorela enclosure of Mukki area of KTR in Balaghat district, Rajneesh Singh, public relation officer of wildlife wing of the forest, said.“A team of veterinary doctors checked and left the big cat in the enclosure on Thursday morning. The tigress is completely healthy and active,” KTR joint director S K Sinha said.Alok Kumar, principal chief conservator of forest (wildlife), Madhya Pradesh, said: “As part of the rewilding process, we have to check how the tigress is adopting to the habitat and whether she has the capability to kill her prey. On that basis, we will decide whether to release her in the forest or not.”In 2018, Sundari, along with a male tiger Mahavir, was taken to Satkosia Tiger Reserve in Odisha from Bandhavgarh Tiger Reserve under the first inter-state tiger relocation project in the country, to shore up the tiger population in the state. The relocation was also aimed at reducing the tiger population in areas with excess tigers to reduce territorial disputes and to reintroduce tigers in places where their count has dropped due to various reasons.The project, however, failed after Mahavir was killed by poachers and villagers staged a protest against Sundari as she had reportedly attacked some of them. The forest officials in Odisha then shifted the tigress to an enclosure.A petition was later filed in the Madhya Pradesh high court, seeking return of the tigress following which the state forest department began the rewilding process, Kumar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tigress-sundari-back-in-madhya-pradesh-as-translocation-project-fails-101616699310825.html
26-03-2021||India||Bermuda to Pak: TMC and BJP leaders’ remarks stir up a row||Kolkata: Controversial remarks by leaders across political lines continued to intensify the poll battle in West Bengal on Thursday. While the Bharatiya Janata Party’s West Bengal unit president Dilip Ghosh sought to defend his “Bermuda shorts” remark about chief minister Mamata Banerjee, backlash against Trinamool Congress leader Sheikh Alam’s comment on the state’s Muslim population prompted him to issue an apology. On Thursday, Ghosh said his earlier remarks were an attempt at defending the honor of the saree that all Bengali women wear. Speaking to reporters, Ghosh said, “As chief minister, Mamata Banerjee should act appropriately so that Bengal’s culture is not affected. A woman in a saree should not be showing her legs. People are talking about this. I only raised my objection.”His justification came a day after the state’s ruling TMC shared a 14-second video of Ghosh’s Purulia rally, in which he could be heard saying that the CM should wear Bermuda shorts if she wanted to display the injuries sustained on her leg during a roadshow on March 10. “Her (Banerjee’s) plaster was replaced with crepe bandage. But she is still showing her leg to everyone. She is wearing her saree in such a way that one leg is visible while the other is not. I have never seen anyone wearing saree like this. If she has to show her leg then she can wear Bermudas so that people can see clearly,” Ghosh said. The TMC called the remarks distasteful and lodged a complaint with the Election Commission of India, accusing Ghosh of using indecent language against the chief minister.The row, however, escalated as BJP leaders came out in Ghosh’s defence. The head of BJP’s information technology cell, Amit Malviya, shared a video on Thursday in which Banerjee could be heard making personal comments about BJP leaders. (Have we seen the video? What did Mamata say in the video?)The TMC courted controversy after Alam, a village level leader of the party, said at a public meeting in Birbhum district that “four Pakistan can be created if India’s 30 per cent Muslims unite”. A video of the incident has been widely circulated on social media. “The BJP always talks of 30 % Muslims. If they are segregated, four Pakistans will be created. Where will the remaining 70 % go?” Alam could be heard saying in the video. Later in the day, however, Alam issued an apology. “I was referring to Adhikari’s statement on 30% Muslims in Nandigram. He says he will fight with the support of 70 % voters. I meant to say that if this 30% people are driven out of India, four Pakistans have to be created. I did not mean we want to create four Pakistans in India. I apologize if I have hurt anyone,” Alam said.The BJP, however, lodged a complaint with the Election Commission, even as the TMC distanced itself from Alam. “He is not a member of our party,” the TMC’s Birbhum district unit president Anubrata Mondal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bermuda-to-pak-tmc-and-bjp-leaders-remarks-stir-up-a-row-101616699004276.html
26-03-2021||India||‘No vaccine shortage, states have used only 54 of 80 mn doses sent’||States across the country have together used up 54 million of the roughly 80 million doses of coronavirus vaccines distributed till now, according to government figures as of 8pm on Thursday, as officials maintained that the country has adequate doses for now while more are expected to be shipped within the next week.On an average, over the week, India has administered 2.3 million doses a day. At this rate, accounting for wastage of about 6.5% (as estimated by the government), the existing stock will last for around eight days. Last week, India placed orders for 120 million more doses. “We expect these shipments to begin over the weekend – almost certainly before the end of the month,” said a person aware of the vaccine logistics, asking not to be named. Government officials have not shared details of stocks in different regions, and multiple states, including Odisha, Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan, West Bengal and Maharashtra, have in the past month raised concerns of looming shortages over the past month.“India has enough supplies to vaccinate its vulnerable population,” Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said on the sidelines of the ministry’s weekly media briefing on Covid-19 on Wednesday. “Centre has distributed 80,700,000 Covid-19 vaccine doses to all states and union territories so far, and has enough supplies to cater to country’s demands” he added.“We are receiving the vaccine doses regularly, there is no problem with the supply. There is no shortage in the institute,” said Dr DK Sharma, medical superintendent, All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Delhi.A senior Delhi government official, who asked not to be named, too said that there was no shortage in the state.India’s vaccine stocks appear to be on a stronger footing, especially when compared to the European Union where low stocks have triggered police raids on warehouses and diplomatic disputes with other nations such as the UK and Australia. The situation in the country is helped by the capacity of India’s pharma industry – Serum Institute of India, which is manufacturing Covishield (the dose developed as AZD1222 by Oxford-AstraZeneca), is the world’s largest vaccine maker by volume. SII CEO Adar Poonawalla has in the past said he expects production capacity to reach 100 million doses a month this year.“In case of emergencies, we are equipped to ship large tranches at short notice to any part of the country,” the person quoted above added.While India’s vaccination rate is the second highest in the world (behind US), it also has a large population it needs to target. With the country having entered its second wave of the pandemic, with cases accelerating at the fastest pace seen yet, experts are calling for people and the government to do more to quicken the vaccination campaign.“Vaccine hesitancy is common whenever there is a new vaccine in market, and since it is one of the key measures to control the outbreak, the primary job of all stakeholders is to ensure concerns regarding vaccines are allayed. The government is making an effort in this direction,” said Dr GC Khilnani, former head, department of pulmonology, AIIMS, Delhi.Government experts have reiterated on several occasions recently that both vaccines approved for use in India are safe, and there was no clotting reported related to Covishled in the country as was the case abroad due to which some European countries paused use of Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine.The other vaccine in use is Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin.“Covishield is safe and there is no signal of concern regarding it as of now,” said Dr VK Paul, member (health), Niti Aayog during the briefing on Wednesday. India’s adverse effect monitoring mechanism did not find any concerns, he added. ICMR director general Dr Balram Bhargava, at the same briefing, also said both doses were effective against the UK and the Brazilian variants of Sars-Cov-2. Research, however, is on to know whether the vaccines are effective against the South African variant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-vaccine-shortage-states-have-used-only-54-of-80-mn-doses-sent-101616698044922.html
26-03-2021||India||Tigress Sundari back in MP as translocation project fails||Bhopal A tigress was translocated to Kanha Tiger Reserve (KTR) from Satkosia Tiger Reserve in Odisha in the wee hours of Thursday, a forest official said. Tigress Sundari, who was relocated from Bandhavgarh Tiger Reserve three years ago as part of a rehabilitation programme, returned to the state after travelling about 700 km, the official added. The tiger was tranquilized and brought in a van fitted with a cage and released in Ghorela enclosure of Mukki area of KTR in Balaghat district, Rajneesh Singh, public relation officer of wildlife wing of the forest, said. “A team of veterinary doctors checked and left the big cat in the enclosure on Thursday morning. The tigress is completely healthy and active,” KTR joint director S K Sinha said. Alok Kumar, principal chief conservator of forest (wildlife), Madhya Pradesh, said: “As part of the rewilding process, we have to check how the tigress is adopting to the habitat and whether she has the capability to kill her prey. On that basis, we will decide whether to release her in the forest or not.” In 2018, Sundari, along with a male tiger Mahavir, was taken to Satkosia Tiger Reserve in Odisha from Bandhavgarh Tiger Reserve under the first inter-state tiger relocation project in the country, to shore up the tiger population in the state. The relocation was also aimed at reducing the tiger population in areas with excess tigers to reduce territorial disputes and to reintroduce tigers in places where their count has dropped due to various reasons.The project, however, failed after Mahavir was killed by poachers and villagers staged a protest against Sundari as she had reportedly attacked some of them. The forest officials in Odisha then shifted the tigress to an enclosure. A petition was later filed in the Madhya Pradesh high court, seeking return of the tigress following which the state forest department began the rewilding process, Kumar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tigress-sundari-back-in-mp-as-translocation-project-fails-101616697624960.html
26-03-2021||India||SC pulls up govt over delay in appointment of judges||New Delhi The Supreme Court on Thursday, criticised the central government for delaying the process of appointment of judges, lamenting that it has been sitting on some recommendations for more than 19 months despite the final nod of the collegium. A bench headed by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde underlined that 55 names were pending with the government for more than six months and sought a categorical answer from the government on the timeline to notify appointments of some judges and sending the rest of the names to the collegium for further consideration. The numbers include some final recommendations, and some names proposed in the first stage of the appointment. “There are other names too, but these 55 names are the most delayed ones, pending with the government for more than six months. This has gone beyond any degree of reasonable time period,” said the bench, which also included justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Surya Kant. Justice Kaul referred to a chart prepared by him to demonstrate the vacancy positions in each high court and the pendency of the names at different levels in the appointment process, regretting that problems occurred at every stage. “There should be a reasonable time frame within which the law ministry must respond after receiving the recommendations from the collegium. There are many cases in which there is no response for eight months or even one year. After names are recommended by the collegium, the ministry must make appointment s or send back these names with their objection,” justice Kaul told attorney general KK Venugopal, who appeared for the government. The SC collegium comprises the CJI and two most senior judges of the apex court and decides on matters of appointment of high court and Supreme Courtjudges. The bench added that after the SC collegium forwards the names of judges to be appointed to the high court to the (Union) government, it (the government) is supposed to take the views of the state government concerned, get a report from the Intelligence Bureau, and then, send the names back to the collegium for further consideration -- but that there appears to be no deadline for this process. “There seems to be no time limit within which this is being done. There are 45 names pending with you for more than 6 months but they are yet to be sent (back) to the collegium. Ten names have been cleared by the collegium finally and under the existing memorandum of procedure, you have to either appoint them or send them back with objections. Once we reiterate the same names, you will have to appoint them. But these 10 names, neither have they been appointed nor have we heard anything about them from the government,” the bench told the A-G. Justice Kaul, reading out from the chart, pointed out there were five names for appointments in the Calcutta HC that are pending with the government for 19 months, since July 25, 2019, despite the final recommendation of the SC collegium. Similarly, one name for the Jammu and Kashmir high court has been pending for 17 months and four names for the Delhi HC, for seven months. About the 45 other names that were still to be referred by the government to the collegium for consideration, justice Kaul said, two names for the Himachal Pradesh HC have been pending for 14 months; 21 names for the Rajasthan HC, for 9 months; 9 names for the Calcutta HC and two names for the Gauhati HC, for 8 months; five names for the Punjab and Haryana HC, for 7 months; and 6 names for the Madhya Pradesh HC, 6 months. “We are really concerned about these 45 names pending with you for more than six months but they are yet to be sent to the collegium. Also, the other 10 names, you must tell us when you are going to notify those appointments. We can pass an order that you will make a statement, or you can tell us that you will make a statement on the next date,” the bench told Venugopal. It also told the A-G that there were 80 names pending with the government but the focus at present was on having clarity regarding these 55 names first. Venugopal assured the bench that he would be able to make a statement on the next date of hearing on April 8 after receiving appropriate instructions from the law ministry. During the hearing, the bench also expressed concern that there were 240 vacancies in high courts for which no names had been recommended by the HC collegium. “That is also a concern, and we are addressing them. We will go step by step,” observed the court. As on March 22, 2021, the 25 high courts in the country have a staggering vacancy of 420 judges -- more than a third of the total positions. There are only 661 judges out of the total sanctioned strength of 1,080. However, there are only 180 names in contemplation for appointment as high court judges against the shortage of 420 judges. Of the 180 names being considered, a majority of the names (131) are pending with the central government with the oldest recommendations for appointment going back to July 2019 for appointment to the Calcutta high court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-pulls-up-govt-over-delay-in-appointment-of-judges-101616697564886.html
26-03-2021||India||Bharat Bandh on March 26: Congress extends support; traders body not taking part||The call for a 12-hour Bharat Bandh marking the completion of the four months of farmers' protest against three agriculture laws passed in Parliament in 2020 has started gaining support from opposition political parties. After the YSRC in Andhra Pradesh, the Congress on Thursday extended its support to a peaceful and "Gandhian" Bharat bandh. "When the government is deaf, there is a need for a decisive struggle. The ongoing farmers' protest is part of that. We support a peaceful and Gandhian Bharat Bandh proposed on March 26," party spokesperson Randeep Surjewala tweeted.बहरे शासकों को जगाने के लिए निर्णायक संघर्ष की ज़रूरत पड़ती है।मौजूदा किसान आंदोलन इसी कड़ी का हिस्सा है। तीन सौ किसान भाईयों की शहादत के बावजूद मूकदर्शक बनी मोदी सरकार के लिए ये जागने का समय है।26 मार्च को प्रस्तावित शांतिपूर्ण एवं गांधीवादी भारत बंद को हमारा समर्थन है। https://t.co/qs27UfTO5OAndhra Pradesh's YSRC extended its support to the bandh in protest against the Centre's proposed privatisation of the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant.3rd Bharat bandh in 4 monthsThe bandh on March 26 will be the third Bharat bandh in four months starting from December. On December 8, at the beginning of their protest, farmers called a bandh which got support from several opposition parties. While this will be the second Bharat Bandh called by the farmers, on February 26, trade bodies called a strike protesting against fuel price hike, GST norms and e-way bill.Why traders not participating in tomorrow's Bharat BandhConfederation of All India Traders, which called the Bharat Bandh of February 26 said that markets will remain open on March 26 as it is not participating in the 'Bharat Bandh'. "We are not going to participate in 'Bharat Bandh' tomorrow. Markets will remain open in Delhi and other parts of the country. The ongoing deadlock can be resolved only through a dialogue process. There should be discussions on amendments in the farm laws that can make existing farming profitable," CAIT's national general secretary Praveen Khandelwal told PTI. This association represents eight crore traders in the country,Demands of the protestersWithdrawal of the three agriculture laws.Guarantee on purchasing of crops on MSP (minimum support price).Ensure power subsidy and roll back penalties for stubble burningReduce price of petrol, diesel, cooking gas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-bandh-on-march-26-congress-extends-support-traders-body-not-taking-part-101616684115994.html
26-03-2021||India||Bharat Bandh tomorrow: Rail, road transport likely to be affected from 6am to 6pm||Farmers protesting against the three agriculture laws passed in Parliament last year have called a complete Bharat bandh on Friday as it marks four months of their agitation on Delhi borders, which started on November 26, 2020. Unlike the previous bandhs, chakka jams, this is going to be a complete bandh to be observed from 6am to 6pm. The umbrella body of the protesting farmers’ union, Samyukt Kisan Morcha, (SKM) has appealed to the citizens across the country to make the bandh a success.Farmers across the nation have been protesting since last year against the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, which were passed by Parliament in September.“We appeal to the people of the country to make this Bharat Bandh a success and honour their 'Annadata’,” PTI quoted farmers’ union leader Darshan Pal as saying.Here’s all you need to know about the Bharat Bandh:Rail, road transportation services are likely to be affected and markets and other public places will remain closed from 6am to 6pm on Friday. However, this is may not be applicable in poll-bound states.Also Read | How one Delhi policewoman risked it all to trace one missing child per dayParticipation in Bharat Bandh in support of the farmers will be optional for traders. General secretary of Mahanagar Vyapar Mandal, Ghaziabad, Ashok Chawla said no association will force anyone to close their shops or compel them to keep it open as traders are free to make their own decision.The YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) in Andhra Pradesh has expressed solidarity with the farmers’ union Bharat Bandh called on Friday. The state government has appealed to the farmers to observe the Bharat bandh peacefully and avoid any untoward incident that could cause inconvenience to the general public. In Andhra Pradesh, as the Bandh will be observed, the government institutions will open after 1pm and RTC buses will also begin operations in the afternoon. All emergency services will be operational as usual.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-bandh-tomorrow-rail-road-transport-likely-to-be-affected-from-6am-to-6pm-101616665016776.html
26-03-2021||India||Farmer unions call Bharat Bandh on March 26 on completion of 4 months of protest||Farmers' unions have called for a nationwide strike on Friday when their ongoing protest at Delhi borders will complete four months, news agency PTI reported. Announcing their future programmes protesting the three agriculture laws enacted by Parliament in 2020, the farmers' unions said that some trade unions will also join them in their protest against fuel price hike on March 15.Following Red Fort violence, which sullied the image of the so-far peaceful protest by the farmers, the farmers' unions are focussing more on spreading their message to other states through visits, mahapanchayats etc, instead of staying put only at Delhi borders. So farmers from Punjab, Uttar Pradesh are coming to Singhu, Tikri, Ghazipur protest sites, the union leaders are touring other states and some of those who have been at the sites since November-December are going back to take care of crops.On February 26, the Confederation of All India Traders called a nationwide strike demanding a review of the provisions of the goods and services tax (GST) regime.Recently, the farmers observed the 100th day of their ongoing protest and said the protests will go on unless the laws are repealed."If needed, we, on lakhs of tractors will reach Parliament to press for the repeal of the three black laws. 3,500 tractors entered Delhi on Republic Day. These were not hired tractors," Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait said in Madhya Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmer-unions-call-bharat-bandh-on-march-26-on-completion-of-4-months-of-protest-101615383800314.html
