28-03-2021||India||Attack on BJP MLA: Four BKU leaders held, 23 others booked for murder bid||Faridkot: Four Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) members on Sunday were arrested while 23 others were booked for attempt to murder in connection with the attack on Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLA Arun Narang at Malout town on Saturday. As many as 250 unidentified people were also booked in the case. BKU spokesperson Rakesh Tikait, however, ruled out the involvement of his organisation and claimed that the attack was carried out by the BJP to defame farmers who have been protesting along Delhi borders since November 27. “Our people showed black flags but were not involved in this incident,” Tikait was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.The BJP MLA from Abohar in Fazilka district had gone to Malout to address a press meet when he was thrashed and his clothes were ripped off by a group of farmers protesting against the contentious agricultural laws. While the saffron party is yet to lodge any police complaint, Narang, who recorded his statement before the police, said he will take up the matter with the party high command before seeking any legal action. Expressing dissatisfaction over the police inaction, Narang said: “It seems the police are under pressure from the Congress-led state government to shield the culprits.” The case against the BKU leaders was registered on the complaint of Muktsar superintendent of police (SP) Gurmail Singh under sections 353, 186, 188, 332, 342, 506, 148 and 149 besides 307 of IPC at Malout police station. Among those arrested were Surjit Singh, Nem Pal Singh and Baldev Singh – all residents of Bodhiwala Kharak village – and Gurmeet Singh of Khunan Kalan. “A case was registered on the basis of a complaint by SP Gurmail Singh, who also sustained injuries in the attack. We recorded Narang’s statement today. Four farmer union members were arrested. However, several others are on the run. Efforts are on to arrest them,” senior superintendent of police D Sudarvizhi said. Meanwhile, Punjab Governor V P Singh Badnore condemned the incident and sought a report from the Congress-led government in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/attack-on-bjp-mla-four-bku-leaders-held-23-others-booked-for-murder-bid-101616955822992.html
28-03-2021||India||War of words as ruling CPI(M), BJP spar over CAA in Kerala||With just nine days left for the crucial assembly elections in Kerala, parties are in a race to rake up the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) and contentious Sabarimala temple issues. While the BJP and Congress have been raising the temple issue, the Left is busy highlighting the CAA to please the minority community.The state had witnessed massive protests two years ago against the CAA and both Congress and CPI(M) had joined hands in the state assembly to pass a unanimous resolution against the act. Manifestos of both parties made it clear that the controversial law will not be implemented in the state describing it as ‘discriminatory’ and ‘anti-Muslim’.Addressing an election rally in Kottayam in central Kerala on Sunday, senior BJP leader and Union defence minister Rajnath Singh said the party will implement all promises made during elections. He said the Union government had abrogated Article 370 and abolished the special status to Jammu and Kashmir and brought a law against triple talaq to protect the marriage of Muslim women. Singh said the party will similarly implement the CAA and three laws to reform the farming sector.The minister said the CAA was necessary to address the woes of persecuted minorities from Pakistan, Bangladesh and Afghanistan. “We fulfilled all the promises made to the people,” Singh said referring to the actions taken by the Narendra Modi-led government at the Centre to implement promises made during the 2019 Lok Sabha polls.Singh also came down heavily on the ruling Left front government for announcing a judicial inquiry against the Enforcement Directorate (ED) officials probing the sensational gold smuggling case. Also read: ‘Kerala challenging federal structure by turning against ED’ - Rajnath Singh“It is an unfortunate development. How can a state government initiate probe against central agencies? It is against federal structure of the country,” he said reminding the government that central agencies came to the state after CM Pinarayi Vijayan wrote a letter to the Prime Minister. The government had announced a judicial commission on Friday to probe the ED alleging the central agency was planning to implicate the CM in the gold smuggling case and portray the government in a bad light. “This is 100 per cent against the federal structure of the country. Instead of turning against the ED, it should have co-operated with the ongoing investigation to unravel the truth,” he said.Singh’s statement comes days after the party’s national president JP Nadda and Union home minister Amit Shah, while campaigning in Assam and West Bengal respectively, asserted that the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, passed by the Parliament, would be implemented in time.But Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan reiterated that the CAA will not be implemented in the state. Addressing an election rally in Purameri in Kozhikode district, Vijayan said Singh’s statement was a challenge to the minority community. “We have already stated that the CAA will not be implemented in Kerala. The Union ministers are saying that the CAA will be implemented. But we are firm on our stand,” he said.State BJP leaders, however, brushed the CM’s criticism saying the CAA was not at all an issue in Kerala. “In Kerala, there are no migrants from other countries. He is raising a non-issue just for some votes,” said BJP state chief K Surendran, who is contesting from two seats - Konni in Pathanamthitta and Mancheswarmm in north Kerala.The CM also attacked the Sangh Parivar outfits over the alleged incidents in some north Indian states targeting minorities. He said Muslims and Christians were targeted by the rightwing for practising their religious faith. He cited the recent attack on a group of Christian nuns during a train journey in Uttar Pradesh last week. “Such intolerance will not happen in Kerala,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/war-of-words-as-ruling-cpi-m-bjp-spar-over-caa-in-kerala-101616950363528.html
28-03-2021||India||Covid-19 updates: 3 states, J&K, Mumbai witness highest spike of this year||India reported 62,714 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, its highest single-day rise in 2021. The country also recorded the highest number of deaths in a day due to the coronavirus disease since December 25 of last year. The upward trajectory of cases combined with the upcoming festive season and the Mahakumbh has put officials on edge. The Centre has empowered states to impose necessary restrictions to curb the spread of the virus and most have followed the order.On Sunday, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray held a high-level meeting and warned officials to be prepared for last year’s lockdown like restrictions if Covid-19 preventative measures continued to be flouted. Besides Maharashtra, Uttarakhand, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka also witnessed a record rise in cases.Here are the top 5 Covid-19 updates from all over the country:MumbaiMaharashtra’s capital city of Mumbai recorded 6,923 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday, its highest single-day spike since the beginning of the pandemic. Maharashtra has imposed a night curfew from Sunday till April 15, from 8pm to 7am. Popular attractions of Juhu Beach and Gateway of India sported a deserted look on Sunday night as curfew hit. Nagpur reported 3,970 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, pushing the district’s tally to 218,820. Chief minister Thackeray, who has been urging citizens to follow proper preventative behaviour since the beginning of March, has asked officials to be prepared for lockdown-like restrictions if people continue to flout Covid-19 rules. On Sunday morning, Mumbai residents were seen crowding the Dadar vegetable market, giving social distancing and masks a miss, even as cases continued to skyrocket, ANI reported.Andhra PradeshAndhra Pradesh on Sunday recorded 1,005 new cases of Covid-19, its highest single-day increase since November 26. The number of cases in the state now stands at 898,815. At 5,394, Andhra Pradesh also recorded the highest number of active cases since December 9. The state police have launched an awareness campaign to counsel people to follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour and also distributed face masks and hand sanitisers to the masses. State director general of police DG Sawang requested citizens not to go out unless absolutely necessary, reported PTI.KarnatakaThe southern state of Karnataka, where cases have been on the rise since the beginning of March, recorded its highest single-day spike on Sunday. With 3,082 new cases, the state-wide tally has now been pushed well past the 900,00 mark. Twelve fatalities were also recorded and the death toll now stands at 12,504. The capital city of Bengaluru remains a cause of concern, with the district of Bengaluru Urban reporting 2004 cases, the highest contribution to the state’s caseload.Jammu and KashmirThe Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday recorded its highest ever one-day increase since December 19. The UT reported 309 Covid-19 cases, pushing its tally to 129,993. Four new fatalities were also recorded, taking its the death toll to 1,985. The district of Srinagar (123) recorded the highest number of cases followed by Jammu (46) and Baramulla (27).UttarakhandUttarakhand on Sunday reported 366 new Covid-19 cases, its highest in 2021, just three days before the month-long Maha Kumbh. The number of Covid-19 cases now stands at 99,881.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-updates-3-states-j-k-mumbai-witness-highest-spike-of-this-year-101616947686541.html
28-03-2021||India||With 40,414 Covid-19 cases, Maharashtra records highest daily infections||Maharashtra’s tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) mounted to 2,713,875 after 40,414 cases, the highest daily spike ever, and 108 related deaths were reported in the last 24 hours, the state’s health department bulletin showed on Sunday. According to the health department’s bulletin, the state's death toll now stands at 54,181. The state on Saturday reported 35,726 Covid-19 patients and 166 deaths.The fresh infections and deaths come on a day even as chief minister Uddhav Thackeray asked officials to start preparing for another lockdown in view of the increasing Covid-19 cases and failure of the state’s citizens to adhere to the prescribed guidelines. Maharashtra has reported a huge rise in the number of Covid-19 cases over the last week and has added as many as 100,000 new infections during the period.Also read | 'Be prepared for lockdown-like restrictions if...': Maharashtra CMThe bulletin also showed that 2,332,453 people have recovered from the viral disease after 17,874 Covid-19 patients were discharged in a single day. It also showed that 19,358,341, with 165,591 in the last 24 hours, have been tested for the coronavirus disease.Mumbai also reported its highest-ever daily spike in the cases of the coronavirus disease on Sunday with 6,933 infections in the last 24 hours, officials said, taking the tally to 398,724. The capital city of the western state also recorded eight deaths, pushing its death toll to 11,653, they said. Mumbai reported 6,123 cases and 12 deaths on Saturday.Also read | Covid-19: Six states contribute 83% of new deaths as single-day toll crosses 300Thackeray said citizens were flouting all Covid-19 related guidelines and hence the state would be forced to impose another lockdown. His comments came after the Covid-19 task force, which met on Sunday, recommended strict measures amid the massive spike in cases and deaths. The task force said that the health infrastructure would not be able to cope with rising cases of the coronavirus disease.The government in Maharashtra, which continues to be the worst Covid-19 affected state in the country, has already imposed a night curfew between 8pm and 7am from Sunday till April 15. It has also tightened Covid-19 restrictions till April 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-40-414-covid-19-cases-maharashtra-records-highest-daily-infections-101616945265559.html
28-03-2021||India||Om Birla extends Holi greetings, urges people to take caution amid Covid-19||Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla On Sunday greeted people on the occasion of Holi and wished for everyone's happiness, prosperity, peace, and joy.According to a release, Birla said, "Holi is an auspicious festival of our multi-colored cultural heritage. Our culture has a special characteristic that here festivals have not only a religious perspective but also have a social perspective as well. This is the reason that Holi is celebrated in our country in a harmonious and joyful atmosphere cutting across religion, sect, language, region and caste boundaries."In view of Covid-19, Birla said people should take utmost caution and care. "While celebrating, we should take care of our health as well as the health and safety of others. I wish all health and prosperity on this occasion. I pray to the Almighty that may this festival bring happiness, prosperity, peace, and joy in everyone's life," he said.The Lok Sabha Speaker also extended his greeting on Twitter, "Greetings to the people on the auspicious occasion of Holika Dahan symbolising the victory of good over evil. May this festival inspire us to eliminate social evils and usher in new hopes and joy in our lives."Holi will be celebrated on March 29. However, public celebrations in most states across the country have been prohibited amid the recent surge in Covid-19 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/om-birla-extends-holi-greetings-urges-people-to-take-caution-amid-covid19-101616945405323.html
28-03-2021||India||News updates from HT: Mamata Banerjee mocks Amit Shah's claim of winning most seats in Phase 1 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.To Amit Shah’s BJP win in Phase 1, Mamata Banerjee hurls outsider barbWest Bengal chief minister and Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader Mamata Banerjee on Sunday dismissed Union home minister Amit Shah’s claims of winning the majority of seats for which polling was held in the first phase of assembly elections in the state a day ago. Read moreTMC leader Chhatradhar Mahato remanded to 2-day NIA custodyTrinamool Congress (TMC) leader Chhatradhar Mahato was remanded to two-day National Investigation Agency (NIA) custody in connection with the 2009 murder case of CPI(M) leader Prabir Mahato by a local court in Kolkata on Sunday, reported news agency ANI. Read moreCovid-19 fight stalls in early hot spots New York and New JerseyA year after becoming a global epicenter of the coronavirus pandemic, New York and New Jersey are back atop the list of US states with the highest rates of infection. Even as the vaccination campaign has ramped up, the number of new infections in New Jersey has crept up by 37% in a little more than a month, to about 23,600 every seven days. Read moreBank holidays in April 2021: Banks to remain closed for 15 days, check datesPrivate and public sector banks throughout the country will remain closed for nine days in April on account of various festivals and observances, according to the Reserve Bank of India’s (RBI) holiday calendar. Read more'Smart, intelligent cricket': Sunil Gavaskar explains 'most impressive thing' about Rishabh Pant's battingIndia batsman Rishabh Pant is in the form of his life at the moment. After smashing 77 runs in 40 balls in the 2nd ODI, Pant played a smart innings to register 78 runs in 62 balls, with five fours, and four sixes in his innings. Read moreRhea Chakraborty says 'love is power' in a rare social media post, poses with Saand Ki Aankh producerRhea Chakraborty made a rare social media post on Sunday, where she spoke about love. The actor was seen posing with Saand Ki Aankh producer Nidhi Parmar Hiranandani in the picture. The two were seen lying down on the bed while forming a heart symbol with their fingers. Read moreAndroid handsets, iPhones send your handset data to Google, Apple every 4 and half minutesOver the past few years, a lot of companies have come under radar for data sharing and regarding user privacy. Be it Apple, Google, Facebook or any other company, all have been asked about it at least once in the last 3-4 years. And if you are one of those who doesn’t like to share your data with the companies, you must’ve been extra cautious. Read moreWatch: Tension in Delhi; scuffles in Tilak Nagar after Nigerian's death||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-mamata-mocks-shah-s-claim-of-winning-most-seats-in-phase-1-101616942790286.html
28-03-2021||India||SC sends man to jail for not paying ₹2.60 crore arrears to estranged wife||The Supreme Court has sentenced a man to three months' imprisonment for contempt of court after he did not pay an outstanding of ₹2.60 crore along with ₹1.75 lakh monthly maintenance to his estranged wife.The top court said the husband has already been given a long rope and he has not utilised the chances given to him to pay the maintenance to his estranged wife.A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian said in a recent order, "We have already given (the respondent) a long rope. The respondent (husband) has not utilised the chances so given. Therefore, we punish the contemnor/respondent for committing contempt of this court and sentence him to imprisonment for a period of three months in civil prison."The top court noted that the husband has not complied with its order of February 19, giving him a last opportunity to pay the entire outstanding maintenance amount along with the monthly sum fixed earlier by the court.On February 19, the top court had said a husband cannot abdicate the responsibility of paying maintenance to his estranged wife and gave a last opportunity to the husband, failing which he would be imprisoned.The man, who claimed to have been working on a project of national security in the telecom sector, had said that he had no money and sought two years' time to pay the entire amount.The top court had said that the man has lost credibility by failing repeatedly to follow the court's order and wondered how a person with this kind of case was associated with a project of national security.It had told the man, a Tamil Nadu resident, that "husband cannot abdicate from his responsibility to provide maintenance to his wife and it is his duty to provide the maintenance".It had noted that the man has been directed by the trial court and the decision upheld by the top court and the high court to pay money to his wife under two heads which include monthly maintenance of ₹1.75 lakh and the other is the past arrears of maintenance from 2009 which amounts to approximately ₹2.60 crore.The top court had said to his counsel that the husband has not complied with even a single order of courts and if he does not make the payments within two-three weeks, he will be sent to jail.The wife had filed a case under the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act before the metropolitan magistrate court in Chennai in 2009.The court had allowed the wife to share the house until the husband made alternative arrangements for her permanent residence.It had directed the husband to pay ₹2 crore as maintenance to the wife; ₹50 lakh compensation for deserting her for 12 years; ₹50 lakh for living in extra marital life; ₹50 lakh for leaving his wife to face the court cases; ₹50 lakh for forcing her to take a job in a media company; ₹50 lakh for mental torture and agony by openly living with foreign women, and ₹50 lakh for not paying rent to the shared household.On the appeal filed by the husband against the order, the sessions court directed him to pay ₹1 lakh per month towards maintenance from the date of filing the petition which is January 6, 2009 and ₹75,000 per month for residential accommodation from the said date.The high court upheld the order of the sessions court on December 2, 2016, after which the husband filed the appeal in the top court, which was dismissed by the top court on October 26, 2017 with a direction that within six months he would pay the maintenance and arrears.Thereafter a review petition was filed in 2018 by the wife and the husband was directed to clear the arrears of maintenance ₹1.75 lakh by the 10th day of every month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-sends-man-to-jail-for-not-paying-rs-2-60-crore-arrears-to-estranged-wife-101616942260511.html
28-03-2021||India||1,005 Covid cases in Andhra Pradesh, highest single day rise since November||Andhra Pradesh reported 1,005 fresh cases of coronavirus on Sunday, the highest single-day rise after November 26, pushing the gross up to 8,98,815.The state now has 5,394 active cases, the highest number since the 5,259 on December 9.A health department bulletin said 324 patients had recovered and two more succumbed to the infection in the state in 24 hours ending 9 am on Sunday.The total recoveries have now touched 8,86,216 and the toll was 7,205, it said.Guntur district reported the highest number of 225 fresh cases in a day, followed by Chittoor 184, Visakhapatnam 167 and Krishna 135.SPS Nellore added 84 while the remaining eight districts saw the addition of less than 50 fresh cases each.Krishna and Chittoor districts reported one fresh Co- 19 fatality each in a day.The overall infection positivity rate in the state now stood at six per cent after 1.49 crore tests were completed.Meanwhile, police launched an enforcement drive across the state to make people wear facial masks.Commissioners and district Superintendents of Police personally supervised the drive where, apart from counselling people, the police also imposed fines on those not wearing facial masks.Also, the police distributed masks to people and advised them to take precautions to check the spread of the contagion in view of the spurt in the number of cases in the state.They also distributed sanitisers in some places.In all, 18,565 people were penalized for a sum of ₹17,33,785 on Saturday alone, police said.State Director General of Police D G Sawang said in a statement on Sunday that citizens should observe Covid- Appropriate Behaviour and take all precautions to prevent the spread of the infection.He asked managements of educational institutions to take all steps to ensure that all Covid-19 control measures, including physical distancing, were followed scrupulously.The DGP requested people not to come out of their homes unless there was an emergency.Sawang suggested that parties and functions be put off, if possible, or held with a minimum number of persons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1005-covid-cases-in-andhra-pradesh-highest-single-day-rise-since-november-101616940897198.html
28-03-2021||India||Sex scandal: BJP govt pledging the pride of Karnataka, says Siddaramaiah||Continuing his tirade against the BJP government in Karnataka over the sex scandal allegedly involving former Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi, Leader of Opposition Siddaramaiah on Sunday accused it of pledging the pride of the state in front of the whole country. The Congress leader in a series of tweets said it is 'shameful' that the police could not trace the "CD victim" (the woman in the purported sex video) even after 20 days. "The CD case is turning into a political blame game with new developments each day. It can reach a logical conclusion only when the victim reaches out to police and gives her version," Siddaramaiah said. Averring that the victim in the CD was constantly releasing her statements to the media through videos, reaching out to her parents and interacting with her lawyers, he said, "but the police are unable to track her. What does this mean? Is the police playing to the tune of the BJP government?" The videos released by the victim clearly show that the girl does not repose confidence in both the state government and the police department. It looks like she is of the opinion that police are involved in conspiracy against her, he said adding Home Minister Basvaraj Bommai should address this concern. Reacting to Siddaramaiah's statement, Bommai said political leaders belonging to any party should not try to bring down the morale of the police. Accusing Siddaramaiah of hushing up the sex scandal, involving former minister H Y Meti, while Congress government led by him was in power, he said we have not done such a thing, we are transparent. "Let whoever say what they want, I'm confident that our police are honestly investigating the case as per the procedures and will bring out the truth," he said. Meanwhile, Congress workers held a protest in the city against Jarkiholi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sex-scandal-bjp-govt-pledging-the-pride-of-karnataka-says-siddaramaiah-101616939365439.html
28-03-2021||India||TMC leader Chhatradhar Mahato remanded to 2-day NIA custody||Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader Chhatradhar Mahato was remanded to two-day National Investigation Agency (NIA) custody in connection with the 2009 murder case of CPI(M) leader Prabir Mahato by a local court in Kolkata on Sunday, reported news agency ANI.The 50-year-old former convener of the Maoist-backed People Against Police Atrocities (PCPA), was arrested by NIA early on Sunday, a day after assembly polls were concluded in his bastion of Lalgarh. “He was arrested around 3am when a team of officials almost broke the door and barged into the house. He was almost dragged out and was not shown any papers. He was unwell. Even his security guards were not allowed to come near him,” Niyati Mahato, his wife, told HT.Mahato has served a 10-year sentence after being arrested in an undercover operation in 2009 and was subsequently charged under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA). He was released under parole in February this year after serving 11 years behind bars, since then he has been actively campaigning for the TMC in Lalgarh. Calcutta High Court had granted Mahato and eight other activists the status of a political prisoner in 2012, and a few months later had convicted him under the UAPA.The high court on Thursday asked Mahato to appear at NIA’s office thrice a week for his alleged role in the murder case. The court cautioned that if he fails to do so the agency can be directed to take him into custody. Mahato had failed to appear before the special NIA court a number of times.Mahato led the PCPA movement in Lalgarh, which witnessed bloodshed as many CPI(M) party workers and leaders were killed in retaliation against the state government led by the Left party. One such leader was Prabir Mahato, who was allegedly killed by PCPA in Lalgarh’s Dharampur village in June of 2009.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmc-leader-chhatradhar-mahato-remanded-to-2-day-nia-custody-101616938445627.html
28-03-2021||India||Tap water connections provided to 40 million rural households so far: Govt||Forty million households have been provided with tap water connections so far under the Jal Jeevan Mission (JJM), a flagship scheme of the government which was announced in 2019, according to the Jal Shakti ministry. The mission aims to provide tap water supply to all rural households by 2024. “Since the announcement of Jal Jeevan Mission on 15th August, 2019, so far, four Crore households have been provided with tap water connections, thus increasing the tap water supply from 3.23 Crore (17%) to more than 7.20 Crore (37.6%) rural households in the country,” the ministry said in a statement on Saturday.The ministry also said Gujarat is one of the best performing states and has overcome water scarcity. “Gujarat is among the best performing States which is implementing Jal Jeevan Mission to ensure tap water supply to every home. Gujarat has started a decentralised, demand-driven community-managed water supply programme way back in 2002 and has become a model. Gujarat, which was known for water supply through road tankers and even trains, has made water scarcity is thing of the past,” it added.Read more: Vision of self-reliance India is dependent on water connectivity, says PM Modi at 'Catch the Rain' campaign launchAccording to the Jal Shakti ministry, Goa and Telangana and the Union territory of Andaman and Nicobar Islands have become ‘Har Ghar Jal' states/UT as they have been able to provide tap water supply to every rural household.“Presently, Andaman & Nicobar Islands, Goa and Telangana States have become ‘Har Ghar Jal' States/ UT and every household in 55 districts and 85,000 villages of the country, have tap water supply," Jal Shakti ministry said in the statement.The government also apprised that in the financial year 2020-21, an allocation of ₹11,000 crore was made under JJM and the grants for individual states and union territories. Under the scheme, the government has now approved ₹465 crore for seven states which include Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Sikkim, Gujarat and Himachal Pradesh. The government also added that the northeastern states of Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram and Sikkim have been chosen for the incentive as they are also among the best states in terms of performance under JJM.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tap-water-connections-provided-to-40-million-rural-households-so-far-govt-101616938027560.html
28-03-2021||India||SC sends man to jail for not paying ₹2.60 cr maintenance arrears to estranged wife||The Supreme Court has sentenced a man to three months' imprisonment for contempt of court after he did not pay an outstanding of ₹2.60 crore along with ₹1.75 lakh monthly maintenance to his estranged wife.The top court said the husband has already been given a long rope and he has not utilised the chances given to him to pay the maintenance to his estranged wife.A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian said in a recent order, "We have already given (the respondent) a long rope. The respondent (husband) has not utilised the chances so given. Therefore, we punish the contemnor/respondent for committing contempt of this court and sentence him to imprisonment for a period of three months in civil prison."The top court noted that the husband has not complied with its order of February 19, giving him a last opportunity to pay the entire outstanding maintenance amount along with the monthly sum fixed earlier by the court.On February 19, the top court had said a husband cannot abdicate the responsibility of paying maintenance to his estranged wife and gave a last opportunity to the husband, failing which he would be imprisoned.The man, who claimed to have been working on a project of national security in the telecom sector, had said that he had no money and sought two years' time to pay the entire amount.The top court had said that the man has lost credibility by failing repeatedly to follow the court's order and wondered how a person with this kind of case was associated with a project of national security.It had told the man, a Tamil Nadu resident, that "husband cannot abdicate from his responsibility to provide maintenance to his wife and it is his duty to provide the maintenance".It had noted that the man has been directed by the trial court and the decision upheld by the top court and the high court to pay money to his wife under two heads which include monthly maintenance of ₹1.75 lakh and the other is the past arrears of maintenance from 2009 which amounts to approximately ₹2.60 crore.The top court had said to his counsel that the husband has not complied with even a single order of courts and if he does not make the payments within two-three weeks, he will be sent to jail.The wife had filed a case under the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act before the metropolitan magistrate court in Chennai in 2009.The court had allowed the wife to share the house until the husband made alternative arrangements for her permanent residence.It had directed the husband to pay ₹2 crore as maintenance to the wife; ₹50 lakh compensation for deserting her for 12 years; ₹50 lakh for living in extra marital life; ₹50 lakh for leaving his wife to face the court cases; ₹50 lakh for forcing her to take a job in a media company; ₹50 lakh for mental torture and agony by openly living with foreign women, and ₹50 lakh for not paying rent to the shared household.On the appeal filed by the husband against the order, the sessions court directed him to pay ₹1 lakh per month towards maintenance from the date of filing the petition which is January 6, 2009 and ₹75,000 per month for residential accommodation from the said date.The high court upheld the order of the sessions court on December 2, 2016, after which the husband filed the appeal in the top court, which was dismissed by the top court on October 26, 2017 with a direction that within six months he would pay the maintenance and arrears.Thereafter a review petition was filed in 2018 by the wife and the husband was directed to clear the arrears of maintenance ₹1.75 lakh by the 10th day of every month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-sends-man-to-jail-for-not-paying-rs-2-60-cr-maintenance-arrears-to-estranged-wife-101616936421156.html
28-03-2021||India||‘Everything can't be made public’: Amit Shah on reported meeting with Pawar||Union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday gave a cryptic reply to a question about his alleged meeting with Sharad Pawar, whose Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) is facing a crisis in Maharashtra over allegations of corruption against the state’s home minister Anil Deshmukh. “Everything need not be made public,” Shah said during a press briefing a day after the first phase of polling in West Bengal and Assam.Also read | ‘Truth will come out’: Anil Deshmukh on corruption probe by retired HC judgeLocal news reports in Gujarat have said that Pawar and his party colleague Praful Patel on Saturday met Shah at a farmhouse in Gujarat's Ahmedabad. The meeting assumes significance in the wake of allegations against Deshmukh, who is a leader of the NCP, by the former Mumbai Police chief Param Bir Singh. The NCP along with the Shiv Sena and the Congress is a member of the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) coalition government in Maharashtra.Also read | In Mumbai, an explosive scare, a murder, and now – a political crisisSingh, who has been transferred to the Home Guard department, in his eight-page letter to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on March 20 claimed Deshmukh wanted police officers to collect ₹100 crore monthly from bars and hotels. The senior police official also talked about the home minister’s interference in investigations. Deshmukh has dismissed the allegations against him.Leaders of the BJP have demanded President's rule in the western state after the arrest of police officer Sachin Waze in connection with the recovery of the explosives-laden vehicle near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's house and Singh's corruption allegations against Deshmukh. Waze, assistant police inspector, has been arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in connection with its probe into the explosives-laden vehicle found parked near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's residence on February 25. He is also facing heat in the alleged murder of Thane-based businessman Mansukh Hiran, who owned the vehicle found near Ambani’s house. Hiran was found dead on March 5.And, the Shiv Sena also attacked Deshmukh with party lawmaker Sanjay Raut calling the NCP leader an accidental home minister. On its part, the state government has decided to conduct a probe into the allegations against Deshmukh and has begun the process to form a judicial commission to be headed by a retired judge, senior leaders of the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government familiar with the developments said. Also read | To Raut’s ‘accidental home minister’ remark on Deshmukh, Nawab Malik’s defenceDeshmukh also said on Sunday that chief minister Thackeray and the state government have decided that a retired judge of the high court will conduct a probe into the allegations against him. “Whatever is the truth will come out," he told reporters at the Nagpur airport.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/everything-can-t-be-made-public-amit-shah-on-reported-meeting-with-pawar-101616936790068.html
28-03-2021||India||News updates from HT: BJP will win more than 200 seats in West Bengal, says Amit Shah, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.'BJP will easily win over 200 seats in West Bengal, claims Amit ShahUnion home minister Amit Shah claimed on Sunday that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will a majority of seats in Assam and West Bengal, where voting for the first phase of elections for 47 and 30 assembly constituencies was held on Saturday. Read moreTo Raut’s ‘accidental home minister’ remark on Deshmukh, Nawab Malik’s defenceMaharashtra minister Nawab Malik on Sunday defended his colleague Anil Deshmukh, who is facing allegations of corruption by former Mumbai Police chief Param Bir Singh, after the Shiv Sena’s Sanjay Raut called him ‘an accidental home minister’. Read moreKarnataka Covid-19: Cluster outbreak, spread among children, lockdownKarnataka is one of the states reporting the highest number of Covid-19 daily infections in India. Between March 15 and March 27, the state's daily new cases jumped from around 900 to over 2,000. Karnataka district Bengaluru Urban is one of the top 10 districts in the country with the number of highest active Covid-19 cases. Karnataka is just behind Maharashtra and Kerala in the respect of active Covid-19 cases. Read moreExplained: How new wage code will impact take-home salary, retirement benefitsThe Centre is likely to notify the new wage code rules in tandem with the Code on Wages 2019 from April 1, which is the start of the financial year 2021-22. The government passed the Wage Code Bill in Parliament in 2019. Read more'Revert to earlier rule on appointment of polling agents': TMC writes to ECThe Trinamool Congress (TMC), the ruling party in West Bengal, wrote to the Election Commission of India urging the poll body to go back to the older system of appointment of polling agents under which contesting candidates appointed electors from the same polling stations or from neighbouring ones in the same constituency, news agency PTI reported on Sunday. Read moreHonda CB500X first ride review: Overpriced but capable adventure bikeThe Honda CB500X was first introduced internationally in 2013 to fill the void left by the big and bulky larger-displacement ADVs. Over the years, Honda's mid-sized adventurer has gone through several updates inside out, and recently India was blessed with its latest iteration. Read more'He has not got better, he has stayed at the same level': Vaughan explains reasons behind Kuldeep Yadav's strugglesIndia leg-spinner Kuldeep Yadav struggled in the first two ODIs against England and was replaced by pacer T Natarajan for the final ODI. The left-arm spinner did not pick any wickets in the two games. In the first ODI, he was hit for 68 runs in 9 overs. On Friday, Kuldeep was hammered for 84 runs in 10. Read moreHoli 2021: From Nick Jonas-Priyanka Chopra's bash to Shah Rukh Khan's fun rave, a look at pics, videos from Holi partiesThe rise of Covid-19 cases in Mumbai has led to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) banning Holi parties in the city. The prohibition will affect several Holi parties in the city. Over the past few years, Bollywood has celebrated the festival of colours in the biggest way possible. Read moreBride who drove car on vidai shares her sweet love storyIf you’re a regular user of social media, there’s a possibility that you may have seen the video of the bride who took the wheel of a car during her vidai and drove her groom home. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-bjp-will-win-more-than-200-seats-in-west-bengal-says-amit-shah-and-all-the-latest-news-101616929543345.html
28-03-2021||India||Karnataka Covid-19: Cluster outbreak, spread among children, lockdown | 5 points||Karnataka is one of the states reporting the highest number of Covid-19 daily infections in India. Between March 15 and March 27, the state's daily new cases jumped from around 900 to over 2,000. Karnataka district Bengaluru Urban is one of the top 10 districts in the country with the number of highest active Covid-19 cases. Karnataka is just behind Maharashtra and Kerala in the respect of active Covid-19 cases.Cluster outbreakAfter reopening schools in January, the state encountered a sudden spike in the number of infections, mostly among teachers. In the past few days, Udupi's Manipal Institute of Technology turned into a hotspot after 146 students of the residential institute tested positive, sending about 5,800 other students into quarantine.The number of Covid-19-positive students increased in the next few days and at present, the institute has 704 cases, Karnataka health minister K Sudhakar has confirmed.Infection spreading to children below 10 yearsSenior citizens and people above the age of 45 years were considered to be the most vulnerable to the infection. But according to reports, over 470 children below the age of 10 in Bengaluru have been infected since the beginning of March. A total of 244 boys and 228 girls have been infected from March 1 to 26, official data showed, news agency PTI reported.Possibility of lockdownThe government has not ruled out the possibility of lockdown but urged people to exercise caution first. "It is clear that the second wave has begun. So if we don't curb activities the danger is imminent," minister Sudhakar said. "Have requested the Chief Minister to take necessary measures to prevent the spread of infection in educational institutions and CM himself will take action in this regard," he added.Entry restrictionFrom April 1, a negative RT-PCR test report will be mandatory to enter the state, irrespective of the states the travellers are coming from.Young people getting infected --- 'Quarantine watch' appThe positivity rate between 20 to 40 years of age in Bengaluru is increasing, because isolation and quarantine rules are not being followed. The government has decided to bring back the Quarantine Watch app where an individual who has been advised home quarantine will have to upload selfies on the app which will track the location of the person.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-covid-19-cluster-outbreak-spread-among-children-lockdown-5-points-101616928511002.html
28-03-2021||India||After Punjab BJP legislator is thrashed, BKU issues a clarification||The Bharatiya Kisan Union’s (BKU) spokesperson Rakesh Tikait said on Sunday his organisation was not involved in the thrashing of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislator from Punjab Arun Narang and alleged it was done by the party itself to defame farmers, who have been protesting against the Centre’s three new farm laws for more than four months now. “Our people showed black flags but were not involved in this incident,” Tikait was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Narang, a legislator from Abohar municipality in Punjab’s Fazilka district, was allegedly beaten up by a group of protesting farmers in the Malout area of the Muktsar district on Saturday. He went there with a few local leaders to address a press conference. A video, which has been doing the rounds on social media, purportedly showed the BJP leader in torn clothes being taken to a safe place by police personnel. Narang, on being asked about whether has approached the police, told PTI that he will first speak to the party leadership over this matter.Meanwhile, the Muktsar Police on Sunday booked BKU (Sidhupur) Muktsar president Sukhdev Singh and six others for attempting to murder Narang. Around 200-250 unidentified people have also been booked in connection with this incident.Our people were not involved (in thrashing a BJP MLA in Punjab's Muktsar). Our people showed black flags but were not involved in this incident. On the contrary, it was done by their people to defame farmers: Bhartiya Kisan Union (Arajnaitik) leader Rakesh Tikait https://t.co/UXIdVyCx9D pic.twitter.com/scPGoyda5lPolitical parties in Punjab, including the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and the ruling Congress party, condemned the attack on Narang and demanded action against those involved. Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh while condemning the incident also warned of strict action against those trying to create disturbance in the state and urged the farmers to not involve themselves in such a violent act.The BJP has held the Punjab government responsible for the attack on its legislator and also demanded exemplary action against culprits. Issuing a statement, the party said, “The BJP condemns this incident that happened under the Congress government’s protection. The Amarinder Singh government of the Congress is directly responsible for it.” Several BJP leaders on Sunday had staged a sit-in protest outside the residence of the chief minister and alleged that the law and order situation in Punjab has failed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-punjab-bjp-legislator-is-thrashed-bku-issues-a-clarification-101616924483495.html
28-03-2021||India||Over 6 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in India||India has registered a significant achievement in its fight against COVID-19 by crossing six crore vaccination on Sunday.According to the Health Ministry statement, at least 6,02,69,782 vaccine doses have been administered through 9,85,018 sessions, as per the provisional report till 7 am today.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThese include 81,52,808 Health Care Workers (1st dose), 51,75,597 HCWs (2nd dose), 88,90,046 Front Line Workers (1st dose) and 36,52,749 FLWs (2nd Dose), 66,73,662 beneficiaries aged more than 45 years with specific co-morbidities (1st Dose) and 2,77,24,920 beneficiaries aged more than 60 years.Eight states - Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka, West Bengal, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Maharashtra account for 60 per cent of the cumulative vaccine doses given so far. Each of the eight states has administered more than 30 lakh doses.As on Day-71 of the vaccination drive on March 27, 21,54,170 vaccine doses were given.Of the total, 20,09,805 beneficiaries were vaccinated across 39,778 sessions for 1st dose and 1,44,365HCWs and FLWs received 2nd dose of vaccine.Seven states of Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Punjab, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Tamil Nadu have reported a high number of COVID-19 daily new cases. These states account for 81.46 per cent of the daily new cases registered in the last 24 hours (62,714).Eight states cumulatively account for 84.74 per cent of the new cases reported in the past 24 hours.Maharashtra has reported the highest daily new cases at 35,726. It is followed by Chhattisgarh with 3,162 while Karnataka reported 2,886 new cases.While ten states -Maharashtra, Punjab, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Haryana and Rajasthan are displaying an upward trajectory in daily new cases.The Union Health Secretary chaired a high-level review meeting on Saturday with Additional Chief Secretaries, Principal Secretaries and Secretaries (H&FW) of 12 States and Municipal Commissioners and District Collectors of 46 districts that are the most affected by rising cases and rising mortality because of COVID-19 and suggested a Five-Fold Strategy to curb the tide of new COVID cases.These states are Maharashtra, Gujarat, Haryana, Tamil Nadu, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, West Bengal, Delhi, Jammu & Kashmir, Karnataka, Punjab and Bihar.In another significant development, the total tests conducted across India have exceeded 24 crores while the cumulative Positivity Rate continues to remain below 5 per cent.Eight States/UTs have a weekly positivity rate higher than the national average of 5.04 per cent. Maharashtra leads all the states with a weekly positivity rate of 22.78 per cent.India's total active caseload has reached 4,86,310 today, comprising 4.06 per cent of the total positive cases. A net incline of 33,663 cases recorded from the total active caseload in the last 24 hours.India's cumulative recoveries stand at 1,13,23,762 today. The national recovery rate is 94.59 per cent. 28,739 recoveries were registered in the last 24 hours. Maharashtra has reported the maximum number of single day recoveries with 14,523 newly recovered cases.312 deaths were reported in the last 24 hours.FourteenStates/UTs including Rajasthan, Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Lakshadweep, Ladakh, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Sikkim, Tripura, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Islands, Nagaland and Arunachal Pradesh have not reported any COVID-19 deaths in the last 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-6-crore-covid-19-vaccine-doses-administered-in-india-101616926213852.html
28-03-2021||India||Due to elections, Centre made petrol-diesel cheaper by 17/18 paise: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday alleged that the Central Government has made petrol-diesel cheaper by 17/18 paise per litre in the view of Assembly elections in four states and Puducherry."Due to the election, the central government has made petrol-diesel cheaper by 17/18 paise per liter. What will you do with this amount of savings?" he tweeted.Gandhi has been slamming the economic policies of the BJP-led government and had said earlier this week that it has increased unemployment and poverty.A total of 824 assembly constituencies will be going for polls in four states--Kerala, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Assam-- and the Union Territory of Puducherry.The polling in these states has started on March 27 and end on April 29. The counting of votes for elections to four states and one UT will be held on May 2.As many as 18.68 crore electors will cast votes at 2.7 lakh polling stations in Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Kerala, Assam, and Puducherry.The first phase of the Assam and West Bengal Assembly elections concluded on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/due-to-elections-centre-made-petrol-diesel-cheaper-by-17-18-paise-rahul-gandhi-101616926497695.html
28-03-2021||India||BJP will easily win over 200 seats in West Bengal, claims Amit Shah||Union home minister Amit Shah claimed on Sunday that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will a majority of seats in Assam and West Bengal, where voting for the first phase of elections for 47 and 30 assembly constituencies was held on Saturday. Shah also said that the BJP will easily win more than 200 seats in the West Bengal assembly and based his claim on 'clear indicators' and feedback received from the ground after the first phase of polling was conducted a day before.Watch | How many seats is BJP winning in 1st phase in Bengal, Assam? Amit Shah predicts"In the first phase, the BJP is winning more than 26 out of 30 seats in Bengal. The margin of seats is also increasing. We have also got clear indications that the party will win more than 37 seats out of 47 seats in Assam," he claimed.Click here for full election coverage"I believe that after winning 26 seats in the first phase in Bengal, it will be very easy for us to win over 200 seats overall. The party workers and I have full faith in this," he added.Thanking the people of both the states for turning up in large numbers, he said more than 84 per cent turnout in West Bengal and over 79 per cent in Assam shows that there is huge enthusiasm among the public."The development that has taken place in Assam under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the way our government has ensured unprecedented development is getting huge public support. The concept of 'double engine government' has been understood by the people of Assam by the conduct of the BJP," he said.In West Bengal, however, there has been an atmosphere of utter despair, he added. "After 27 years of communist rule, the people of Bengal hoped that Didi (Mamata Banerjee) would bring about a new beginning. But only the sign and name of the party were changed, not the situation of Bengal,” the senior BJP leader said.He also congratulated the Election Commission of India (ECI) for conducting the first phase of polling peacefully and credited them for bringing about a positive change as both Assam and Bengal are often in the news for violence during elections. The voting process in Bengal was completed without any deaths, bombings, and re-voting after many years, he said."Assam was known for electoral violence a few years ago and Bengal too. This time the polling has been peaceful in both places and not a single death was reported due to poll-related violence. These are auspicious signs for both the states," he said.The seven remaining phases will be held between April 1 and April 29 in West Bengal. Polling for the next two phases in Assam will be held on April 1 and April 6. Votes will be counted on May 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-will-easily-win-over-200-seats-in-west-bengal-claims-amit-shah-101616925068510.html
28-03-2021||India||To Raut’s ‘accidental home minister’ remark on Deshmukh, Nawab Malik’s defence||Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik on Sunday defended his colleague Anil Deshmukh, who is facing allegations of corruption by former Mumbai Police chief Param Bir Singh, after the Shiv Sena’s Sanjay Raut called him ‘an accidental home minister’. “Anil Deshmukh is not an accidental home minister. If shortcomings have been brought forward in an editorial (Saamana), then they should be taken in a positive manner. I think the home minister will work towards overcoming those shortcomings,” Malik said according to news agency ANI.Also read | In Mumbai, an explosive scare, a murder, and now – a political crisisThe remarks by Malik, a senior leader of the Nationalist Congress Party—one of the three constituents of the Maha Vikas Aghadi government in the western state—came after Raut said Deshmukh ‘got the home minister's post by accident’. "Jayant Patil and Dilip Walse-Patil refused to take responsibility. That is why Sharad Pawar selected Anil Deshmukh for the post," Raut wrote in his weekly column.Also read | Whose favourite was Vaze, asks Raut, calls Deshmukh 'accidental' home ministerRaut also wrote in his weekly column Rokhthok in his party’s mouthpiece Saamana that the Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress government in Maharashtra did not have damage control machinery as was seen after former Mumbai Police chief Singh claimed that Deshmukh asked police officers to collect money and he had set a target of  ₹100 crore for Sachin Vaze, now the main accused in the Antilia bomb scare as well as businessman Mansukh Hiran’s death case. "If a junior officer like Sachin Waze was running a (money) collection racket from the Mumbai police commissioner's office, why was the home minister not aware of it?" Raut said in his column according to news agency PTI. "Waze was a mere API in Mumbai police. Who gave him so much powers? Whose favourite was he? All this should come out," Raut wrote.Also watch | 'My state is getting a bad name': Supriya Sule on Anil Deshmukh controversyMalik also handled Raut’s comments about the police department. “There should have been strictness in handling the department (police) as some officers were acting as per their own will,” Malik was quoted as sayin by ANI.Meanwhile, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has decided to conduct a probe into the allegations levelled by Singh against home minister Deshmukh and the state government has begun the process to form a judicial commission to be headed by a retired judge, senior leaders of the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government familiar with the developments said.Deshmukh also on Sunday said as much. "The chief minister and the state government have decided that a retired judge of the high court will conduct a probe into the allegations against me. Whatever is the truth will come out," he told reporters at the Nagpur airport.Singh in a letter to CM Thackeray on March 20 claimed that Deshmukh wanted police officers to collect ₹100 crore monthly from bars and hotels, a charge denied by the home minister. The state government, under fire over handling of the bomb scare outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani's house in Mumbai, on March 17 transferred Singh from the post of city police commissioner to the low-key home guard department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/to-raut-s-accidental-home-minister-remark-on-deshmukh-nawab-malik-s-defence-101616924990453.html
28-03-2021||India||CJI Bobde hails Goa's Uniform Civil Code, says it is what Constitutional framers envisaged for India||Chief Justice of India SA Bobde hailed Goa's Uniform Civil Code and said that the state has what Constitutional framers envisaged for India."Goa has what Constitutional framers envisaged for India - a Uniform Civil Code. And I have had the great privilege of administering justice under that Code. It applies in marriage and succession, governing all Goans irrespective of religious affiliation," Bobde said while speaking at the inauguration ceremony of the new building of Bombay High Court at Goa, appreciated Goa for its Uniform Civil Code (UCC).Suggesting the academicians to visit Goa and understand the real change, he said, "I have heard a lot of academic talk about the Uniform Civil Code. I would request all those intellectuals to simply come here and watch the administration of justice to know what it turns out to be."The Chief Justice further hailed the Constitution Bench of Goa for its ability to give one "a variety of experience"."In India, if there's any bench which gives you the variety of experiences and challenges as the Supreme Court, it is only the Constitution Bench at Goa. When you sit on a Constitution bench in Goa, You can expect to hear a land acquisition case, a Section 302 murder appeal, public interest litigation, a question under administrative law, income tax, sales tax, and excise law," he said.He was invited as the chief guest at the ceremony.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cji-bobde-hails-goa-s-uniform-civil-code-says-it-is-what-constitutional-framers-envisaged-for-india-101616924152811.html
28-03-2021||India||Majority want Govt to ban flights from UK, S. Africa amid rise in cases: Report||As many as two-thirds of the people want the government to suspend flights from the UK and South Africa amid a near sharp increase in the number of Covid-19 cases in the country in the recent weeks, according to a survey.At the same time, another 43 per cent of the people covered under the survey, conducted by online platform LocalCircles, were in favour of suspending all international air services to contain the 'second wave' of the pandemic, it said.The survey findings are based on the responses received from over 8,800 citizens from across 244 districts in the country, as per a statement.Scheduled international operations remain suspended since late March last year. Amid this, special international flights have been allowed under the Vande Bharat Mission since May last year and under bilateral "air bubble" arrangements with select countries since July.Direct lineage of SARS-COV2 variants, especially the UK and South African variants, has been detected in different parts of the country amid an upward trajectory in the number of active Covid-19 cases in the country, with over 60,000 cases now being reported daily, LocalCircles said.This is a five-fold increase in the daily case load in 45 days which were about 12,000 on February 12 this year, it added.It is estimated that the UK variant has spread to over 70 countries, while South African variant is in more than 30 countries, said the statement. In the wake of this, LocalCircles asked citizens if any restrictions on international flights should now be implemented via a survey, it added."Sixty-five per cent of the citizens (are) still in favour of suspending arrivals of passengers from the UK and South Africa to limit coronavirus variants, (while) 43 per cent (are) in favour of suspending all international arrivals for a month," LocalCircles said in the statement with survey findings.There were also 32 per cent of the citizens who said "suspending flights is not the solution", while 3 per cent did not have an answer, it said.According to many citizens, the damage has already been done and the variants are at different stages in India primarily due to all the international arrivals in the last three months. However, at least shutting flights now will not bring in new infections and new strains, LocalCircles said.In fact, the platform had in late December, based on public feedback, escalated to the government the risk of mutant coronavirus, urging that all flights from the UK and other high-risk countries be shut till the end of January. In the survey, at that time, 64 per cent of citizens wanted bubble international flights shut with countries, particularly the UK, having cases of the new strain.The same was done. However, the UK flight shutdown was resumed from January 8 after keeping them on hold for about two weeks, LocalCircles said.With limited capacity to do genome testing, some 10,787 samples from 18 Indian states have shown so far 771 cases (736 of UK variant, 34 South African variant, and 1 Brazilian variant), according to the statement.It said Punjab Chief Minister Amrinder Singh has announced that 81 per cent of the cases found in his state based on genome testing are of the UK variant type. Punjab has direct flights between the UK and Amritsar that have been running as part of the Vande Bharat programme. it added."It is not just Punjab that has identified the existence of B.1.1.7 in 18 states. Maharashtra is seeking the highest-ever surges with 35,000 case per day; and in Delhi, the daily caseload has tripled from 500 to 1,500 in a matter of five days," LocalCircles said.According to the platform, as many as 60 per cent citizens in a related survey felt that this new surge is driven by variants. "While the government has not accepted that yet, it is known that the B.1.1.7 is 50-60 per cent more transmissible than the original Covid-19 strain. The strain has also impacted the young much more than the previous Covid-19 strain," it said.Though there will be no vaccine for the young at least till the end of this year, India has crossed six crore inoculations of adults and is vaccinating between 20-30 lakh citizens daily, as per the release.However, it will be the end of 2022 before the entire citizens in the country can be vaccinated, and "that is why this second wave of Covid-19 is extremely worrying to many", it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/majority-want-govt-to-ban-flights-from-uk-s-africa-amid-rise-in-cases-report-101616923497881.html
28-03-2021||India||Delhi L-G Anil Baijal wishes people on Shab-e-Barat, urges all to stay home||Delhi’s Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal on Sunday wished people on Shab-e-Barat and urged them to stay home to keep themselves safe as the Capital has been witnessing a surge in the cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). "Heartiest congratulations to everyone on the occasion of Shab-e-Barat. I request you to observe this festival at home in view of the coronavirus pandemic and keep yourself and others safe by following all the guidelines and Covid-19 rules," Baijal’s tweet, roughly translated from Hindi, read.Muslims across the world observe Shab-e-Barat or the night of forgiveness or atonement and believe Allah forgives anyone who asks for it. Shab-e-Barat is observed on the night between the 14th and 15th of Sha'aban, the eighth month of the Islamic calendar.Also read | Delhi Metro services to start from 2:30pm on March 29 due to HoliThe Delhi Traffic Police has said people will not be allowed to gather in the national capital during upcoming festivals such as Holi, Shab-e-Barat, and Navaratri."For Holi, Shab-e-Barat, Navratri, no gathering allowed at public places. We appeal to the public to follow Covid-19 directives, not drink and drive, and follow traffic rules. There should not be any traffic violations including no riding without a helmet on Holi," Meenu Chaudhary, joint commissioner of police, said on Saturday.Also read | Denizens plan to shift gears from ‘super spreader areas’ to shop indoors, stay safeDelhi reported 1,558 new Covid-19 cases, the highest in more than three months, and 10 deaths, according to a bulletin issued by the health department on Saturday. The Capital’s infection tally has surged to 655,834, including 6,625 active cases and 638,212 recoveries and 10,997 deaths.Holi will be celebrated on Monday and Navratri will start from April 13.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhis-l-g-anil-baijal-wishes-people-on-shab-e-barat-urges-all-to-stay-home-101616922045012.html
28-03-2021||India||2nd wave of Covid-19: Delhi has 1,438 active containment zones in 11 districts, many added in a week||Delhi at present at 1,438 actual containment zones spread across its 11 districts, excluding areas where restrictions are being relaxed with recoveries but have not been completely withdrawn. Around 800 of these areas have been added in the past few days, according to government data on March 27. The South district has 416 containment zones, the highest in the Capital, followed by the North, which has 189 red zones.Though these are called containment zones, these are actually individual houses which are being sealed after Covid-19 cases are being reported, explaining why the number is so high. The New Delhi district has 129 actively sealed buildings or containment zones, the North-West district has 126, South West 84, West 181, South East 164, Shahdara 37, East 43, North East 35 and Central 34.‘Lockdown not a solution’, says Delhi health minister as Covid-19 cases soarBuildings that have been added to the list in the last few days are in Seelampur, Karawal Nagar, Yamuna Vihar, Tilak Nagar, West Punjabi Bagh, East Patel Nagar, Mukherjee Nagar, Rohini, Greater Kailash, Chittaranjan Park, Sarita Vihar, Lajpat Nagar among other places.Strengthening the containment measures comes after the health ministry pointed out that state and district authorities have become lax in identifying areas where cases are increasing and imposing restrictions on them.Since March 25, Delhi has been reporting over 1,500 fresh infections daily. On Saturday, the Capital logged 1,558 new infections, which was the highest number of daily cases since December last year.However, the rise in the number of cases won't translate into any lockdown, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain has confirmed on Saturday. "It follows a 14-day cycle -- between a person catching the infection and recovering from it. Experts said the virus will die if a lockdown is imposed for 21 days. Authorities kept on extending the lockdown, but the virus did not die. I don't think lockdown is a solution," the minister said.Earlier, the minister said that the pandemic in the Capital was nearing the endemic phase where the infection will remain present but the spread and severity will not be the same.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2nd-wave-of-covid-19-delhi-has-1-438-active-containment-zones-in-11-districts-many-added-in-a-week-101616921844521.html
28-03-2021||India||40 persons tests Covid-19 positive at IIM Ahmedabad||As many as 40 people including students and a professor tested positive for coronavirus at the Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad.Twenty-five students at the Indian Institute of Technology, Gandhinagar found to be Covid-19 positive."As many as 40 people including students and a professor -- were found positive in tests conducted at the institute and they were isolated," said Mehul Acharya, deputy health officer, Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation.When talking about IIT, an IIMA official said that currently there are 25 Covid-19 positive students on campus."Many are asymptomatic and recovering fast. All our academic activities are in online mode from last year. Entry and exit from the campus have been restricted. We regularly share precautionary guidelines for all the residents of the campus," the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/40-persons-tests-covid-19-positive-at-iim-ahmedabad-101616920419192.html
28-03-2021||India||Tripura warns of action against rumour mongers after CM’s fake video on lockdown||A video of Tripura chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb speaking about imposing lockdown again in the state due to Covid-19 that had circulated on social media, was fake, his office said on SundayIn a statement, the chief minister’s office (CMO) said that the video in the name of Deb circulated on social media claiming that everything in the state would remain close due to Covid-19 from Sunday to Thursday, was baseless and false. The normal lives of people would not be affected in the state during the period.“The administration will take legal action against those responsible for circulating the video. Everything will be normal in Tripura. Do not pay attention to any fake news,” the CMO said in a statement.The video is reportedly not available now on social media.A high school student was detained last July for spreading a fake message through a Twitter handle which was identical to the CM’s verified account about the re-imposition of lockdown restrictions for seven days. The CMO then said that both the Twitter handle and the message were fake.Meanwhile, the West District administration imposed prohibitory orders on riding motorcycles with pillion riders on the occasion of Holi on Sunday and Monday to avoid disturbance of law and order. Medical staff, police personnel and emergency services have been exempted from the prohibitory order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-warns-of-action-against-rumour-mongers-after-cm-s-fake-video-on-lockdown-101616920302205.html
28-03-2021||India||Covid-19: Six states contribute 83% of new deaths as single-day toll crosses 300||In the last 24 hours, India reported 312 Covid-19 deaths, the highest single-day toll recorded in this year. The last time the country witnessed over 300 deaths was on December 25, 2020, when 336 deaths were reported in 24 hours. Amid the number of rising daily infections, this adds a fresh concern as the death rate, so far, remained low, despite the evident outbreak of the second wave of the pandemic.Here are 5 points about the present Covid-19 death rate in the country.> About 83 per cent of deaths have been reported only in six states in the last 24 hours. These states are those which are also reporting a spike in daily infections.> Maharashtra, Punjab, Kerala, Chhattisgarh, Delhi and Madhya Pradesh reported the highest number of deaths in the last 24 hours.> Delhi's 24-hour death count is concerning as the Capital did not report such a huge number of toll after January 23. On January 23, there were 10 deaths and 197 fresh cases. While the toll was repeated, the new cases on Saturday were manifold, as the city reported 1,558 fresh cases.> Maharashtra's death toll of 166 in 24 hours was highest in 2021. Punjab reported 45 deaths, while Kerala accounted for 14 deaths. A total of 13 deaths were reported in Chhattisgarh, while Delhi and Madhya Pradesh reported 10 deaths each.> Rajasthan, Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Lakshadweep, Ladakh, Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Sikkim, Tripura, A&N Islands, Nagaland and Arunachal Pradesh reported no deaths in the last 24 hours.New cases, weekly positivity rateThe country has been seeing a sharp spike in the number of daily cases since March. The 24-hour tally of 62,714 cases is the highest this year. According to the data of the Union health ministry, India reported over 62,000 cases last time in October 2020. After the highest peak in September, daily cases started dropping but a surge was again witnessed in October following the festivals.At present, India's weekly positivity rate is 5.04 per cent. Maharashtra, Chadigarh, Punjab, Goa, Puducherry, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh and Haryana have weekly positivity rate higher than the national average.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-six-states-contribute-83-of-new-deaths-as-single-day-toll-crosses-300-101616917373752.html
28-03-2021||India||News updates from HT: Over 4 crore vehicles on roads are older than 15 years, says Centre and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Green tax: Over 4 crore vehicles on Indian roads are older than 15 years, says CentreThe ministry of road transport and highways has revealed that over four crore vehicles older than 15 years are plying on roads across India, which will come under the green tax, with Karnataka topping the chart with 70 lakh such old vehicles. Read more3 injured as under-construction flyover collapses near GurugramTwo large concrete slabs of an under-construction flyover on the Dwarka-Gurugram expressway collapsed Sunday morning injuring three workers, officials of the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) said. Read more'Modernisation in agriculture need of the hour, have lost a lot of time': PM ModiPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said that like every sector, there is a need to adopt new practices in agriculture sector also. Read moreGangster who escaped from police custody in Delhi hospital shootout gunned downKuldeep Maan alias Fajja, an alleged gangster who escaped from police custody following a shootout at GTB Hospital in east Delhi on Thursday, was gunned down by the Delhi Police’s special cell in an encounter at an apartment in outer Delhi’s Rohini early Sunday. Read more'If I was selector, I would have brought him back': Vengsarkar vouches for veteran India spinner’s return in ODIs, T20IsWatching Indian spinner get carted all over the park on Friday by England batsmen was not a pleasant sight, especially for former India batsman and ex BCCI chief of selectors Dilip Vengsarkar. Read moreHoli 2021: Farah Khan hearts gymnast Parul Arora’s special routine Insta videoHoli is just a day away and many have already taken to social media to share wishes for others or to showcase how they’re preparing for the day. Read moreJacqueline Fernandez can nail a headstand and play with her pet at the same timeBollywood loves Yoga. From Shilpa Shetty to Malaika Arora, Esha Gupta and Jacqueline Fernandez, it is a part of their lives and these divas have championed this form of workout. Read moreHonda CB500X first ride review: Overpriced but capable adventure bikeThe Honda CB500X was first introduced internationally in 2013 to fill the void left by the big and bulky larger-displacement ADVs. Read moreWatch | 'My state is getting a bad name': Supriya Sule on Anil Deshmukh controversy||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-over-4-crore-vehicles-on-roads-are-older-than-15-years-says-centre-and-all-the-latest-news-101616914769613.html
28-03-2021||India||On 'Mann Ki Baat', PM hails achievements of Mithali Raj, women sportspersons||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday congratulated cricketer Mithali Raj and other women who brought accolades the the country by achieving major milestones. On 75th edition of 'Mann Ki Baat', which he said is being held in the month when Women's day was marked, he hailed the achievements of women in various fields."Indian cricket team's Mithali Raj recently became the first Indian women cricketer to complete 10,000 runs in international cricket. Many congratulations to her on this achievement. She is also the only women international player to score 7,000 runs in ODI. Her contribution to women's cricket is brilliant," PM Modi said."She has inspired many through her two-decade-long career. Her story of hard work and success is an inspiration to not only women but also men's cricketers," he added.Mithali had touched the milestone of 10,000 runds in international cricket during a match against South Africa.Expressing elation over the success of Indian shooters in the International Shooting Sport Federation (ISSF) World Cup Rifle/Pistol/Shotgun. India currently top the medal tally with 27 medals, which includes 13 gold.Also, the Prime Minister highlighted the achievement of India shuttler PV Sindhu, who clinched a silver medal at the Swiss Open earlier this month.He also said that it is a pleasant conincidence that this edition of 'Mann Ki Baat' is being held in a month when the government has is launching 'Amrut Mahotsav', the beginning of celebrations to mark 75 years of India's Independence."In the struggle for freedom, our freedom fighters underwent innumerable hardships since they considered sacrifice for the sake of the country as their duty. May immortal saga of their sacrifice continuously inspire us towards the path of duty," he said.'Mann ki Baat' is the Prime Minister's monthly radio address to the nation, which is broadcast on the last Sunday of every month.In the last address in February, PM Modi asked students, set to appear in their annual exams, to be a warrior and not a worrier. PM Modi said the students shiuld go gleefully for the examination and come back with a smile.In 'Mann Ki Baat' held in January, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had appealed to the countrymen to write about freedom fighters and stories of their struggle to mark the country's 75th Independence Day this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-mann-ki-baat-pm-hails-achievements-of-mithali-raj-women-sportspersons-101616915784182.html
28-03-2021||India||Link PAN card to Aadhar in three days or pay a fine of ₹1,000. Here's why||The last date to link PAN card with your Aadhar card is March 31 and if it is not linked in the next three days, as per the Finance Bill 2021 passed in the Parliament on Wednesday, your PAN card will be disabled and a fine of ₹1,000 will be levied.As per the section 234H added to the Income Tax Act 1961 under the Finance Bill 2021 it is necessary to link the PAN card to Aadhar on or before the deadline provided by the government. If not linked, the PAN card will become invalid and cannot be used for financial transactions after the due date, reported Live Hindustan.Also Read | India’s records more than 62,000 new Covid-19 cases for second day in a rowThe impact of invalidity of the PAN card can affect a variety of financial services like opening demat accounts, all types of banking services, mutual funds, opening new bank accounts etc.The due date to link the Permanent Account Number (PAN) issued by the Income Tax department to Aadhar i.e. March 31 is not likely to extend as per tax experts, reported Live Hindustan. There are no expectations around the extension of the date as the budget proposals are scheduled to come into effect from April 1, 2021.Here’s how you can link your PAN to AadharOnlineGo to the income tax site by clicking here: https://www.incometaxindiaefiling.gov.in/homeEnter the required details like PAN card, Aadhar number and name as mentioned in the Aadhar card.Select the square if only birth year is mentioned in the Aadhar.Enter the captcha code and click on the ‘Link Aadhar’ hyperlink.PAN card can be linked to Aadhar via the websites of NSDL and UTI also by just entering the PAN and Aadhar details.If you have already applied to link the two, then the status of your application can be checked on this link: www.incometaxindiaefiling.gov.in/aadhaarstatusEnter the PAN and Aadhar details and click on ‘View Aadhar Link Status’.If your PAN card is linked to Aadhar then the citizens can see the confirmation on the page that says ‘Your PAN is linked to Aadhar’.Via SMSPAN can be linked to Aadhar through SMS services also. Just send an SMS to 567678 or 56161 from the registered mobile number. NSDL or UTI do not levy any charge on the SMS service.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/link-pan-card-to-aadhar-in-three-days-or-pay-a-fine-of-rs-1-000-here-s-why-101616913131068.html
28-03-2021||India||'Dawai bhi Kadai bhi not just a slogan, we have to live it’: PM Modi on Mann Ki Baat||Prime Minister Narendra Modi renewed his pitch for strict adherence to protocols in place due to the coronavirus pandemic on Sunday. “Dawai bhi Kadai bhi is not just a slogan, we have to live it, say it and tell it," he said while addressing the 75th episode of his monthly radio programme 'Mann Ki Baat'.Hailing India’s fight against the Covid-19 pandemic, Modi said the Janta curfew that was imposed last year in March became an inspiration for the world. The act of banging plates and clapping that evening also lifted the spirits of health workers, who have been working day and night, leading the nation’s coronavirus battle, the Prime Minister added.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 hereModi said that this time of the year in 2020, the citizens across the globe were wondering whether there would be a vaccine against the viral and by when it would be rolled out. “Today, the world's largest vaccination drive is underway in India,” he said.The Prime Minister’s remark on following Covid-19 protocols comes at a time when the country is witnessing a massive spike in daily cases since the last month. On Sunday, the daily Covid-19 case count went past 62,000 for the second consecutive day. The situation became more worrisome with the daily toll from the disease also on the rise. Over 300 fatalities were recorded between Saturday and Sunday, the highest this year.Following concerns of the virus spreading even more due to the festival season, the central government has told all states and union territories (UTs) to ensure measures to breaking the chain of transmission are taken.On account of Holi on Monday, several states and UTs have imposed restrictions on mass events. While Maharashtra, the state reporting the maximum number of new cases, has ordered a statewide night curfew from midnight of March 27, in Delhi, the police have informed citizens that there will be no public gathering on Holi, and other upcoming festivals like Shab-e-Barat and Navaratri amid the rise in Covid-19 cases.The Centre has also drawn a five-point strategy for 12 states reporting the resurgence of Covid-19 cases. They have been told intensify testing, ensure effective isolation and contact tracing, upgrade health infrastructure, pay attention to adherence of Covid-19 appropriate behavior and targeted approach to vaccination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dawai-bhi-kadai-bhi-not-just-a-slogan-we-have-to-live-it-pm-modi-on-mann-ki-baat-101616914076874.html
28-03-2021||India||Green tax: Over 4 crore vehicles on Indian roads are older than 15 years, says Centre||The ministry of road transport and highways has revealed that over four crore vehicles older than 15 years are plying on roads across India, which will come under the green tax, with Karnataka topping the chart with 70 lakh such old vehicles. The list, published by the ministry, doesn't include details of Andhra Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Telangana and Lakshadweep, as their records were not available, news agency PTI reported.Over 50 per cent of these old vehicles are more than 20 years old, the ministry said.The ministry, in January, approved a proposal of levying green tax from these old vehicles after consulting with the states. The move is aimed at reducing pollution being contributed by these polluting vehicles.Government announces details of vehicle scrappage policyTransport vehicles older than eight years could be charged the Green Tax at the time of renewal of fitness certificate at the rate of 10 to 25 per cent of the road tax, and personal vehicles are to be charged Green Tax at the time of renewal of Registration Certification after 15 years, the proposal said.Vehicles like strong hybrids, electric vehicles, CNG, ethanol, LPG vehicles are exempt from this tax.In Union Budget 2021, the Centre also came up with a voluntary vehicle scrapping policy, where automobile users giving up their old vehicles will get a five per cent rebate on purchasing new vehicles.List of states with the highest number of old vehicles plying on roadsKarnataka has 70 lakh vehicles older than 15 years, the highest among the states that have records availableUttar Pradesh occupies the second spot with 56.54 lakh vehicles, of which 24.55 lakh are older than 20 years.Delhi is in third place with 49.93 lakh old vehicles. Out of these, 35.11 lakh are older than 20 years.Kerala is fourth with 34.64 lakh vehicles older than 15 years.Tamil Nadu has 33.43 lakh vehicles, falling in this category.Punjab has 25.38 lakh vehicles older than 15 yearsWest Bengal has 22.69 lakh vehicles, fit for green tax.Maharashtra, Odisha, Gujarat, Rajasthan and Haryana have these vehicles in the range of 17.58 lakh and 12.29 lakh, the news agency reported adding that the number of such vehicles ranges between 1 lakh and 5.44 lakh for Jharkhand, Uttarakhand, Chhattisgarh, Himachal Pradesh, Puducherry, Assam, Bihar, Goa, Tripura and the union territories of Dadra-Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu. In other states, the number is below one lakh each.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/green-tax-over-4-crore-vehicles-on-indian-roads-are-older-than-15-years-says-centre-101616911160893.html
28-03-2021||India||'Modernisation in agriculture need of the hour, have lost a lot of time': PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said that like every sector, there is a need to adopt new practices in agriculture sector also. Addressing the nation on 'Mann Ki Baat', PM Modi highlighted the importance of bee farming and how it is helping farmers boost their income."In every aspect of life, novelty and modernisation is essential. Otherwise, it becomes a burden on us. In India's agriculture sector, modernisation is the need of the hour. It's very late, we have already lost a lot of time," said PM Modi."To generate new employment opportunities, in agriculture sector, to increase the income of farmers, it is equally important to adopt new alternatives and innovations along with traditional agricultural practices," he added.The Prime Minister then talked about bee farming and how it is helping in boosting farmers' income."Many farmers are now getting into bee farming. The people of Gurdum village in Darjeeling have taken up honey bee farming and today there is a significant demand for honey harvested by them. This is also increasing their income. They're helping in Aatmanirbhar Bharat (self-reliant India) campaign," said PM Modi.The Prime Minister's comments came amid an ongoing protest against the three central farm laws passed by Parliament in September last year. The protest, launched by farmers primarily from Punjab and Haryana, has been going on for four months. The protesters want the government to repeal the three laws.The Centre, meanwhile, has said that these laws are historic and will help the farming community in a major way. PM Modi too appealed to the farmers to end their protest, but the impasse is continuing.The government has given an assurance that the farm laws will be suspended for 18 months, but has rules out scrapping it. The Centre has held a series of talks with the protesters but they have refused to budget from their demand.Many opposition parties have supported the protests, saying that the three laws will benefit a few corporate house and demanding that they should be scrapped. the government, however, accuse the opposition parties of misleading the farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modernisation-in-agriculture-need-of-the-hour-have-lost-a-lot-of-time-pm-101616913270183.html
28-03-2021||India||3 injured as under-construction flyover collapses near Gurugram||Two large concrete slabs of an under-construction flyover on the Dwarka-Gurugram expressway collapsed Sunday morning injuring three workers, officials of the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) said.The three workers suffered minor injuries but there was no casualty in the mishap that happened around 7.40 am. NHAI officials said that a technical committee will probe the mishap.The concrete slabs between pillar 107 and 109 collapsed near Daulatabad village. Immediately after the incident, teams from the police, SDRF and civil defence Gurugram reached the spot and cordoned the impact areas. A SDRF team has also been called to check if any worker is stuck under the collapsed concrete slabs. Nirman Jambulkar, project director, NHAI said that the teams of contractor and NHAI reached the spot immediately and took stock of the situation. “A technical team will look into the incident and find the reasons behind this collapse,” he said. Locals said they heard a loud sound and ran toward the site of the incident. Many villagers said that they were apprehensive that a large number of labourers could have been injured in the incident. NHAI officials said that due to weekly off and Holi on Monday, work had been suspended at the site, which ensured labourers were not on the spot. Last month, a cable had snapped while a segment was being laid at the Dwarka Expressway in which four workers had got stuck but were saved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-injured-as-under-construction-flyover-collapses-near-gurugram-101616912921970.html
28-03-2021||India||Janta Curfew became an inspiration for the world: PM Modi on 'Mann Ki Baat'||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday hailed the efforts put in by the country to fight the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. Addressing the 75th edition of 'Mann Ki Baat', PM Modi recalled the year-long fight with a special mention of Janta Curfew."It was in March last year that the nation heard about Janta Curfew. From very early on, the people of India have put up a spirited fight against Covid-19," PM Modi said in the monthly radio address.The Janta Curfew later became an inspiration for the world, he added."The gesture of clapping and clanging utensils to honour the frontline workers was widely appreciated by them," said PM Modi."This time last year, the question was whether there would be a vaccine for Covid-19 and by when would it be rolled out. Today, the world's largest vaccination drive is underway in India," he added.The Janta Curfew was a self-imposed curfew put in place for 14 hours - from 7 am to 9 pm - on March 22, 2020. It was put in place after an appeal from PM Modi.The Prime Minister asked people to stay off the roads and public places during this period. However, essential services like police, media, medical services etc were not put under purview of the curfew.Announcing the measure, PM Modi said that it is "a symbol of our restraint" and "following our duty in the interest of the nation".The Janta Curfew announcement was widely hailed by the people. Many Bollywood actors made a fervent appeal to their fans to heed the advice of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.Days after Janta Curfew, PM Modi announced a 21-day nationwide lockdown on March 24, 2020. Later, it was extended thrice, with the final phase beginning on May 18, and concluding on May 31. From June 1 onwards, the country started reopening gradually, in what was termed as ‘Unlock’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/janta-curfew-became-an-inspiration-for-the-world-pm-modi-on-mann-ki-baat-101616911015526.html
28-03-2021||India||Kerala CM ordering probe against central investigation agencies shows his fear: MM Hassan||United Democratic Front (UDF) convenor MM Hassan on Saturday stated that Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had decided to conduct a judicial inquiry against the central agencies investigating gold smuggling and dollar smuggling cases "out of fear".Terming it an election stunt, MM Hassan while addressing a press conference here said, "The state government does not have the power to take such a case. This is to subvert the current investigation."He further said, "The decision to conduct a judicial inquiry against the central agencies investigating gold smuggling and dollar smuggling cases involving the Chief Minister and the Speaker is not correct, it is a farce."The leader said it is a strange move and will not last for long. Hassan also alleged that when the inquiry was extended, the chief minister, speaker and the Communist Party of India (Marxist) party made a tie-up with the BJP at the national level."The government is playing the role of a confrontation with the central agencies. This is a drama. The chief minister is trying to dress up like a gentleman," he further added.The Kerala Cabinet on Friday recommended a judicial probe against central investigation agencies subject to approval from the Election Commission, following an ongoing probe into several cases, including the Kerala gold smuggling case.The decision was taken at a virtual cabinet meeting here chaired by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan.The Cabinet has appointed Retired Judge KV Mohanan as the Commissioner. He will consider the controversial audio recording of Swapna Suresh, the prime accused in the gold smuggling case, and a letter written by co-accused PS Sarith.The Kerala gold smuggling case, which is being probed by the National Investigation Agency (NIA,) along with the Enforcement Directorate and the customs department, pertains to the smuggling of gold in the state through diplomatic channels.The matter had come to light after 30-kilogram gold worth ₹14.82 crores, smuggled in a consignment camouflaged as diplomatic baggage, was busted by customs in Thiruvananthapuram on July 5 last year.The customs department had also arrested Unitac Builders MD Santhosh Eappen also in a US Dollar smuggling case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-cm-ordering-probe-against-central-investigation-agencies-shows-his-fear-mm-hassan-101616909760131.html
28-03-2021||India||8 die, six injured in road accident in Andhra Pradesh's Nellore||At least eight people died and six were injured after a tempo hit a lorry near Damaramadugu village in Buchirajupalem Mandal of Nellore district on Sunday.According to the police, a group of people from Tamil Nadu were on a religious trip to holy places in and around Srisailam. The accident took place when the tempo, in which they were travelling, was crossing Damaramadugu village at 2.30 AM.The injured have been shifted to Nellore Government General Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/8-die-six-injured-in-road-accident-in-andhra-pradesh-s-nellore-101616907963980.html
28-03-2021||NA||Mann Ki Baat LIVE | Modernisation in agriculture sector is need of hour, says PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday addressed the nation through his monthly radio program 'Mann Ki Baat' on Sunday. During the program PM MOdi remembered the Janata Curfew which was imposed last year in March and said that it became an inspiration for the world. He also urged farmers to start bee farming along with their cultivation.During the 75th edition of the edition of Mann Ki Baat, PM Modi also extended his wishes to the upcoming festivals. "Be it Ugadi, or Puthandu, Gudi Padwa or Bihu, Navreh or Poila Boisakh or Baisakhi the whole country will be drenched in the colour of zeal, enthusiasm and new expectations. At this time, Kerala also celebrates Vishu. I extend best wishes to countrymen for these festivals," he said.It was broadcast live on state-run All India Radio at 11am. The programme also streamed live on the YouTube channels of AIR, PMO and the official channel of the Information and Broadcasting Ministry. It is on the last Sunday of every month.Follow all the updates here:75th Edition of 'Mann Ki Baat' concludesPM Modi ends his address by saying PM "Inspiring life journeys from Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Kerala showcase the phenomenal talent our people are blessed with."PM Mdo congratulates Coimbatore based bus conductorPM Modi congratulates Marimuthu Yoganathan, a Coimbatore based bus conductor who gives free saplings to the bus travellers along with the ticket. "He spends a large portion of his income on this. I congratulate him for his efforts," he said.PM Modi pushes for 'waste to wealth' campaignPM Modi pushes for 'waste to wealth' campaign. Gives example of a professor from Andhra Pradesh who makes sculptures from waste material.PM Modi urges farmers to start bee farming along with their cultivationPM Modi urges farmers to start bee farming along with their cultivation. "This will increase their incomes and also sweeten their lives," he said on Mann Ki Baat. "There is a significant demand for honey harvested by them... with bee farming they are helping in Aatmanirbhar Bharat campaign," he also said.PM Modi remembers 14 light-keepers who died in 2004 tsunamiPM Modi thanks people who work at the light house around the coastal areas while remembering 14 light-keepers who died in 2004 tsunami.PM Modi congratulates cricketer Mithali Raj for reaching 10,000-run milestoneOn 'Mann Ki Baat', PM Modi congratulates Mithali Raj for reaching 10,000-run milestone in international cricket.Janta curfew in March last year became inspiration: PM ModiJanta curfew in March last year due to Covid-19 became inspiration for world, says PM Modi on Mann Ki Baat. "It was in March last year when we heard the term 'Janata Curfew'. It became an inspiration for the entire world as it was an extraordinary example of discipline," he said.75th episode of 'Mann Ki Baat' coincides with Amrut Mahotsav: PM Modi75th episode of 'Mann Ki Baat' coincides with Amrut Mahotsav, which marks the beginning of celebrations for 75 years of India's Independence, says PM Modi on Mann Ki BaatPM Modi begins speaking on Mann Ki BaatPM Modi begins his address on Mann Ki Baat. Thanks his listeners as he speaks on 75th edition of his monthly radio programme. Where to watch PM Modi's address?PM Modi to address nation at 11amPrime Minister Narendra Modi will address the nation at 11am through his monthly radio address Mann Ki Baat today. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mann-ki-baat-narendra-modi-march-28-2021-101616908234069.html
28-03-2021||India||YSR Congress lawmaker from Kadapa G Venkata Subbaiah dies after brief illness||YSR Congress party lawmaker from Andhra Pradesh’s Kadapa district, Gunthoti Venkata Subbaiah died after a brief illness in the early hours of Sunday, his family members said.He was 61 and is survived by his wife and two sons.An orthopaedic surgeon by qualification, Subbaiah had been suffering from heart-related ailments for quite some time. He underwent treatment at a hospital in Hyderabad and was discharged last month.He returned to Kadapa and took active part in the recent municipal elections in his home constituency Badwel. However, his condition worsened a couple of days ago and was admitted to a private hospital in Kadapa, where he breathed his last on Sunday morning, while undergoing treatment.Subbaiah completed his masters in surgery in Orthopaedics at Sri Venkateswara Medical College, Tirupati, in 1996 and had been practising as an orthopaedic surgeon in Kadapa.In 2016, he entered politics by joining the YSRCP. He worked as party coordinator of Badwel from 2016 to 2019. In the 2019 assembly elections, he was elected as a member of the assembly from Badwel.YSRCP president and chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy expressed grief at Subbaiah’s death. He conveyed his heartfelt condolences to the bereaved family members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ysr-congress-lawmaker-from-kadapa-g-venkata-subbaiah-dies-after-brief-illness-101616908181810.html
28-03-2021||India||NIA arrests TMC leader Chhatradhar Mahato in murder case||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) arrested Trinamool Congress leader Chhatradhar Mahato on Sunday in connection with the murder of a local CP I(M) leader in 2009 at Lalgarh in the Jangalmahal region.“He was arrested around 3 am when a team of officials almost broke the door and barged into the house. He was almost dragged out and was not shown any papers. He was unwell. Even his security guards were not allowed to come near him,” Niyati Mahato, Chhatradhar’s wife, told the media.Mahato was the poster boy of the Maoist-backed tribal-movement in Lalgarh that drew national attention during 2008-2011 and had been recently inducted into the TMC.Earlier on Thursday, the Calcutta high court had directed Mahato, the former leader of Maoist-backed People’’s Committee Against Police Atrocities (PCAPA), to appear at the NIA office here thrice a week for alleged involvement in the murder case.The court had further said that if there is any breach of its direction, the NIA can bring it to the notice of a lower court, which, if it deems fit, will thereupon record it and permit the agency to take him into custody.Earlier Mahato had failed to appear before the special NIA court on a number of occasions citing various reasons.“I am not going into the merit of the case. But the timing of the arrest is questionable. He was arrested in connection with a decade-old case during assembly elections,” Kunal Ghosh, TMC spokesperson said after Mahato’s arrest.Mahato, who was recently inducted into the TMC, was given the responsibility of at least 10 constituencies in three districts ahead of the polls. Voting took place on Saturday in 30 seats, including those in Jangalmahal, once a Maoist hotbed, in the first phase of the assembly election.In February 2020, he was released from jail after 10 years. He was one of the accused in an abortive attempt to blow up former chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee’s convoy in November 2008, and was arrested in September 2009.In March 2020, however, the NIA reopened a murder case in which Mahato was one of the accused. He was arrested on Sunday, a TMC leader confirmed. The NIA is yet to issue any statement in this regard“Mahato was released from jail and has been arrested again on court orders. How can there be any politics in it?” said Samik Bhattacharya, BJP’s spokesperson in West Bengal.Soon after his release from jail in February 2020, Mahatao had started hobnobbing with the TMC leaders. A few months later, TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee inducted him into the party and made him one of the secretaries of the party’s state committee.Political analysts had then said that the move was a part of the effort by TMC to regain votes lost to the BJP not only in Mahato’s native district of Jhargram but also in neighbouring areas of Purulia, West Midnapore and Bankura districts that share historical, geographic and demographic similarities.The BJP had made deep inroads in these areas in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls and had won all five Lok Sabha seats in the Jangalmahal area. The party had won 18 of the 42 seats in the state in 2019 and is now targeting to win more than 200 seats out of the 294 assembly seats in West Bengal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-arrests-tmc-leader-chhatradhar-mahato-in-murder-case-101616907281754.html
28-03-2021||India||Gangster who escaped from police custody in Delhi hospital shootout gunned down||Kuldeep Maan alias Fajja, an alleged gangster who escaped from police custody following a shootout at GTB Hospital in east Delhi on Thursday, was gunned down by the Delhi Police’s special cell in an encounter at an apartment in outer Delhi’s Rohini early Sunday.An associate of Fajja, who allegedly provided him shelter as several police teams were hunting for him for the last three days, has been arrested, police said.“In an exchange of fire with the team of Special Cell in a flat in Sector 14 Rohini, Kuldeep Fajja was injured. He was rushed to Ambedkar Hospital where he was declared dead,” said Pramod Kushwaha, deputy commissioner of police (special cell).Fajja, who was allegedly a close aide of jailed gangster Jitendra Gogi, was being escorted to GTB Hospital for treatment on Thursday, when about 10 armed men who arrived in an SUV, freed him by firing at the police and attacking them with chilli powder.While one of the alleged attackers was shot dead, another was injured, but Fajja managed to escape by snatching the motorcycle of a passerby. The escorting policemen involved in the shootout escaped without bullet injuries.Since then, several police teams were hunting for him.Early Sunday, the special cell received a tip off about Fajja hiding in Tulsi Apartments in Rohini sector 14. Around 12.45 am, the police team cordoned off his flat and asked him to surrender, but Fazza allegedly fired at the police team which returned the fire.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gangster-who-escaped-from-police-custody-in-delhi-hospital-shootout-gunned-down-101616905421662.html
28-03-2021||India||Fire breaks out at UP hospital, all patients evacuated from smoke-filled floors||A fire broke out at a hospital in Uttar Pradesh’s Kanpur on Sunday. All patients were safely evacuated and no casualty has been reported, hospital authorities said. An electrical short circuit is likely to have caused the fire, fire department officials familiar with the development said.At least seven fire tenders were sent to the LPS Institute Of Cardiology after the fire broke out in its emergency wing, station house officer Swaroop Nagar Ashwani Pandey said, adding that the entire hospital was filled with smoke. Window glasses on the ground and first floor of the emergency wing were broken to take out the patients and attendants, Pandey said.One patient Tej Chandra, 75, reportedly died in the hospital. However, the authorities said the man had passed away before the fire broke out. The patients, who are in a serious condition, are being shifted to Lala Lajpat Rai Hospital.“About 140 patients were in the emergency ward and the first floor of the hospital. All of them have been taken out. There are patients on other floors of the hospital and they are all safe and medically attended to. Fire department teams are searching inside the hospital for people who may have been left behind or fallen unconscious because of smoke,” commissioner of police Asim Arun said.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath took cognizance of the incident and directed authorities to ensure that all evacuated patients are provided immediate care. He has also sought a report from the district administration and ordered a high-level team to visit the site and submit a report immediately, his office said.Director general (fire services), principal secretary, medical education, and commissioner Kanpur division will jointly conduct the inquiry and submit the report about what led to the fire and the preparedness of the hospital in this regard.LPS Cardiology is the biggest heart ailment-related hospital in the Kanpur region. Patients from 15 districts are treated at this hospital, which recently underwent rapid modernisation in emergency wing in particular.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fire-breaks-out-at-hospital-in-up-s-kanpur-all-patients-safely-evacuated-101616904877905.html
28-03-2021||India||Covid-19: India records over 62,000 cases, 312 deaths in 24 hours; active cases up by more than 33,000||India recorded 62,714 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, which took the nationwide tally to 11,971,624, the Union health ministry data showed on Sunday morning.The country also recorded 312 fresh fatalities linked to the infection in the said period, and the death toll now stands at 1,61,552, the health ministry data further showed.The active cases, which shows the spread of the infection, increased by 33,663, reaching 4,86,310. The active cases have been rising rapidly over the last few days; on Saturday, the count increased by 31,581.The health ministry data also showed that 28,739 patients recovered in the last 24 hours, after which the tally of patients discharged from hospitals reached 11,323,762.The Centre has urged people to follow Covid-19 protocols and ordered states to take all necessary precautions to control the spread of the infection in all work and public places. Earlier this week, the Union home ministry (MHA) issued fresh set of guidelines due to the recent surge in their Covid disease cases. “For strict enforcement of wearing of face masks, hand hygiene and social distancing, states and UTs may consider administrative actions, including the imposition of appropriate fines,” the order said. These guidelines will come into force from April 1 and remain in place till April 30.In February, the MHA announced coronavirus surveillance, containment and caution guidelines which are in place till March 31.The surge, which started a few weeks back, has alarmed the government and health experts who are concerned about the upcoming festival season.Delhi, Madhya Pradesh, Bihar and Goa have announced a series of curbs to check public gatherings in the wake of upcoming festivals like Holi, Shab-e Barat, Easter and Eid-ul-Fitr. Holi will be celebrated on Monday while Easter will be observed on April 4. Shab-e Barat will be observed on Sunday.The health ministry has said that six states - Maharashtra, Punjab, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh - account for nearly 80 per cent of new Covid-19 cases. Among these states, Maharashtra is the worst affected and recorded a high of 35,726 new positive cases on Saturday.The Centre on Saturday chaired a high-level meet with 12 states and union territories (UTs) reporting a surge in Covid-19 cases. They were advised to focus on stringent containment and public health measures in 46 high burden districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-records-more-than-62-000-new-covid-19-cases-for-second-day-in-a-row-101616902924474.html
28-03-2021||India||From Delhi to Goa: Restrictions in place to contain Covid-19 ahead of festivals||The country has been hit hard by the second wave of coronavirus disease (Covid-19). On Saturday, India reported more than 62,000 fresh Covid-19 cases and 291 deaths in the last 24 hours. The rise in the Covid-19 curve of India comes in the backdrop of forthcoming festivals that increase the risk of further spread of the disease.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19In view of the increasing Covid-19 and the upcoming festivities, various states have put in place curbs to control the spread of the virus.Delhi:The Delhi government on Saturday capped the maximum number of people allowed in the wedding ceremonies in closed spaces to 100 across the national capital. The maximum number of people allowed to attend the celebrations in the open are 200 and 100 in closed spaces. Earlier, open spaces had no cap while in close spaces it was restricted to 200 people.Further, the government has put a cap of 50 people allowed to attend the last rites. The restrictive measures are to stay in place till April 30.Delhi Traffic Police on Saturday had also informed that there will be no public gathering during the upcoming festivals of Holi, Shab-e-Barat, and Navaratri amid the rise in Covid-19 cases.The national capital on Saturday reported more than 1,500 Covid-19 cases for the third straight day in the last 24 hours.Maharashtra:The state government has imposed a state-wide night curfew to come into effect by the midnight of March 27. The curfew will be in place from 8pm to 7am.The government in the order has said public beaches and parks will remain shut during the said period. Gathering of five or more people is not allowed after 8pm until 7am the next morning. Violators will be penalised with a fine of ₹1,000 per head.The government has also ordered closure of malls, cinema halls, auditorium and drama theatres during the curfew. However, home delivery and takeaway from restaurants are allowed.The government in the order issued Saturday has also restricted social, cultural and political gatherings.Additionally, not more than 50 people will be allowed during wedding ceremonies and 20 during the last rites.The restrictions in the state have been extended till April 15.Gujarat:The state government has made it mandatory to provide a negative Covid-19 test report from those coming from other states from April 1.The Indian Institute of Management-Ahmedabad and the Indian Institute of Technology-Gandhinagar, the two premier institutes in the state, have also been hit by the coronavirus. IIT has reported 25 active cases and the IIM has 40 active cases, as reported by news agency PTI.Goa:Section 144 of the criminal procedure has been imposed in the state to avoid public gathering ahead of the upcoming festivals, reported ANI.The government had also announced the cancellation of the Shigmo festival parade in the state amid the rise in Covid-19 cases.Madhya Pradesh:Ahead of the festivities, a two day lockdown was imposed in Indore on March 28 and March 29 by the district administration.On Friday the state government had imposed Sunday lockdown in Vidisha, Ujjain, Gwalior, Narsinghpur and Saunsar districts of the state.The Centre on Saturday held a high level meeting with 12 states and union territories reporting a rise in the Covid-19 cases and has advised them to focus on stringent containment and public health measures in 46 high burden districts, reported ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-delhi-to-goa-restrictions-in-place-to-contain-covid-19-ahead-of-festivals-101616902589333.html
28-03-2021||India||Husband of BSP MLA in MP arrested in murder case after absconding for 80 days||BSP MLA Rambai’s husband Govind Singh, who was absconding for the past 80 days in a murder case of a local Congress leader, was arrested early Sunday by Special Task Force of Madhya Pradesh, director general of police (DGP) Vivek Johari said. “Govind Singh was arrested from a bus stand in Bhind. He was coming from Delhi. He will be produced in a court in Damoh today,” Johari said.Rambai released two videos in the morning in which Govind Singh was seen saying that he was going to surrender to the police in Bhind. In the video, Govind Singh is seen as saying that he is innocent and a high level inquiry should be conducted into the case. The Madhya Pradesh police had earlier announced a cash reward of ₹50,000 for the arrest of Govind Singh in connection with the murder of a local Congress leader Devendra Chaurasiya of Hata town of Damoh district. The Supreme Court pulled up the state government twice and has given time to arrest Singh by April 5 at a hearing on March 26.Earlier, the apex court reprimanded the state government for poor law and order situation in the state after additional session judge RP Sonkar, who is conducting the trial in the murder case, alleged the police were supporting Govind Singh and maligning his image by making false accusations. The Supreme Court also asked DGP to hold an inquiry in the matter.Following the reprimand by the top court, additional director general of police, special task force (STF) Vipin Maheshwari reached Damoh to lead the search operation. As many as 15 teams were trying to locate him.Govind Singh and four others are accused of killing Chaurasia in front of his son in March 2019. Criminal charges were earlier dropped against Govind Singh after a police investigation in August 2019 while the four others were arrested the same month. He was again named accused in January this year on the orders of additional session judge Sonkar who also issued an arrest warrant against Govind Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/husband-of-bsp-mla-in-mp-arrested-in-murder-case-after-absconding-for-80-days-101616903561670.html
28-03-2021||India||News updates from HT: PM Modi to address nation through 'Mann Ki Baat' today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.75th edition of 'Mann Ki Baat' today, PM Modi to share his thoughts with peoplePrime Minister Narendra Modi will address the nation through his monthly radio address Mann Ki Baat on Sunday, when the nation will mark the beginning of Holi festivities by lighting a bonfire (Holika Dahan). Read moreCovax facility to face vaccine supply delay as India plans to limit exportsThe vaccine-sharing facility COVAX is likely to face delays in supply of at least 60-70 million doses of Serum Institute of India-produced Covishield after India decided to slow its vaccine exports, people familiar with the matter said. Read moreShip blocking Suez Canal moves slightly, unclear when it will refloatEfforts to dislodge a giant container ship blocking the Suez Canal have allowed its stern and rudder to move, but it remains unclear when the vessel will be refloated, the head of the canal authority said on Saturday. Read more'If Pant continues to bat in this manner, he will leave both Dhoni and Gilchrist behind by a long distance': InzamamInzamam-Ul-Haq, the former Pakistan captain, has made a bold prediction regarding Rishabh Pant, believing that the India wicketkeeper batsman can surpass MS Dhoni and Adam Gilchrist if he can continue his current form. Read moreDia Mirza goes dolphin spotting, takes a dip in the ocean with stepdaughter Samaira in Maldives. See picsActor Dia Mirza shared another bunch of pictures from her honeymoon in Maldives. Among the many glorious moments, one was about seeing dolphins in the Indian Ocean and swimming with stepdaughter Samaira. Read moreBride takes the wheel at vidai, drives groom home. WatchWhat scene emerges before your eyes when you hear the word 'vidai'? For most it would be a bride hugging her family and friends while everyone sheds a tear or two as she takes a step towards her new journey. Read moreNora Fatehi is a vision to behold in figure-flaunting thigh-slit dressAwards season is here and with it, comes some of the most stunning red carpet moments. For the recently held Filmfare Awards, Nora Fatehi dressed in a beautiful attire and blew our minds away. Read moreWatch | ‘Trends suggest clear majority for BJP in West Bengal’: Rajnath Singh||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-pm-modi-to-address-nation-through-mann-ki-baat-today-and-all-the-latest-news-101616900859491.html
28-03-2021||India||Maoists kill panchayat member in Chhattisgarh’s Bijapur district||Maoists allegedly killed a member of the zila panchayat in Bijapur district of Bastar region after accusing him of being an informer, police officials said on Saturday. Police said the incident took place on Friday night in Taalnar village of Bijapur district. Additional Superintendent of Police (ASP), Bijapur, Pankaj Shukla said that Budharam Kashyap , member of Bijapur zila panchayat and was associated with Congress party, was at his house on Friday night when a group of Maoists came to his house and dragged him into the jungle. “Around 15-20 Maoists who were waiting inside the jungle hacked him to death. They also left Maoist pamphlets and alleged the Kashyap was helping district police and was an informer,” Shukla said. Security forces launched a combing operation in the area to nab the killers. “The police brought the body for postmortem on Saturday and investigation is continuing,” the ASP added. Last year, 10 people including six civilians were killed in Bijapur between September and October.On Thursday, Maoists set ablaze at least 12 vehicles engaged in road construction work in Kondagaon of Bastar region in Chhattisgarh. Police said that the incident took place in Kuemari village under Dhanora police station limits where a road is being built between Batrali and Cherbeda under the Prime Minister Gram Sadak Yojna (PMGSY). On Tuesday, five jawans of the District Reserve Guard (DRG) were killed while 14 others were injured in serial IED blasts when Maoists allegedly targeted a bus ferrying security personnel in the neighbouring Narayanpur district of Bastar region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maoists-kill-panchayat-member-in-chhattisgarh-s-bijapur-district-101616901281300.html
28-03-2021||India||Ramesh Jarkiholi claims Karnataka Congress chief DK Shivakumar behind sex tape||Former Karnataka minister Ramesh Jarkiholi on Saturday blamed Congress president in the state, DK Shivakumar as the person behind the alleged sex scandal that forced him to resign earlier this month and said that he would file a complaint.Jarkiholi made the statement soon after the family of the woman who allegedly featured in the tape, told reporters that releasing the sex tape was Shivakumar’s handiwork.“There isn’t any politician who is worse than DK Shivakumar. He’s criminal-minded. I have 11 pieces of evidence that I will hand over to the SIT. He is unfit for politics. No one should indulge in such conspiracy politics. There’s no forgiving him for this. It’s best if he retires,” Jarkiholi said. Shivakumar brushed aside Jarkiholi’s allegations but acknowledged that the woman might have tried to meet him during his interactions with the public. “We are in public life and being a politician thousands of people come to meet me every day near my house, my office and wherever I go. Even the lady in the CD might have tried to meet me but I am not aware of it,” he said. “I got nothing to do with Ramesh Jarkiholi allegations. I don’t know why they have taken my name in the conversation. The lady in the CD might have tried to meet me to convey her personal problem but she did not meet me. She might have met other people for her safety,” he said. Jarkiholi’s accusations against Shivakumar came after the woman’s brother said the Congress leader was sending his sister safely out of the state.“We have spoken to SIT officials and given our statement to them. We have an audio clipping of our sister and the same has been given to SIT officials. During the conversation, my sister had told us that she is at DK Shivakumar’s house and he is sending her away from the state safely. Making such videos, keeping a woman to take their political revenge is not the right thing,” the woman’s brother told reporters in Bengaluru on Saturday, after recording the statement before Special Investigation Team (SIT) probing the sex tape. The phone conversation took place on March 2. Her father said using a Scheduled Tribe woman for political ends was unfair.”We want our daughter back home. She had come home last on February 5, but after March 2, she spoke to us over the phone,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ramesh-jarkiholi-claims-karnataka-congress-chief-dk-shivakumar-behind-sex-tape-101616900081204.html
28-03-2021||India||75th edition of 'Mann Ki Baat' today, PM Modi to share his thoughts with people||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the nation through his monthly radio address Mann Ki Baat on Sunday, when the nation will mark the beginning of Holi festivities by lighting a bonfire (Holika Dahan). The 'Mann Ki Baat' radio address is broadcast on the last Sunday of every month.The 'Mann Ki Baat' address will be broadcast at 11am. Earlier this month, he tweeted seeking ideas for the latest edition of the prorgamme.The address comes a day after PM Modi's two-day Bangladesh visit. He was in the neighbouring country to take part in celebrations marking 50 years of its independence. The Prime Minister also visited a temple during his visit.The to countries signed five key pacts in areas ranging from trade to disaster management. PM Modi, during his talks with Bangladesh Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina, reviewed progress in development and connectivity initiatives.The address also comes after the first phase of polling in West Bengal and Assam Assembly elections. Both the states are crucial for the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) - in Assam, it is looking to retain power while in West Bengal, it has cowed to oust the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC).The voter turnout in both these states was impressive - 79.79% in West Bengal and 76.89% in Assam.Through 'Mann Ki Baat', PM Modi usually talks about the government policies and issues of importance. On the 74th edition of the programme in February, he focussed on the idea of Atmanirbhar Bharat (self-reliant India), urging people to use indigenous products. How India fought the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic was also one of the talking points, and the Prime Minister also urged people to keep following Covid-19 protocols in the wake of a resurgence in the cases of infection.Before this, in his 'Mann Ki Baat' address in January, the Prime Minister congratulated India's criciekt team for winning the Test series in Australia. He also shared stories about India's freedom struggle and announced the government's plan to celebrate 75 year of India's Independence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/75th-edition-of-mann-ki-baat-today-pm-modi-to-share-his-thoughts-with-people-101616899481528.html
28-03-2021||NA||LIVE | Maharashtra's daily Covid-19 tally highest so far with 40,414 cases; death toll at 54,181||The number of cases surpassed 126.5 million globally as the Covid-19 virus continued to surface, according to a report by Bloomberg. The death toll exceeded 2.7 million.The United States added almost 79,000 Covid-19 cases in a day while evidence emerged that the virus is now infecting the younger generation. According to the Bloomberg report, some states in the US are reporting a surge in cases among people under 30 years of age. The shift, as US cases accelerate again, will test the nationwide strategy of vaccinating the elderly and most vulnerable first.Brazil, the second country to have the highest death toll, added more than 3,000 Covid-19 deaths for the second consecutive day. With cases pointing up again since mid-February, many parts of the world are back to dealing with the economic fallout and public fatigue of restrictions while scaling up vaccinations.In India, the number of daily cases hovered around 60,000, prompting authorities to rush for preventive measures. The tally has surpassed 11.9 million-mark while the death toll is at 161,240.Follow all the updates here:Indian army donates 1 lakh Covid-19 vaccines to Nepal armyIndian army on Sunday donated 1 lakh doses of India manufactured Covid-19 vaccines to its Nepalese counterpart, reported news agency PTI.Maharashtra reports 40,414 fresh Covid-19 cases, death toll at 54,181Maharashtra on Sunday reported 40,414 new cases of Covid-19, it's highest one day spike so far. The number of total cases now stands at 27,13,875. 108 deaths were also reported in the last 24 hours, the death toll currently stands at 54,181Punjab records 2963 new cases of Covid-19, 69 deathsPunjab reports 2,963 fresh COVID-19 cases, 2,155 discharges, and 69 deathsTotal cases: 2,31,734Total cured cases: 2,01,127Active cases: 23,917Death toll: 6,690 pic.twitter.com/fLFxKM7RrIDelhi reports 1881 new cases of Covid-19, 9 deathsDelhi reports 1,881 new #COVID19 cases, 952 recoveries and 09 deaths. Total cases 6,57,715Total recoveries 6,39,164Death toll 11,006Active cases 7,545 pic.twitter.com/7EIiC4tNuAMaharashtra govt issues new guidelines for 'Mission Begin Again'Updated guidelines for ‘Mission Begin Again’, issued by the Government of Maharashtra.#NaToCorona pic.twitter.com/SyBlRtLPwUNagpur reports 3,970 new Covid-19 cases, 58 deathsNagpur on Sunday recorded 3970 new cases of Covid-19, taking its total number of cases to 2,18,820. 58 deaths were also recorded in the last 24 hours, the current death toll stands at 4,931, reported ANI.Maharashtra CM instructs officials to be prepared to impose lockdown like restrictions Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray instructed senior health officials and Covid task force to prepare for lockdown if people continue to flout Covid-19 preventative norms.Pope says 'devil is taking advantage of the pandemic' during Palm Sunday servicePope Francis while leading a Palm Sunday service told an empty St.Peter's Basilica that "The Devil is taking advantage of the crisis to sow distrust, desperation and discord,", reported Reuters.Sunil Chhetri recovers from Covid-19Got an all-clear from the tests and couldn't be happier to get back on the pitch (I missed it bad!). Grateful for all the kind messages that came in, wishing me a speedy recovery. Importantly, I'd want every one to stay safe and mask up at all times. pic.twitter.com/49YrYdJKluCaptain of the Indian football team, Sunil Chhetri, has fully recovered from Covid-19, the player said so in a tweet. He urged people to be safe and follow Covid appropriate behaviour.Covid-19 screened increased in UttarakhandUttarakhand increased thermal screening for people entering the state from other states in view of the rising cases, news agency ANI reported.Night curfew in Maharashtra from todayNight curfew in Maharashtra comes into effect from today. It was imposed in view of the rise in Covid-19 cases.India's Covid-19 tally rise by 62,714India's Covid-19 tally rise by 62,714, pushing the total number to over 11.97 million cases. The death toll reached 161,552In Barcelona, thousands gather for rock concertDonning face masks, 8,000 people in Barcelona gathered to attend a rock concert. Fans were screened for Covid-19 a day before.China reports 8 fresh cases of Covid-19China reported 8 new Covid-19 cases on March 27, compared with 12 new infections the previous day, the country's national health authority said on Sunday.Australia's Queensland state coronavirus cluster grows to threeAustralia's Queensland state reported one new coronavirus case on Sunday linked to the highly contagious B117 UK mutant strain, but officials said a wider lockdown was not yet needed yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-coronavirus-death-toll-india-world-march-28-2021-101616896601272.html
28-03-2021||India||Sec 144 imposed in Goa ahead of Holi, Eid, Easter in wake of rising Covid cases||Amid the rising number of Covid-19 cases across the country, the Goa government has imposed section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure ahead of the festivals of Holi, Shab-e-Barat, Easter and Eid.As per an order by the District Magistrate of North Goa Ajit Roy on Friday, public celebration, gatherings and congregations will be prohibited during the upcoming festivals."In exercise of the power vested in me under sub-section 1 of section 144 of code of criminal procedure, public celebration and gatherings, congregations during these upcoming festivals like Holi, Shab-e Barat, Easter and Eid-ul-Fitr etc, shall not be allowed in public places in the State of Goa," the order read.Any person contravening this order shall be punishable under Section 188 of the Indian penal Code, it added.Holi will be celebrated on Monday while Easter will be observed on April 4. Shab-e Barat will be observed on Sunday.The Goa government also announced earlier that the Shigmo festival parade in the state stands cancelled this year due to rising Covid-19 cases.Other states and union territories to take similar steps include Delhi, Madhya Pradesh and Bihar, among others.Over the last few weeks, coronavirus cases have been on the rise across the county. As many as 62,258 new cases were registered in the last 24 hours, the Union health ministry informed on Saturday.As per the state health department, there are currently 1,379 active cases in Goa, including 170 in the last 24 hours. The total death toll in the state stands at 824.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sec-144-imposed-in-goa-ahead-of-holi-eid-easter-in-wake-of-rising-covid-cases-101616896368585.html
28-03-2021||India||More doses to reach Odisha: Health secy||The central government on Saturday said that adequate quantities of Covid-19 vaccines will be provided to Odisha based on the pace of vaccination in the state, a day after the state health secretary blamed an erratic supply of doses for its low immunisation numbers.In a letter to Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan on Friday, Odisha health secretary PK Mohapatra said that due to insufficient vaccine quantities, the government was unable to plan vaccine sessions.“While several states are doing 3 lakh vaccinations a day, Odisha is unable to cross 1 lakh due to shortage of vaccine. We are planning to increase our vaccination to 2 lakh shots a day and complete the target before the weather becomes severe,” Mohapatra said in his letter.Also read | Over 59.4 million Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in India, says governmentEarlier this week, the Centre announced the expansion of vaccine coverage to include people over 45 years of age, irrespective of comorbidities. There are nearly 10 million people over the age of 45 in Odisha.Responding to Mohapatra’s letter, Bhushan said that of the 3,446,760 doses of Covid-19 vaccines supplied to Odisha till March 27, about 2,297,431 doses were administered to a total of 2,167,956 eligible beneficiaries. Odisha is left with 1,149,329 doses, he said.“In Odisha, a total of 207,229 beneficiaries have been vaccinated in last 3 days resulting in daily average vaccination rate of 69,076 beneficiaries. The ministry has been constantly reviewing daily and allocating vaccine based on the progress of vaccination in all states and union territories. The ministry has already allocated an additional supply of 548,250 doses, which will reach Odisha on March 28, 2021,” he said.On Saturday, Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan said he spoke with Union health minister Harsh Vardhan regarding the availability of Covid-19 vaccines in Odisha. “Dr. Harshvardhan assured me that there is no dearth of availability of doses of Covid-19 vaccines,” Pradhan tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-doses-to-reach-odisha-health-secy-101616887971033.html
28-03-2021||India||Heavy turnout in Phase 1 of Assam, Bengal polls||People in West Bengal and Assam voted in the first phase of state assembly elections on Saturday, turning out in impressive numbers – 79.79% and 76.89%, respectively – in polls that will determine if the Trinamool Congress can stand up to the challenge by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which is also trying to retain power in the Assam.While the BJP has emerged as the primary challenger in West Bengal, where it won 18 of the 42 seats in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, in Assam, a coalition of the Congress and Badruddin Ajmal’s All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) is fighting against the Sarbananda Sonowal-led government.Sporadic incidents of violence were reported from various places in West Bengal but the overall situation was largely peaceful, with 79.79% turnout recorded till 5pm, according to the Election Commission.Also read | CM Banerjee says ‘scrap PM’s visa’ after Modi’s Matua temple visit in BangladeshVoting was held in 30 seats – several of them part of the once Maoist-hit Jangalmahal region – amid tight security and strict adherence to Covid-19 guidelines, the official added.In Assam, the fates of many heavyweights including chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal were sealed in electronic voting machines (EVMs) in the first phase of polling. Till 9pm, 76.89% polling was recorded. The figure was expected to increase slightly after the final compilation of votes.The outcome in the elections in the eastern states will indicate if the BJP’s hegemony remains intact despite governance challenges in recent months, including due to the Covid-19 pandemic.“The turnout (in Bengal) is expected to cross 80%,” a senior poll panel official said, asking not to be named.At Salboni in Jhargram, the Communist Party of India (Marxist) candidate was heckled allegedly by Trinamool Congress supporters and his car was attacked. While four people were arrested, the Election Commission has asked for a report on the incident.At Kanthi Dakshin, the car of Soumendu Adhikari, who is BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari’s brother, was also damaged. At Garbetta in West Midnapore, at least 12 BJP supporters were injured in an alleged clash with TMC supporters.Also read | EVMs make news in first phase of polling in Bengal; TMC alleges hacking“The poll panel has asked for detailed reports on violent incidents. At least 10 persons were arrested,” the poll panel official said.Another official said that about 100 EVMs malfunctioned during the day. “Non-functioning rate during the poll is lesser than experienced in last few polls,” an EC statement said without elaborating.In the last assembly polls held in 2016, the TMC won 27 out of the 30 seats that went to the polls on Saturday.“People have voted for us. The BJP in some cases tried to incite people, influence voters and create problems. There were some reports of EVM malfunction. We alerted the ECI,” said TMC spokesperson Kunal Ghosh.The BJP’s state vice president Jay Prakash Majumdar said: “The TMC is still the ruling party but the allegations they have raised today against the BJP are such that it appears that the BJP is in power. They have damaged our cars. It is a sign of frustration. The TMC is showing signs of defeat.”The battle for the state also spilled over to social media. In a recording of a conversation circulated online by the BJP, it alleged that chief minister Mamata Banerjee had called a BJP district leader to seek help get votes for the state’s ruling party in Nandigram, the constituency she is contesting from. The Trinamool Congress, too, released a recording of a purported conversation between BJP’s national vice president Mukul Roy and another party leader Sisir Bajoria, and alleged that the BJP was trying to influence the Election Commission.Trinamool Congress chief Mamata Banerjee is banking on her decision to create welfare boards for tribal communities such as the Santhals, Lodhas and Kurmis, and development projects, including new roads, hospitals and schools. But the BJP, which did well in this region in the 2019 polls by winning five Lok Sabha seats, is banking on acute deprivation as well as tribal discontent against the TMC.In Assam, voting was largely peaceful in all 47 seats in 11 districts in the first phase. In Sonari district, a polling officer died due to cardiac arrest. There were reports of a few EVMs malfunctioning, but they were replaced soon, an official said.Also read | On day 1 of Bengal polls, BJP's Soumendu Adhikari says attacked by TMC workers“All our candidates will win. The voters are happy with the performance of the government of BJP and its allies in the past five years. Our aim is to form a BJP government again in Assam,” Sonowal said after voting at a polling booth in his home constituency in Dibrugarh district.“The Congress and other parties are seen only in the media, but the BJP and its allies are working on the ground. People of Assam know that CAA and NRC won’t affect them,” Sonowal was quoted as saying by ANI.Assam witnessed violent protests in December 2019 against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, which seeks to provide citizenship to religious minorities from Bangladesh, Pakistan and Afghanistan who entered India on or before December 31, 2014.The updated National Register of Citizens, which seeks to identify illegal immigrants, was released in August 2019 and left out 1.9 million applicants. The list is yet to be notified and the process of re-verification of those left out is yet to begin. The BJP has dubbed the list as faulty and has promised a corrected NRC, if voted to power again.Considered a traditional Congress bastion in the past, in recent years, the BJP has been able to make inroads in the tea-tribe community with the promise of scheduled tribe (ST) status, welfare schemes for women, students, young people and development projects.Almost all seats in the first phase fall in the tea-rich Upper Assam belt and their outcomes are expected to be crucial for both the BJP-led ruling alliance and the opposition Congress’s grand alliance of seven parties.“The high voter turnout shows the mood of the voters that want change. We are confident of getting majority and forming a Congress-led government in the state,” state Congress chief Ripun Bora said.While the BJP is contesting in 39 of the 47 seats in the first phase, its ally Asom Gana Parishad (AGP) is contesting in 10 seats (there was a “friendly contest” between the allies in two seats). On the other, the Congress was contesting in 43 seats and the newly formed Assam Jatiya Parishad (AJP) in 41 seats.Voting in West Bengal takes place in eight phases, ending on April 29, and the votes will be counted on May 2. Assam’s second phase is on April 1 and the third and final phase of voting is on April 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-turnout-in-phase-1-of-assam-bengal-polls-101616877465127.html
28-03-2021||India||No infiltration attempts reported from LoC along North Kashmir in last 3 months||Even as the melting of snow has started, no infiltration attempts have been reported along the Line of Control (LoC) in north Kashmir in the last three months, officials privy to the information stated.Militants usually sneak into the Valley via north Kashmir’s Gulmarg, Uri, Nowgam Tanghdar Keran and Gurez axis and the first attempts are usually made in late January or early February.A senior official, privy to details about infiltration, said, “We have not received any information about any group infiltrating into the Valley via Gulmarg or Uri sectors in the last couple of months. Though some places are still covered with snow, we don’t have any input about infiltration attempts.”Last year too, there was a marked decrease in infiltration attempts, with 99 such incidents being recorded in 2020 as compared to 216 in 2019. In 2019, only 138 such bids by militants had been successful. Likewise in 2018, official figures reveal, 143 militants infiltrated during 328 attempts and most attempts had been foiled. In 2017, there were 419 attempts of infiltration in J&K.A senior JK police officer, posted in one of the border districts, said they have not received any report from the Army about infiltration attempts made by the militants on the LoC. “They haven’t detected any such attempts so far. The situation is peaceful as of now,” the officer said.The officer, however, said the exact situation would be clear when the snow will melt. “It is very difficult to predict anything. But we are hopeful the situation remains like this only. Post ceasefire, the borders are silent now.”For example, in the Gurez sector of North Kashmir’s Bandipore, Nowgam and Keran, snow is still present at many places. “Usually, the infiltration attempts increase in April, when the snow melts. We are keeping a close watch,” the officer said.Last month, India and Pakistan agreed to observe a strict ceasefire along the LoC from February 24 midnight. Till date, security officials also maintain that no ceasefire has been reported and the situation on the LoC is peaceful at present.The defense spokesperson said that he has already sought information on the situation along the LoC, especially with regards to infiltration.In J&K, the LoC is guarded by the Army and at many places, the Border Security Force also keep a watch on the movements along with Police who keep on gathering inputs about fresh infiltration bids. A senior army officer said that though the LoC is calm at present, they are keeping a close watch on the LoC and the work on repairing the fences, which had been damaged in winters, will start shortly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/no-infiltration-attempts-reported-from-loc-along-north-kashmir-in-last-3-months-101616875785259.html
28-03-2021||India||NIA takes over Andhra probe against activists||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has taken over an Andhra Pradesh police probe against 64 persons including known Adivasi, Dalit and human rights activists in southern India such as VS Krishna, Chiluka Chandrasekhar and Duddu Prabhakar for their alleged links with Maoists, people familiar with the development said. The rights activists say they have been implicated in a false case and now it has been handed over to the NIA for further harassment.VS Krishna, Human Rights Forum (HRF) coordinator for Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, has been speaking against Andhra’s anti-Naxal force – the Greyhounds – for allegedly raping 11 tribal women in 2007 in the Vakapalli incident. Andhra Pradesh State Civil Liberties Committee (CLC) general secretary Chilika Chandrasekhar (59) and Duddu Prabhakar (a prominent Dalit activist) had in 2018 condemned the arrest of Gautam Navlakha, Varavara Rao, Sudha Bhardwaj, Arun Ferreira, Vernon Gonsalves and other activists in the Bhima-Koregaon case.Also read | NGT panel finds damage to 30% mangroves in Andhra’s KakinadaDuddu Prabhakar is currently in jail along with seven others after being arrested by Andhra Pradesh police a few months ago. In all, two cases were registered against the activists by the cops last year. The NIA has taken over the November 23 case for now.The allegation against Krishna, according to the Andhra Pradesh police First Information Report (FIR), is that he was influencing the Vakapalli rape survivors to falsely depose against police officers.After taking over the Andhra Pradesh police FIR, the NIA has invoked stringent sections, including those under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA), sedition, criminal conspiracy and the Arms Act against the 64 accused.The case was originally registered on November 23 last year after the arrest of a TV journalist from Visakhapatnam, Pangi Naganna (30), by the cops. It is alleged that Naganna worked as a courier for Maoists and had been passing information to the ultras inside the jungle about police movements and as instructed by Maoist leaders he was involved in instigating villagers to stop the forces from combing operations, obstruct police from entering villages, revolt against police parties and hold rallies against the government. Revolutionary Maoist literature, press notes, medicines, wire bundles and other incriminating material was said to have been recovered from his bag at the time of arrest.During his interrogation, Naganna said he facilitated meetings between Maoists and civil society organisations, according to police officials.It was on the basis of Naganna’s confession that the state police had named VS Krishna as well as Akkiraju Haragopal – a senior Central Committee member of the CPI (Maoist). The state police had further alleged that Krishna had assured Haragopal of spreading Maoist ideology in urban areas. Haragopal too is named as an accused in NIA case.It is further alleged that Chilika Chandrasekhar also met Maoists, according to Naganna’s confession.NIA officials cited above said they will question all activists to unearth their Maoist links.Also read | PM Modi wraps up Bangladesh visit, calls for greater bilateral cooperationHRF (on behalf of VS Krishna) said in a statement: “HRF along with many Adivasi, women’s, and mass organisations were active participants since 2007 seeking justice for the 11 Vakapalli women who were raped by special forces personnel. It is because of this solidarity and sustained rights activism that the police are now seeking to intimidate VS Krishna in what we believe to be a clear case of vindictiveness. They have gone to the extent of invoking the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act which is a draconian legislation that mocks at fundamental freedoms. Such a law should have no place in a democracy.”Chilika Chandrasekhar said: “I have been working as a civil rights activist since 1987. Never have I come across such a case in my career. For four decades, we have been interfering in state’s violence and working as voice of the voiceless. Why is state going after us? Invoking such draconian law is the way of curtailing civil liberties activities.”In the Bhima-Koregaon case, the NIA had filed a charge sheet in October last year naming activists Gautam Navlakha, Dr Anand Teltumbde, Professor Hany Babu MT, Father Stan Swamy, among others, alleging that the accused were part of Maoists’ frontal networks to increase their influence.Kavita Srivastava from the People’s Union for Civil Liberties (PUCL) said: “Human rights activists are being deliberately targeted and silenced in this country. Firstly, the FIR filed on the basis of fabricated allegations was uncalled for, and now the NIA taking over the case is really sinister. That’s not acceptable. We all know what NIA has done in Bhima-Koregaon case. PUCL demands that this FIR should be quashed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-takes-over-andhra-probe-against-activists-101616874892326.html
28-03-2021||India||BJP will get clear majority in Bengal, NDA will retain Assam: Rajnath Singh||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Saturday said that high voter turnout and emerging trends indicate that BJP will get a clear majority in West Bengal and NDA will again succeed in Assam with BJP getting more seats."High voter turnout in the first phase of West Bengal elections makes it clear that BJP is going to achieve great success in each phase of polls. The trends show that BJP will form the government with a clear majority," Rajnath Singh told ANI.Thirty seats in West Bengal and 47 seats in Assam went to the polls on Saturday in the first phase of assembly elections in the two states. Assam recorded 77 per cent voter turnout in the first phase while West Bengal recorded nearly 80 per cent polling.Singh said people are coming in larger numbers to vote due to preparations made by the Election Commission. He alleged that the ruling Trinamool Congress had earlier created "a reign of terror" among the voters."The way in which the voting percentage has increased in the first phase shows that the BJP did well. Earlier, there was a reign of terror created by TMC. Because of the preparation made by the ECI, people have now gathered the courage to come out and vote," he said.Referring to Assam, he said there is no major challenge for the BJP and the party-led government has a track record of performance."Our government has a splendid track record on development and good governance. I believe that the seats of BJP will increase and NDA will succeed in this election in Assam."On Kerala, which will go to the polls on April 6, he said BJP's vote percentage and seats will increase."BJP has emerged as an alternative in the state. Our number of seats will also increase in this election in Kerala," he said.Singh rejected allegations of opposition that BJP was pursuing divisive politics."BJP never does politics by dividing society. Our politics is not based on caste, creed and religion. We do politics of justice and humanity. On the contrary, LDF, UDF, TMC and Congress have done the politics by dividing society," he said.The results of assembly polls will be declared on May 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-will-get-clear-majority-in-bengal-nda-will-retain-assam-rajnath-singh-101616871733240.html
28-03-2021||India||After Ladakh standoff, IAF defers mega drill to conserve flying hours||A crucial air exercise involving almost 200 aircraft will not be conducted this year in the backdrop of the Indian Air Force’s high-tempo operations in the Ladakh sector, where IAF has been on its highest state of alert for several months owing to border tensions with China, officials familiar with the developments said on Saturday.IAF’s biggest exercise Iron Fist, held every three years to showcase India’s air power, was supposed to be held at Rajasthan’s Pokhran test facility this month but it has been removed from the air force’s training schedule for the current year, Hindustan Times has learnt.Also read | PM Modi wraps up Bangladesh visit, calls for greater bilateral cooperationThe decision to put off the exercise to possibly next year was guided by the need “to conserve flying hours and equipment” considering the IAF’s continuous deployment in the Ladakh theatre after border tensions with China began last May, said a senior officer, asking not to be named.“Iron Fist is an important exercise that allows us to showcase what IAF is capable of. It’s not being held this year as IAF has had a really busy year in Ladakh,” said a second officer.A total of 181 aircraft, including 103 fighter planes, took part in the last edition of Iron Fist in 2016 that saw 572 rockets, 81 bombs and nine missiles being fired, including the indigenous Astra beyond-visual-range missile and the Akash missile.The traditional firepower demonstration — Iron Fist — used to be an occasion to give a heavy dose of armament training to a large cross-section of air and ground crews, said Air Marshal Anil Chopra (retd), director general, Centre for Air Power Studies.“It was also to demonstrate military aviation prowess to the countrymen. This year, the IAF has been on operational stations at Ladakh and elsewhere, and was also closely involved with Aero India in Yelahanka. Therefore, they are not holding the demonstration for good reason,” Chopra said.The maiden edition of Iron Fist was held in 2013. It was not held in 2019 as IAF carried out the Gaganshakti exercise in 2018 to test its readiness and stamina for a two-front war with China and Pakistan.Watch | Indian soldiers dance in Ladakh near Chinese tension site﻿IAF is projecting its capability to carry out day-and-night, all-weather combat missions in the Ladakh sector, with front-line fighter jets, attack helicopters and multi-mission choppers deployed there. IAF also deployed its new Rafale fighter jets in the Ladakh sector as part of India’s overarching plan to strengthen its military posture in the region.The air force’s MiG-29 fighter jets, Sukhoi-30s, Apache AH-64E attack helicopters and CH-47F (I) Chinook multi-mission helicopters are among the platforms that have operated in the Ladakh sector.IAF’s C-17 Globemaster III transport aircraft were used to move soldiers, tanks and infantry combat vehicles to the sector when border tensions peaked last year, while C-130J Super Hercules aircraft have undertaken sorties to the advanced landing ground in the strategic Daulat Beg Oldie (DBO) sector to support the military’s forward deployments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-ladakh-standoff-iaf-defers-mega-drill-to-conserve-flying-hours-101616871578735.html
28-03-2021||India||BJP leaders get relief in Muzaffarnagar riots case||A special court in Uttar Pradesh has accepted the state government’s request to withdraw a case of inciting violence against at least 30 people, including Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders Suresh Rana, Sangeet Som and Umesh Malik, in connection with the 2013 Muzaffarnagar riots case.Muzaffarnagar’s additional district government counsel (ADGC), Lalit Bhardwaj, said the state requested the withdrawal of the case. The three BJP leaders along with former MP Kunwar Bhartendra Singh and Vishva Hindu Parishad (VHP) leader Sadhvi Prachi, were accused of giving inflammatory speeches during a panchayat in Nangla Mandaud village, triggering communal violence in Muzaffarnagar and Shamli districts. At least 60 people, a majority of them Muslims, were killed and over 50,000 displaced during the riots.Bhardwaj said the state government sent a letter requesting the withdrawal of the case last year and the then ADGC, Subhash Saini, also filed an application in the special court under the Criminal Procedure Code’s Section 321 (withdrawal from prosecution).“It [the request] was pending for over a year and finally the court approved it on Thursday,” said Bhardwaj.Hailing the court decision, the BJP’s Muzaffarnagar district president Vijay Shukla said: “Fake case were registered against party leaders during the rule of Samajwadi Party [SP] government. We appreciate the court’s decision.”SP leader Sudhir Panwar said: “Withdrawal of such heinous cases would send a wrong message in the society. It’s a dangerous precedent being set up as BJP leaders can again try to polarise the society without any accountability of their leaders”, SP leader and former member of the state planning commission said.Earlier in March, the same court accepted the closure report filed by the state police’s Special Investigation Team, clearing Som of the charges of sharing on Facebook a video, which allegedly fanned communal violence in Muzzafarnagar and the adjoining areas eight years ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-leaders-get-relief-in-muzaffarnagar-riots-case-101616871338707.html
28-03-2021||India||Over 59.4 million Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in India, says government||Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare on Saturday informed that more than 5.94 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses were administered toll 8 pm."The cumulative number of COVID19 vaccine doses administered in the country has crossed 5.94 Crore today. A total of 5,94,92,824 vaccine doses have been given, as per the provisional report till 8 pm today," read the press release by the Union Health Ministry.These include 81,26,776 health care workers (HCWs) who have taken the first dose and 51,62,679 HCWs who have taken the second dose, 88,27,124 frontline workers (FLWs) (first dose), 35,83,060 FLWs (second dose), 2,73,18,810 beneficiaries more than 60 years old and 64,74,375 beneficiaries aged 45 and above with specific co-morbidities.Total 13,83,051 vaccine doses were given till 8 pm today, the 71st day of nationwide Covid-19 vaccination. Out of which 13,20,467 beneficiaries were vaccinated for 1st dose and 62,584 HCWs and FLWs received 2nd dose of vaccine as per the provisional report. Final reports would be completed for the day by late tonight.India recorded 62,258 new Covid-19 cases, 30,386 recoveries, and 291 deaths in the last 24 hours, as per the Union Health Ministry on Saturday. With this, the total cases in the country mounted to 1,19,08,910 including 4,52,647 active cases and 1,12,95,023 recoveries. The death toll has gone up to 1,61,240.According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), as many as 11,64,915 samples were tested on March 24.The Centre on Saturday chaired a high-level meet with 12 States and Union Territories (UTs) reporting a surge in Covid-19 cases. States and Union Territories were advised to focus on stringent containment and public health measures in 46 high burden districts.Union Health Secretary, Rajesh Bhushan chaired the high-level review meeting today with Additional Chief Secretaries, Principal Secretaries and Secretaries (Health and Family Welfare) of 12 States and Municipal Commissioners and District Collectors of 46 districts that are the most affected by rising cases and rising mortality because of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-59-4-million-covid-19-vaccine-doses-administered-in-india-says-government-101616869323777.html
28-03-2021||India||Govt forms 5-point strategy for 12 states with sharp surge||The Centre has asked the 12 states and union territories reporting a surge in the number of coronavirus disease cases to adopt a “five-fold strategy” to arrest the spread of the disease, an official statement said.Besides the “strong advice” given by the Centre for a significant increase of testing in all districts in line with their positivity rate, the strategy to be adopted included effective isolation and contact tracing of those infected, re-invigoration of public and private healthcare resources, ensuring of COVID appropriate behaviour and targeted approach to vaccination in districts reporting large numbers.The strategy was finalised after a high-level review meeting chaired by Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan with senior officials of the 12 states and the UTs, according to a statement by the ministry of health and family welfare. The states and Union territories are Maharashtra, Gujarat, Haryana, Tamil Nadu, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, West Bengal, Delhi, Jammu and Kashmir, Karnataka, Punjab and Bihar.“Through a detailed presentation, the states were informed that the country has seen the sharpest rise in weekly COVID cases and fatalities since May 2020 (7.7% and 5.1% respectively),” the statement said.These states and union territories have been asked to optimally utilise all vaccines available without keeping a buffer stock and utilise all vaccination capacities both in public and private sector. The unused stocks of vaccines in the states should focus on the high-burden district, Centre told the states.Also read | Delhi’s Covid-19 caseload from last 3 days higher than total cases last weekAccording to official data, there are 46 “most affected” districts that reported 71% of all the cases in the country and 69% of all the deaths recorded this month.Maharashtra which has reported a record number of cases this week accounted for 25 of the 46 districts of concern. Maharashtra was followed by Gujarat with four districts of concern and Haryana and Tamil Nadu with three districts of concern each. In Delhi, one of the eleven districts has been identified as the most affected.The states and union territories reporting a surge have been asked to significantly increase the number of tests being conducted and to ensure that the more accurate RT-PCR test accounts for 70% of the total tests being conducted.In addition to testing, the states have also been asked to trace and isolate 30 contacts on average for every positive case within 72 hours.“One infected person could spread COVID-19 to an average of 406 other individuals in a 30-day window without restrictions which could be reduced to just 15 by decreasing physical exposure to 50 per cent and to a further 2.5 (average) by decreasing physical exposure to 75 per cent,” the statement said.In the meeting, it was pointed out that Punjab and Chhattisgarh, despite being smaller in population size than Karnataka and Kerala, were reporting higher number of deaths.The data showed that almost 90% of all the deaths reported in the country were among those above the age of 45 years.Also read | Over 59.4 million Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in India, says governmentAccording to the statement, states have also been asked to ensure that Covid-19 appropriate behaviour is followed, especially in crowded places such as markets, inter-state bus stands, schools, colleges, railway stations. It was highlighted that the concept of ‘second wave’ reflected more the laxity among everyone regarding COVID-appropriate behaviour and virus containment and management strategy at the ground level.The centre advised that celebrations of Holi, Shab-E-Barat, and Easter must be restricted to within homes and local leaders and religious heads should be roped in to create awareness among people.States were also asked to make advance planning of logistics and infrastructure for 1-1.5 months as any unchecked spread of infection may overwhelm the local administration.India on Saturday registered 62,258 new infections in a day, the highest single day rise so far this year, and also the highest since October 16 last when 63,371 new cases were reported in a span of 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-forms-5-point-strategy-for-12-states-with-sharp-surge-101616870978717.html
28-03-2021||India||J&K records 271 new Covid-19 cases in highest spike this year||Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday recorded 271 coronavirus disease cases, in the year’s highest daily count, taking the case tally in the Union territory to 129,684. The death toll reached 1,985 with one new fatality in Kashmir.As many as 196 cases were reported in the Kashmir division on Saturday while 75 fresh cases were reported from Jammu division.The officials said Srinagar district recorded the highest number of 118 new cases, which includes 39 travellers, followed by 56 in Jammu district and 42 in Baramulla.Four districts did not report any cases, while 12 others detected new cases in single digits.The number of active cases, which has been rising steadily this month, has now reached 1,813 in the union territory, officials said.There was a decline in the number of cases in January and February after 256 cases were recorded on January 1.There are 1,339 active cases in Kashmir division, including 814 in Srinagar, while there are 474 active cases in Jammu division.As many as 125,886 people have recovered so far, taking the recovery rate to 97.07%. Over 5.9 million Covid-19 tests have been conducted in the Union territory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jk-records-271-new-covid-19-cases-in-highest-spike-this-year-101616870919296.html
28-03-2021||India||Covax facility to face vaccine supply delay as India plans to limit exports||The vaccine-sharing facility COVAX is likely to face delays in supply of at least 60-70 million doses of Serum Institute of India-produced Covishield after India decided to slow its vaccine exports, people familiar with the matter said.So far, the WHO-backed COVAX has received 28 million doses of Covishield vaccine, a statement from Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunisation (GAVI) said. The COVAX facility was expecting an additional 40 million doses in March and another 50 million in April.“We provided Serum Institute of India $150 million in pre finance to ramp up production. Our agreement stipulates 50% of production to be given to COVAX. Through Serum Institute of India, COVAX provides Covid-19 vaccines to more than 60 low income countries, primarily in Asia and Africa. If Government of India bans export of doses, all those countries would suffer,” said Gavi deputy chief executive officer Anuradha Gupta.The government has decided to focus on its domestic vaccination programme following a spike in Covid-19 cases, officials familiar with the matter said earlier this week, adding that there will be no expansion of vaccine exports.Pune-based SII is manufacturing the double-dose Oxford-AstraZeneca Covid vaccine under the brand name Covishield.“Gavi appreciates its long term relationship with Indian government and manufacturers who have produced a range of high quality vaccines for the world. They have contributed to saving 14 million lives in low income countries during the last two decades,” Gupta said.Also read | ‘Disinformation Dozen’: Social media urged to remove these 12 anti-vaxxersIndia, however, reiterated that there is no ban on exports of Covid-19 vaccines. “India has always thought of not only its neighboring countries but also other countries which showed interest in getting our vaccines. We have exported more than 6 crore vaccine doses already. There is no ban on export of Covid-19 vaccines,” government official said requesting anonymity.There was no response from SII and AstraZeneca.Since the first batch of vaccines was sent to Ghana in Africa in February this year, India has supplied at least 61 million vaccine doses to as many as 77 countries as part of both grants and commercial arrangements.Both Gavi and SII are in talks with the Indian government to resolve the issue, people familiar with the matter said.India’s requirement for vaccine doses increased after the government decided to expand the vaccine coverage for people over 45 years of age and above from April 1, irrespective of the comorbidities.“Even though there is not enough evidence to suggest that the vaccines prevent disease transmission, which means may not be able to break the chain of transmission. However, it is still a good idea to fast vaccinate as many vulnerable population groups as possible to provide protection against death and severe disease. Our ultimate goal is to save lives,” said a senior public health expert, requesting not to be identified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covax-facility-to-face-vaccine-supply-delay-as-india-plans-to-limit-exports-101616870918771.html
28-03-2021||India||SII begins phase 2/3 trials for Covovax, supply likely by Sept||The Serum Institute of India (SII) on Saturday began the phase 2 and phase 3 bridging trials for the Covid-19 vaccine, Covovax.The company, which is already supplying the Covishield vaccine, hopes to launch the Covovax vaccine by September this year.“Covovax trials finally begin in India; the vaccine is made through a partnership with @Novavax and @SerumInstIndia. It has been tested against African and UK variants of #COVID19 and has an overall efficacy of 89%. Hope to launch by September 2021!” said SII CEO Adar Poonawalla in a tweet.In August 2020, US-based vaccine maker Novavax, Inc announced a licence agreement with SII for the development and commercialisation of NVX-CoV2373, its Covid-19 vaccine candidate, in low and middle-income countries and India.Also read | Amid surging Covid-19 cases, Delhi issues fresh restrictions. Details hereThe trial in India was initiated weeks after the country’s apex drug regulator, Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation, gave its approval to SII. “After detailed deliberation, the committee recommended for the conduct of the clinical trial with observer blind design,” the minutes of the meeting of the subject expert committee under the CDSCO held on March 15 said.The phase II/ III study will establish that the Indian version of the vaccine produces the same immune response as the Novavax vaccine. The trial will be conducted on 1,600 people across 19 sites in India, including the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Delhi.Of the 1,600 trial participants, 460 will be in the immunogenicity group who will be given either Covovax or the vaccine by Novavax in a 3:1 ratio and the others will be in the safety cohort who will be either given Covovax or a placebo in 3:1 ratio.Bridging studies to establish immunogenicity have been conducted for all Covid-19 vaccines developed outside India. A separate efficacy trial was not conducted in India.Also read | 80% of new Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra, 5 other states: GovtThe development and commercialisation pact between Novavax and SII excludes major upper-middle and high-income countries, for which Novavax continues to retain rights.Novavax said its two-shot vaccine has shown a 96% efficacy against the dominant global variant, and an 86% efficacy against the UK variant. The vaccine also showed an efficacy of 60% against the South African variant. The overall efficacy of the vaccine was 89%.The Novavax vaccine is a protein subunit vaccine, where a lab-made version of the spike protein of Sars-CoV-2 is given to people to illicit an immune response.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sii-begins-phase-2-3-trials-for-covovax-supply-likely-by-sept-101616870858740.html
28-03-2021||India||‘Still a lot has to be covered’: Omar Abdullah on Indo-Pak peace overtures||(National Conference vice-president and former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Omar Abdullah on Saturday welcomed the thawing of ties between India and Pakistan but stated that a lot of ground was still to be covered. He said that the two countries should move beyond secret talks and indulge in open dialogue.Abdullah said that he won’t go into whether this was because of compulsion or sincerity on anyone’s part.“Whatever it is, it is good. We have always said that the friendship between these two countries is not only for the betterment of J&K but the whole of South Asia,” he said on the sidelines of a party function in Pulwama district in south Kashmir.Last month, Indian and Pakistan’s militaries agreed to strictly observe a ceasefire agreement along the Line of Control (LoC). Earlier this month Pakistan’s army chief general Qamar Javed Bajwa said it was time for India and Pakistan to “bury the past” and move forward as that would help “unlock” the potential of South and Central Asia.“It is good that the two countries are now taking friendship instead of threatening each other but still a lot has to be covered,” Abdullah said.The turn in India-Pakistan relations comes around one-and-a-half years after the special status of Jammu and Kashmir under Article 370 was revoked by the central government and the region was split into two Union territories.Abdullah said they have come to know about secret talks between the two countries. “We have heard that there have been secret talks. We want them to talk to each other openly across the table on all issues. The issues are plenty including J&K and all other issues. We want a solution to all issues through dialogue,” he said.Earlier this week, the moderate Hurriyat Conference faction led by Mirwaiz Umar Farooq also welcomed India and Pakistan’s agreement to adhere to a ceasefire on the Line of Control and stated that the subsequent statements and actions indicated a ‘positive shift’ in the relations between the neighbours.The Hurriyat said it welcomes the shift towards good neighbourly relations between the two countries, which was the first step in the direction of meaningful dialogue for the peaceful resolution of the Kashmir conflict.On being asked about the Enforcement Directorate’s summons to PDP leader Mehbooba Mufti, Abdullah said that they have experienced these things in the past 6-8 years.“From J&K to Tamil Nadu, Assam to Gujarat, neither Mehbooba Mufti is the first leader (to be summoned by Enforcement Di) nor would she be the last. Unfortunately for the past 6-8 years, we experienced that one has to bear the brunt of these agencies on opposing the central government. Wherever these actions are taking place they will be faced strongly,” he said. In J&K, he said that it was the work of the UT government to reassure people and bring them into confidence. “But unfortunately here we still are into governor’s rule. The L-G and his officers must bring people here into confidence and assure them about their betterment,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/still-a-lot-has-to-be-covered-omar-abdullah-on-indo-pak-peace-overtures-101616870199447.html
28-03-2021||India||‘Scared Kerala CM making wild allegations’: JP Nadda||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) national president JP Nadda on Saturday said Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan has turned against central agencies after they started probing his office and some of his ministers in connection with the gold smuggling case.Participating in a party roadshow in Dharmadom constituency in Kannur (north Kerala), where chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan is seeking re-election for April 6 assembly elections, Nadda said the CM is scared and that is why he is making wild allegations against the Union government and central agencies.The state government had announced a judicial inquiry against the Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Friday alleging that it was trying to implicate the CM in the gold smuggling case.Also read | Rahul Gandhi says Kerala’s economy central issue, pegs NYAY as solution“Central agencies came to investigate the gold smuggling case after the CM wrote a letter to the Prime Minister. Since the probe has reached his office and some of his ministers, he is scared and making wild allegations. Agencies can’t probe the case according to his whims and fancies,” he said while taking out a roadshow for party candidate CK Padmanabhan, also former state president, who is taking on the CM in Dharmadom.Steeped in corruption and nepotism, the ruling CPI(M) and opposition Congress have no moral ground to oppose each other in the state, Nadda added. “In West Bengal, they are allies and fighting together but in Kerala, they are sworn enemies. Both are ideologically bankrupt and wedded to opportunism,” he said.Nadda said the Union government had pumped in enough fund for developmental activities in Kerala like the Mumbai-Kanyakumari economic corridor, development of metro in port city Kochi and has also turned Kochi into an oil refinery hub.Nadda said with the induction of ‘Metro Man’ E Sreedharan, a man of high integrity and commitment, and other leaders the, the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance will spring many surprises this time.Watch | Kerala Polls 2021: Decoding UDF Vs LDF battle & BJP’s ‘will be kingmaker'﻿Talking about the Sabarimala temple issue, he said the party was consistent in opposing the dilution of customs and party workers suffered most when the CPI(M) government trampled agitations and jailed those who were on peaceful hymn-chanting sessions.With politicking in top gear, many national leaders are set to visit the state. Defence minister Rajnath Singh will arrive in the state on Sunday and Prime Minister Modi is expected to visit the state on March 20 and April 2, party leaders said. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi is on the second leg of his visit while Priyanka Gandhi is expected in a couple of days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/scared-kerala-cm-making-wild-allegations-jp-nadda-101616863299439.html
