29-03-2021||India||UP: Two drown, another goes missing while taking a bath in Ganga||Two people drowned and another went missing while bathing in the Ganga river in the Fatehpur district of Uttar Pradesh on Monday, police said.The incident took place around 3.30 pm in Bhitaura village, Hussainganj Station House Officer (SHO) Ranveer Bahadur Singh said.He said Alok Gupta (21), Ritik Umrav (16), Amit Kumar (18) and Raghav (20) -- all residents of Fatehpur -- had gone to take a bath. They started drowning, the SHO said.The boatmen, after hearing the cries, took out Alok, Ritik and Amit from the water, and took them to hospital. Alok and Ritik were declared dead, while the condition of Amit is serious, police said.The SHO said Raghav is missing and efforts are on to trace him.He added that the bodies have been sent for post-mortem.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-two-drown-another-goes-missing-while-taking-a-bath-in-ganga-101617037468016.html
29-03-2021||India||India-US agree to revamp energy partnership ahead of climate summit||India and the US on Monday decided to revamp the existing energy cooperation framework to focus more on clean energy keeping advanced American technology and the rapidly growing Indian energy market in mind to reflect new priorities set by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Joe Biden, an official said.Petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan and US energy secretary Jennifer Granholm have decided to revamp the India-US Strategic Energy Partnership (SEP) accordingly and convene the third meeting of the revamped SEP at an early date, the official said requesting anonymity.“Earlier, two SEPs were [held under the Trump Administration], where the focus of energy cooperation was more on supply of fossil fuels from America rather than cooperation in reducing carbon footprints. While the import of fossil fuel from the US will continue, Washington will support India’s efforts for clean energy,” the official said. The inaugural SEP, a ministerial meeting, was first held on April 17, 2018. Its second meeting took place on July 17, 2020. Prior to the third meeting of SEP, Pradhan and Granholm on Monday held a virtual conference and agreed to revamp it to reflect the new priorities of PM Modi and President Biden with a focus on promoting clean energy to accelerate green energy cooperation, the petroleum ministry said in a statement. Granholm assumed the post of US energy secretary in the Biden administration last month.In a telephonic conversation on February 8, 2021, PM Modi and President Biden stressed the need for a rules-based international order and underscored the urgency to address the challenge of global climate change. India welcomed America’s decision to re-commit to the Paris Agreement, reversing the Trump administration’s move to disengage from the process to fight the man-made climate change. <blockquote class=”twitter-tweet”><p lang=”en” dir=”ltr”>1. Had an excellent introductory meeting virtually with US Secretary of Energy H.E Jennifer Granholm. Congratulated <a href=”https://twitter.com/SecGranholm?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw”>@SecGranholm</a> on assuming the high office. Reviewed the India-US Strategic Energy Cooperation (SEP). <a href=”https://twitter.com/ENERGY?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw”>@ENERGY</a> <a href=”https://t.co/pm6WNORYY4”>pic.twitter.com/pm6WNORYY4</a></p>&mdash; Dharmendra Pradhan (@dpradhanbjp) <a href=”https://twitter.com/dpradhanbjp/status/1376523265582063619?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw”>March 29, 2021</a></blockquote> <script async src=”https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js” charset=”utf-8”></script>The development on Monday is significant as Biden on Friday invited 40 world leaders, including PM Modi, to a two-day virtual climate summit that he will host on April 22-23. Leaders of China and Russia are also invited to the summit.Pradhan and Granholm agreed to prioritise greater collaboration in the clean energy sector, such as biofuels, carbon capture, utilisation and storage (CCUS), hydrogen production and carbon sequestration, through technology exchange, joint research and development (R&D) through Partnership to Advance Clean Energy Research (PACE-R), the statement said. India and the US would convene the third meeting of a revamped SEP at an early date, it said. “They decided to intensify the efforts to take advantage of the complementarities of both the countries --advanced US technologies and rapidly growing India’s energy market, for a win-win situation through a cleaner energy route with low carbon pathways,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indiaus-agree-to-revamp-energy-partnership-ahead-of-climate-summit-101617035266710.html
29-03-2021||India||News updates from HT: Hottest March in Delhi in 76 years and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Delhi records highest temperature in March in 76 years: IMDDelhi on Monday experienced a severe heatwave and recorded its maximum temperature at 40.1 degrees Celsius, making it the hottest day in March in 76 years. Read‘Ex-MLA’ Mamata will run away, says Nandigram rival Suvendu AdhikariBJP leader Suvendu Adhikari on Monday asked West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee to get letter pads with ex-MLA printed on them, after being subjected to a verbal attack by Banerjee earlier in the day. ReadReview panel as Bengaluru accounts for over 60% of Karnataka’s Covid-19 casesAuthorities in Karnakata’s Bengaluru, which is witnessing a surge in the cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), have constituted a panel to review the situation and take action to control the rise in infections. Read ‘He updated his batting software’: Aakash Chopra names India all-rounder who can score a ton if promoted up the orderFormer Indian opener Aakash Chopra believes that all-rounder Hardik Pandya will breach the triple figures in 50-over format if he is promoted up in the batting order. ReadAjay Devgn weighs in on his 'doppleganger' getting into a brawl in Delhi: 'I’ve been getting concerned calls'Actor Ajay Devgn has responded to rumours that he got into a fight in Delhi recently. A brawl broke out in Delhi's Aerocity among two groups on Friday. ReadSaif Ali Khan, Kareena Kapoor, Sharmila Together come together in Saba Ali Khan's Instagram tribute for Tiger PataudiSaba Ali Khan gave fans a glimpse of her father late Mansoor Ali Khan Pataudi's 70th birthday in 2011. The photo includes Kareena Kapoor, Saif Ali Khan, Sharmila Tagore and others. ReadHoli 2021: ITBP jawans celebrate Holi at 17,000 feet, video wins heartsA video showing jawans of the ITBP (Indo-Tibetian Border Police) celebrating and enjoying the festival of Holi has won many hearts online. The video shows some jawans dancing and enjoying the day at an altitude of 17,000 feet in Ladakh. Read 'Joota maar' Holi with shoes played in UP's Shahjahanpur, no distancingWhile many places in India practised caution on Holi amid the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, the festival was celebrated with full fervour in Uttar Pradesh's Shahjahanpur. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-hottest-march-in-delhi-in-76-years-and-all-the-latest-news-101617029104434.html
29-03-2021||India||Maharashtra's daily tally dips with 31,643 fresh Covid-19 cases||Maharashtra witnessed a marginal dip in its daily cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), as well as deaths, the state’s health department said in a bulletin on Monday. There were 31,643 new Covid-19 infections and 102 related deaths, the bulletin showed. The fresh infections and deaths are lower than those recorded on Sunday when there were 40,414 cases, the highest daily spike ever, and 108 deaths. The tally of the state, which is the worst affected by the pandemic is now at 2,745,518 and its death toll 54,283, according to the bulletin.Mumbai also reported fewer fresh Covid-19 cases than Sunday at 5890 and the number of people who succumbed to the viral disease was 12, according to the health department’s bulletin. With the fresh infections and deaths, the disease tally of the state’s capital city is now at 404,614 and its death toll at 11,665.According to the health department’s bulletin, there were 20,854 discharges in the last 24 hours across the state taking the recoveries to 2,353,307 and 194,95,189 people, with 136,848 in the same period, were tested for the disease. Mumbai on Sunday also reported the highest single-day rise in Covid-19 cases by adding 6,923 new infections.Also read | Amid Covid spike, Maharashtra plans another lockdownThe Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Monday decided to discharge asymptomatic patients at the earliest to vacate beds for the patients with more serious symptoms amid the rise in the cases of the coronavirus disease in Mumbai. It said that no asymptomatic Covid-19 patient without any co-morbidities will be allotted a bed in any public or private hospital. It described the "needy" patient as the one with "mild or serious symptoms or one with co-morbidities". The civic body has also decided to place the order for procuring 150,000 injections of antiviral drug Remdesivir and other medical equipment to avoid any potential shortage of medicines at hospitals, a senior official said.The Union ministry of health and family welfare said earlier in the day that Maharashtra was among eight states, which have reported a high number of daily Covid-19 cases, and account for 84.5 per cent of the 68,020 fresh cases recorded in the country in a day. It also said that Maharashtra along with Kerala, Punjab, Karnataka and Chhattisgarh cumulatively account for 80.17 per cent of the total active cases in the country.The state government has tightened restrictions, including imposing a night curfew, throughout the region to tackle the rising cases of the coronavirus disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtras-daily-tally-dips-with-31-643-fresh-covid-19-cases-101617029957217.html
29-03-2021||India||Delhi records highest temperature in March in 76 years: IMD||Delhi on Monday experienced a severe heatwave and recorded its maximum temperature at 40.1 degrees Celsius, making it the hottest day in March in 76 years, the India Meteorological Department said on Monday. Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the IMD's regional forecasting centre, said the Safdarjung observatory, which provides the Capital’s representative, recorded a maximum temperature of 40.1 degrees Celsius, eight notches more than normal. "It is the hottest day in March since March 31, 1945, when the national capital recorded a maximum of 40.5 degrees Celsius," Srivastava said, according to news agency PTI.Delhi’s minimum temperature settled at 20.6 degrees Celsius, three notches more than normal, data showed. According to the Met department, the weather stations at Najafgarh, Narela, Pitampura and Pusa recorded maximums of 41.8 degrees Celsius, 41.7 degrees Celsius, 41.6 degrees Celsius, and 41.5 degrees Celsius respectively.According to IMD, a heatwave is declared when the maximum temperature is more than 40 degrees Celsius in the plains and at least 4.5 notches above normal. A severe heatwave is declared if departure from normal temperature is more than 6.5 degrees Celsius.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-records-highest-temperature-in-march-in-76-years-imd-101617027437385.html
29-03-2021||India||Nagpur’s Covid-19 tally rises by over 3,000 again, death toll nears 5,000||Maharashtra’s Nagpur, one of the worst Covid-19 affected districts in the state, recorded more than 3,000 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, officials told news agency ANI on Monday. With this, its infection tally has risen to 221,997. However, the 3,177 fresh infections recorded by the district are comparatively less than some of the previous daily cases that Nagpur has seen in the last few days, including 4,095 on March 26, its highest since the beginning of the pandemic.Nagpur also saw 2,600 more recoveries and 55 deaths in the last 24 hours, which have taken its recovered cases and death toll to 178,713 and 4,986 respectively. Active cases, meanwhile, are at 38,298.Earlier this month, the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) said that Nagpur, along with three other districts in Maharashtra, had the highest active Covid-19 caseload in the country. The other three districts mentioned by the ministry, in its press conference on March 16, were Pune, Mumbai and Thane. At the time, according to the ministry, Nagpur had 18,114 cases, behind Pune, and ahead of Mumbai, Thane and Nashik. Since then, the district’s active caseload has risen by more than 20,000 cases.Also Read | Pune, Nagpur, Mumbai, Thane have highest active Covid-19 cases, says health ministryA week-long lockdown was imposed in Nagpur between March 15 and 21. Later, Maharashtra’s energy minister and the guardian minister of Nagpur, Nitin Raut announced that amid the rising Covid-19 cases, certain restrictions would continue to stay till March 31.Also Read | Restrictions in Nagpur extended over rising Covid-19 casesMaharashtra has been at the centre of the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic, which has also been reported across the country in the last month. In the last 24 hours, India recorded more than 68,000 new Covid-19 cases, as per the Union health ministry on Sunday, of which, around 60% or 40,414 were reported from the western state alone. The state also has the highest active caseload in the country.In the wake of rising cases, a night curfew was announced for Maharashtra, which came into effect from Sunday night. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray also asked officials to start preparing for “another lockdown.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nagpurs-covid-19-tally-rises-by-over-3-000-again-death-toll-nears-5000-101617024321950.html
29-03-2021||India||Validity of driving license, vehicle documents extended. Details here||The government has extended the validity of documents like driving license (DL), registration certificate (RC) and permits till June 30, 2021, amid the coronavirus pandemic. The deadline for the validity of the documents was earlier set for March 31. The ministry of road, transport and highways (MoRTH) issued an advisory to the states about the extension and said that the documents whose validity could not be granted due to the lockdown or had expired since February 1, 2021, or would expire on March 31, 2021, will all be given an extension.A driving licence can also be renewed anytime now between one year before its expiry till one year after its expiry, a step which is likely to benefit citizens living away from their hometowns, visiting abroad etc. MoRTH said that the decision “will help out citizens in availing transport-related services". The documents eligible for the relaxation fall under the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988, and Central Motor Vehicle Rules, 1989.The government also issued similar advisories earlier with the aim of providing relief to vehicle owners amid the pandemic. The earlier advisories were issued on March 30, 2020, June 9, 2020, August 24, 2020, and December 27, 2020.Additionally, those seeking new driving licences will now be required to pass strict skill tests which will include reversing a vehicle with reasonable accuracy. Union minister for road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari told the Lok Sabha in a written reply last Thursday that the rules and the passing percentage for the driving licence test will change. “In the case of a vehicle having a reverse gear, driving the vehicle backwards, reverse it into a limited opening either to the right or left under control and with reasonable accuracy is one of the parameters of qualifying in the driving skill test,” news agency PTI quoted Gadkari as saying.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/validity-of-driving-license-vehicle-documents-extended-details-here-101617022533423.html
29-03-2021||India||BJP fields Mahesh Jeena as its bypoll candidate from Salt in Uttarakhand||The BJP on Monday named Mahesh Jeena as its candidate for the Salt Assembly constituency in the Almora district of Uttarakhand, where a bypoll is scheduled to be held on April 17.The bypoll to the seat was necessitated after the untimely death of MLA Surendra Singh Jeena due to COVID-19 in November last year.Mahesh Jeena is the elder brother of Surendra Singh Jeena, who enjoyed the reputation of being an energetic and farsighted leader dedicated to the development of his constituency.By fielding Mahesh Jeena from the seat, the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) hopes to reap the advantage of his late brother's good work in his constituency and the sympathy factor.Mahesh Jeena will file his nomination on Tuesday, the last date for the filing of nominations for the bypoll, state BJP media in-charge Manveer Singh Chauhan said.According to the voters' list prepared in January, there are 95,241 voters in the Salt Assembly constituency -- 48,682 men and 46,559 women.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-fields-mahesh-jeena-as-its-bypoll-candidate-from-salt-in-uttarakhand-101617019889094.html
29-03-2021||India||Rumours won’t get anyone anything: Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Sharad Pawar, Amit Shah meeting||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Monday dismissed speculations that Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar and Union home minister Amit Shah secretly met in Gujarat, calling for the rumours to end. Raut’s comments came after local news reports in Gujarat said that Pawar and his party colleague Praful Patel met the Union home minister at a farmhouse in Ahmedabad on Saturday.“Some things should become clear with time, otherwise confusion is created. I can say with confidence that no secret meeting has been held between Sharad Pawar and Amit Shah in Ahmedabad or anywhere. Now put an end to the rumours. It will not get anyone anything,” Raut’s tweet, roughly translated from Hindi, said.However, Shah on Sunday parried a question over his meeting with Pawar, saying that ‘everything cannot be made public’.“There is nothing to raise eyebrows over the rumoured meeting between Sharad Pawar and Amit Shah. In fact, a dialogue between leaders of opposition (rival) parties is good. I am saying this provided they actually met each other in Ahmedabad,” the Sena MP was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.कुछ बातें समय के साथ स्पष्ट हो जानी चाहिए, वरना भ्रम पैदा हो जाता है। मैं विश्वास के साथ कह सकता हूं कि शरद पवार जी और अमित शाह के बीच अमदाबाद या कहीं भी कोई गुप्त बैठक नहीं हुई है। अब तो अफवाहों का अंत करो। इससे कुछ हाथ नहीं लगेगा। pic.twitter.com/HpWnp1BBHdAssuming that even if the two veteran leaders met secretly, Raut wondered how the news about it came out in the public. He also pointed out that Shah has been known for holding such meetings with leaders from across the political spectrum.The speculation about the meeting comes in the backdrop of the Maha Vikas Aghadi government in Maharashtra facing a crisis over allegations of corruption against state home minister and NCP leader Anil Deshmukh. In a letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray last week, former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh accused Deshmukh of ordering police officials, specifically suspended assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze, to extort ₹100 crore every month from bars and restaurants in the city.Also Read| ‘Everything can't be made public’: Amit Shah on reported meeting with PawarVaze has been arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) and named as the prime accused in the Ambani bomb scare case and is also facing interrogation regarding the death of Thane-based businessman Mansukh Hiran, whose car laden with explosives was found near industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence in February.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has demanded Deshmukh’s resignation from the cabinet and the imposition of President’s rule in Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pawar-shah-did-not-hold-secret-meeting-all-rumours-must-end-sena-mp-raut-101617018577632.html
29-03-2021||India||News updates from HT: Manipur issues order to turn away refugees from Myanmar, say reports, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Manipur issues order to 'politely turn away' refugees from Myanmar: ReportsAmid an ongoing security crackdown in Myanmar, the government in Manipur, which flanks the neighbouring country, has reportedly instructed its border districts to neither open any relief camps nor provide food and shelter to potential refugees. Read more‘What about UP?’: Mamata responds to Shah on death of BJP worker's motherWest Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday responded to Union home minister Amit Shah’s tweet condoling the death of an 85-year-old woman, pointing towards crimes against women in Uttar Pradesh, where Shah’s Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is in power. Read moreDelhi records highest maximum temperature of season, heatwave in several statesDelhi on Monday reported the highest maximum temperature of this season. With mercury at 37.3 degrees Celsius, the Vice President meteorology and climate change at Skymet Weather Mahesh Palawat said that it may cross 38 degrees Celsius. Read moreA statement by Nike, H&M on Uighurs. One year later, a backlash by BeijingRetail giants Nike and H&M have faced severe backlash in China over the past week after they expressed their concerns over human rights violations against Uighur Muslims in the Xinjiang region. At least 40 high profile Chinese celebrities cancelled their contracts with the two brands and they were removed from the listings on Chinese e-commerce platforms overnight. Read more'They eye sixes instead of worrying about getting out': Ramiz Raja on India's young brigadeRamiz Raja continues to shower appreciation on the youngsters of Team India. In his previous videos uploaded on his YouTube channel "Ramiz Speaks", Ramiz has spoken very highly of the present Indian team. Read moreAmole Gupte opens up about feud with Aamir Khan, says people tried to dissuade him from taking on the 'Goliath'Amole Gupte, on being asked about his infamous fallout with Aamir Khan during the release of Taare Zameen Par, said that ‘there is always a sunrise after a sunset’. Amole was the original director of the film but Aamir took over from him midway due to creative differences. Aamir was credited as the director, while Amole had to settle for writer and creative director. Read moreHoli 2021: Netizens paint Twitter with hilarious memes. Seen them yet?The joyous festival of Holi is the time when people splash each other with colours and indulge themselves in tasty treats and sweets. From being equipped with pichkaaris and water balloons, Holi has always been a time for celebration for many. See hereWatch: Protesting farmers celebrate Holi at UP’s Ghazipur border||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-manipur-issues-order-to-turn-away-refugees-from-myanmar-say-reports-and-all-the-latest-news-101617015599011.html
29-03-2021||India||3 former legislators join Sajjad Lone’s People’s Conference||Three former legislators, including former minister Bashaarat Bukhari, joined Sajjad Lone’s People’s Conference on Monday.The latest in the line of leaders to join the People’s Conference are Bukhari, and former legislators Khurshid Alam and Peerzada Mansoor Hussain.Bukhari had resigned from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) soon after the PDP-Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government fell in 2018 and joined the National Conference hoping to contest elections on the party’s ticket from Sangrama. However, he resigned from National Conference last month. Former legislator Alam and PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti’s former political advisor Hussain also resigned from the party earlier this month.Welcoming Bukhari, Hussain and Alam into the party fold, Lone said that People’s Conference will immensely benefit from their experience in politics and public life.Also Read | J&K logs 309 Covid infections, highest daily count since Dec 19 “I welcome Basharat Bukhari sahib, Mansoor Hussain sahib and Khursheed Alam sahib into the People’s Conference. They are experienced and mass-based politicians who will, in the coming decades, play a pivotal role and contribute to the politics and welfare of Jammu and Kashmir. Their political acumen and experience will immensely benefit the party. I am hopeful that these leaders will continue to work for the cause of people and help navigate them through these extraordinary and troubled times,” he said.Hussain emphasised on working to bring Jammu and Kashmir out of situational uncertainty and turmoil.“We will tirelessly carry forward the legacy of the party and implement its vision for peace, dignity, development and prosperity of Jammu and Kashmir,” he said.Alam also expressed his pleasure at joining the People’s Conference.“I am looking forward to participate and contribute to this overall change by working under the leadership of People’s Conference chairman Sajad Gani Lone”, he saidEarlier, former Jammu and Kashmir deputy chief minister Muzaffar Baig had joined the People’s Conference.The People’s Conference, after leaving the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), has been trying to expand its base across Jammu and Kashmir.According to political experts, the entry of Baig and other leaders has given the party a boost. Baig, the former patron of PDP and a former MP from Baramulla, left the party after they denied his wife a ticket in the District Development Council (DDC) elections. Baig is the senior-most leader to join the People’s Conference in the recent past.The People’s Conference contested DDC elections as part of the PAGD and won eight out of 12 seats in Kashmir. However, after its exit from PAGD, the party got ahold of two important District Development Councils—Baramulla and Kupwara.Party general secretary and prominent Shia leader Imraz Reza Ansari hinted several leaders will join the party soon and even resigned from the post of general secretary to make way for other senior leaders; however, Lone didn’t accept his resignation and praised him for his magnanimous attitude.According to political analysts, the emergence of the People’s Conference could dent the chances of Apni Party, which is trying to lure former legislators and leaders. Altaf Bukhari formed the party last year. Both Apni Party and People’s Conference have attracted a majority of leaders from the PDP. Mufti, last week, blamed the Centre for trying to break her party.“GOI is trying to dismantle PDP by luring & threatening its members. Investigative agencies like ED are being used to intimidate me. To make matters worse, Im being denied of my fundamental right to a passport. If this isn’t political vendetta then what is?,” tweeted Mufti soon after she was questioned by Enforcement Directorate in Srinagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-former-legislators-join-sajjad-lone-s-people-s-conference-101617016665771.html
29-03-2021||India||3 Rafale fighters to land in India on March 31, UAE to give mid-air refuelling||Three Rafale fighter jets are flying from France to India on Wednesday evening with key ally United Arab Emirates (UAE) Air Force’s Airbus 330 multi-role transport tankers providing mid-air refuelling over the Gulf of Oman. The Rafale fighters will join the Golden Arrows Squadron in Ambala, taking the squadron strength to 14.According to sources in Dassault Aviation, manufacturers of Rafale, the three fighters will take off from Merignac airbase in Bordeaux at 7am on March 31 and are expected to land in Gujarat around 7pm. The next batch of nine aircraft will take off next month, out of which five will be inducted at Hashimara airbase in north Bengal. The Rafale fighter is equipped with top of the line smart weapon systems and is designed for optimum damage to the adversary.Also read | Quad, France and UAE join hands in 2 naval exercises to dominate Indo-PacificWhile the Indian Air Force (IAF) will get its two squadrons of Rafale fighters as per the 2021 delivery schedule, the Modi government is interested in the joint development of French Safran military aircraft engines in India under the Aatmanirbhar Bharat mission. Although the Rafale is powered with two M88-3 Safran engines with a thrust of 73 Kilo Newton, the national security planners want Safran engines of higher thrust (90 -100 KN) to power Defence Research and Development Organisation’s (DRDO’s) advanced multi-role combat aircraft (AMCA). AMCA will have two engines and will be equipped with state-of-the-art weaponry. DRDO's Tejas project is at present powered by GE-404 engines. All the military manufacturing will be concluded under government to government route with no room for any agent or middle-man.Also read | Pak went back on its F-16 promise to US. How India fixed the gaps with RafaleThe India-French strategic ties have deepened further with Paris providing New Delhi with the latest technology through the joint development route. The India specific Rafales not only have the best weapons package available but this will continue to be upgraded from time to time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-rafale-fighters-to-land-in-india-on-march-31-uae-to-give-mid-air-refuelling-101617015856170.html
29-03-2021||India||Manipur issues order to 'politely turn away' refugees from Myanmar: Reports||Amid an ongoing security crackdown in Myanmar, the government in Manipur, which flanks the neighbouring country, has reportedly instructed its border districts to neither open any relief camps nor provide food and shelter to potential refugees.Local media reports said that the Manipur home department, in a 'confidential' letter, has ordered the deputy commissioners of the Chandel, Tengnoupal, Kamjong, Ukhrul and Churachandpur districts to take appropriate actions regarding the "illegal entry of Myanmarese nationals". Hindustan Times has not independently verified the aforementioned letter.The letter, reviewed by northeastern media outlets, reportedly contains distinct instructions for the border district administrations, asking them to ensure that none of the camps is opened by the district administration or civil society organisations to provide food and shelter to the refugees. "People trying to enter/seek refuge should be politely turned away," the letter reportedly reads.The 'confidential' letter provides that only in the case of grievous injuries may an exception be made on 'humanitarian considerations', according to media outlets reporting on it.India shares a 1,643-kilometre border with Myanmar and is home to thousands of refugees from Myanmar in different states. The security crackdown in Myanmar following its February 1 military coup has sent people fleeing across the border into India. On Friday, three Myanmar nationals with serious bullet wounds were admitted to a hospital in northeast India after they crossed the border, news agency PTI reported citing police sources.According to the police, about a dozen people from Myanmar moved into Manipur on Thursday after firing by Myanmarese forces in the border town of Tamu. They were given shelter by the residents of Moreh, an Indian border town, who took them to a hospital. A day later, eight Myanmar nationals were sent back to their home country.Indian state and central authorities haven't given any figures so far but some state ministers have said that the number of people who crossed over from Myanmar into India in the face of violence could be in the hundreds. One Indian village has given shelter to 34 police personnel and one firefighter who crossed over the last two weeks.Mizoram, on the other hand, allowed refugees to enter and provided them with food and shelter. But the Union home ministry then told four border states, including Mizoram, to take measures to prevent them from entering India except on humanitarian grounds, reported the Associated Press. Backing its action, the ministry has said the states were not authorised to accord refugee status to anyone entering from Myanmar, as India is not a signatory to the UN Refugee Convention of 1951 or its 1967 Protocol.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-issues-order-to-politely-turn-away-refugees-from-myanmar-reports-101617012813000.html
29-03-2021||India||Delhi records highest maximum temperature of season, heatwave in several states||Delhi on Monday reported the highest maximum temperature of this season. With mercury at 37.3 degrees Celsius, the Vice President meteorology and climate change at Skymet Weather Mahesh Palawat said that it may cross 38 degrees Celsius. However, strong winds from north and northwest direction will provide some relief from the high temperatures, Palawat added.“37.3 degree is the highest maximum for Delhi this season. Today it may cross 38-degree, Relief from tomorrow. Strong winds from north and northwest direction will give some relief,” Skymet Weather retweeted Palawat’s tweet.Also Read | Egypt canal chief says 3.5 days to clear Suez tailback once ship is refloatedBarmer in Rajasthan is reported to be the hottest city in the northern plains of the country. The city recorded a temperature of 42.8 degrees Celsius, said Palawat on Monday. Other cities where mercury went above 42 degrees include Deesa and Surendranagar in Gujarat, Chandrapur in Maharashtra, Amreli and Rajkot in Gujarat, Jaisalmer and Churu in Rajasthan. Palawat said the states of Rajasthan, Gujarat, Odisha and Gangetic West Bengal are witnessing heatwaves.#Barmer in #Rajasthan is hottest with 42.8 degree. #Deesa, #Surecdernagar, #Chandrapur, #Amreli, #Jaisalmer, #Churu and #Rajkot are all 42 degree or more. #HeatWave in #Rajasthan, #Gujarat, #Odisha and #Gangetic #WB. @SkymetWeatherThe Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) has also predicted heatwave to severe heatwave conditions in isolated pockets of Rajasthan, Kutch and Madhya Pradesh and over Vidarbha on Monday and Tuesday.“Heat Wave Conditions very likely in some pockets with severe heat wave conditions in isolated pockets over West Rajasthan and heat wave conditions in isolated pockets over East Rajasthan, Saurashtra & Kutch and Madhya Pradesh on 29 and 30 and over Vidarbha on March 30,” IMD said in a tweet on Monday.In the beginning of the month, the meteorological department in its summer forecast had said day temperatures in north, northeast, parts of east and west India are likely to be above normal from March to May.The department has also predicted widespread heavy to very heavy rainfall with thunderstorms and lightning in isolated parts of northeast India from March 29 to 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-records-highest-maximum-temperature-of-season-heatwave-in-several-states-101617010645490.html
29-03-2021||India||Municipal councillor, cop killed in attack in J&K’s Sopore||A councillor and a policeman were killed in an attack in north Kashmir’s Sopore town on Monday afternoon, authorities said.The men attacked a building complex where meeting of councillors was underway. One person was injured; he has been shifted to a Srinagar hospital.”Terrorists fired at Municipal Office Sopore. In this terror incident, police personnel Shafqat Ahmad & councillor Riyaz Ahmad got martyred & councillor Shams-ud-din Peer got injured. Injured shifted to hospital for treatment. Area cordoned off & further details shall follow,” said a tweet from the Kashmir zone police account. Also Read | J&K logs 309 Covid infections, highest daily count since Dec 19Soon after the attack, police launched a search operation in the area to track the attackers.“News coming in of a militant attack on the municipal office in Sopore. My unequivocal condemnation of this attack together with my sympathies for the deceased & prayers for the injured,” tweeted National Conference vice-president and former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Omar Abdullah.Srinagar mayor Junaid Azim Mattu termed the attack a dastardly act. “Strongly condemn the dastardly attack in Sopore where a Municipal Committee Councillor and a Policeman have lost their lives in the line of duty. My heartfelt condolences to the bereaved families. Allah Jannat Naseeb Karey. Ameen,” Mattu tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/municipal-councillor-cop-killed-in-attack-in-j-k-s-sopore-101617009645602.html
29-03-2021||India||Municipal councillor, security guard killed in militant attack in J&K's Sopore||A block development council (BDC) member and his personal security guard were killed and a civilian was injured in a militant attack outside the municipality office in the Sopore area of Jammu and Kashmir's Baramulla district on Monday, police said.Militants opened fire on BDC member Reyaz Ahmad and his security guard Shafat Ahmad outside the municipality office in Sopore, a police official said.Both Reyaz and Shafat died on the spot while a civilian sustained injury in the attack, he added.Police have cordoned off the area to track down the assailants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/municipal-councillor-security-guard-killed-in-militant-attack-in-j-k-s-sopore-101617008001092.html
29-03-2021||India||Govt denied passport, termed me threat to nation’s security: Mehbooba Mufti||Former Jammu and Kashmir’s chief minister and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) leader Mehbooba Mufti on Monday said that she was denied a passport and termed a “threat to the nation” on the basis of a report by Jammu and Kashmir Police’s Criminal Investigative Department (CID).Mufti posted the letter of the regional passport officer, Srinagar, on her Twitter account, and said, “Passport Office refused to issue my passport based on CID’s report citing it as ‘detrimental to the security of India. This is the level of normalcy achieved in Kashmir since Aug 2019 that an ex Chief Minister holding a passport is a threat to the sovereignty of a mighty nation.”Also Read | Govt trying to dismantle PDP: Mehbooba MuftiThe letter mentioned that additional director general of police, Jammu and Kashmir CID, has not recommended the issuance of passport to Mufti.Mufti had already moved the high court for issuance of the passport as she had applied for the document last year.Last week, the PDP president was also questioned by Enforcement Directorate officials in Srinagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-denied-passport-termed-me-threat-to-nation-s-security-mehbooba-mufti-101617007785551.html
29-03-2021||India||Dr Reddy's Laboratories expects Sputnik V vaccine approval in next few weeks||Pharma major Dr Reddy's Laboratories expects the Russian coronavirus vaccine Sputnik V to get approval from the Indian regulator in the next few weeks, a company official has said."We expect to get the approval in the next few weeks. It is a two dose vaccine. You take the first dose on day zero and the second one on day 21. The peak immunity develops somewhere between day 28 to day 42. So, it is a two-dose vaccine and we expect it to be available in the next few weeks," Deepak Sapra, the companys CEO, APIs and Services, said.Sapra, who was speaking in a webinar on Sunday evening, was asked as to how soon Sputnik would be available and whether it is a one dose or two doses vaccine.Dr Reddy's has partnered with the Russia Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) to bring the Sputnik V vaccine to India and other countries, he said.Observing that trials of the vaccine have been conducted in Russia, India, the UAE and others, he said the vaccine demonstrated an efficacy of 91.6 per cent as published in reputed journal Lancet.The data on trials is currently with the Indian regulator and the company expects it to get approved in the next few weeks, he said."Now, what we have done in India, in addition to all this, we also conducted trials in India and evaluated the vaccine on the Indian population for both safety as well as for immunogenicity. This data is currently with the Indian regulator and we expect it to get approved in the next few weeks," he said.The webinar on "India's vaccination journey and the second wave of Covid-19' was conducted by the All India Professional Congress (AIPC), Telangana.Former minister J Geeta Reddy, a medical doctor, moderated the event.Mahima Datla, Managing Director of Biological E, and Nageshwar Reddy, Chairman of AIG Hospitals, spoke on various important issues concerning Covid-19 surge and the vaccines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dr-reddy-s-laboratories-expects-sputnik-v-vaccine-approval-in-next-few-weeks-101617007074407.html
29-03-2021||India||'Pain, wounds of her family will haunt Mamata didi for long': Amit Shah condoles the demise of BJP worker's mother||Union home minister Amit Shah on Monday attacked Trinamool Congress (TMC) chief Mamata Banerjee over the demise of the mother of a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) worker. The 85-year-old was allegedly beaten up by TMC workers in Nimta area of North 24 Parganas district a month ago.“Anguished over the demise of Bengal’s daughter Shova Majumdar ji, who was brutally beaten by TMC goons. The pain and wounds of her family will haunt Mamata didi for long. Bengal will fight for a violence-free tomorrow, Bengal will fight for a safer state for our sisters and mothers,” Shah tweeted on Monday.Anguished over the demise of Bengal’s daughter Shova Majumdar ji, who was brutally beaten by TMC goons.The pain & wounds of her family will haunt Mamata didi for long. Bengal will fight for a violence-free tomorrow, Bengal will fight for a safer state for our sisters & mothers. pic.twitter.com/ZmKNgjdMpHThe BJP worker Gopal Majumdar, last month, had accused three TMC workers of attacking his house and brutally beating up his mother Shobha.BJP President JP Nadda also condoled her death and said she had to sacrifice her life for her son being part of the BJP and the party will always remember her sacrifice.“I wish peace to Nimta's old mother Shobha Majumdar's soul. She had to sacrifice her life for her son Gopal Majumdar being in BJP. BJP will always remember her sacrifice. She was Bengal's 'mother' as well as its 'daughter'. BJP will always fight for the safety of Bengal's mothers and daughters,” Nadda tweeted.Also Read | Video of brawl at Delhi’s Aerocity goes viral, two arrestedTMC MP Saugata Roy also expressed his condolences but denied the TMC's relation with the attack. He instead cited several ailments that the woman was suffering from as the reason for her demise. “The 85-year-old woman who suffered from various ailments passed away today. I am very sorry about her death but it had nothing to with the altercation between her son, Gopal, and the TMC worker,” ANI quoted Roy as saying.Roy added, reported ANI, that she got agitated thinking that her son was being attacked during the altercation between the BJP worker and TMC supporter in front of the house and in the process, she fell down.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pain-wounds-of-her-family-will-haunt-mamata-didi-for-long-amit-shah-condoles-the-demise-of-bjp-worker-s-mother-101617004944400.html
29-03-2021||India||Allegations of attack on nuns in UP 'wrong', says Union minister Piyush Goyal||Union Railway Minister Piyush Goyal on Monday dismissed as wrong the allegations that two nuns belonging to a Kerala-based congregation were "attacked" during a train journey via Uttar Pradesh recently and alleged thatChief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan was "making false statements" on the issue."There was no attack on any nun whatsoever...the Chief Minister of the state (Kerala) is completely lying and making false statements when he says that," Goyal told a press conference here.The alleged incident occurred at Jhansi railway station on March 19 had its echoes in the poll-bound Kerala last week with Chief Minister Vijayan taking it up with the Centre and Home Minister Amit Shah promising strong action.Goyal said the local police, after receiving a complaint against the nuns, made an investigation whether the complaint was correct."There was an allegation. Some people made a complaint (against the nuns). It is the duty of the police to find out whether the complaint is correct or wrong. Police made enquiries. Checked all their documents, made enquiries (to ensure) that they are genuine passengers going for the correct purpose and then immediately let them go," the minister said justifying the police action.The Railway Minister dismissed the allegations that the alleged student activists associated with a Sangh Parivar outfit bogged the nuns down and pulled them out of the train."That is absolutely wrong", he said.The minister said if anybody complains, it is the duty of the police to launch an investigation.The minister did not say who made the complaint against the nuns.According to officials in Jhansi, the nuns were detained on March 19 after local Bajrang Dal activists complained that two women were allegedly being taken forcibly for religious conversion.The police had said there was no basis in the complaint and all four women later took the next train to their destination in Odisha.Shah, who was in Kerala to campaign for the party ahead of the April 6 Assembly polls, had said, "I want to assure the people of Kerala that the culprits behind this incident will be brought to justice at the earliest."The issue was raised before Shah by BJP's Kanjirappally Assembly candidate and former union minister K J Alphonse.In a memorandum addressed to Shah, Alphonse had said, "Such incidents perpetrated by fringe elements and groups create a sense of insecurity in our minority community."Kerala BJP general secretary George Kurian had written to UP CM Yogi Adityanath on the issue.Lashing out at the BJP over the incident, Chief Minister Vijayan had urged the Centre to take action, saying such incidents tarnish the image of the nation.In his letter to Shah, Vijayan had sought strict action against those "who disrupt and impair the freedom of individual rights" guaranteed by the Constitution.Vijayan had told reporters that the Constitution gives freedom to everyone in the country to believe and not to believe in any religion.He had also alleged that Uttar Pradesh is notorious for such matters."All such illegal activities are taking place under the BJP government there. It should also be taken seriously that all this is happening on an uncontrolled scale," Vijayan had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/allegations-of-attack-on-nuns-in-up-wrong-says-union-minister-piyush-goyal-101617004282379.html
29-03-2021||India||3 former legislators likely to join Sajjad Lone’s People’s Conference today||Sajjad Lone’s People’s Conference is likely to get a boost as three former legislators, including former minister Bashaarat Bukhari, are likely to join the party on Monday.The latest in the line of leaders to join the People’s Conference are Bukhari, and former legislators Khurshid Alam and Peerzada Mansoor.Bukhari had resigned from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) soon after the PDP -Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government fell in 2018 and joined the National Conference hoping to contest elections on the party’s ticket from Sangrama. However, he resigned from National Conference last month. Former legislator Khursheed Alam and PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti’s former political advisor Peerzada Mansoor also resigned from the party earlier this month.Also Read | J&K logs 309 Covid infections, highest daily count since Dec 19People’s Conference spokesperson Adnan Ashraf confirmed that a few leaders will join the party on Monday. “Party chairman Sajjad Lone will address the party along with the leaders who will join the People’s Conference. In the next few days, more people will become part of the People’s Conference.”Earlier, former Jammu and Kashmir deputy chief minister Muzaffar Baig had joined the People’s Conference.The People’s Conference, after leaving the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), has been trying to expand its base across Jammu and Kashmir.According to political experts, the entry of Baig and other leaders has given the party a boost. Baig, the former patron of PDP and a former MP from Baramulla, left the party after they denied his wife a ticket in the District Development Council (DDC) elections. Baig is the senior-most leader to join the People’s Conference in the recent past.The People’s Conference contested DDC elections as part of the PAGD and won eight out of 12 seats in Kashmir. However, after its exit from PAGD, the party got ahold of two important District Development Councils—Baramulla and Kupwara.Party general secretary and prominent Shia leader Imraz Reza Ansari hinted several leaders will join the party soon and even resigned from the post of general secretary to make way for other senior leaders; however, Lone didn’t accept his resignation and praised him for his magnanimous attitude.According to political analysts, the emergence of the People’s Conference could dent the chances of Apni Party, which is trying to lure former legislators and leaders. Altaf Bukhari formed the party last year. Both Apni Party and People’s Conference have attracted a majority of leaders from the PDP. Mufti, last week, blamed the Centre for trying to break her party.“GOI is trying to dismantle PDP by luring & threatening its members. Investigative agencies like ED are being used to intimidate me. To make matters worse, Im being denied of my fundamental right to a passport. If this isn’t political vendetta then what is?,” tweeted Mufti soon after she was questioned by Enforcement Directorate in Srinagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-former-legislators-likely-to-join-sajjad-lone-s-people-s-conference-today-101617004185393.html
29-03-2021||India||News updates from HT: Mamata Banerjee holds 'padyatra' ahead of 2nd phase polling in Nandigram and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Ahead of 2nd phase polling in battleground Nandigram, Banerjee holds 'padyatra'West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee held a padyatra (footmarch) from Khudiram More to Thakur Chawk in Nandigram from where he is contesting the Assembly election. Read more84% new daily Covid-19 cases coming from 8 states, says health ministryThe central government said on Monday that 84% of the total new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) reported in the last 24 hours came from eight states. Read moreSharad Pawar taken to hospital after pain in abdomen, to undergo surgeryNationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar was taken to Mumbai's Breach Candy Hospital after he complained of pain in his abdomen, confirmed party leader Nawab Malik on Monday. Read more3 children charred to death in Bihar on Holika DahanThe festival of Holi turned into a tragedy for some families in Bihar. On Sunday, when the country marked the victory of good over evil with Holika Dahan ceremony, three children of a family in Bodh Gaya were charred to death, Hindustan Times' sister publication Livehindustan reported. Read moreHow to protect your smartphone from damage while celebrating Holi this yearIt’s that time of the year again, when happiness is in abundance and colours are everywhere. Today is the day the entire country celebrates Holi, the festival of colours. Read more'You could only imagine his heart-rate': Michael Vaughan hails T Natarajan for acing yorkers in incredible last overWhile everyone continues talking about Rishabh Pant and his brilliant batting, or Shardul Thakur's 4/67, T Natarajan, who bowled the all-important 50th over of the innings, almost remains an afterthought. Read moreHoli 2021: Varun Dhawan and Kriti Sanon dance the night away to Hookah Bar, Shaitan Ka Saala with Bhediya team. WatchVarun Dhawan, Kriti Sanon and the team of their upcoming horror-comedy Bhediya did not let the Covid-19 pandemic put a dampener on the Holi spirit. Read moreTaapsee Pannu channels sheer glamour in spaghetti strap sequinned gown, picsFor a recently held awards night, Taapsee Pannu wore a gorgeous sequinned dress and gave us one of the most stunning red carpet outfits. Read moreWatch: White tigress gives birth to three cubs in Odisha's Nandankanan||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-mamata-banerjee-holds-padyatra-ahead-of-2nd-phase-polling-in-battleground-nandigram-and-all-the-latest-news-101617000853610.html
29-03-2021||India||84% new daily Covid-19 cases coming from 8 states, says health ministry||The central government said on Monday that 84% of the total new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) reported in the last 24 hours came from eight states. India witnessed a jump of over 68,000 new cases between Sunday and Monday, according to the latest figures released by the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Sunday morning. The is so far the highest one-day spike this year.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 hereAccording to the government, Maharashtra has contributed most to the daily spike with 40,414 fresh cases, followed by Karanataka with 3,082 cases, Punjab with 2,870 cases, and Madhya Pradesh with 2,276. Next in line were Gujarat with 2,270 cases, Kerala with 2,216 cases, Tamil Nadu with 2,194 cases while Chhattisgarh reported 2,153 fresh cases.The Centre added that Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Karnataka, and Chhattisgarh account for 80% of the active cases, which currently stand at 521,808. The active caseload accounts for 4.06% of the total confirmed cases in the country. “A net incline of 35,498 cases recorded from the total active caseload in the last 24 hours,” the health ministry said in a statement.Amid fear of a second wave, deaths related to the coronavirus disease are also on the rise. On Monday, as many as 291 fatalities were recorded due to the viral infection. The health said that seven states, including Maharashtra, Punjab, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, and Madhya Pradesh, account for 81.79% of the new deaths.However, 15 states and union territories, including Assam, Uttarakhand, Odisha, Puducherry, Ladakh (UT), Daman and Diu and Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Lakshadweep, Manipur, Tripura, Sikkim, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Nagaland, and Arunachal Pradesh did not report any new Covid-19 related fatalities, according to the health ministry.In the statement, the ministry also informed that the Covid-19 vaccination coverage in the country has crossed the six crore-mark. Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka, West Bengal, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Maharashtra account for 60% of the cumulative vaccine doses given so far in India, according to the government.With the upward trend in daily cases and deaths, state governments have imposed restrictions on mass gatherings during the festival season ahead.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/84-new-daily-covid-19-cases-coming-from-8-states-says-health-ministry-101616999935613.html
29-03-2021||India||Sharad Pawar taken to hospital after pain in abdomen, to undergo surgery||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar was taken to Mumbai's Breach Candy Hospital after he complained of pain in his abdomen, confirmed party leader Nawab Malik on Monday."Pawar was feeling a little uneasy due to a pain in his abdomen last evening and was therefore taken to Breach Candy Hospital (in Mumbai) for a check-up. Upon diagnosis, it came to light that he has a problem in his gallbladder," Malik told news agency ANI.Pawar, who is on blood-thinning medication, will undergo a surgery on March 31."An endoscopy and surgery will be conducted. All his programmes stand cancelled until further notice," Malik told ANI.Shortly after the news of Pawar's ill-health broke out, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan called and checked on the NCP chief. "Received a phone call from Shri @drharshvardhan ji to check about my health. Appreciate him checking on my health and well-being," Pawar said in a tweet. The 80-year-old NCP chief was scheduled to travel to West Bengal to campaign for chief minister Mamata Banerjee in the state Assembly polls. He was scheduled to stay in the state for three days, NCP chief spokesperson Mahesh Tapase had said.The development comes amid speculation that Pawar met Union home minister Amit Shah at a top industrialist's residence in Ahmedabad on Saturday.At a press conference in New Delhi on Sunday, Shah parried a query on the purported meeting, saying everything cannot be made public.Malik, whose party shares power in Maharashtra with the Shiv Sena and Congress, had said no such meeting took place, adding there is an attempt to create confusion by spreading such rumours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sharad-pawar-taken-to-hospital-after-pain-in-abdomen-to-undergo-surgery-101616996188451.html
29-03-2021||India||3 children charred to death in Bihar on Holika Dahan||The festival of Holi turned into a tragedy for some families in Bihar. On Sunday, when the country marked the victory of good over evil with Holika Dahan ceremony, three children of a family in Bodh Gaya were charred to death, Hindustan Times' sister publication Livehindustan reported.The children were part of a group which was throwing thatch on the logs of wood which were being burnt on the eve of Holi, according to Livehindustan. Three of the children were burnt and died on the spot, whereas one is fighting for his life in a hospital.According to locals, a piece of thatch landed in dry grass lying around in the area around the village. This soon turned into a blaze and the children were caught in it, Livehindustan reported.According to the police, the family members have not filed any complaint against anyone and performed the last rites.Amid a surge in Covid-19 cases, Holi celebrations began in a low-key manner on Sunday evening as people across the country performed Holika Dahan.Many state governments and union territories have declared a ban on the public celebration of the Holi festival.States including Delhi, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Bihar, Jharkhand, Goa, Uttarakhand, Madhya Pradesh, and Haryana have imposed lockdown, and issued guidelines for Holi.Though it is a predominantly Hindu festival, Holi is celebrated by people of other faiths as well. It marks the arrival of the spring harvest season in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-children-charred-to-death-in-bihar-on-holika-dahan-101616998019297.html
29-03-2021||India||Odisha cop suspended for making pregnant woman walk for 3km||A woman police officer in tribal-dominated Mayurbhanj district has been suspended on charges of making a pregnant woman walk for 3km during helmet-checking.Mayurbhanj Superintendent of Police (SP) Smith Parmar suspended Sarat police station in-charge Rina Baksala on Sunday.Police said one Bikram Baruli was riding a motorcycle with his wife, who is eight months’ pregnant, on Sunday when Baksala stopped him and fined him for not wearing a helmet. Baruli said he would pay the penalty online, but the officer forced him and his wife to walk with the motorcycle to the Sarat police station.Also Read | Odisha RTI activist, BJP leader critical after bomb attackThe woman developed complications due to the 3km walk in the heat. The couple then lodged a complaint with the sub-divisional police officer.The Mayurbhanj SP said Baksala has been suspended for gross misconduct and dereliction of duty and a departmental probe will also be initiated against her.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-cop-suspended-for-making-pregnant-woman-walk-for-3km-101616996505285.html
29-03-2021||India||Watch: Farmers dance, sing to celebrate Holi at Ghazipur border||Protesting for 123 days now, farmers at Uttar Pradesh's Ghazipur border celebrated festival of colours Holi dancing on Monday morning.Early visuals from the protest site, where hundreds of farmers are camping and demanding the rollback of three agricultural laws since November last year, showed farmers dancing to the beats of dhol. Some were also seen smeared in colours."We demand that the government should accept our demand and take back the three farm laws so that we can go home," a farmer told news agency ANI.#WATCH | Farmers protesting in Ghazipur at Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border for the last 123 days sing and dance as they celebrate #Holi. "We demand that the government should accept our demand and take back the three farm laws so that we can go home," says a farmer. pic.twitter.com/6C5RaEUwNvAlso read: States ban public Holi celebrations amid Covid-19 spikeA day before Holi, farmers burnt copies of the three contentious central farm laws at many places in Punjab on Sunday on the occasion of Holika Dahan, when bonfires are lit on Holi eve symbolising the victory of good over evil.Thi was done on the call of Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of farmers unions spearheading the agitation against the farm laws. The farmers also demanded that the three legislations be repealed.The farmers, hailing from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at several Delhi border points, including Tikri, Singhu and Ghazipur, since November 28 last year, demanding a complete repeal of the three farm laws and a legal guarantee on the Minimum Support Price (MSP) for their crops. The Centre has denied allegations that it was trying to put an end to MSP and the mandi systems.The government, which held 11 rounds of formal talks with protesting unions before the negotiations completely broke down, has maintained that the laws are pro-farmers. It has emphasised that the protests by farmers must be seen in the context of India's democratic ethos and polity even as the ministry of external affairs (MEA) said that some vested interest groups have tried to mobilise international support against the country. The remarks from the MEA came as a push back after several foreign leaders extended support to the farmers’ protest or questioned the government’s handling of the snowballing demonstrations.Also read | 'Festival of happiness, exaltation, joy and glee': PM Modi extends Holi wishesIn January, the government had offered to suspend the farm laws for 12-18 months, which was rejected by the farmer unions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/watch-farmers-dance-sing-to-celebrate-holi-at-ghazipur-border-101616992509816.html
29-03-2021||India||Holi 2021 amid coronavirus pandemic | In Photos||Even with the Covid-19 cases in the country resurging, many people across states were seen on roads to mark the Holi celebrations on Monday.Despite restrictions on mass gatherings as India’s Covid-19 tally has gone up to 12 million, devotees were seen in large numbers at the Banke Bihari Temple in Uttar Pradesh's Vrindavan, according to news agency ANI. On Sunday too, though low-key than previous years, people gathered in huge numbers for 'Holika Dahan', a ritual that symbolises the victory of good over evil.Several political leaders and actors also took to social media sites to extend Holi greetings. While requesting citizens to ensure safe festival celebrations, many of them also posted pictures and videos with their families.Here’s a look at how Holi is being celebrated amid the pandemicA post shared by Priyanka Chopra Jonas (@priyankachopra)A post shared by Neha Dhupia (@nehadhupia)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/holi-2021-amid-coronavirus-pandemic-in-photos-101616993395331.html
29-03-2021||India||India’s Covid-19 tally tops 12 million with 68,020 fresh cases, 291 fatalities recorded in last 24 hours||The coronavirus disease (Covid-19) count reached 12,039,644 in India on Monday after 68,020 new cases were recorded in the last 24 hours, according to Union health ministry data.The country recorded 291 fresh fatalities in the same time period, which took the death toll to 161,843. The health ministry data also showed that 11,355,993 patients have so far been discharged.The worrying aspect is the active cases, which again crossed the half a million mark after 35,498 new cases were added in the last 24 hours, the health ministry data showed. The active case count now stands at 5,21,808.Also Watch: Centre’s 5-step plan to stop virusIn just the past week, the country has added more than 178,000 active cases to its tally, the highest ever in the country for any week since the start of the outbreak in March last year.Active cases - those still under treatment - is a crucial metric because it directly reflects the pressure on the health care system in a region as well as provides the number of people who are currently carrying the virus.The health ministry has said that eight states and union territories have been leading the surge in Covid-19 cases in the country. Among them is worst-hit Maharashtra.Also Read: Amid Covid spike, Maharashtra plans another lockdownOn Sunday, Maharashtra reported 40,414 fresh coronavirus positive cases, the highest rise so far in a single day, taking its tally beyond 27 lakh to 27,13,875, the state health department said.Its capital Mumbai also reported the highest number of new cases in a day on Sunday, by adding 6,933 infections, taking its overall tally to 3,98,724.The health ministry has said that Maharashtra also has the highest positivity rate - of 22,78 per cent - which is way above the national average of 5.04 per cent.Apart from Maharashtra, the other seven states and union territories (UTs) with higher positivity rate than national average are Chandigarh (11.85 per cent positivity rate), Punjab (8.45 per cent), Goa (7.03 per cent), Puducherry (6.85 per cent), Chhattisgarh (6.79 per cent), Madhya Pradesh (6.65 per cent) and Haryana (5.41 per cent).On the testing front, 15 states/UTs have lower tests per million than the national average (1,74,602). These states include Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat and Maharashtra, the Health ministry said.Meanwhile, the country's total vaccination coverage surpassed 6 crore-mark on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-covid-19-tally-tops-12-million-with-68-020-fresh-cases-101616988984870.html
29-03-2021||India||President Ram Nath Kovind, Union ministers greet country on Holi||President Ram Nath Kovind took to the microblogging site Twitter to wish the citizens of the country on the occasion of Holi. Greeting the people on the occasion of the festival of colors, he wished it strengthens the spirit of nationalism.“Greetings to all fellow citizens on Holi. The festival of colours, Holi, is a festival of social harmony which brings about joy, delight and hope in the lives of people. May this festival further strengthen the spirit of nationalism which is integral to our cultural diversity,” President Ram Nath Kovind wished in a tweet in Hindi as well.Greetings to all fellow citizens on Holi. The festival of colours, Holi, is a festival of social harmony which brings about joy, delight and hope in the lives of people. May this festival further strengthen the spirit of nationalism which is integral to our cultural diversity.Earlier in the day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had wished the country on the day of festival of colors.The Union home minister Amit Shah greeting the people of the country wished that the festival of colours brings in unity, goodwill, peace and happiness to all.“Hearty greetings to all the countrymen on the auspicious occasion of Holi. This great festival of color, unity, and goodwill brings happiness, peace and good luck to all of you,” Shah’s tweet, in Hindi, read.Union defence minister Rajnath Singh used a picture message to wish the nation on Holi and added a tweet saying, “Greetings to everyone on the occasion of Holi. May this festival of colours bless you with happiness, health & prosperity.”The minister for railways Piyush Goyal also greeted the people of the country on the festival which is celebrated with colours and sweets. Goyal on the occasion wished the citizens with happiness and joy all year long.उत्साह और उमंग से भरे होली पर्व की सभी देशवासियों को हार्दिक शुभकामनायें।यह पर्व आपके जीवन में खुशियां और प्रसन्नता लेकर आए, तथा आपके जीवन का हर दिन इस उत्सव की तरह, हमेशा हर्ष और उल्लास से भरा रहे। pic.twitter.com/GBdbMeSWIBHoli marks the arrival of spring season and is celebrated differently in different parts of the country. However, this year various states have imposed restrictions on gathering of people for celebrations as the country has been reporting a steep increase in the number of new coronavirus cases daily.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/president-ram-nath-kovind-union-ministers-greet-country-on-holi-101616988823738.html
29-03-2021||India||Centre plans tougher security measures for 300k govt officials||The Centre is planning tougher security measures including mandating multi-factor authentication for an estimated 300,000 government officials in the wake of multiple cyberattack attempts through compromised government domain email addresses, according to officials aware of the development.This comes in the backdrop of a slew of cybersecurity attacks on government domains over the past few months. HT in February reported about phishing emails using compromised government accounts to target groups of officials.“We are planning two-factor authentication on a war footing for all 3 lakh estimated govt IDs across our network to ensure security is not compromised in the event of any cyberattack. End-user awareness is also very important to thwart malware attacks,” a senior official said.Two-factor authentication refers to an electronic user authentication method in which a device user is granted access to a website or application only after successfully presenting two or more pieces of evidence, mostly including phone numbers that receive a verification code for logging in.At least two more phishing attacks using compromised government @gov.in email addresses issued by the National Informatics Centre (NIC) were reported last week, HT has learnt.One of the phishing emails sent to several government officials last Wednesday appeared more sophisticated in nature; it was marked to several government officials with the picture of a woman attached with it and asked users to click on a link claiming it as her resume.The other phishing email seemed rudimentary in comparison with the claim of a bitcoin prize, seeking users to click on a link to claim it. HT has reviewed the emails.The attack prompted the government’s IT departments to send out an alert.The NIC on Friday issued another alert to government ministries regarding the malware in the link asking officials to delete the mails.“The email contains a web-link and entices email users to click on the web-link. This is to mention that web-link is phishing in nature. When user clicks on the web-link, a phishing login page similar to that of www.email.gov.in will open… From the security point of view, before opening/responding to any email, all email users are requested to check sender, other receivers, subject & relevance of the such emails,” the alert said.Altogether, HT is aware of six NIC domain addresses – five with @gov.in suffixes and the sixth with @nic.in – that have been used to launch cyberattacks.“All compromised emails were blocked immediately. There was also no compromise or loss of data reported,” the official said. The government suspects several compromised government domain email addresses may have been sold by hackers on the dark web. The dark web is a part of the internet that isn’t indexed by search engines such as Google.The NIC runs the official email service for the government, handing out addresses with the two domain names. Employees and officers under the Union and state governments as well as those in state-owned companies are eligible for accounts.The process to obtain one follows a multilayer verification system that requires approvals by designated NIC authorities attached with the ministries these employees work for or come under.On February 25, HT reported about new phishing emails using compromised government accounts to target groups of officials, attempting to lure them into sharing their passwords on a page that mirrored the government’s official mail server sign-on website.The incident leverage compromised @gov.in or @nic.in email addresses issued by the NIC, which may be more successful in luring the targets into sharing sensitive information.On February 21, HT reported the devices of multiple former defence personnel may have been compromised in a phishing attack launched through similar attacks carried out by government domain email addresses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-plans-tougher-security-measures-for-300k-govt-officials-101616989711350.html
29-03-2021||India||News updates from HT: Amid Covid spike, Maharashtra plans another lockdown||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Amid Covid spike, Maharashtra plans another lockdownMaharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray asked state officials to begin preparing an implementation plan for another lockdown on Sunday, when the state reported record 40,414 cases of Covid-19 amid a nationwide surge in infections that have prompted the authorities to consider stricter guidelines to control the spread.Read more.'Festival of happiness, exaltation, joy and glee': PM Modi extends Holi wishesPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday greeted people with Holi wishes and wished that the festival infuses new vigor and energy in everyone's life.Read more. States ban public Holi celebrations amid Covid-19 spikeSeveral states and Union territories, including Maharashtra, Delhi, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh, have imposed restrictions on public gatherings on Holi as well other festivals in the coming month amid a massive increase in cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Read more.India added 1.3 lakh more cases of Covid-19 in past week, active cases above 5 lakhThe festival of Holi usually brings with it cheer and joy. But this year, it has come at a time when the country is in the grip of a second wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). And the latest data shows that India has shown biggest jump in weekly cases of Covid-19 in the past week.Read more. Holi: Watch Australia PM's Hindi message for 'good friend' PM Modi, othersAustralian prime minister wished a Happy Holi, tagging his 'good friend' PM Modi. Scott Morrison uploaded a message on twitter on the occasion. Morrison spoke about the Covid-19 pandemic overshadowing Holi in 2020. The Australian PM also hailed India's role in battling the pandemic. Morrison took to Twitter to wish Modi and the Hindu community in Australia. "Wishing our Hindu Australian community, my good friend @narendramodi and all the people who are celebrating it, a happy and colourful Holi!," Morrison tweeted. Watch the full video for more.Sunil Gavaskar lauds India and its strengthThe legendary Sunil Gavaskar was extremely impressed with the leadership of Virat Kohli after the men-in-blue defeated England by seven runs in the third ODI to clinch the series 2-1. In fact, it was the third series win for India in a row at home as they have already defeated the English visitors 3-1 in the Test series followed by a 3-2 win in the T20I leg.Read more. Famous sand artist Sudarsan Pattnaik wishes Happy Holi in his own special wayRenowned sand artist Sudarsan Pattnaik recently took to his Twitter account and shared a special Holi artwork that asked people to follow all the rules and have a safe Holi.Read more. Holi 2021: Amitabh Bachchan shares family photo featuring Jaya, baby Abhishek; recalls 'now lost' parties at PrateekshaOn Holi 2021, Amitabh Bachchan shared a sweet memory, featuring wife Jaya Bachchan and son Abhishek Bachchan. He also reminisced about the celebrations at his bungalow, Prateeksha, which are 'now lost'.Read more.Apple shows iPhone camera prowess, shares eight close-up Holi-themed photographsApple, like many its competing technology companies, likes to celebrate cultural events and festivals in an attempt to connect with its customers. Last month, the company celebrated Black History Month across the world and featured several Black-owned businesses, developers, entertainment and gaming apps, and social justice apps. Over the weekend, Apple posted a set of images celebrating the festival of Holi.Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-amid-covid-spike-maharashtra-plans-another-lockdown-101616988001435.html
29-03-2021||India||Indian army recovers cache of weapons along LoC||The Army on Monday said they recovered a huge cache of arms and ammunition, including five AK rifles, near the Line of Control (LoC) in Tangdhar sector.Terming the recovery of weapons near the LoC a big success, the Army said that the ammunition was recovered during a joint operation by the Army and the Police.“On the night of March 28 in a specific intelligence-based joint operation by Indian Army and Jammu and Kashmir Police, five AK rifles and seven pistols with a host of magazines and ammunition were recovered. The operation was conducted in very close proximity of the line of control in Dhanni village which is under direct observation of Pakistan Army posts in Lipa Valley,” a defence spokesman said.“In the last two years, a total of 16 weapons and over 50 kilograms of narcotics have been recovered from Karnah (Tangdhar),” he said, adding that the Army is alert along the LoC despite the ceasefire.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-army-recovers-cache-of-weapons-along-loc-101616988104816.html
29-03-2021||India||Minor rape victim beaten up with accused, paraded in public in MP, 5 arrested||Five people have been arrested for beating and parading a minor rape victim along with the rape accused after tying their hands in the village of Alirajpur district of Madhya Pradesh, police said Sunday. Police also apprehended the accused, who is a father of two kids, and are trying to ascertain his age after he claimed that he is 17 years old.Police registered a case on Sunday after a video of the incident went viral Saturday evening on social media in which the villagers were seen chanting ‘Bharat Mata ki jai’. “All the five accused have been identified as relatives of the 16-year-old rape victim. The accused and victim used to work together as labourers in Gujarat. They returned to the village a few days ago. The family members on Saturday came to know that the girl was raped by the accused,” Alirajpur’s superintendent of police Vijay Bhagwani said.The five people are the brothers, cousins and uncle of the girl. “Instead of informing police, they beat the victim and the accused the whole night and paraded them in the public on Sunday morning,” said the SP.The five were arrested under section 294 (Obscene act in public places), 355 (Assault or criminal force with intent to dishonour a person), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 342 (wrongful confinement) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC while the rape accused was apprehended under section 376 (rape) of IPC and under relevant section of Protection of Children from Sexual Offence (POCSO). Police are investigating the matter and trying to identify more villagers seen in the video, said the police officer.Police sent the girl to One Stop Centre, a government-run shelter home for women affected by violence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/minor-rape-victim-beaten-up-with-accused-paraded-in-public-in-mp-5-arrested-101616987984807.html
29-03-2021||India||India added 1.3 lakh more cases of Covid-19 in past week, active cases above 5 lakh||The festival of Holi usually brings with it cheer and joy. But this year, it has come at a time when the country is in the grip of a second wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). And the latest data shows that India has shown biggest jump in weekly cases of Covid-19 in the past week.On Sunday, India's tally of Covid-19 went up by 68,204 crossing the 12 million-mark. This is the highest daily spike since October 10 last year. The seven-day average of new cases in India stood at 56,201, the highest since October 21.In the week ending March 21, the Union health ministry data showed that the country's daily caseload increased from 24,492 to 46,951, signalling that it is in the grip of a second wave. The weekly total of the cases stood at 2,60,742. In the following week (March 22-28), the spread of the infection became even more rapid, with the daily caseload breaching the 60,000-mark and nearing the 70,000 mark on Sunday. The last week's total comes to 3,93,747.This shows that last week's numbers are 1.33 lakh higher than the previous seven-day period. From ebbing in the month of February, the Covid-19 infection has seen rapid rise in the month of March and the last week saw its worst spread since the beginning of the pandemic.The active cases also crossed the half million mark again on Sunday, after a gap of more than four months. The country added more than 1,78,000 active cases of the infection in the past week, the highest ever for any week since the start of the Covid-19 outbreak in the country in March last year. The active case tally stands at 5,23,550.The current wave is due to a surge in worst-affected Maharashtra and seven other states and union territories. According to health ministry, these eight states and UTs have a weekly positivity rate of Covid-19 infection higher than the national average of 5.04 per cent. Maharashtra has the highest positivity rate of 22.78 per cent.The other seven states and UTs with higher positivity rate than national average are Chandigarh (11.85 per cent), Punjab (8.45 per cent), Goa (7.03 per cent), Puducherry (6.85 per cent), Chhattisgarh (6.79 per cent), Madhya Pradesh (6.65 per cent) and Haryana (5.41 per cent).Seven states of Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Punjab, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Tamil Nadu have reported high number of daily new cases of Covid-19, according to health ministry. These states account for 81.46 per cent of the daily new cases registered in the last 24 hours, it further said.Meanwhile, the total tests for Covid-19 conducted across India have exceeded 24 crore while the cumulative positivity rate continues to remain below 5 per cent, the ministry said in a statement. Experts have, however, said that testing needs to be increased, especially in the wake of festival season.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sharp-rise-in-weekly-covid-19-cases-active-cases-breach-half-a-million-mark-101616984684672.html
29-03-2021||India||States ban public Holi celebrations amid Covid-19 spike||Several states and Union territories, including Maharashtra, Delhi, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh, have imposed restrictions on public gatherings on Holi as well other festivals in the coming month amid a massive increase in cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Even as the country registered over 68,000 fresh cases on Sunday, the highest single-day spike this year, people across states continued to violate Covid-19 norms and carried out celebrations on the eve of Holi. Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan were among the states where large-scale violation was reported. In poll-bound West Bengal and Assam as well, candidates from various parties were seen celebrating the festival with voters.Experts and health authorities have warned that if people fail to adhere to Covid-19 protocols, the festivals of Holi and Shab-e-Baraat might turn into superspreader events.In Uttar Pradesh, the government has ordered that people arriving for Holi celebrations from other states witnessing Covid-19 surge need to undergo tests, which will be conducted at railway stations, airports and bus depots. Citizens willing to hold public programmes need to take prior approval for it. In Madhya Pradesh, authorities have imposed a complete ban on celebrations at public places across 11 districts, including state capital Bhopal, and ordered the closure of shops and religious places. “The lockdown will be started from 9pm on Saturday and continue till 6am on Monday. But there will be a ban on unnecessary gathering and movement of people on Monday,” said Bhopal collector Avinash Lavaniya.Delhi is also likely to witness a low-key festival season this year as the Delhi Disaster Management Authority announced earlier this week that there will be no public celebration of Holi, Shab-e-Barat, Navaratri in parks, religious places, public grounds, markets. Holi celebrations have also been banned in the neighbouring state of Haryana.In Maharashtra, with the sudden upsurge of coronavirus cases, the civil and district authorities have announced a ban on Holi celebrations in both private and public placesIn the union territory of Chandigarh too, the administration has ordered the cancellation of all Holi-related festivities and banned all clubs and restaurants from organizing any celebrations. Gujarat and Odisha have also banned public gatherings and asked people to celebrate Holi traditionally with limited rituals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-ban-public-holi-celebrations-amid-covid-19-spike-101616982852316.html
29-03-2021||India||'Festival of happiness, exaltation, joy and glee': PM Modi extends Holi wishes||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday greeted people with Holi wishes and wished that the festival infuses new vigor and energy in everyone's life."Wishing you all a very Happy Holi. This festival of happiness, exaltation, joy and glee should infuse new vigor and new energy into everyone's life," PM Modi said in a tweet in Hindi.आप सभी को होली की ढेर सारी शुभकामनाएं। आनंद, उमंग, हर्ष और उल्लास का यह त्योहार हर किसी के जीवन में नए जोश और नई ऊर्जा का संचार करे।This year the festival of Holi is being celebrated on March 29 in India.A predominantly Hindu festival, Holi is celebrated by people of other faiths as well. It marks the arrival of the spring harvest season in the country. The evening before Holi is known as Holika Dahan or Chhoti Holi during which people light a bonfire to signify the burning of the demon Holika.People have been seen welcoming the festival this year with full force even as the Covid-19 cases in the country have soared, indicating that India is in the grip of a second wave.As the coronavirus spread has surged all over again. Many state governments and Union Territories have declared a ban on the public celebration of the Holi festival.States including Delhi, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Bihar, Jharkhand, Goa, Uttarakhand, Madhya Pradesh, and Haryana have imposed lockdown, and Holi guidelines.India recorded 62,714 new cases in the space of 24 hours on Sunday, the Health Ministry said - the biggest jump since October - as well as 312 deaths.Cases are also rising in the states of Kerala, Punjab, Karnataka, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, Haryana and Madhya Pradesh.In Delhi, Mumbai and elsewhere, there were bans or restrictions on Holi and the Muslim Shab-e-Barat or Day of Forgiveness, which both fell at the weekend and would usually prompt large gatherings.But despite the curbs, hundreds of people gathered for a Holi ritual in the city of Ahmedabad in Gujarat on Sunday.The surge in infections in India coincides with multi-stage state elections in West Bengal and Assam, seen as a test of support of PM Modi's handling of the pandemic and mass protests over sweeping agriculture reforms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/festival-of-happiness-exaltation-joy-and-glee-pm-modi-extends-holi-wishes-101616981609384.html
29-03-2021||India||India calls Saudi advice on tapping stored oil 'undiplomatic'||Indian oil minister Dharmendra Pradhan on Friday described his Saudi counterpart's advice to reduce oil stores to tackle high crude prices as "undiplomatic"."That was in a way (an) undiplomatic answer by some of our old friend. I politely disagree with that kind of approach."Certainly India has its own strategy, when and how to use our own storage, and we are conscious about our interests," Pradhan said at Times Network's India Economic Conclave in the Indian capital.Pradhan has criticised OPEC and Saudi output cuts aimed at supporting prices and suggested India will have to look for energy alternatives to Gulf oil, its main source of crude.With India hard hit by rising oil prices, Pradhan has repeatedly called on the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries and its allies, known as OPEC , to ease supply curbs.Saudi Energy Minister Prince Abdulaziz bin Salman in response has suggested India dip into strategic reserves filled with cheaper oil bought last year.India, the world's third-biggest oil importer and consumer, has asked refiners to speed up diversification and cut reliance on Middle Eastern oil.Indian refiners are planning to cut imports from Saudi Arabia by about a quarter, sources told Reuters this month."Today Iraq is the number one supplier of our requirement, we are taking a substantial amount from UAE also. UAE is a very reliable partner," Pradhan said, adding Indian companies are free to buy oil from any country.He said to cut import dependence India would look to meet incremental requirement through renewables.On Thursday Pradhan said that African nations could play a central role in India's effort to diversify its oil sources.Separately, HPCL-Mittal Energy Ltd, a joint venture between state-run Hindustan Petroleum Corp and steel tycoon L.N. Mittal, on Friday confirmed Reuters story that it has made India's first purchase of Guyanese oil Liza for processing in April as it seeks to diversify crude sources.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-calls-saudi-advice-on-tapping-stored-oil-undiplomatic-101616981598332.html
29-03-2021||India||'Holi all about positivity': Kamala Harris extends greetings on Holi||US Vice President Kamala Harris has greeted people on the occasion of Holi, saying the festival is all about "positivity, setting aside our differences, and coming together".Taking to Twitter, Harris said: "Happy Holi! Holi is best known for vibrant colors that are tossed at friends and loved ones. Full of joy, Holi is all about positivity, setting aside our differences, and coming together. A message that's been embodied by communities across the world during these tough times."This year Holi is being celebrated on March 29.Even though it is a predominantly Hindu festival, it is celebrated by people of other faiths as well. It marks the arrival of the spring harvest season in the country.People celebrate the festival by binging on some lip-smacking sweets, thandai and splash coloured powder, water, and balloons while chanting "Holi Hai".The evening before Holi is known as Holika Dahan or Chhoti Holi during which people light a bonfire to signify the burning of the demon Holika.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/holi-all-about-positivity-kamala-harris-extends-greetings-on-holi-101616978682732.html
29-03-2021||India||In southern states, Congress tests new booth management plan||On Wednesday morning last week, a Congress candidate in poll-bound Kerala’s Kochi got an email from the party headquarters in Delhi, asking him to check three booths in his constituency for alleged bogus voters of the ruling Left Democratic Front (LDF). Every day, such alerts are sent to the Congress candidates in Kerala and Tamil Nadu, where polls are being held on April 6.A central team in Delhi, independent field staff who are not party cadres, and communication set up between the Congress headquarters and the candidates in poll-bound states are part of this new approach to booth management, which its rival Bharatiya Janata Party has focused on in recent years.About 270 independent field staff are involved in covering the constituencies. They talk to the voters and send feedback — negative or positive — about the party’s prospects and the micro-level challenges at key booths.Also read | What explains the focus on financial assistance to women in these polls?“Based on these feedbacks, we send daily alerts to our candidates,” said a Congress functionary on condition of anonymity.The alerts cover a wide range of concerns. “If an LDF candidate in a particular constituency is giving more emphasis to a booth area, we ask our candidate to go there. If there is a resentment among people over an issue or special focus is required in a particular area, we alert them,” said a second Congress leader, requesting anonymity.K Thennaresu of Tamil Nadu’s Udumalai constituency, for instance, got a message on March 23, asking him to focus on a certain number of booths in this constituency. The feedback also suggested that Kamal Hassan’s Makkal Needhi Maiam has made inroads into that area in the last few days.“It is not as if all threats are genuine. Sometimes, the candidate goes to a booth but reverts that the feedback is not correct. But the exercise does not stop as it is always better to be cautious,” said the first leader.The second leader said the objective is that while the candidates are usually surrounded by their loyalists and workers, genuine concerns or potential troubles might not be registered. “So, we take help from independent observers and alert our candidates,” said the second leader.Also read | BJP on course to 200 seats in West Bengal, says ShahThe Congress, which is hoping to wrest power in Kerala, swept the 2019 Lok Sabha polls in the state by winning 15 out of 20 seats even as it lost the national polls for the second time in a row. Its allies won four seats. In Tamil Nadu, the Congress’s ally, Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, which is hoping to return to power, also swept the 2019 polls in the state.Chennai-based political commentator Walter Scott said the idea of micro-managing the booth is good but perhaps too late. “They could have organised such micro-level canvassing at least a month ago as the candidates would definitely prefer to cover entire constituencies with a few days left for polling.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-southern-states-congress-tests-new-booth-management-plan-101616975794160.html
29-03-2021||India||Mukul Rohatgi interview: ‘Senior lawyers’ court appearances should be restricted||Former attorney general Mukul Rohatgi tells Utkarsh Anand that there should be regulations to restrict the number of cases a senior advocate should argue in a day so that other lawyers may also get a piece of the pie. Rohatgi also wants the practice of designating a select few as “senior advocate” to go. Edited excerpts:During a recent hearing in the Supreme Court, you said you would be the first one to support a rule that a senior advocate should be allowed to appear only in a limited number of cases on a daily basis. Will you support a rule like this?I would very much support such a rule so that other lawyers may also get some more work. But the rule must be universally and uniformly applied to everyone. There are many clients who would want me to argue their cases and I will have to turn them away. But if this is applied across the board, there will be a lot of work for other people rather than this concentration that you have in the Supreme Court and in the high court where only a few lawyers get most of the work. This inequality and concentration of work will continue until there is a freedom to make choice. But you can still have reasonable restrictions in the form of restricting the number of cases.Should senior lawyers also impose some kind of a self-regulation in this regard?Unless there is a regulation, it becomes very difficult to bring a change. Even if I am supposed to do 10 cases in a day, I will have to return more than 10 cases. Self-regulation cannot serve the purpose since you will always have clients and their lawyers asking you to take their cases... They will ask how does it matter if you do 12 cases instead of 10 when you are in the court and can manage them.Also read | Electoral Bonds: After SC order activists, Oppn point out loopholesBefore the Supreme Court, you called it “an unfortunate aspect of the profession” that only a few lawyers are engaged in most of the cases involving high stakes and high monetary values. What, in your opinion, could be a way to redress this disparity?This is a fact of life. This is not only in the legal profession but in most of the professions. Some doctors are hugely popular in the medical profession. Similarly, some lawyers are massively popular... Even in Bollywood, there is a group of film stars who are hugely popular... Reasons are many but these are facts of life. Situation is not ideal where everybody gets sufficient amount of work. This is something very difficult to get rid of as long as you have free world, free choice. This is why you need some regulations that have the binding effect.What do you feel about designation of some lawyers as “senior advocate”?In my opinion, it is perhaps time to think of abolishing this system. An advocate is an advocate in law and is entitled to practice in any court of law. It is time for the authorities to think whether there is any need to still have this dichotomy of senior and junior lawyers. These two classes came in 1961 when the Advocates Act came into force and introduced this concept of senior designation. This was the hangover of the British system. The British system has this, the American system doesn’t have it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mukul-rohatgi-interview-senior-lawyers-court-appearances-should-be-restricted-101616974763447.html
29-03-2021||India||Electoral Bonds: After SC order activists, Oppn point out loopholes||Civil rights activists and opposition parties have termed the Supreme Court’s latest interim order to allow sale of electoral bonds starting April 1 “disappointing”, as it “perpetuates the rule of one particular party” and asserted the need for an “independent judiciary”.“First, let us realise that this is not the final order,” said Jagdeep Chhokar from the Association for Democratic Reforms, the organisation that filed the petition for an interim stay considering the assembly elections in West Bengal, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Assam and Puducherry. “Our original petition, that challenges the very constitutionality of these bonds, is still pending with the Supreme Court.”Transparency campaigner Commodore Lokesh Batra (retd) said that he was very disappointed by the Court’s order as it only selectively addressed the issues made in the petition. “The big questions that remained unanswered include the Court not even opening the 105 sealed envelopes filed by political parties containing details of the donors submitted to it by the Commission in pursuance of the 2019 order,” Batra said. “Moreover, the illegal sale of electoral bonds ahead of polls, such as before the Karnataka election also remains unanswered.”Electoral bonds are sold four times a year — January, April, July and October — and allow political parties to accept money from donors whose identity is kept anonymous. The scheme was first introduced in 2018 and it has since met with criticism for lacking transparency. Those opposed to the scheme have also asserted that nearly 95% of the money donated has gone to the ruling party, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).“The scheme has so many loopholes,” Chhokar added. “In a note, the finance ministry said that it had received representations from corporates about being harassed by other political parties if their identities were disclosed, whereas on the floor of Parliament, in response to an unstarred question, it said no representations were received.”Also read | Modernisation need of hour in farm sector: PMHT reached out to the EC for a comment but did not receive a response immediately.“It doesn’t matter whether it is Congress or BJP at the helm, the scheme perpetuates an unfair totalitarian advantage for one particular party,” Chhokar said.Dismissing two stay applications moved by NGO Association for Democratic Reforms, filed in 2019 and earlier this month, a three-judge bench of the apex court headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde noted that the sale of these bonds, which began in January 2018, have continued “without any impediment” in 2018, 2019 and 2020. ADR, in its application, said that electoral bonds could be a channel for corporate bribes to be paid to political parties as a quid pro quo since the scheme envisaged anonymity for donors.The Election Commission, which supported the electoral bond policy in the apex court, said it has received sealed covers from various political parties (national, state, registered and unregistered) as per the April 12, 2019 order.Congress MP Abhishek Manu Singhvi said that the Supreme Court should have quashed the scheme when it came under scrutiny for the first time.“One interim allowance and interim continuation of electoral bonds by Gogoi headed Supreme Court bench earlier, without deciding the issue legally, constitutionally and finally, has unfortunately now become a precedent for another interim order on the basis that the first tranche of bonds was allowed to be issued and hence it cannot now be stopped. The SC should have ...decided the issue finally years ago,” Singhvi said.According to CPI general secretary D Raja, the scheme is opaque and provides full advantage to the BJP. “It also fails the concept of free and fair elections. It is the duty of the ECI to ensure this and we also expect an independent judiciary to maintain constitutional principles and democratic norms.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/electoral-bonds-after-sc-order-activists-oppn-point-out-loopholes-101616974039304.html
29-03-2021||India||Soon, heat stress to throw life out of gear||Heat stress will hit Indian cities very badly, very soon. It’s that impact of climate crisis where high temperatures throw everyday life out of whack. I’m particularly worried about our cities, because about 40% of our urban inhabitants live in slums, or poor quality housing. Their access to electricity is limited, their housing hard to cool, easily heated.Many of their jobs require them to spend hours in the heat – street vendors, waste workers, construction workers and even, despite their better status, auto drivers. How will they – and their children – survive? Heat stress is known to kill at worst, but reduce a person’s ability to work by exhaustion and heat strokes. Koteshwar Rao, from Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology, and his colleagues project a 30-40% decline in productivity, particularly along India’s East Coast.We’re hardly out of one environmental health catastrophe, let’s prevent another one. Participatory planning is foundational to adapt to heat stress. On one hand, ideas like ‘cool rooms’ are commonly discussed and on the other, greater tree and shrub plantation. Any city needs a mix of ideas across various sections. It also needs paradigm shifts like summer timings, when work starts and ends early, as they do in many warmer lands. Heat stress will require cooling, which is impossible without using more energy. Decentralised solar across urban India is one way to stop the grid from breaking down under too much demand. Whatever options Indian cities take up, it must be piloted in summer of 2021.The writer is the founder and director of the Chintan Environmental Research and Action Group.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/soon-heat-stress-to-throw-life-out-of-gear-101616973223631.html
29-03-2021||India||What explains the focus on financial assistance to women in these polls?||Manifestos of different parties through this election cycle have had a special focus on financial assistance to women.In Tamil Nadu, the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) alliance, the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) alliance and Kamal Haasan’s Makkal Needhi Maiam have announced monthly monetary assistance to women heads of households.The All India Trinamool Congress (TMC) has done this in West Bengal. The Congress has promised ₹2,000 per month to housewives in Assam and Kerala. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has similarly announced financial assistance of different kinds for girl students and a fixed deposit of ₹1 lakh for women from Scheduled Caste (SC), Scheduled Tribe (ST), Other Backward Class (OBC), and economically weaker sections at the time of marriage in West Bengal.What explains this rush to give monetary assistance to women? An HT analysis shows that a mix of political, economic and systemic factors might explain this behaviour.1) Women's participation in elections has increasedMen outnumber women in India. According to the 2011 census, there were 940 women for every 1,000 men in the country. This creates a systemic bias against women when it comes to elections.However, women have been compensating for this gap by showing greater eagerness to vote. While the gender gap in voter turnout was very high in the first few decades after independence, it started coming down since the 1990s and has fallen sharply in the last decade.Election Commission of India (ECI) data shows that the turnout among women voters exceeded that among men for the first time in 2019. This trend also holds for most state elections in the recent period.An HT analysis of the latest state elections in 22 biggest states shows that in 14 of them, women’s turnout was higher than men’s. In nine of these, which includes poorer states like Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand and Odisha, women’s turnout was more than two percentage points ahead of men’s. Of the eight states where women’s turnout was lower than men’s, the gap was less than half a percentage point in three. When read with this statistic, it is not surprising that political parties are focusing more on issues of women.2) Women voters can turn the tide in an electionTo be sure, as the above statistics show, women’s lead over men in turning up for elections was the least in West Bengal, Assam, and Tamil Nadu in the last assembly election. Does it make sense to tailor manifestos for them then in this election cycle?Even if women’s turnout is marginally lower than men’s, a much higher support among women can turn an election around for a party.According to an analysis by Rahul Verma and Ankita Barthwal published in Mint earlier this month, which used data from post-poll surveys conducted by CSDS-Lokniti, women’s support for the winning party vis-à-vis the losing party was much greater compared to men’s in West Bengal and Tamil Nadu during the last assembly elections.The Mamata Banerjee-led TMC, for instance, was just two percentage points ahead of the Left-Congress alliance in West Bengal among men, but 12 percentage points ahead among women.In Tamil Nadu, the DMK alliance would have won against Jayalalithaa’s AIADMK if only men had voted in 2016.3) The pandemic might have hurt women more than menWhile the harshest restrictions imposed to curb Covid-19 infections might have been lifted, the impact of the infection is still being felt by the economy.There is good reason to believe that financial impact of the pandemic has been more for women than men in India. One of the most important indicators of that is a worsening of the gender gap in labour force participation rate (LFPR).LFPR measures the share of women who are either working or looking for a job.While the gender gap in India’s LFPR has always been high, it has further worsened in the post-pandemic period. In April 2020, the first full month after the imposition of lockdown, female LFPR was just 72.9% of what it was in April 2019.The fall in male LPFR was lower: 84.9% of the April 2019 level. The recovery in women’s LFPR has also been much less than that for men.Men’s LFPR has been around or above 95% of 2019-20 levels since July 2020. Women’s LFPR been lower than the 90% mark after July 2020.A January 2021 HT article by Amit Basole and Rosa Abraham from Azim Premji University painted a grim picture of the gendered impact of the pandemic. Seventy-three percent of men who lost work in April came back to work in August and remained employed in December.The number of such women was just 23%. A majority of women (56%) who lost work remained unemployed in August and December, compared to only 13% men.It is, therefore, possible that the schemes promised for women are aiming to compensate households for the loss of income due to women staying at home.4) JanDhan accounts could have made targeting easierPerhaps the most crucial reason for financial promises to women in recent elections could be that they have increased access to bank accounts that they themselves use.Between the National Family Health Survey (NFHS) conducted in 2005-06 and 2015-16, the share of women with such accounts increased by 38 percentage points, likely due to the Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana launched in 2014.Tamil Nadu saw the highest increase; by 61.1 percentage points. The share of such women was also the highest in the state.The NFHS survey conducted in 2019-20 shows that this trend is continuing. That more women now have accounts of their own makes it easier for political parties to make such promises and the potential beneficiaries to believe that they will actually be fulfilled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-explains-the-focus-on-financial-assistance-to-women-in-these-polls-101616962514720.html
29-03-2021||India||Active Covid cases cross half a million||The number of active cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the country on Sunday again crossed the half million mark after a gap of more than four months, as the second wave of the outbreak continued to expand its footprint forcing several states to enforce curbs on gatherings on Holi.In just the past week, the country has added more than 178,000 active cases to its tally, the highest ever in the country for any week since the start of the outbreak in March last year.A total of 68,204 new Covid-19 infections were reported across India on Sunday, the highest single-day increase in cases since October 10, or in 169 days, according to HT’s Covid-19 dashboard. The seven-day average of new cases in India (which denotes the country’s Covid wave) touched 56,201 on Sunday, the highest since October 21.As of Sunday night, there are a total of 523,550 active cases in the country. Active cases – those still under treatment – is a crucial metric because it directly reflects the pressure on the health care system in a region as well as provides the number of people who are currently carrying the virus.During the peak of the first wave, though, the number of active cases in the country crossed the million-mark in the middle of September, but was dropping rapidly since. This receding trend, however, reversed a month ago with the start of India’s second Covid wave.The resurgence of cases has pushed several state governments across the country to enforce strict guidelines on celebrations for Holi, which is on Monday. Experts have urged people not to celebrate Holi with a large number of people, avoid hugging and to maintain social distancing measures such as masks to keep the threat of the outbreak at bay.Also read | With 40,414 Covid-19 cases, Maharashtra records highest daily infectionsIn Delhi, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday appealed to the people to celebrate the festival only with their families. A day earlier, officials in Delhi had reintroduced the cap of guests at marriages and other events such as funerals, while the Delhi Police has said patrolling will be intensified during Holi celebrations and strict action will be taken against those who defy Covid guidelines.Delhi, which is currently seeing the start of its fourth wave of cases, saw 1,881 new infections on Sunday, the highest since December 13 last year.In Maharashtra, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday asked state officials to “start preparing for another lockdown” in view of the rising number of cases, and the failure on part of the citizens to adhere to prescribed guidelines. Like during the first wave, Maharashtra has been the worst-hit state in the country in the past few weeks as well. The case trajectory in the western state has already surpassed the first wave there, data shows.Punjab on Sunday, meanwhile, became the third state in the country where the daily infection trajectory surpassed records set during the first wave, according to data analysed by HT. In the past week, there have been 2,661 new cases in the state every day – the highest this number touched during the first wave was 2,639. Covid waves in two states – Maharashtra and Gujarat – had already surpassed previous peaks in the last week.These three states are among a list of 10 states and Union Territories (UT) in the country identified by the Union health ministry that have seen a huge resurgence of cases in recent weeks. The other seven are Madhya Pradesh, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Haryana and Rajasthan.Watch | Covid update: Putin vaccine side-effects; Maharashtra lockdown warning﻿Experts have said the resurgence is primarily because of overconfidence and laxity among people due to several months of cases being on the decline.This surge, they said, is dangerous because the overall vaccination numbers are not high enough and thus a vast majority of the country’s population remains vulnerable to the virus. According to official figures, around 51.4 million, or less than 4% of the country’s population, have received at least one dose of vaccine so far. In total, 60,269,782 doses of the Covid-19 have been administered across the country till Sunday morning, according to government data.The recent resurgence in infections also coincides with multi-stage state assembly elections in West Bengal and Assam.“Compliance is low when it comes to wearing masks, maintaining social distance and adhering to Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. That has to be taken care of at the earliest. Other than that, the government has to pace up immunisation. For that, it has to invest more on mobilisation and awareness campaign. There should be no room for hesitance now,” said Dr Suneela Garg, director professor of community medicines department, Maulana Azad Medical College in Delhi and member of the Lancet Covid-19 commission and vaccination task force for India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/active-covid-cases-cross-half-a-million-101616959560887.html
29-03-2021||India||NCP leader Nawab Malik says BJP spreading 'rumours', denies Sharad Pawar, Amit Shah meeting||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) Nawab Malik leader on Sunday dismissed the reports of meeting between his party chief Sharad Pawar and Union Home Minister Amit Shah.He also alleged the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is 'spreading rumors'."A newspaper in Gujarat published a piece of news that (Sharad) Pawar Sahib and Praful Patel met Amit Shah. For the last two days, rumors are being spread on Twitter. No such meeting took place," Malik said.There has been speculation in political circles that Shah met Pawar and Praful Patel on Saturday.Earlier today at a press conference, Union Home Minister Amit Shah also refrained from confirming the reports of his meeting with NCP supremo Pawar, saying that "everything cannot be made public".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ncp-leader-nawab-malik-says-bjp-spreading-rumours-denies-sharad-pawar-amit-shah-meeting-101616957435606.html
29-03-2021||India||Not a born politician, but learning fast, says Sreedharan||Thiruvananthapuram Clad in traditional mundu (dhoti) and a blue-striped shirt, with sandal paste on his forehead, Metro Man and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) candidate from Palakkad E Sreedharan gently discourages youngsters who try to touch his feet as mark of reverence during the campaign trail. This comes close on the heels of an attack by Left parties after images of voters washing the 88-year-old’s feet during a public meeting went viral on social media last week. While he tried to explain it as a custom to greet guests in some areas of Palakkad, his opponents claimed he enjoyed “feudalist traditions”. “I am not a born politician. But I am fast learning the lessons of politics. It is a different ball game. A civil engineer for six decades, I was familiar with heat and dust but here, both are quite different but I enjoy them,” the senior-most candidate in the state says. A man of few words, Sreedharan’s camp followers often require to remind him to wave at the crowd while campaigning. He follows the directions of seasoned leaders who accompany him and in the sweltering heat (Palakkad is the hottest district in the state), appears to be enjoying his debut political innings. He has been pitted against Congress’ Shafi Parambhil and CPI(M)’s C P Pramod from this seat.Near Victoria College, one of the oldest educational institutions of Kerala founded in 1887, he profusely thanks an aged man over his concerns that the politician should cut down on his campaign during the peak summer hours of the day. “Look, some people are concerned about my age. Some are genuine but others take a dig. Age is just a number and I have enough energy left in me. If I can serve the people at this age, what is wrong in it,” he asks. Sreedharan’s entry into the political fray has put the limelight on Palakkad constituency. While Union home minister Amit Shah had visited the area last week, Prime Minister Narendra Modi is expected to arrive in March-end to campaign for the Metro Man. “He is leading the NDA battle in Kerala,” Shah had said during his road show in Kanjikode on Wednesday.With a smile and his trademark gentle behaviour, Sreedharan reaches out to the masses with folded hands.“Sir, you do not have to bow down before us. You have made our state and country proud. We feel sad when you come to us with folded hands,” a female student at Victoria College tells Sreedharan, who in return, informs that the institute is his alma mater.Sreedharan and former chief election commissioner T N Seshan were classmates both in school and in college. “If you elect me, I will develop the area and make Palakkad one of the biggest cities of the country. I have enough ideas but you will have to help me,” he tells another crowd in Petta in the city. Launching an attack on his opponents, Sreedharan says: “The BJP is the most misunderstood party in Kerala as opponents compete to discredit it. Both the fronts (Left Democratic Front and United Democratic Front) damaged the state beyond repair. Under PM Modi’s dynamic leadership, the country is surging and its signs are visible in Kerala too. The party will be a kingmaker soon.” While photos of Pambhan bridge in Rameswaram, Konkan railway and Delhi Metro (his main contributions) pop up in some locations, he refuses to mention them in their meetings. “We have to look ahead,” he says. His opponents, however, believe he chose a “wrong party”. “He is a man of high integrity and stature. But he joined a party that is wedded to divisive ideology. The people are the best judges, let them decide,” sitting MLA and main rival Parambhil says. In the 2016 assembly elections, Parambhil had defeated Shobha Surendran of the BJP by over 17,000 votes. The CPI(M) candidate, N N Krishnadas, a former MP, had ranked third. While this time too, the main contest is between the Congress and BJP, CPI(M)s’ Pramod claims the tussle is between the BJP and his party. An engineer, Metro Man is banking on the growth trajectory of the BJP in the district. In 2011, the party’s vote share was 19.86 per cent which rose in 29.08 per cent in 2016. An additional vote share of five per cent will be able to make a greater impact, his camp followers say. The saffron party is of the view that Sreedharan will be able to add a large number of independent votes and that he can cross the bridge easily. Polling in Kerala will be held in a single phase on April 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-a-born-politician-but-learning-fast-says-sreedharan-101616957143584.html
29-03-2021||India||Cooling effect drops with increasing distance from urban green spaces in Bengaluru, reveals new study||Bengaluru A research paper, titled ‘Landscape and Urban Planning’, conducted in Bengaluru showed that urban green spaces (UGS) provided cooling effects up to 347 metres to any buildings and other infrastructure. The research — Quantifying the local cooling effects of urban green spaces: Evidence from Bengaluru, India — authored by one post-doctoral student, his professor at Indian Institute of Management-Ahmedabad and a faculty member from the Indian Institute of Technology-Gandhinagar, published in January this year, showed the declining cooling effect on buildings and other spaces in proportion to the distance from the green spaces. “The average UGS was 2.23 degrees Celsius cooler than the point where it ceased to provide cooling effects. Cooling effects reduced with distance from the UGS, and were impacted by the greenness, size, and shape of the UGS,” the research paper stated. The authors used remote sensing to understand the cooling effects and the study pointed to the need for conserving green spaces in rapidly growing cities in India. They also focused on the local cooling effects of 262 UGS in Bengaluru in 2017. Arpit Shah, one of the co-authors of the research paper, said that higher distance between the green spaces and concrete structures also caused higher dependence on electronics like air conditioning and refrigeration. The paper stated that increased urban temperatures were also a cause for higher secondary air pollutants and their resultant impact on health. Green spaces could also reduce ambient heat at the local scale, reduce air and noise pollution levels and better absorb rainwater. The findings come at a time when temperatures in Bengaluru have soared on account of declining green spaces in one of the country’s fastest growing cities. While its prowess in technology and other sectors has grown, the city’s administration has failed to keep its green cover intact, experts and activists said. The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP, the city’s civic body) on Saturday earmarked ₹214 crore towards the maintenance of around 1,200 parks in the city, up from ₹84 crore the previous year. In its 2020-21 budget, the civic body has also decided to set up air quality management centres at the cost of ₹279 crore. Another ₹39 crore has been earmarked to the forest department as well as plans to plant another 10 lakh saplings in the current year. “To cool down buildings, you need green spaces at the local level and that is what is disappearing in Bengaluru over a period of time. The same is true across India,” Arpit Shah said. According to the study, built-up area in Bengaluru accounted for 58% of the total land use in the city in 2017 while green cover (including grasslands) was just 10.5%. Water bodies constituted for 3.9% and bare land accounted for 19.2%. The findings come at a time when the civic administration in Bengaluru has gone on a rampage, cutting fully grown trees to make way for concrete structures like flyovers, buildings and other works under the guise of “development”, activists and environmentalists said.“They claim that they are going by due process since it is developmental work and that an underpass is coming there,” Vinod, an activist and resident of the locality said. This road connects East and Central Bengaluru to Whitefield and other IT corridors of the city.He added that since there is Work from Home, there is no real traffic and no urgency required to carry out this project in such a hurry by cutting down fully grown trees.At HAL (Hindustan Aeronautics Limited), residents have been protesting against the felling of fully grown trees to make way for an underpass that, experts said, would only shift the bottleneck a little further. Residents of the locality, just off the Old Airport Road in East Bengaluru, on Sunday alleged that the contractors had poisoned the trees to justify the felling of trees. “As you are aware of the tree cutting issue on the Old airport road, we the residents of HAL surrounding area are opposing and pleading you to help us by at least saving the remaining trees by minimal restructuring the plan of the service road used for underpass,” Swathi Damodhar, a resident of the locality wrote to top BBMP officials on Sunday. She added that it was “disheartening” to see that the trees have been poisoned, which was absolutely “inhumane”.“We had done a human chain last Sunday and this week we have had a small rally there to safeguard these heritage trees. What is marked as number one and two are over 100 years old,” Vinod said. At least two senior officials from the BBMP could not be reached for comment.Activists said that around 48 trees were marked to be cut, of which 10-12 were cut without consultation with the locals.They added that some volunteers were performing Raksha Bandhan and tree hugging to help save the trees.With the boom in Information Technology (IT), Bengaluru has seen a sudden shift in its fortunes where it has earned reputable tags like IT and startup capital of India but has steadily eroded the sheen of its earlier monikers like ‘garden city’. “There are so many lakes in Bengaluru, so many green spaces. But now construction and built-upareas have expanded over it,” Professor Amit Garg, another co-author of the paper, said. The research found that green spaces that were spatially dispersed across the city could be useful in providing cooling effects and that city administrations should embed these spaces at various locations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cooling-effect-drops-with-increasing-distance-from-urban-green-spaces-in-bengaluru-reveals-new-study-101616957022978.html
29-03-2021||India||K’taka clocks ₹22,851 cr revenue from liquor sales||Bengaluru The excise department in Karnataka clocked ₹22,851 crore in the 2020-21 fiscal year with additional revenue of at least ₹200 crore expected to be generated in the remaining week or so in March, according to excise department data and officials.After beginning the financial year on a poor note in the wake of the coronavirus-induced lockdown, the sales of liquor has garnered pace to beat the state government’s target of ₹22,700 crore.“April (last year) was a wipe out but the sales have picked up since. We may get additional ₹200-300 crore till the end of this month,” an official from the excise department said, requesting anonymity.The state had already exceeded its 2019-20 target prior to the March 24 lockdown last year. However, its revenues were reduced to ₹1.06 crore in April as against ₹1,302.84 crore in the corresponding month in the previous fiscal.The state has witnessed a drop in the sales of both Indian Manufactured Liquor (IML) and beer without any overall impact on its revenues, data showed.The sale of IML has declined from 561.70 lakh carton boxes (CBs) in 2019-20 to 524.75 lakh CBs in 2020-21, registering degrowth of -6.58 per cent. Likewise, the sale of beer dropped from 268.54 lakh CBs in 2019-20 to 204.67 lakh CBs in 2020-21, registering a decline of 23.78 per cent.One CB of IML consists of 12 bottles of 750 ml of liquor. In case of beer, one CB is equivalent to 12 bottles of 650 ml.“The sale of beer is expected to pick up with the onset of summer,” the official cited above said.“Business is almost back to normal. Billing is also pretty much the same. Beer sales may pick up from now on,” a liquor retailer in Indiranagar, an upscale locality in east Bengaluru, said. Lokesh, president of Bengaluru Wine Merchants association, attributed the dip in sales to the return of several migrants to their home town amid the pandemic.“IML volumes are down by around 20% and beer is down by around 30%,” Lokesh said.Unlike last year, the excise department is yet to push for more sales of IML over beer as the former offered better earnings in terms of volume ratio, retailers said.The government exceeding its revenue target has come as a relief to the B S Yediyurappa-led state government that has been trying hard to ensure inflow of funds for its cash-starved reserves.With very little taxes available with state governments under the Goods and Services Taxes (GST) regime, most of them are dependent on revenues generated from areas like excise, duty on petrol and diesel and vehicle registrations among others.Karnataka has majorly been dependent on excise sales to fund its development programmes. Like other states, it is reeling under debt on account of higher borrowings from the Centre.The high earnings of the state department are also on account of two hikes announced last year, that resulted in an overall increase of 17-25 per cent.Unlike Delhi which announced an alcohol cess (later withdrawn), Karnataka chose to hike its taxes that resulted in additional earning of ₹2,500-2,600 crore, officials said.The first hike that was announced during the Budget last year brought an additional ₹600 crore while the second one earned the government additional amount of around ₹2,000 crore, officials added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ktaka-clocks-22-851-cr-revenue-from-liquor-sales-101616956962964.html
29-03-2021||India||State reports over 3k cases, positivity rate close to 3%||Bengaluru The Covid-19 positivity rate in Karnataka on Sunday was close to 3%, which, experts said, was an indication of the ascending phase of the second wave of infections in the state and its capital Bengaluru. Positivity rate in Karnataka in the 24 hours on Sunday was 2.89% as the state registered 3,082 new Covid-19 cases, the highest since early November last year. Bengaluru accounted for 2,004 of the total new infections in the state. Karnataka had last reported over 3,000 fresh cases on November 5, 2020, with 3,156 cases. Karnataka health minister K Sudhakar on Sunday said the number of cases has gone 10 times higher than four weeks ago. Sudhakar said he met with home minister Basavaraj Bommai and discussed if the steps taken to contain the spread were “adequate”.He said all concerned ministers will meet the chief minister on Monday to discuss the worsening health situation in the state. He added that the technical advisory committee has said that the next 6-8 weeks are very important to contain the spread. A closer look at the positivity trend shows how several districts in Karnataka were reporting positivity rate above the state’s seven-day average. According to the state Covid-19 war room data, the positivity rate on Sunday in the coastal district of Udupi was reported at 5%, Bidar 3.4%, Kalaburagi 2.9%, Bengaluru 2.89% and Tumakuru and Dakshina Kannada 2.4% as against the state’s average of 2%. “It (positivity rate) has been increasing for some time. Since it is the ascending phase for the second wave positivity will only keep going up,” Dr Giridhara R Babu Professor and Head Lifecourse Epidemiology, Public Health Foundation of India told HT. The surge in new infections has taken the total number of active cases to 23,037 across Karnataka, of which Bengaluru accounted for 15,882, according to the daily bulletin of the state health department. There were 159 new cases reported in Kalaburagi, 114 in Mysuru, 60 in Dharwada, 53 in Ballari, 46 in Bengaluru rural, 68 in Dakshina Kannada, 59 in Tumakuru and 115 in Udupi, according to the daily health bulletin. The rise in Covid-19 cases has done little to raise caution, at least among political leaders, who are going about campaigning for the upcoming bypolls without adhering to safety protocols like masks and social distancing,experts said. Political events and gatherings have gone unchecked even though the city administration continued to fine individuals for not wearing masks or social distancing in public spaces, experts said. Most shops, especially Saree and Jewellery, are operating in full capacity on account of the festive and wedding season. Guidelines for total number of people inside enclosed spaces remains firmly on paper and not in practice, experts said. Political events and gatherings have gone unchecked even though the city administration continued to fine individuals for not wearing masks or social distancing in public spaces, experts said. Most shops, especially Saree and Jewellery, are operating in full capacity on account of the festive and wedding season. Guidelines for total number of people inside enclosed spaces remains firmly on paper and not in practice, experts said.According to the state health department data, more than 470 children below the age of 10 have contracted the infection since the beginning of March. However, the chief minister B.S Yediyurappa-led state government has refused to enforce any restrictions in the state. Instead, the government has made it mandatory for people coming from other states to produce Covid-19 negative certificates to enter Bengaluru but have done little to contain the spread from within, experts said. Even schools, colleges and offices remain open, which experts said, has been a big cause of the spread. Sudhakar said the meeting on Monday will discuss the possibility of conducting exams for school children as well.Babu said, “Children are going to schools and parents are going to offices and there is no knowing who is bringing the infection home and spreading it further.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/state-reports-over-3k-cases-positivity-rate-close-to-3-101616956903525.html
29-03-2021||India||TN CM Palaniswami turns emotional, says God will punish DMK leader A Raja||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K Palaniswami on Sunday turned emotional while reacting to DMK leader A Raja's alleged disparaging remarks against him, his mother and said a mother occupied a lofty position in society and anyone who denigrated women would be punished by God.A day after the AIADMK lodged a police complaint against Raja for his comment, Palaniswami, obviously sad, denounced the offensive language used by the rival party leader.As he tried to speak up in a campaign in north Chennai, the Chief Minister's voice choked and he turned emotional.If a person who occupied the position of Chief Minister could be targeted in such an objectionable manner, what would be the position of ordinary people, he wondered."Think, what kind of a situation our women and mothers would face if such people capture power?" he asked.Police have filed a case against Raja for his offensive allegation, an insinuation about Palaniswami's birth.He appealed to the people to give people like Raja an 'appropriate punishment' apparently through ballots.Whether rich or poor, a mother is accorded a very high position in the society and whoever made disparaging remarks against a mother or women would be punished for sure by the God, Palaniswami said.AIADMK workers and cadres of alliance parties including PMK on Sunday held protest demonstrations in several regions of Tamil Nadu seeking the arrest of Raja.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tn-cm-palaniswami-turns-emotional-says-god-will-punish-dmk-leader-a-raja-101616955002089.html
29-03-2021||India||Covid rules violated in states on Holi eve||States like Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan on Sunday reported large-scale violations of Covid-19 restrictions on the eve of Holi festival, even as celebrations in most other states remain subdued amid the rising cases of infections. In poll-bound West Bengal and Assam, candidates from various parties celebrated Holi with voters.In the past 24 hours, India registered 68,204 fresh coronavirus cases, taking the tally to 12,039,199.. As the country sees an upsurge in Covid-19 cases on a daily basis, several states have declared a ban on the public celebration of Holi. Prime Minister Narendra Modi while cancelling Holi Milan urged people not to celebrate the festival in large gatherings.However, health authorities and experts sounded caution that if people did not adhere to the Covid-19 protocols, the upcoming festivals of Holi and Shab-e-Baraat might turn into superspreader events. Some state governments have imposed restrictions to prevent huge gatherings on Holi, including no public celebrations and in places where public celebrations were allowed, gathering was restricted to not more than 50 people. In Uttarakhand and Maharashtra, additional police personnel have been deployed to take action against revellers.In Uttar Pradesh, mass-scale violations of Covid-19 protocols were reported on the eve of Holi as large crowds gathered to celebrate Holika Dahan, the ritual performed on the eve of the Holi. Scores of people gathered at Aminabad crossing giving each other a Holi hug. Similar reports of violation of Covid-19 protocols came from Qaiserbagh crossing and main Udaiganj road.Amarnath Mishra, chief warden Civil Defence, said, “Many people were drunk and were not ready to listen to our volunteers.” He added that the scenes were similar at several places in Lucknow. Lucknow Commissioner of Police D.K Thakur said that all spots were Holika Dahan was organised across the city have been listed down. “We deployed police personnel at every spot to ensure enforcement of Covid-19 protocols and unnecessary gathering will not be allowed anywhere,” Thakur said.In Uttarakhand, which saw a relatively subdued celebrations compared to previous years, images of people violating social distancing norms in Haridwar were uploaded on social media. The state reported 366 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday, the highest one-day count in the state this year.Also read | Delhi CM, L-G urge people to celebrate Holi indoorsIn Haridwar, where Akhada seers have decided to push for Holi using flowers instead of colours, the basic Covid-19 norms were not being followed.In Maharashtra, with the sudden upsurge of coronavirus cases, the civil and district authorities have announced a ban on Holi celebrations in both private and public places. Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar has urged people to not venture out unnecessarily during Holi celebrations and strictly follow Covid-19 norms. On Sunday, chief minister Uddav Thackeray said that as people were not adhering to Covid-19 norms, a lockdown can be enforced.In Himachal Pradesh, bazars wore a deserted look and police kept a strict vigil as Holi was celebrated in some parts of the state on Sunday. The state has banned large gatherings in wake of spike in Covid-19 cases. The chief minister has urged people to celebrate Holi only with family members and avoid crowding.In Delhi, the police have banned public celebrations. In Rajasthan, the government has allowed celebrations only between 4 pm and 10 pm. On Friday, the Bihar government issued an order saying only ‘minimum number’ of people will be allowed to gather at one place during Holika Dahan and Shab-e-Barat. With lockdown imposed in Indore, Bhopal and Jabalpur, and several other cities, MP asked citizens to celebrate Holi at home.Odisha, meanwhile, has made it mandatory that not more than 200 people would be allowed inside the Dola Melan grounds and banned any procession with musical instruments, lightings and crowd. For Holi festival on 29, the state government has banned all rituals in public places throughout the state.The Jharkhand government has issued fresh advisory to avoid any possibility of coronavirus spread amid Holi, Easter, Eid, and Shab-e-Barat. The Haryana government has banned public celebrations even though the state has issued no specific guidelines for Holi.Poll-bound West Bengal, Kerala and Tamil Nadu issued guidelines, including asking people to avoid gatherings, wear masks, maintain social distancing, and hygiene. Some candidates in Assam and West Bengal went out to celebrate Holi with large groups of people.In the north-east, most states have not issued any specific guidelines except imposition of Section 144 of CrPC in Tripura and Mizoram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-rules-violated-in-states-on-holi-eve-101616955942995.html
29-03-2021||India||Centre limits states’ role in forest matters||State governments cannot impose any additional environmental or conservation directions for infrastructure projects in forest areas other than what has already been stipulated by the Centre while granting forest clearance to a project, the Union environment ministry has said.Independent experts say the move will further centralise powers to monitor infrastructure projects and constrain state governments’s decision-making in issues related to forest and wildlife conservation.In a letter dated March 22 to additional chief secretary (forest)/ principal secretary (forest) of all state governments and Union territories, the ministry stated that: “A state government/UT administration will not impose any additional condition after in-principle approval has been accorded.However, state governments can enforce certain additional conditions with the permission of the central government in exceptional situations, it added.“...In exceptional situations, giving due justifications, additional conditions may be imposed with the prior approval of the central government,” the letter said.The ministry has issued this clarification after the Odisha government sought the implementation of a site-specific wildlife management plan in a mining project. The Odisha government had also requested the project proponent to pay a certain portion of compensatory levies towards implementation of the wildlife management plan in the mining lease area, according to the letter that does not elaborate on the details of the project or its timeline. Also read | Red Fort crossing to take pedestrian-friendly turnUnder the Forest Conservation Act, 1980, every time forest land is diverted for non-forest purposes such as mining or industry, the project developer is supposed to identify land for own use and pay for planting forests over an equal area of non-forest land, or when that is not available, twice the area of degraded forest land. Presently, this money gets collected under the compensatory afforestation fund under the Union environment ministry and is used for conservation and wildlife management purposes.An environment ministry official said on condition of anonymity that while the rules pre-existed, they have been clarified now.“The law states that prior approval of the central government is needed for projects involving diversion of forests. It’s a given that the project has been deliberated upon. Interjections by the state after an approval has been granted creates confusion and hurdles in monitoring of the project. This provision was always there. We have only reiterated that in our letter,” said a senior environment ministry official.However, despite the law, state governments have several times previously taken decisions on environmental clearances in forest areas. For instance, in 2019, the Centre told the Supreme Court in an affidavit that although the Parsa coal mine in Chhattisgarh’s Hasdeo Arand forests had been given initial clearance by the Union environment ministry, the state government could take a call on the fate of the project depending on the findings of a biodiversity study of the region by the Indian Council of Forestry Research and Education (ICFRE).While granting forest clearance to a project under the Forest (Conservation) Act, it is presumed that the state government has already examined the proposal properly at all levels and has exercised due diligence. “Hence, stipulation of additional conditions after according in-principle approval is against the norms and also demonstrates that such diligence was not made,” said the letter uploaded on the Union environment ministry’s Parivesh website last week.“We saw similar attempts to centralise various processes related to mining in the mining reforms brought in by the Centre. It’s extremely worrying. This basically means that even if the state government notices some violations or thinks there is a need to impose additional conservation measures, they can’t. Every time there is a violation of environmental conditions, forest dwellers approach the collector, divisional forest officer or state ministers. But increasingly state governments are losing their powers even over subjects like forests, which are in the concurrent list,” said Alok Shukla, convener of the Chhattisgarh Bachao Andolan, a non-government organisation (NGO) working for the rights of tribal people in the state.“These directions pose a serious challenge to collaborative federalism as forests are part of the concurrent list of the Constitution. While state governments need prior approval of the central government, it is the state government which has the powers to issue final orders giving effect to forest diversions, de-reservation or tree felling. The central government is seeking to constrain the powers of the state governments to pose additional conditions, which may be required it new facts have emerged during the pendency of the proposal or which may essential to ensure in-depth inquiry or legalise necessary conservation measures,” said Kanchi Kohli, legal researcher at the Centre for Policy Research.In recent months, the central government has eased several environmental norms. Last month, an environment ministry committee recommended relaxingrules for ecotourism projects by allowing construction of “non-permanent” structures in protected areas without permission from the Centre.Experts say that a lack of definition of “non-permanent” structures would allow developers to build several structures in wildlife-rich areas.The ministry has also started the process of amending the FC Act to make way for these guidelines to be implemented.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-limits-states-role-in-forest-matters-101616955823571.html
29-03-2021||India||Modernisation need of hour in farm sector: PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday reiterated his government’s call for modernisation of the agriculture sector and said farmers need to “adopt new alternatives along with traditional farming” to boost their incomes, while also appealing to people in his radio address to take Covid-19 vaccine shots amid a surge in infections across the country.His statement comes two days after thousands of farmers, who have been protesting for months against three new agriculture laws brought by the central government last year, observed a “Bharat Bandh” to mark four months of their agitation.Addressing the 75th edition of his monthly radio address, Mann Ki Baat, the Prime Minister also spoke about India’s response to the pandemic and urged people to commit to the aim of “dawaai bhi, kadaai bhi”, appealing all to take the coronavirus vaccine at the earliest while maintaining Covid-19 appropriate measures.On modernisation of agriculture, the Prime Minister asserted that it is the “need of the hour” and said: “Novelty, modernisation is essential in all fields of life, otherwise it becomes a burden at times... It is already late. We have already lost a lot of time. Adopting new alternatives, new innovations, along with traditional farming, are equally important to create new opportunities for employment in the agriculture sector; to increase the income of farmers.”Watch | ‘Modernisation in agriculture sector need of the hour’: PM Modi﻿Thousands of farmers have been protesting at Delhi’s borders since November 26, seeking a repeal of the three farm laws passed enacted in September last year – Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act.The farmers fear the new laws will dismantle the Minimum Support Price (MSP)-system and corporatise farming, while the government maintains that the new laws are aimed at liberalising the sector and ensuring improved earnings for cultivators. Talks between farm unions and the central government have so far failed to resolve the stalemate despite 12 rounds of meetings.At a time when the country is in the grip of a second wave of infections, Modi emphasised on the need to follow precautions as the country’s inoculation drive races against time to control the spread of the disease.“Last year, around this time, the question that was looming was...by when would the corona vaccine come. Friends, it’s a matter of honour for everyone that today, India is running the world’s largest vaccination programme,” Modi said, adding that he was requested several times to discuss the enthusiasm among the elderly for taking vaccines.“It’s an appeal to all to take the vaccine,” he said.Also read | Active Covid cases cross half a millionRecalling that a year ago in March, India observed “Janta Curfew” — the precursor to a sweeping nationwide lockdown, Modi said, “Janata curfew had become a bewilderment to the entire world. It was an unprecedented example of discipline; generations to come will certainly feel proud at that.”The Prime Minister also spoke congratulated Indian cricket player Mithali Raj and shuttler PV Sindhu for their sporting feats. Earlier this month, Raj became the first Indian woman to complete 10,000 runs across all cricketing formats, and Sindhu finished runners-up at the Swiss Open.The 75th edition of Mann ki baat, the first after phase 1 of assembly elections were held on Saturday, also had several references to the poll-bound states of Kerala, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal and Assam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modernisation-need-of-hour-in-farm-sector-pm-101616955763014.html
29-03-2021||India||Probe against ED officials against federal structure, says Rajnath||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Sunday said that Kerala government’s decision to order a judicial inquiry against the Enforcement Directorate, which is probing the gold smuggling case, was “against the federal structure” of the country.Singh is in Kerala to campaign for the Bharatiya Janata Party ahead of the April 6 assembly polls.“It is an unfortunate development. How can a state government initiate probe against central agencies? It is against federal structure of the country,” the senior BJP leader told mediapersons on Sunday.The CPI(M)-led LDF government in the state on Friday decided to order a judicial enquiry against the central agencies, including ED, for allegedly “derailing the probe” in the gold smuggling and dollar cases, days after the Kerala Crime Branch registered an FIR against some ED officials.Also read | In southern states, Congress tests new booth management planThe state government has alleged that the central agencies are trying to implicate chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan in the cases.Seeking to remind the CM that the central agencies began the probe after Vijayan approached the Prime Minister, Singh said, “This is 100 per cent against the federal structure of the country. Instead of turning against the ED it should have co-operated with the ongoing investigation to unravel truth.”Communist Party of India (Marxist) general secretary Sitaram Yechury, however, hit out at Singh. “He has no idea about either the constitution or federal structure. How can a central agency carry out an investigation in the state without taking the government into confidence?” Yechury said.While the gold smuggling case relates to the seizure of about 30 kg gold worth ₹14.82 crore from a diplomatic baggage at Thiruvananthapuram International airport in July 2020, the dollar smuggling case pertains to alleged smuggling of USD 1,90,000 (equivalent to Rs1.30 crore) by a former finance head of the UAE Consulate in Thiruvananthapuram to Muscat in Oman.Besides ED, the Customs department and the National Investigation Agency (NIA) are investigating the cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/probe-against-ed-officials-against-federal-structure-says-rajnath-101616955642950.html
