30-03-2021||India||Army’s military farms to be shut, flag ceremony for closure at Delhi Cantt||The Indian Army’s Military farms will be disbanded on Wednesday, leading to the shutting down of 39 such farms across the country, officials familiar with the developments said The flag ceremony for the closure will be held at Military Farms Records at Delhi Cantonment, the officials said. Raised in 1889, the defence ministry ordered the closure of the military farms in August 2017 to cut costs and better utilise thousands of acres of defence land. The 39 military farms are spread over more than 20,000 acres of prime defence land across the country in cities such as Ambala, Kolkata, Srinagar, Agra, Pathankot, Lucknow, Meerut, Allahabad and Guwahati.The closure of the farms will lead to giving away more than 25,000 heads of cattle to the Indian Council of Agricultural Research and different state governments for rearing, as previously reported by HT.The military farms supplied more than 21 crore litres of milk to the army, accounting for 14% of the total requirement. The army bought the rest of its requirements locally. The cattle stock includes thousands of high-yielding Frieswal cows, a cross between Dutch Holstein Friesian and Indian Sahiwal breeds.In a report submitted in 2016, a defence ministry committee panel recommended that military workforce could be trimmed in several non-combat areas including military farms. The 11-member panel, headed by Lieutenant General DB Shekatkar (retd), was tasked with mapping out a strategy to sharpen India’s combat edge and suggest measures to initiate targeted reductions in personnel.The military farms account for a total work force of 2,000 civilians who work in the defence ministry and 14 combatants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/armys-military-farms-to-be-shut-flag-ceremony-for-closure-at-delhi-cantt-101617127130090.html
30-03-2021||India||Kerala police file fresh case against ED, its third against the central agency||The ongoing tussle between the Centre and the Kerala government over the gold smuggling case deepened further after the latter filed a fresh case against the Enforcement Directorate (ED)—the third case so far against the central agency. Besides these three cases, the state government had also announced a judicial probe against the ED. The latest case was based on the statement of one of the accused in the smuggling case, Sandeep Nair, in which he alleged that he was under pressure to implicate the state government and chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan. Detained under Cofeposa, he is in custody now. The ED had approached the High Court on Monday to quash the FIR against its officials. In its plea the agency said its officials were intimidated and it was a ploy to weaken the gold smuggling case. Earlier, the crime branch had registered two cases against the ED based on the purported revelations of main accused Swapna Suresh and two women police officers who accompanied her during her deposition in court. The sensational gold smuggling case surfaced in July last year after 30 kilograms of gold was seized from a consignment camouflaged as diplomatic baggage in the UAE consulate in the state capital. Later, many, including the CM’s principal secretary M Sivasankar and a senior IAS officer, were arrested for helping the accused. The three main accused, including Swapna Suresh, were detained under Cofeposa (Conservation of Foreign Exchange and Prevention of Smuggling Activities Act). Last month, the Customs department had filed a shocking affidavit in Kerala High Court quoting Swapna Suresh’s statement under Section 164 of the IPC wherein she alleged that the CM, three of his ministers and the Speaker were aware of the smuggling activities through the consulate. Later, the AG had sent a show-cause notice to the Customs Commissioner to explain why contempt proceedings were not initiated against him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-police-file-fresh-case-against-ed-its-third-against-the-central-agency-101617125990015.html
30-03-2021||India||India rolls out over 5 lakh doses of Covid-19 vaccines despite slowdown in exports||India has rolled out more than 500,000 doses of Covid-19 vaccines as grants, including 200,000 doses for UN peacekeepers, since last week despite a slowdown in vaccine exports in order to focus on its domestic immunisation programme amid a spike in cases. Since March 26, vaccines have been donated to Paraguay and Fiji (100,000 doses each), Zimbabwe (35,000 doses), Niger (25,000 doses), the Nepali Army (100,000 doses) and UN peacekeepers (200,000 doses), according to data from the government. Another 25,000 doses were provided to Palestine through the WHO-backed COVAX facility. On Tuesday, the Covid-19 vaccines gifted by the Indian Army to the Nepali Army were handed over by Indian envoy Vinay Mohan Kwatra to the Nepali Army chief, Gen Puran Chandra Thapa, during a ceremony held in Tundikhel. The Indian Army chief, Gen MM Naravane, joined the ceremony via video conference and reaffirmed the special fraternal bonds between the two armies. The Indian Army has been assisting the Nepali Army to fight Covid-19 through different types of assistance since last year, including the supply of the drug Remdesivir, X-ray machines, computerised radiography systems, ICU ventilators, video endoscopy units, anaesthesia machines, laboratory equipment and ambulances. On March 27, the 200,000 doses donated by India for UN peacekeepers were despatched on a Qatar Airlines flight from Mumbai to Copenhagen, where the vaccines will be consolidated within the UN vaccine programme for onward distribution to peacekeeping missions. Renata Dessallien, the UN resident coordinator in India, said: “The UN warmly thanks India for this generous gesture of solidarity and support, reflecting India’s strong commitment to multilateralism, to global peace, to the United Nations in particular.” The UN under-secretary general for operational support, Atul Khare, said India’s donation will ensure that UN peacekeepers “are able to remain healthy and deliver in some of the most difficult environments in the world without relying on already stretched national health systems or ongoing COVAX efforts”. The consignments sent to Paraguay and Zimbabwe comprised Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin vaccine. The Hyderabad-based manufacturer announced earlier this month that the first vaccine developed in India had an efficacy of 81% in phase III clinical trials. Indian officials had clarified last week that there is no ban on vaccine exports but the government’s primary focus will be on the domestic vaccination programme, especially after a sudden spike in the total number of Covid-19 cases and the move to open up the immunisation drive to everyone above the age of 45 from April 1. Speaking at an event on Tuesday, foreign secretary Harsh Shringla said the resurgence of Covid-19 cases had highlighted the need for an accelerated domestic vaccination drive. “Naturally, we will need to calibrate our external supplies keeping in mind our domestic production and domestic needs,” he said. The two Indian vaccine manufacturers are expected to “rapidly expand their manufacturing capacities” to meet increasing domestic and external demand, and some vaccine candidates may conclude their trial process and become available, Shringla said. The Quad Leaders’ Summit has proposed using Indian manufacturing capacity, financed and supported by other Quad members, to supply vaccines to the Indo-Pacific region, and this will involve creating new capacities and won’t impact India’s current vaccine rollout, he added. India has so far provided more than 64 million doses of vaccines to 82 countries as grants, commercial sales and supplies through the COVAX facility. However, the WHO-backed COVAX facility notified participating countries last week that deliveries of doses from the Serum Institute of India (SII) will be delayed in March and April as the Government of India battles a new wave of infections. “COVAX and the Government of India remain in discussions to ensure some supplies are completed during March and April,” WHO said in a statement. According to an agreement between Gavi, the vaccine alliance, and SII, which included funding to back an increase in manufacturing capacity, SII is contracted to provide COVAX the AstraZeneca vaccine for 64 lower-income countries. COVAX has so far received 28 million doses from SII and was expecting 40 million doses in March and up to 50 million doses in April.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-rolls-out-over-5-lakh-doses-of-covid-19-vaccines-despite-slowdown-in-exports-101617124550024.html
30-03-2021||India||Karnataka: Section 144 imposed in Dakshina Kannada District due to Covid surge||Amid a surge in Covid-19 cases in the state, Karnataka authorities imposed Section 144 of CrPC in Dakshina Kannada District on Tuesday.As per the order signed by Dakshina Kannada District Deputy Commissioner, all religious gatherings are now banned at public places, public grounds, gardens, markets and religious places.The announcement came after a day after Karnataka chief minister B. S. Yediyurappa held a crucial meeting with the state authorities and health minister to review the Covid-19 situation.While he ruled out the possibility of imposing a complete lockdown in the state, the CM tightened several Covid-19 restrictions to contain the virus spread.Meanwhile, Karnataka reported 2,975 new Covid-19 cases, 1,262 discharges and 21 deaths today, taking the total number of cases to 9,92,779.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-section-144-imposed-in-dakshina-kannada-district-due-to-covid-surge-101617122181591.html
30-03-2021||India||Centre asks states to trace 25-30 contacts of each Covid-19 positive patient||Tracing 25 to 30 contacts of each Covid-19 case, proper isolation and creating larger containment zones were among steps the Centre has asked states to adopt for tackling the surge in Covid-19 cases.Calling for a district-centric approach to fight the upward swing in cases, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said on Tuesday that each district, irrespective of whether it is seeing a surge or is with low burden, should formulate an action plan with clear timelines and responsibilities.Bhushan said the virus can be contained by quarantining and testing individuals suspected to be Covid-19 positive as well as 25 to 30 close contacts of positive persons, isolating, quarantining and testing them."Where there are clusters of cases, simply quarantining individuals or families will not help. In that case, larger containment zones with clear boundaries and stringent controls must be implemented," he said.In a letter to all chief secretaries, Bhushan said Covid-appropriate behaviour must be enforced using the Police Act, or powers under the Disaster Management Act.The states have also been asked to map cases based on surveillance activities and focused testing in areas, reviewing sub-areawise indicators like case positivity rate, rate of growth of cases, case fatality, doubling rate of cases, on a real-time basis.They have also been asked to review the proportion of Rapid Antigen Tests and RT-PCR tests."All districts with high caseload and fast growth of cases must ensure saturation vaccination of priority age groups of 45 years and above in the coming two weeks," Bhushan said in the letter.He said many districts in the country are seeing the emergence of clusters of cases because of specific events and crowding, or where a large number of people are in close physical contact coupled with a lack of Covid-appropriate behaviour.Efficient implementation of the 'Test Track and Treat' strategy remains the only proven strategy for controlling transmission, Bhushan said.The states were asked to identify localities and hospitals where deaths are high."Do an analysis (death analysis) to understand the system-related issues of why the death happened whether it was due to late detection (surveillance failure) or late admission in hospitals (delay in referral), or due to clinical care at hospitals (non-adherence to clinical management protocols, lack of oxygen lack of beds, the non-transparent procedure of bed allocation). Such issues must be promptly redressed," he said.Bhushan said some districts that saw a high number of cases in August-November are again seeing a high growth rate of cases."Additionally, a number of new districts that saw a limited prevalence earlier are worryingly showing a surge in cases. States and UTs that currently have low levels of cases, however, cannot be complacent," the health secretary said.He said a lack of Covid-appropriate behaviour and laxity in public health effort can lead to a sudden surge."If immediate, proactive and focused action is taken by your teams right now, it will be possible to ensure that the infection does not spread into currently low prevalence districts," Bhushan told the chief secretaries.Any complacency at this stage and at any level will have heavy costs, he warned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-asks-states-to-trace-25-30-contacts-of-each-covid-19-positive-patient-101617119979179.html
30-03-2021||India||‘We are where we were’: Army chief Naravane says not an inch lost to China||Indian Army chief General MM Naravane asserted India has “not lost out on any territory” in the months-long military standoff with China in eastern Ladakh, adding that “we are where we were” after the worst border conflict between the two nuclear-armed neighbours in decades, news agency ANI reported on Tuesday.“I think that firstly we have not lost out on any territory, we are where we were before this whole thing started. As a result of this agreement, which has been reached on the principle of mutual and equal security, I think that’s how we should look at this whole disengagement process that it serves the interest of both the countries to have a very stable LAC (Line of Actual Control), with less chances of any confrontation taking place. That should be the larger viewpoint,” Naravane told news agency ANI.“Not an inch has been lost, that’s right,” General Naravane further said.#WATCH: Army Chief General MM Naravane speaks to ANI on India-China disengagement in Ladakh. He says, "We have not lost out on any territory, we are where we were before this whole thing started...Not an inch of land has been lost." pic.twitter.com/yIyyBR6Z4nSince the beginning of the crisis, India has maintained that no land has been conceded to China, a point reiterated by defence minister Rajnath Singh while outlining the disengagement plan in Parliament last month. The opposition, especially Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, has frequently attacked the Centre for “letting China acquire Indian territory.”Also Read | ‘Disengagement plan at Pangong Tso finalised’, says Rajnath Singh on China rowTalking about the disengagement plan, the army chief said that after the ninth round of Corps Commander level talks, an agreement was reached to move away from the friction areas in a phased manner. “Tenth February onwards, the disengagement started and went as per plan. From the north and south banks of the Pangong Tso and Kailash range, people have gone to their nearest permanent locations,” Gen Naravane added.This, Naravane said, reduced the chances of miscalculation which could have taken place due to face-to-face deployment of the two sets of troops. “Now there is relative peace and tranquillity along the LAC,” he remarked.Thereby the face to face deployment which was there and because of which there could have been chances of miscalculation has now receded. Now there is relative peace and tranquillity in the LAC: Army Chief General MM Naravane to ANIIndia and China disengaged from the most contentious Pangong Lake area in Ladakh last month after extensive talks at both military and diplomatic level. However, disagreement still exists despite several rounds of talks since last year, and disengagement is yet to take place from other friction areas like Depsang, Hot Spring and Gogra.Also Read | Army releases new visuals showing Pangong Tso disengagement in top gearNew Delhi has maintained the complete withdrawal of Chinese troops from all points of conflict is necessary to maintain peace and tranquillity along the disputed border.The face-off, which began in late April-May May last year, led to a bloody clash in the Galwan Valley on the night of June 15, that led to casualties on both sides. It was the first time in more than 40 years that lives were lost in a border skirmish along the LAC. Twenty Indian soldiers were killed in action.China initially didn't disclose the number of casualties sustained by its troops, officially admitting only in February that four of its soldiers were killed while one was injured. However, it is believed that the number of actual Chinese casualties is higher.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-are-where-we-were-army-chief-naravane-says-not-an-inch-lost-to-china-101617115799072.html
30-03-2021||India||News updates from HT: Delhi govt to increase beds reserved for Covid-19 patients and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Delhi to increase normal, ICU beds reserved for Covid-19 patients: CM KejriwalDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Tuesday his government will increase the number of normal and intensive care unit (ICU) beds reserved for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients in the national capital, adding they are “keeping a close watch and will take all necessary steps”. Read moreRailways is public property, will remain so: Piyush Goyal on 'privatisation' rowRailways minister Piyush Goyal on Tuesday reiterated the central government is not planning to privatise the Indian Railways and said that the national carrier is the "property of the nation and the people", and urged people to not pay heed to "opposition's propaganda". Read moreGermany to discuss AstraZeneca vaccine shots after brain disorder reportsGerman leaders will discuss the use of AstraZeneca's Covid-19 vaccine on Tuesday, after several states said they would stop giving the shot to people under the age of 60 following further reports of a rare brain blood disorder. Read moreFrom April 1, automatic recurring payments to change. Know whyThere will be no automatic recurring payments for your mobile, utility, recharges and other such bills from April 1 due to a new regulation of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), which has made Additional Factor of Authentication (AFA) mandatory after March 31. Read moreBatting with Virat Kohli, you push to match him and improve: Devdutt PadikkalDevdutt Padikkal, the emerging talent who shone brightest in 2020 IPL, has warmed up for the coming edition with an outstanding show in the Vijay Hazare Trophy one-day tournament, where he became the first Indian to score four successive hundreds in List A cricket. Read moreApple WWDC 2021 to take place on June 7, may announce iOS 15 and moreApple has finally announced the dates of its upcoming WWDC (Worldwide Developers Conference). Like the last year, the company will be holding the event in an online-only format. WWDC keynote event will take place on June 7 and the entire conference will go through June 11. It is free for iOS, iPadOS, macOS, watchOS and tvOS developers. Read moreSushmita Sen shares note on unhealthy relationship patterns: ‘I speak from experience’Actor Sushmita Sen took to Instagram to share a note about the tendency to repeat unhealthy relationship patterns and stressed on the need to break out of them. She said that it can only be done through being aware and then challenging the patterns ‘before they break us’. Read moreMarvel fan watches Avengers: Endgame 191 times, sets a recordIf you’re a Marvel fan, you’ve probably watched and re-watched Avengers: Endgame, the final movie of the Avengers franchise. Now imagine someone watching the same movie not just once or twice but 191 times. Read moreWatch| Mamata, Modi & 5 factors that'll determine Bengal 2021 contest I CVOTER Director||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-delhi-govt-to-increase-beds-reserved-for-covid-19-patients-101617117225485.html
30-03-2021||India||With 27,918 Covid-19 cases, Maharashtra’s tally at 2,773,435||Maharashtra recorded 27,918 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 139 related deaths, the state’s health department said in a bulletin on Tuesday, with fewer tests on a holiday on the occasion of Holi. This is the first time since March 23 that Maharashtra has reported less than 30,000 Covid-19 cases. The caseload of the western state, the worst-affected by the pandemic, is now 2,773,435 and its death toll 54,422. It recorded 31,643 Covid-19 cases and 102 deaths on Monday, a day after reporting its sharpest daily spike of 40,414 infections.There are 340,542 active cases and 2,377,127 people, 23,820 on Tuesday, have recovered from the viral disease in the state, the bulletin showed. There were 129,876 tests in the last 24 hours, taking the number of tests to 19,625,065 so far.The Centre said earlier in the day that Maharashtra has eight of the top 10 Covid-19 high-burden districts of the country. Pune, Mumbai, Nagpur, Thane, Nashik, Aurangabad, Nanded and Ahmednagar are the districts in Maharashtra with high active cases, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said in New Delhi during a press briefing. Bhushan said Maharashtra last week had an average positivity rate of 23 per cent against the average national rate of 5.65 per cent.In Mumbai, there were 4,760 fresh Covid-19 cases and 10 people succumbed to the viral disease, according to the health department’s bulletin. The disease tally of the state’s capital city is now at 409,374 and its death toll at 11,675.The BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) ordered private hospitals to reserved 80 per cent of beds in private hospitals for virus-infected patients in the city amid rising cases of the coronavirus disease. The civic body said in a circular issued Monday that 100 per cent of beds in intensive care units (ICUs) will be reserved for the same in line with the Ward War Room allotment.Data shows that Maharashtra recorded 590,448 cases from March 1 to March 29, while the worst month, September 2020, had seen 593,192 infections. It also shows that the state began 2021 with a huge drop in Covid-19 cases compared to the previous three months, the new cases in March surpassed the tally of the past four months. The state recorded 487,519 infections between November 2020 and February 2021, according to data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-27-918-covid-19-cases-maharashtra-s-tally-at-2773436-101617115831953.html
30-03-2021||India||2 of the Gandhis are in politics 'only for family's survival': Smriti Irani||Apparently referring to Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, Union minister Smriti Zubin Irani on Tuesday alleged that they "do not know the Assamese culture" and pursue politics only for "the survival of their family".She, however, did not name the siblings.The senior BJP leader also accused Congress of committing a sin by not fulfilling the promises that it had made during earlier elections in Assam.Without taking the names of Gandhis, the Union textiles minister said, "A few days ago, two members of the Gandhi family visited Assam. They don't know the Assamese culture and do politics only for the survival of their family."Irani had defeated Congress leader Rahul Gandhi in Uttar Pradesh's Amethi in the 2019 general elections.Addressing a series of election rallies in Assam, the Union women and child development minister appealed to the people to vote for the BJP for development and bring the saffron party back to power."The Congress committed a sin of smashing the dreams of people, which it had earlier shown before coming to power," she said.The Congress was in power in Assam for three consecutive terms from 2001 to 2016.Irani claimed Prime Minister Narendra Modi has launched a series of schemes that are directly benefiting people who were earlier deprived of welfare programmes.She alleged that Congress, when it was in power at the Centre, did not even send funds allotted to Assam for its development.Terming the AIUDF, an alliance partner of the Congress, as a communal party, Irani said, "Don't spread communal hatred among people and create a fight among brothers. The Assamese people will vote for the development and welfare of their families."The first phase of the Assam assembly election was held on March 27. The state will have polling in two more phases on April 1 and 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-of-the-gandhis-are-in-politics-only-for-family-s-survival-smriti-irani-101617113339817.html
30-03-2021||India||Railways is public property, will remain so: Piyush Goyal on 'privatisation' row||Railways minister Piyush Goyal on Tuesday reiterated the central government is not planning to privatise the Indian Railways and said that the national carrier is the "property of the nation and the people", and urged people to not pay heed to "opposition's propaganda". "I assure you that the Indian Railways is the property of the nation and the people. No one can touch it, it will never be privatised. Don't get caught in the opposition's propaganda. This is your property, it will remain yours,” Goyal said during a public meeting in West Bengal's Kharagpur, according to news agency ANI.I assure you that Indian Railways is the property of the nation & people. No one can touch it, it will never be privatized. Don't get caught in opposition's propaganda. This is your property, it will remain yours: Railways Minister & BJP leader Piyush Goyal in Kharagpur pic.twitter.com/sgyA1afq9CLast year, the Indian Railways allowed private companies to operate certain stations in a public-private partnership (PPP) model. The move, steered by the Indian Railway Stations Development Corporation (IRSDC), aims to significantly modernise parts of a decades-old system. However, it sparked rumours that the Centre might be planning to sell off the governmental entity. These speculations received a boost in October when the government decided to set up a committee to draft a blueprint for transferring the operations of 150 trains and 50 railway stations to private firms.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, at a public meeting in Kerala last month, said that the government's "intent" to privatise the Indian Railways was a "threat to the millions of poor people who travel in trains". Responding to the opposition, Goyal hpointed out in Parliament that there was a difference between "privatisation" and "monetisation". "When you privatise, you sell off the assets permanently and it no more remains a part of the government ownership. In the railways, the plan is to monetise in terms of how it will generate resources, further investment and growth. The infrastructure of Indian Railways will never be privatised," Goyal said.The Union minister said that private investment should be welcomed in order to improve railway services across the country. Passenger train operations, taken up through the PPP model, aims to bring a total investment of about ₹30,000 crore and is expected to make the railways a key economic driver in the strategy of investment-led growth, according to the central government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-is-public-property-will-remain-so-piyush-goyal-on-privatisation-row-101617107323582.html
30-03-2021||India||Compliance of Covid-19 protocols irregular, levy spot fines: DGCA to airports||Aviation regulator, the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) on Tuesday told airport operators to increase surveillance at airports and levy spot fines against those not following Covid-19 protocols amid rising cases in India adding that its compliance was not satisfactory.“During surveillance of some airports, it has come to the notice that compliance (of Covid-19 protocols) is not satisfactory. All airport operators, therefore, are requested to ensure that the instructions on Covid-19 protocol from the standpoint of wearing face mask properly, covering nose and mouth, as well as maintaining social distance norms within the airport premises are followed scrupulously,” it said in an order to airport operators on Monday.According to the DGCA, at least 15 passengers till date have been charged for violating Covid-19 norms in domestic airports and may be put on a ‘no-flying’ list for a period of three months.“Accordingly, all airport operators may enhance surveillance towards this end.The possibility of taking punitive action, such as levy of spot fines in accordance with law, shall also be explored with the local police authorities so as to serve a deterrent for violation of Covid-19 protocol,” DGCA said on Tuesday.The aviation regulator reiterated its earlier order for compliance with Covid-19 protocols issued on March 13. It directed airport authorities and airlines to take strict action against those not complying with Covid-19 protocols at airports and inside planes. Those found flouting rules may be offloaded and handed over to security agencies, the Director General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) said.“The Airport Director/Terminal Manager, as applicable, must ensure that passengers are wearing masks properly and do maintain social distance at all times within the airport premises. In case, any passenger is not following “Covid-19 Protocol”, they should be handed over to security agencies after proper warnings. If required, they may be dealt with as per law,” the DGCA said in its March 13th order.This also came days after the Delhi high court issued a set of guidelines that empower airline crew to offload any passenger not wearing their masks properly and to be put on the no-fly list if they exhibit “stubborn reluctance”. The judge took note of the callous attitude of passengers at airports and gave directions to the DGCA.Soon after the DGCA also informed the Delhi High Court that action is being taken against passengers not wearing masks properly despite repeated warnings and they would be de-boarded from planes before departure and treated as “unruly passengers”.On March 16, in a first, four passengers on board Alliance Air flight 91 614 from Jammu to New Delhi were deboarded for not following Covid-19 protocols inside the flight, according to Director General of Civil Aviation (DGCA). The passengers were charged as ‘unruly/disruptive passengers’ and handed over to security agencies at Delhi Airport.Last week Union civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri said the government is not planning to curtail flight services further amid the second wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). “Our fight against Covid-19 continues. Advisory issued to all airports to ensure compliance of Covid-19 Protocol. People must wear face masks (covering nose & mouth) & maintain social distance. We are moving in direction of punitive action by police against passengers who don’t comply,” civil aviation minister Hardeep Puri tweeted.However, plans of making all services functional from April 1 have been postponed amid a sharp rise in Covid-19 cases. At present, the Centre has allowed domestic flights to operate up to 80% of its pre-Covid-19 capacity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/compliance-of-covid-19-protocols-not-satisfactory-levy-spot-fines-dgca-tells-airports-101617110209808.html
30-03-2021||India||In implementation of MGNREGA programmes, Andhra ranks fourth in India||The Andhra Pradesh government has claimed that it has ranked fourth in the country in the implementation of work under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act. A statement from the ministry of rural development indicated on Monday that as against the target of 25.25 crore person days allotted by the Centre, the state had created employment for 25.42 crore person days as on March 29, which was 100.67 per cent achievement. “This is the fourth best achievement in the country and the third best in South India. Chhattisgarh ranks at the top, Tamil Nadu is in second position and Kerala in the third position. While Chhattisgarh achieved 105.27 per cent in creation of employment in terms of person days, Tamil Nadu achieved 102.40 per cent and Kerala 101.46 per cent,” an official in the department of rural development familiar with the development said. State minister for panchayati raj and rural development Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy said Andhra Pradesh was aiming at crossing the milestone of 26 crore person days by March 31. “The entire credit for this achievement goes to chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy who has given strict instructions to the official machinery to see that every eligible person in rural areas get work under MGNREGA. He has directed that there should be no case of migration from the state to other areas in search of employment,” the minister said. The minister said during 2020-21, the government had spent ₹10,170 crore under MGNREGA, including ₹5,818 crore towards wage component and ₹3,965 crore towards material component. He said during the Covid-19 pandemic, the Andhra government had taken up work under MGNREGA on a large-scale to provide employment to migrant labourers who had returned from other states. “At the same time, it was a challenge to provide employment to local labourers who were deprived of any work during the lockdown. While 6.35 lakh labourers who had returned from other states were provided with new job cards, another 7.36 lakh job cards for local labourers were re-activated, besides issuance of fresh job cards for another 2.44 lakh people,” he said. The workers were provided employment by taking sufficient care in maintaining social distance and using sanitisers during the work. “On June 9 last year, a record number of 54 lakh people were provided wage employment on a single day,” the minister said. Reddy said this year, the state government had linked the MGNREGA work with various other schemes such as construction of Rythu Bharosa Centres, YSR Help Clinics, Anganwadi Centres and Bulk Milk Cooling units etc. In all, 48,969 works had been taken up at a cost of ₹9,871 crore and the material component of these would be linked to the MGNREGA, he said. “Similarly, rural infrastructure work like laying of cement roads and drainage work, besides development of greenery would also be taken up under MGNREGA programmes,” the minister added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-implementation-of-mgnrega-programmes-andhra-ranks-fourth-in-india-101617107389770.html
30-03-2021||India||NCPCR takes cognisance of beating, parading of rape survivor, accused in MP||The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights has asked the Madhya Pradesh Police to submit a report with 24 hours on the alleged thrashing and parading of a 16-year-old rape survivor with the man accused of raping her in the state’s Alirajpur district.A purported video of the assault and parading went viral on social media on Sunday and provoked outrage.Police superintendent Vijay Bhagwani said the survivor’s brother, uncle and cousin are among the six booked for parading and assaulting the two under Indian Penal Code’s sections 294 (obscene act in public places), 355 (assault or criminal force with intent to dishonour a person), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 342 (wrongful confinement) and 506 (criminal intimidation). “The accused and the 16-year-old victim used to work together as labourers in Gujarat. They returned to their village a few days ago. The family members on Saturday came to know that the girl was raped by the accused. Instead of informing the police, they thrashed the survivor and the accused on Saturday and paraded them in the public on Sunday morning.”Also Read | Minor among five apprehended for gang rape and attempted murder in PunePolice said the survivor has been shifted to a government-run shelter home for women.Alirajpur collector Surabhi Gupta, “A Child Welfare Committee is counselling her. We have done her medical examination and she did not sustain any grievous injuries. The girl is fine now. The girl’s parents want to take her back home, but we will observe her and will make a decision accordingly because there are chances that the girl can be pressurised to take her complaint back.”The rape accused has been booked under the Indian Penal Code’s section 376 (rape) and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offence Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ncpcr-takes-cognisance-of-beating-parading-of-rape-survivor-accused-in-mp-101617107149130.html
30-03-2021||India||Uttar Pradesh to have a stricter law to check gambling||The Uttar Pradesh government has initiated the process to enact a new law as the Centre plans to scrap the Public Gambling Act and mandate states to come up with their own legislation to control gambling, people aware of the matter said.“The State Law Commission is preparing a draft for the proposed law to check the gambling. All aspects are being studied and looked into to make the law stringent. It will also have special provisions to check online gambling,” said justice AN Mittal, the commission’s chairman.Officials said in the Internet age when online gambling is a bigger threat, the proposed law will have special provisions to check this. A number of applications are available for online gambling. There is not any law to check online gambling.Also Read | Two arrested for Pune murder over cricket betting debt The Public Gambling Act only provides for one-year imprisonment and ₹1,000 fine. These punitive provisions are not enough to check online gambling, officials said.The commission is also going through laws of other countries, specially framed to check online gambling.The new law is also likely to make organised gambling a non-bailable offence and provide for a seven-year jail term for it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttar-pradesh-to-have-a-stricter-law-to-check-gambling-101617106789224.html
30-03-2021||India||BJP richest party in the world, alleges Rajasthan CM||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Tuesday claimed that Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is the richest political party in the world and they have no dearth of money. “They brought demonetisation, threaten industrialists and now they have started electoral bonds. We hoped that the Supreme Court will ban them but it did not. If the industry takes out bonds for ₹100 crore, gives ₹95 crore to the BJP and divides ₹5 crore among the Congress, CPI, CPM, BSP, how will the democracy be strong if it isn’t an equal fight?”the CM asked while addressing the nomination rally of party candidate for Sujangarh (Churu) bypolls, Manoj Meghwal. All three Congress candidates – Meghwal, Gayatri Trivedi from Sahara (Bhilwara), and Tansukh Bohra from Rajsamand (Udaipur) filed their nomination today on the last day of filing the nomination. All senior Congress leaders – Gehlot, AICC general secretary Ajay Maken, state PCC chief Govind Singh, and former deputy CM Sachin Pilot travelled together in a chopper and addressed public meetings in the three constituencies going for bypolls.Also Read | Dust-laden winds from Rajasthan blow over Delhi, air quality deterioratesOn farmers’ movement, the CM said, “They [BJP] have won with the blessings of farmers, got a huge majority in Parliament but are not listening to agitated farmers… They are adamant.” He also urged the Centre to talk to the farmers and Opposition parties. The CM today mentioned Pilot in his speech stating that party is committed to fulfill the promises made in manifesto, which was made when Pilot was state party chief. Addressing a gathering in Sujangarh, Pilot said, “The bypolls will not make or dent a government...But the results will send a message to Delhi that farmers and youth resent the BJP because they are imposing agri-laws, misgovernance and inflation.” In Sahara, he said supporting the Congress will send out a message of a stable and strong government. “Let BJP try, but they aren’t coming in power again in Assam and even in West Bengal. Their party is divided from top to bottom, which has become visible in these elections,” he said. BJP spokesperson Mukesh Pareek hit back at the Congress over the allegation of being the richest because of electoral bonds, said his party has more funds but it also has the largest membership. Its workers bring in funds which are then utilised for the party and elections. “The Congress, which is facing a dearth of leadership, does not have workers. Their leaders have broken all records of corruption,” he said. Polling in these three constituencies will be held on April 17 from 7am to 6pm, and counting will take place on May 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-richest-party-in-the-world-alleges-rajasthan-cm-101617106369230.html
30-03-2021||India||Municipal councillor, injured in J&K’s Sopore, succumbs||Councillor Shamasuddin Peer, who was injured in an attack in Jammu & Kashmir’s Sopore a day earlier, succumbed to his bullet injuries at a Srinagar hospital on Tuesday. The toll from the attack on the Sopore Municipal Council office rose to three with Peer’s death.Four personal security officers (PSOs) deployed for the councillors’ safety have been suspended as police admitted to lapses that led to the attack. A policeman was also killed in the attack.Police have blamed Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), its local operative Mudasir Pandit and a foreign terrorist for the attack.Inspector general (Kashmir) Vijay Kumar said the PSOs were outside the office but failed to stop the attackers. “They could have acted and stopped this attack. It was a security lapse.” He added the four were sufficient to stop the attackers.Also Read | LeT may be involved in Sopore attack, shows preliminary investigation reportKumar said the council chief had not informed the police about the meeting. “Had the police been informed on time, there would have been additional deployments and this incident would not have taken place.”Senior police and army officers visited the attack scene and later Kumar chaired a security review meeting.“Preliminary investigation indicates that Mudasir Pandit of proscribed terror outfit LeT along with a foreign terrorist are involved in the attack. However, further investigations are rigorously going on,” said Kumar. He said they have arrested one person for allegedly sheltering the attackers. “We launched search and cordon operation at two places but they [attackers] managed to escape. They will be soon neutralised.”Kumar said police were trying to plug the gaps and address security lapses.Monday’s attack was the first on councillors since the formation of District Development Councils in Jammu & Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/injured-councillor-in-j-k-s-sopore-succumbs-to-injuries-101617104509237.html
30-03-2021||India||Impose fines on passengers not wearing masks 'properly': DGCA to airports||Aviation regulator DGCA on Tuesday told airports to consider imposing spot fines, with the help of police authorities, on passengers who are found not wearing masks properly and not maintaining social distancing as per the Covid-19 rules.On March 13, the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) had asked airports and airlines to ensure that passengers wear mask and maintain social distance at all times during air travel, and take action against those violating the norms.In a circular issued on Tuesday, the regulator said, "During the surveillance of some airports, it has come to notice that compliance (of Covid-19 protocols) is not satisfactory.""All airport operators, therefore, are requested to ensure that the instructions on Covid-19 protocol from the standpoint of wearing face mask properly, covering nose and mouth, as well as maintaining social distance norms within the airport premises are followed scrupulously," it said.Accordingly, all airport operators can increase surveillance in this regard, the DGCA said."The possibility of taking punitive action, such as levy of spot fines in accordance with the law, shall also be explored with local police authorities so as to serve a deterrent for violation of Covid-19 protocol," it stated.The March 13 circular had asked the airport operators to hand over the passengers, who are not following the Covid-19 protocol even after repeated warnings, to the security agencies.Moreover, it had asked the airlines to de-board the passengers who refused to adhere to Covid-19 norms even after repeated warnings and consider banning them from flying for at least three months.Fifteen passengers, who were found violating Covid-19 norms on domestic flights of three airlines between March 15 and March 23, might be banned for three months by the carriers, senior officials of the DGCA had said last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/impose-fines-on-passengers-not-wearing-masks-properly-dgca-to-airports-101617103918785.html
30-03-2021||India||President Kovind’s bypass surgery conducted successfully: Rashtrapati Bhavan||President Ram Nath Kovind on Tuesday underwent successful bypass surgery at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Delhi and his condition is stable, a statement issued by the Rashtrapati Bhavan said. "The President of India, Shri Ram Nath Kovind underwent cardiac bypass surgery today morning (March 30, 2021) at AIIMS, New Delhi. Surgery was successful. He is stable and is being closely monitored by a team of senior doctors," the statement said.The 75-year-old President underwent a health check-up at the Indian Army’s R&R Hospital last Friday after he complained of discomfort in his chest. He was later shifted to AIIMS. “The President of India, Shri Ram Nath Kovind has been shifted to the AIIMS, Delhi, in the afternoon today (March 27, 2021). Post investigations, doctors have advised him to undergo a planned bypass procedure which is expected to be performed on the morning of March 30, Tuesday. The President's health is stable and he is under the care of the experts at the AIIMS,” his office said in a statement on March 27.Defence minister Rajnath Singh said in a tweet he spoke to the director of AIIMS to enquire about President Kovind's health. He congratulated doctors for a successful operation. "The President of India Ram Nath Kovind has undergone a successful bypass surgery at AIIMS, Delhi. I congratulate the team of Doctors for successful operation. Spoke to Director AIIMS to enquire about Rashtrapatiji's health. Praying for his well-being and speedy recovery," he said.The President of India, Shri Ramnath Kovind has undergone a successful bypass surgery at AIIMS, Delhi.I congratulate the team of Doctors for successful operation. Spoke to Director AIIMS to enquire about Rashtrapatiji’s health. Praying for his well-being and speedy recovery.Union home minister Amit Shah also tweeted to wish President Kovind a speedy recovery. “Glad to learn about Rashtrapati Shri Ram Nath Kovind Ji’s successful bypass surgery at AIIMS, New Delhi. May each day bring him renewed strength. My good wishes and prayers for his speedy recovery,” Shah posted on Twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/president-kovind-s-bypass-surgery-conducted-successfully-rajnath-singh-101617102841691.html
30-03-2021||India||News updates from HT: Dust-laden winds blow over Delhi deteriorating air quality and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Dust-laden winds from Rajasthan blow over Delhi, air quality deterioratesDust-laden winds from Rajasthan have started blowing over Delhi, leading to a deterioration in air quality and visibility. Read MoreAmit Shah says if Mamata is defeated in Nandigram, TMC will lose West BengalUnion home minister Amit Shah, who is in West Bengal to campaign for the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the ongoing assembly elections, said on Tuesday Trinamool Congress (TMC) chief Mamata Banerjee must be defeated in Nandigram to bring about "much-desired change" in the state. Read MoreNow Uttarakhand makes negative RT-PCR test report must for visitorsPeople, especially from states where cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) are increasing, will be required to produce a negative Covid test report before they can enter Uttarakhand. Read MoreBhuvi’s swing of fortune and fitnessYou’d think that Bhuvneshwar Kumar would be happy about picking up 10 wickets across the eight limited-overs matches against England. Read MoreVolkswagen to expand its SUV range, announces a new model called TaigoVolkswagen has announced the name of the new sporty SUV Coupe. Read MoreRecipe: Smile your way into the mid-week with this Overnight Oatmeal Cookie JarFood is bae but with the monotony of work from home since the past year, we have run out of a menu that can lift up our mood in a jiffy and that is when we stumbled upon a recipe of Overnight Oatmeal Cookie Jar. Read MoreWhen Suhana Khan scolded dad Shah Rukh Khan for not quitting smoking like he'd promisedShah Rukh Khan has often spoken about his smoking habit. Last year, he implied in a tweet that he still hadn't kicked it, despite saying in the past that he would like to stop, for his children's sake. Read MoreElectricians’ kind gesture for kid who kept offering them help wins heartsKids can be extremely curious about new things happening around them. They often don’t refrain from asking one too many questions and sometimes even try to copy the actions they see happening. Read More‘If you attack our culture…’: PM Modi warns LDF & UDF on Sabarimala rowPrime Minister Narendra Modi accused the LDF and UDF being ashamed of the culture of Kerala. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-dust-laden-winds-blow-over-delhi-deteriorating-air-quality-and-all-the-latest-news-101617101753852.html
30-03-2021||India||DGCA approves 18,843 flights per week from 108 airports for summer schedule||Aviation regulator DGCA on Tuesday said it has approved 18,843 flights per week from 108 airports for the summer schedule, which begins on the last Sunday of March and ends on the last Sunday of October.The number of flights for this year's summer schedule has been approved keeping in mind that airlines are permitted to operate not more than 80 per cent of their pre-Covid flights."It may be noted that 18,843 departures per week have been finalised to/from 108 airports. Out of these 108 airports, Bareilly, Bilaspur, Kurnool and Rupasi are the new airports proposed by the scheduled airlines," the Directorate General of Civil Aviation said on Twitter.pic.twitter.com/7DZvbysCoIIt said IndiGo's 8,749 weekly flights and SpiceJet's 2,854 have been approved for the summer schedule. GoAir's 1,747 flights, Air India's 1,683, Vistara's 1,288 and AirAsia India's 1,243 have also been approved.India resumed domestic passenger flight operations on May 25 last year, after a gap of two months due to the coronavirus-triggered lockdown. At that time, airlines were permitted to operate a maximum of 33% of their pre-Covid flights. This was gradually increased to 80%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dgca-approves-18-843-flights-per-week-from-108-airports-for-summer-schedule-101617101978313.html
30-03-2021||India||India backs UN-led initiative for ceasefire in Afghanistan: Jaishankar||India backs a regional process to be convened under the UN to achieve a political settlement and comprehensive ceasefire in Afghanistan as the situation in the war-torn country continues to be cause for grave concern, external affairs minister S Jaishankar said on Tuesday. Jaishankar made the remarks in Dushanbe while speaking at the ministerial meeting of the Heart of Asia-Istanbul Process, a regional initiative of 15 countries, including China, Russia, Iran and Central Asian states, to find a lasting solution to the situation in Afghanistan. This was the first reaction from the Indian side to the UN-led initiative proposed by the Biden administration. Addressing a gathering that included Pakistan’s foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi, Jaishankar also said durable peace in Afghanistan requires a “genuine ‘double peace’” or “peace within Afghanistan and peace around Afghanistan”. He added, “It requires harmonising the interests of all, both within and around that country.” Also Read | The Taliban is at its strongest since 2001. This needs a clear US responseIndia’s backing for a regional process on Afghanistan convened by the UN – first suggested by US secretary of state Antony Blinken in a letter sent to Afghan President Ashraf Ghani in February – came against the backdrop of worries in New Delhi that the country has been kept out of other processes such as Russia’s “extended troika”. Jaishankar said: “India welcomes any move towards a genuine political settlement and a comprehensive and permanent ceasefire in Afghanistan. We appreciate the international recognition of foundational principles that will determine their contours.” He added, “We support a regional process to be convened under the aegis of the United Nations. UN stewardship would help to take into account all relevant UN resolutions and improve the odds for a lasting outcome.” In his letter, Blinken had outlined four elements as part of a high-level diplomatic effort involving regional countries and the UN to move quickly toward a settlement in Afghanistan. One of these four elements is a meeting to be convened by the UN of foreign ministers and envoys from Russia, China, Pakistan, Iran, India and the US to forge a unified approach on Afghanistan. The date for this meeting is yet to be finalised. Jaishankar said the situation in Afghanistan continues to be a “cause for grave concern”, as violence and bloodshed are “daily realities and the conflict itself has shown little sign of abatement, whatever may be the promises”. Noting that the past few months have witnessed an escalation in targeted killings of civil society, he said that “2020 sadly marked a 45% increase in civilian casualties in Afghanistan over 2019”, while “2021 does not look very much better”. “The continued involvement of foreign fighters in Afghanistan is particularly disturbing. Heart of Asia members and supporting countries should, therefore, make it a priority to press for an immediate reduction in violence leading to a permanent and comprehensive ceasefire,” he said. Also Read | S Jaishankar, Ashraf Ghani exchange views on peace process in AfghanistanAccording to a UN report issued last year, some 6,500 Pakistani fighters, including members of Lashkar-e-Taiba and Jaish-e-Mohammed, were active in Afghanistan. Indian and Afghan officials have for long accused Pakistan’s military establishment with deep links with elements of the Taliban, especially the Haqqani Network. Jaishankar said that ensuring Afghanistan is free of terrorism, violent extremism and drug and criminal syndicates is a “collective imperative”. He added, “A stable, sovereign and peaceful Afghanistan is truly the basis for peace and progress in our region.” India has supported all efforts to accelerate dialogue between the Afghan government and the Taliban, including intra-Afghan negotiations, and attended the inaugural virtual session of the Doha talks last year, he noted. “If the peace process is to be successful, then it is necessary to ensure that the negotiating parties continue to engage in good faith, with a serious commitment towards reaching a political solution,” he said. At the same time, Jaishankar reiterated India’s interest in preserving the gains made over the past two decades in Afghanistan, including the democratic framework under which elections are held through universal suffrage, sovereignty in domestic and foreign policy and protection of the rights of women, children and minorities. India is also committed to the development partnership with Afghanistan, which involves pledges of $3 billion, including more than 550 community development projects covering all 34 provinces, in order to ensure a self-sustaining nation. As the lead country on trade, commerce and investment confidence-building measures under the Heart of Asia process, India will continue to work on improving Afghanistan’s connectivity through projects such as Chabahar port in Iran and dedicated air freight corridors between Indian and Afghan cities, Jaishankar said. A lot of speculation regarding Jaishankar’s visit to Dushanbe has focused on whether he will hold a meeting with his Pakistani counterpart Qureshi. However, there was no official word from the Indian or Pakistani side about such a meeting. Ahead of the ministerial meeting of the Heart of Asia process, Jaishankar held talks with Afghan President Ashraf Ghani on Monday night and shared India’s perspectives on the peace process. He also met his Iranian counterpart Javad Zarif and discussed bilateral cooperation, including for Chabahar port. Jaishankar held a separate meeting with his Turkish counterpart Mevlut Cavusoglu and discussed “Afghanistan-related developments and our bilateral relations”, he said in a tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-backs-un-led-initiative-for-ceasefire-in-afghanistan-jaishankar-101617098810055.html
30-03-2021||India||Villagers attack police in Bokaro after child’s death in road accident||Several policemen and villagers were injured in a clash Monday evening after a SUV of an assistant of the Deputy Commissioner (DC) of Bokaro hit two minor children on a bicycle, killing one and seriously injuring another, at Bagda, Jharkhand police said on Tuesday.Five police personnel were injured in the incident. Four were admitted to Bokaro general hospital (BGH) and referral hospital with serious injuries, police said. Sub-divisional officer (SDO), Bermo, Anant Kumar also received minor injury in stone pelting by the villagers, police said.The villagers alleged that the speeding SUV of the DC’s assistant Ajit Pandey, who was also travelling in the vehicle, hit two brothers aged 9 and 11 who were going to buy coloured powder to celebrate holi in the evening. The younger one died on the way to hospital, while the older one, whose condition is stated to be serious, is undergoing treatment at BGH.The SUV turned turtle after the accident. While the driver escaped from the spot, villagers held Pandey captive and allegedly beat him. Police teams reached the spot after getting the information.Bermo SDO Anant Kumar said, “The villagers had made Pandey captive for two-three hours. We reached the spot and talked to villagers to release him. Suddenly, quite a few villagers from the crowd started pelting stones and also used sticks against police personnel.”He said quite a few police personnel were injured in the incident and he also was hit by stones on his back. “Four police personnel were seriously injured. Two were admitted to BGH, while two others are undergoing treatment at Bokaro referral hospital,” he said.Police also resorted to lathi-charge and rescued Pandey safely from the villagers. Many villagers also received injuries in the incident.“A hit and run case and an FIR against villagers who resorted to violence against police personnel have been lodged,” Kumar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/villagers-attack-police-in-bokaro-after-child-s-death-in-road-accident-101617098808937.html
30-03-2021||India||Death toll in Sopore municipal office attack rises to 3||The death toll in the attack on the Sopore municipal office on Monday rose to three on Tuesday after another injured councillor succumbed to his injuries in a Srinagar hospital, police said.Meanwhile four PSOs of the protected persons were placed under suspension.Injured councillor Shamas-ud-din Peer who was referred to Srinagar died early in the morning in the hospital. A policeman and a councillor were killed in the attack on Monday. Soon after the attack, police blamed Lashkar-e-Taiba militants and said it was carried out by local militant Mudasir Pandit along with a foreign militant.Late Monday night senior police and army officers visited the spot and later inspector general of police (Kashmir) Vijay Kumar chaired a security review meeting with Commander 5-Sector Rashtriya Rifles, DIG CRPF and SSP Sopore.“Preliminary investigation indicates that a local terrorist Mudasir Pandit of proscribed terror outfit LeT along with a foreign terrorist are involved in the said attack. However, further investigations are rigorously going on. IGP Kashmir also took serious note of the poor and inappropriate retaliation by the PSOs of protected persons present on spot and directed SSP Sopore to put four PSOs under suspension,” a police spokesperson said. Meanwhile security forces conducted search and cordon operations at many places to trace the attackers. Security around Municipal Councils in north Kashmir where councillors hold meetings has been reviewed to stop similar attacks in the future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/death-toll-in-sopore-municipal-office-attack-rises-to-3-101617096048961.html
30-03-2021||India||Vaccines are safe, stay away from WhatsApp university: Harsh Vardhan allays fear||Union minister of health Harsh Vardhan on Tuesday sought to address vaccine hesitancy and asked people to stay away from rumours about the jabs against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), which has affected more than 12 million people in the country and killed more than 162,000. "Both Indian vaccines are safe and effective. A lot of people still have doubts regarding vaccines. I urge them not to believe what is being circulated in WhatsApp university," Vardhan said, according to news agency ANI, referring to false information related to election, politics and religion among other things shared on the widely-used messaging application."There are only a few rare cases wherein people contracted Covid-19 after taking vaccines. Even if someone tests positive after taking vaccines, it minimalises the chances of their hospitalisation or admission to ICU wards," he added.Also read | 6 states reported 78.56% of India's daily Covid-19 cases: GovtThe health minister made the remarks after he and his wife, Nutan Goel, received the second dose of the Covid-19 vaccine at the Delhi Heart and Lung Institute. Harsh Vardhan, who took the first dose of the vaccine on March 2, also said that neither of them felt any side effects after the first dose.Harsh Vardhan also said that seven more vaccine candidates are in various stages of clinical trials. "Some of them are in the advanced phase of the trials. Around two dozen vaccines are in pre-clinical trials,” he said.According to the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Tuesday, 6,11,13,354 vaccine doses have been administered through 10,07,091 sessions, as per the provisional report till 7am, during the national inoculation drive against Covid-19.These include 81,74,916 healthcare workers, who have taken the first dose, and 51,88,747, who have taken the second dose, and 89,44,742 frontline workers (FLWs) who have received the first dose and 37,11,221 who have taken the second dose, it said.The health ministry said 68,72,483 people aged 45 to 60 years with specific co-morbidities have received the first dose and 405 the second dose. In the category of those more than 60 years of age, 28,219,257 have got the first dose and 1,583 the second dose, it added. On Day 73 of the national vaccination drive on March 29, 582,919 vaccine doses were given. Out of these, 551,164 people were vaccinated across 14,608 sessions for the first dose and 31,755 others received the second dose.The country’s vaccination drive started on January 16 with healthcare and frontline workers being inoculated against Covid-19 in the first phase. The second phase started on March 1 where doses are being administered to people above the age of 60 and those between 45 and 59 years with specific comorbidities. The government has decided to vaccinate all above 45 years from April 1.India reported 56, 211 fresh cases of the coronavirus disease and 271 related deaths in the last 24 hours, the Union health ministry’s data showed on Tuesday morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaccines-are-safe-stay-away-from-whatsapp-university-harsh-vardhan-allays-fear-101617095378642.html
30-03-2021||India||81-year-old Covid-19 patient dies by suicide at government hospital in Nagpur||In a shocking incident, an 81-year-old Covid-19 patient allegedly committed suicide at the government hospital in Nagpur.The incident took place at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMC), Nagpur on Monday.Dr. Kanchan Wankhede, Medical Superintendent (In-charge), GMC Nagpur, informed that the old man, who was admitted in the Covid-19 ward of the hospital, committed suicide by hanging himself using an oxygen pipe inside a bathroom.Nagpur has been witnessing a dynamic surge in Covid-19 cases and reported 3,177 new infections on Monday. There are 38,298 active cases in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/81yearold-covid-19-patient-dies-by-suicide-at-government-hospital-in-nagpur-101617094706854.html
30-03-2021||India||Starting April, Vistara to roll back pay cuts for non-management staff||Vistara will be rolling back pay cuts for a few categories of employees, starting April. These pay cuts were implemented last year due to the Covid-19 pandemic leading to severe financial issues for the aviation industry.An internal email by the airline’s chief executive officer (CEO) Leslie Thng to its employees said that pay cuts will be rolled back for level 1 to level 3 employees but will continue for management-level executives (level 4 and level 5 employees), including himself.The full service carrier had, in June 2020, announced a reduction in salary of nearly 40% of the total workforce. This reduction in salary was announced for the period up to December 31, and was later extended to March 31. Also Read | Vistara to upgrade 787-9s for long haulIn the internal mail, the Tata Sons and Singapore Airlines joint venture airline said it will not be paying an annual increment in April this year. However, it mentioned that the increment process will be revised in October, based on the airline’s financial position in the coming six months.Thng’s email read, “Our board has approved to cease the pay cut that was implemented for level-1 to level-3 staff from April 1, but the leadership team (level 4 and level-5) and I will continue with our pay cuts at 15% and 25%, respectively… we are definitely not out of the woods yet as our operating capacity and revenue are still below pre-Covid levels, and the road ahead will continue to remain vigilant in controlling our costs and be nimble and flexible in our plan, and should be prepared to take difficult decisions if the need arises.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/starting-april-vistara-to-roll-back-pay-cuts-for-non-management-staff-101617094428819.html
30-03-2021||India||Bombay High Court to hear Param Bir Singh's PIL against Deshmukh on Mar 31||The Bombay High Court on Tuesday said it would hear on Wednesday the PIL filed by former Mumbai police chief Param Bir Singh seeking a CBI probe against Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh, who he claimed asked police officer Sachin Vaze to collect ₹100 crore from bars and restaurants.Singh filed the criminal Public Interest Litigation (PIL) in the HC on March 25.He claimed Deshmukh had asked police officers, including suspended assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze, who has been arrested by the NIA in the case of bomb scare near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's residence in Mumbai, to collect ₹100 crore each month from bars and restaurants.The PIL also raised the issue of alleged corruption in police transfers and postings in the state.On Tuesday, senior counsel Vikram Nankani, appearing for Singh, mentioned the petition before a division bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G S Kulkarni and sought urgent hearing.Chief Justice Datta asked Nankani about the prayers sought in the petition and if the PIL is maintainable.Nankani said the main prayer sought in the petition is for a CBI probe into the serious allegations levelled by a senior IPS officer against a state minister."We will satisfy the court with arguments on the maintainability of the petition," Nankani said.The HC then posted the PIL for hearing on Wednesday.Singh had initially approached the Supreme Court, alleging he was transferred from the post of Commissioner Police of Mumbai on March 17 and shunted to the Home Guards department after he complained to Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and other senior leaders about the "corrupt malpractices" of Deshmukh.The apex court had termed the matter as quite serious, but asked Singh to approach the high court.Singh then filed the PIL in the HC, reiterating his allegations against Deshmukh and seeking an "immediate, unbiased, impartial" probe by the CBI against Deshmukh, who is an NCP leader.In his PIL, Singh also accused Deshmukh of routinely interfering in police investigations and putting pressure on him to implicate BJP leaders in the case of suicide of Dadra and Nagar Haveli MP Mohan Delkar.Singh also sought a direction from the HC to the CBI to secure CCTV footage of Deshmukh's residence from earlier this year before it was "destroyed", and a direction to the state government to produce all records of communication received from IPS officer Rashmi Shukla in March 2020.In February last year, Shukla levelled allegations of malpractices in police postings and transfers against Deshmukh and also informed her superiors about it, but soon afterwards she was transferred, the PIL alleged.The court should pass directions to ensure that in future police officials are not transferred on account of "pecuniary benefits to any politician", it said.Deshmukh has denied the allegations against him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bombay-high-court-to-hear-param-bir-singh-s-pil-against-deshmukh-on-mar-31-101617089940539.html
30-03-2021||India||6 states reported 78.56% of India's daily Covid-19 cases: Govt||Six states cumulatively contributed to 78.56 per cent of new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in the last 24 hours from across the country, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Tuesday. These states are Maharashtra, Punjab, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Gujarat which continued to report a surge in the daily Covid-19 cases, according to the health ministry.India recorded 56,211 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours which took the nationwide tally to 12,095,855, the health ministry showed. With this, the number of active cases also went up by 18,912 between Monday and Tuesday morning as the active case count reached 540,720, the health ministry said. 271 fatalities were reported due to the infection which took the death toll to 162,114.Here’s a look at the six states which contributed the most to India’s Covid-19 related deaths on Tuesday:MaharashtraMaharashtra, which remains the worst-affected state by the coronavirus pandemic, reported 31,643 new Covid-19 cases on Monday taking the overall tally of the state to 2,745,518. The state reported 102 deaths in the past 24 hours which pushed its death toll to 54,283. The active cases in the state stood at 336,584 and the total recoveries stood at 2,353,307.PunjabPunjab on Monday reported 59 more fatalities due to Covid-19 and 2,868 fresh cases which took the death toll to 6,749 and the infection count to 234,602, respectively. The number of active cases increased from 23,917 on Sunday to 24,143 on Monday.Read more: Covid-19: India provides 100,000 doses of Covaxin vaccine to ParaguayKarnatakaKarnataka reported 2,792 new Covid-19 cases on Monday which took the state’s tally to 987,012. The death toll in the state stood at 12,504, according to the state health department’s bulletin. The recoveries from the disease neared 952,000 in the state while active cases have climbed to 23,037.Madhya PradeshMadhya Pradesh on Monday reported 2,323 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the tally of infections to 291,006. With nine more patients succumbing to the viral infection in the last 24 hours, the overall fatality count in the state rose to 3,967. A total of 1,349 patients were discharged from hospitals in the last 24 hours, taking the count of recoveries in the state to 271,889.Tamil NaduTamil Nadu logged 2,279 new Covid-19 infections on Monday which pushed the caseload in the state to 8,81,000 while 14 more deaths took the toll to 12,684. Total recoveries in the state stood at 855,085 with 1,352 patients being discharged, leaving 13,983 active cases.GujaratGujarat's Covid-19 caseload reached 303,118 after 2,252 new Covid-19 cases were detected on Monday. With eight deaths and 1,731 people getting discharged, the state's death toll stood at 4,500 and the recovery count stood at 286,577.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6-states-reported-78-56-of-india-s-daily-covid-19-cases-govt-101617090284591.html
30-03-2021||India||80% beds in pvt hospitals to be reserved for Covid-19 patients: BMC||In wake of rising cases in Mumbai, BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) ordered private hospitals to reserved 80 per cent of beds in private hospitals for virus-infected patients. In the intensive care unit (ICU), 100 per cent of beds will be reserved for the same in line with the Ward War Room allotment, the civic body said in a circular issued on March 29.BMC also restricted private hospitals to directly admit patients in any of these reserved beds.This comes as the Covid-19 situation in Maharashtra is worsening with every passing day. On Monday, the state reported as many as 31,643 cases in the span of 24 hours, out of this 5,890 cases were reported from Mumbai alone. While the number of fatalities in the same period was at 102. Mumbai recorded 12.On March 28, it recorded the sharpest single-day spike in daily cases after 40,414 people found to be infected by the Covid-19.From March 1 to 29, the state recorded 590,448 cases, while it had recorded 593,192 cases in September 2020, according to the figures by the state health department. The state’s tally is now 2,745,518 cases and the death toll is 54,283.On Monday, Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik urged residents to comply with the Covid-19 protocol as the state government mulled the reimposition of lockdown. “We can’t afford another lockdown. We have asked the CM to consider other options. Due to the rising cases, he has directed the administration to prepare for lockdown but that doesn’t mean a lockdown is inevitable. If people follow rules, it can be avoided,” ANI quoted Malik as saying.Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday asked officials to start preparing plans for the implementation of another lockdown as cases continued to surge in the state. Meanwhile, a night curfew has already in effect in Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/80-beds-in-pvt-hospitals-to-be-reserved-for-covid-19-patients-bmc-101617090708106.html
30-03-2021||India||BR Ambedkar's statue found damaged in UP's Ballia||A statue of Dr Bhimrao Ambedkar was found damaged at a village here, leading to a protest by members of the local Dalit community, police said on Tuesday.The statue in Khunta village was vandalised by some "anti-social elements" in the early hours of Monday, Sub-Divisional Magistrate (SDM), Bilthara Road, Sarvesh Yadav said.The SDM and police officials pacified the protesters, assuring that a new statue would be installed at the earliest.A case was lodged at Bhimpura Police Station against unknown persons, on a complaint from Ambedkar Committee president Sunil Kumar, under relevant sections of the law, Additional Superintendent of Police Sanjay Yadav said. In December last year, a statue of Ambedkar was found damaged in Sikanderpur area of the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/br-ambedkar-s-statue-found-damaged-in-up-s-ballia-101617089844272.html
30-03-2021||India||Seven Covid-19 vaccine candidates in clinical trials, says Harsh Vardhan||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Tuesday said that seven more Covid-19 vaccine candidates are in stages of clinical trials.He made the statement after receiving the second dose of the Covid-19 vaccine at Delhi Heart and Lung Institute.Harsh Vardhan said, "Around seven more Covid vaccine candidates are in clinical trials. Some of them are in the advanced phase of the trials. Around two dozen vaccines are in pre-clinical trials."The Union Health Minister said that 430 districts in the country have not reported a single case of coronavirus in the last 28 days."The situation is under control but we don't have to be complacent in terms of observing Covid appropriate behaviour," he said.His wife Nutan Goel also took the second dose of the Covid-19 vaccine today.Harsh Vardhan said that neither of them felt any side effects after their first doses."Both Indian vaccines are safe and effective. A lot of people still have doubts regarding vaccines. I urge them not to believe what is being circulated in WhatsApp university," he further said."There are only a few rare cases wherein people contracted Covid-19 after taking vaccines. Even if someone tests positive after taking vaccines, it minimalises the chances of their hospitalization or admission to ICU wards," he added.He had taken the first dose of the vaccine on March 2.In what is billed as the largest vaccination drive in the world, as many as 6,11,13,354 vaccine doses have been administered till 8 am on March 30.India had started its vaccination drive on January 16 with priority given to all healthcare and frontline workers in the first phase. The second phase started on March 1 where doses are being administered to people above the age of 60 and those between 45 and 59 years with specific comorbidities. From April 1, the government has decided to vaccinate all above 45 years.India reported 56, 211 fresh Covid-19 cases and 271 related deaths in the last 24 hours, the union health ministry informed on Tuesday morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/seven-covid-19-vaccine-candidates-in-clinical-trials-says-harsh-vardhan-101617089828693.html
30-03-2021||India||News updates from HT: PM Modi spells out BJP's vision for Kerala, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.PM Modi spells out BJP's vision for Kerala, praises E Sreedharan in PalakkadPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said that Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has a forward looking vision for poll-bound Kerala, like the rest of the country, as he addressed a rally in Palakkad. Read moreHow Kerala’s economy has fared under LDF rulePolls for the 140-member Kerala Assembly, in a single-phase election on April 6, will see the incumbent, the Communist Party of India-Marxist or CPI(M)-led Left Democratic Front (LDF) battle it out with the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF). Read moreShould India declare a net zero emission target?Net zero emission by 2050 is emerging as the latest war cry on the climate front. And the drum beat is getting louder as the Glasgow climate conference draws nearer. Read more'Leader of the pack': Ajay Jadeja says Bhuvneshwar Kumar fulfilled Jasprit Bumrah's role effectively in ODI seriesIndia pacer Bhuvneshwar Kumar made a stunning return to India's limited-overs squad against England, as he led the bowling attack against the World No. 1 team. Read moreRam Setu: Akshay Kumar reveals first look as shoot commences, asks fans for feedback on his archaeologist lookAkshay Kumar is one of the busiest actors in Bollywood right now. He wrapped Atrangi Re over the weekend and is already on the sets of his new project. Akshay took to Twitter and revealed that he has started the shoot of Ram Setu on Tuesday. Read moreAmitabh Bachchan says he spent Holi 'sitting in silence' by himself, away from family: 'Mind, body, spirit is vacant'Actor Amitabh Bachchan took to his blog on Monday to express regret about the quiet manner in which he celebrated Holi this year. He wrote that he spent the festival of colours sitting by himself 'in silence'. Read morePrachi Desai cuts contemporary-chic silhouette in ivory Chanderi jacket, lehengaThough production stopped, stores closed and catwalks went dark due to the Covid-19 lockdowns last year, fashion is now back and better than it was before and Bollywood actor Prachi Desai’s latest pictures are enough to back our claim. Read moreF1 of the skies? This could be world's first electric flying car race eventElectric vehicles are quite the rage at ground level but what about the open skies where speed may be nearly limitless? Read moreNaughtiness alert: These smart animals will leave you gigglingSmart, sassy and agile- these are some of the few adjectives apt for the animals shown in this video. We know that cute and cuddly pet videos make for an entertaining watch, but we assure you that these intelligent animals doing all kinds of smart activities are a delight to watch. Watch hereWatch: Why Canada suspended use of India-made vaccine for those under 55||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-pm-modi-spells-out-bjp-s-vision-for-kerala-and-all-the-latest-news-101617087845660.html
30-03-2021||India||Ruckus at release of Pawan Kalyan movie's trailer||A ruckus was created at the Sangam Sharath theatre here during the release of the trailer of actor-turned-politician Pawan Kalyan's movie 'Vakeel Saab' and his fans trying to celebrate the event.The trailer was released in only a few theatres in the Telugu states on March 29 around 4 pm. The superstar's fans reached the theatre by 2pm and offered puja and coconuts at his photo.In the commotion the glass of the theatre was broken, but despite that, the fans went inside to watch the trailer. The filmmakers had decided to launch the trailer on Holi and the superstar's fans decided to celebrate the occasion.#WATCH | Andhra Pradesh: Ruckus erupted at a theatre in Visakhapatnam during the release of the trailer of actor & Jan Sena chief Pawan Kalyan's movie, yesterday pic.twitter.com/MjNrpxto1dPawan Kalyan is making a comeback after a two-year sabbatical with his film Vakeel Saab, which is the Telugu remake of the Bollywood hit Amitabh Bachchan's Pink.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ruckus-at-release-of-pawan-kalyan-movie-s-trailer-101617085849686.html
30-03-2021||India||Gujarat chief minister weighed against 85kgs of silver at event||Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani was on Monday weighed against 85 kilograms of silver at a function organised in Gandhinagar.Rupani donated the silver for the welfare of livestock at cow shelters, a state government release said, adding that the 'rajat tula' event was organised by Samast Mahajan Trust.Rupani said his government was committed to the welfare of livestock, and had enacted a stringent law against cow slaughter with jail terms of up to 12 years.He said his government had launched 'Karuna Abhiyan' to treat birds injured during the kite festival, apart from operating 350 mobile veterinary vans, and offering financial assistance to cow shelters.Steps had been taken to make such cow shelters, or panjrapole, self-sufficient by helping those running it grow fodder, the CM added.Rupani also inaugurated in online mode 'gauchar' development works in Banaskantha and Mehsana, the release said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-chief-minister-weighed-against-85-kgs-of-silver-at-event-101617085821891.html
30-03-2021||India||6 people arrested for poaching deer in Chhattisgarh’s Achanakmar Tiger Reserve||Chhattisgarh forest department arrested six people for hunting a spotted deer in Achanakmar Tiger Reserve, forest officials said on Tuesday.The department claimed that the department also recovered 35 kg meat from the accused and sent it for further examination. “We got a tip-off that some poacher entered in the jungle and killed an animal. We started searching on Saturday night and in the early hours of Sunday, the officials arrested two people Vivek Nelson and Mexon George and found 10 kg of chital meat,” said deputy director, Achanakmaar Tiger Reserve, Satyadev Sharma. Based on the statement of the duo, houses of four others Santosh Porte, Suresh Uraon, Bhuvneswar Porte and Budhram were raided and 25 kg of chital meat was recovered, Sharma said. “We have also seized bows, arrows, steel cable and clutch wire from Budhram. During questioning, it emerged that one Hasrat Khan of Bilaspur had allegedly killed a chital with a 0.22 bore gun with their support. Later, two more accused Asaram and Raghunath were also arrested,” said Sharma.The main accused Hasrat Khan, Santosh Porte and Suresh Uraon are still absconding, Sharma said. “We are raiding various spots in this connection and more arrests could follow,” he said. The accused have been booked under relevant provisions of the Wildlife Protection Act 1972, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6-people-arrested-for-poaching-deer-in-chhattisgarh-s-achanakmar-tiger-reserve-101617085788534.html
30-03-2021||India||14 arrested in connection with violence at Nanded gurudwara in which 4 cops were injured||The police in Maharashtra's Nanded arrested 14 people in connection with violence outside a gurudwara on Monday, news agency ANI reported. Four policemen were injured after being attacked during vandalism and one of them - a constable - is said to be in a serious condition.ANI quoted a police official as saying that a case has been registered against 64 accused under charges of rioting and attempt to murder.The sword-wielding mob attacked policemen after being denied permission to hold a public procession in Nanded due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.A video of the incident, flashed by various news agencies, showed the mob barging out of the gurudwara, breaking the barricades put up by police and attacking the cops.Several vehicles were also damaged in the violence."Permission for the Hola Mohalla public procession was not granted due to the pandemic. The gurudwara committee was informed and they had assured us that they would abide by our directives and hold the event inside the gurudwara premises," Nanded Range DIG Nisar Tamboli told news agency PTI."However, when the Nishan Sahib was brought at the gate around 4 pm, several participants started arguing and over 300 youth stormed out of the gate, broke the barricades and began attacking the policeman," he added.Hola Mohalla is a Sikh festival that comes a day after Holi. It is an occasion for Sikhs to demonstrate their martial arts skills.Nanded is an important Sikh pilgrimage centre as it is home to a sacred shrine, the Takht Sachkhand Sri Hazur Abchal Nagar Sahib. It was here that the 10th and last Sikh Guru, Guru Gobind Singh (1666-1708), anointed the holy book Guru Granth Sahib as the eternal Guru of Sikhism and spent the last 14 months of his life.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/17-detained-in-connection-with-violence-at-nanded-gurudwara-101617083622153.html
30-03-2021||India||Devotees celebrate 'Hola Mohalla' at Golden Temple, Amritsar||On the occasion of 'Hola Mohalla' or Warrior Holi on Monday, thousands of devotees thronged to seek blessings at the Golden Temple in Amritsar.On this day the devotees at Shri Harmandir Sahib in Amritsar, along with their families, bow down, listen to Gurbani, take a dip in the holy water and take the blessings of Guru Sahib.On the occasion of Holi, people from across the country visit the centre of faith and spirituality to offer prayers at the Golden Temple. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/devotees-celebrate-hola-mohalla-at-golden-temple-amritsar-101617081822121.html
30-03-2021||India||More than 40 dead, 38 others injured across Bihar during Holi celebrations||At least 41 people including three children were killed and over 38 others were injured as violence and accidents marred Holi celebrations in Bihar in the past two days, police said. Several violent incidents were reported from many places as groups clashed with each other. Five people were murdered in Patna alone in group clashes while four persons died in two road accidents in Samastipur because of drunken driving. Reports from Buxar, a woman at Pandeypatti village under Muffasil police station was shot at and injured on Monday when she opposed the playing of obscene songs by a group of youths near her house. One of the revelers whipped out a pistol and shot her. Buxar’s SDPO Gorakh Ram said, “The firing happened during a dispute over the playing of songs. The woman has suffered a bullet injury in her leg. We are investigating the matter.” In Nalanda, miscreants set on fire three huts at Miya-Bigha village and injured four persons when they opposed the playing of obscene Bhojpuri songs. In Bhagalpur, at least six people were injured in a clash between two communities at Barari police station area. The clash took place after a group of people sprinkled colour on another group which was on its way to play cricket. The clash escalated quickly with both communities attacking each other and setting several shops on fire. Bhagalpur SSP Nitasa Guriya said the situation is normal and police were registering FIRs against the culprits. Earlier, on Sunday evening, a speeding truck rammed into a sweet and snacks shop near Telhara police station in Nalanda killing six people and injuring more than 10 others. The locals, angered over the incident, attacked the Telhara police station and torched eight vehicles parked on its campus. In Gaya, three Dalit children were charred to death and another was seriously injured during Holika Dahan in Rahul Nagar village. SHO of Bodh Gaya police station Mitesh Kumar said, “The villagers cremated the bodies on Monday morning. They have not lodged any complaint so far.” On Monday, two groups of people clashed over a land dispute in Madhubani’s Benipatti police station area. Three persons including two brothers were shot dead while three others injured in a firing between the two groups. Madhubani’s police chief Dr Satya Prakash said two of the injured persons referred to Patna while another referred to Darbhanga. According to reports from Sitamarhi, two persons were killed and three others injured near Mushahri village on Holi after their motorcycles collided with each other. Similar incidents reported from Katihar where three motorcyclists died and two were injured in accidents. Two persons each from Vaishali, Gopalganj, Buxar and Jehanabad districts killed in road mishap while one person died and 10 injured in Lakhisarai when a pickup van overturned. In Kaimur, three persons including a two-year-old died and three others were injured in two separate road accidents. An official in the police headquarters said that a farmer was shot dead in Khagaria while two persons were killed in Buxar. In Rohtas one person was killed and three others were injured in a firing between two groups.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-than-40-dead-38-others-injured-across-bihar-during-holi-celebrations-101617082668511.html
30-03-2021||India||Passengers departing from Mumbai airport to continue paying development fees||People flying out of Mumbai will have to continue paying development fees for another year. This process was to end on Wednesday, March 31, but passengers departing from Mumbai’s Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) will now be paying ₹120 for domestic and ₹720 for international destinations till March 31 next year.The implementing authority, Airports Economic Regulatory Authority (AERA), said that the situation will be reviewed again by the end of December 2021, and a decision will be taken based on the report of an independent auditor appointed by the Airports Authority of India (AAI).AERA stated that it had sanctioned a levy of ₹100 for every domestic passenger and ₹600 for every international passenger at Mumbai International Airport Ltd (MIAL) in 2012, to cover a deficit of ₹3,845 crore in airport project financing, up to April 30, 2021.Also Read | From April 1, flying to become costlier as DGCA hikes air security feeMoreover, in 2016, MIAL was allowed to charge a levy of ₹20 per domestic and ₹120 per international passenger to finance the Metro works to collect ₹518 crore. Both these levies were merged to a combined development fees of ₹120 and ₹720 per domestic and international passenger respectively and were to be charged till March 31, 2021.However, 2020 and 2021 saw a huge impact on Indian aviation and, consequently, passenger numbers at all airports dropped, due to the Covid-19 pandemic, which severely affected the collections.An AERA order dated March 24 stated, “… a request was received from MIAL (Mumbai International Airport Ltd.) for extension of period of levy for project development fees and Metro development fees, due to shortfall in the collection of both the levies. Airports Authority of India (AAI) confirmed that as on March 31, 2020, ₹524.6 crore are yet to be collected under project development fees, and, a deficit of ₹102.7 crore is to be collected under Metro development fees.”AERA said that during the period April 2020 to January 2021, the number of domestic passengers reduced by 76.4% and the number of international passengers reduced by 91.9% when compared to the previous year for the same period, resulting in the collection of development fees during the period April 2020 to March 2021 to be much less than the anticipated amount. Due to this, the deficit cannot be covered by Wednesday, March 31. AERA said that it examined the facts, and, on the basis of passenger traffic, during FY 2020­-21, it expects MIAL to collect ₹80.63 crore; which means that, after the end of FY 2020­ 21, there will be a shortfall of ₹546.64 crore.“So, there is a necessity to extend the levy of development fees beyond March 2021, to recover the sanctioned development fees amount. However, the traffic projections for the period FY 2021-22 and FY 2022-23 are tentative and may change depending on the Covid-19 situation and other economic factors and collection may vary from the present calculations. Accordingly, it is decided to extend the levy of development fees up to March 2022. The position will be reviewed after December 2021 and further action/ order will be issued based on such review,” concluded AERA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/passengers-departing-from-mumbai-airport-to-continue-paying-development-fees-101617082608772.html
30-03-2021||India||Health minister Harsh Vardhan, wife receive second dose of Covid-19 vaccine||Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan on Tuesday received the second dose of Covid-19. He was vaccinated along with wife Nutan Goel at Delhi's Delhi Heart & Lung Institute. "After taking first dose of vaccine, neither of us felt any side effects," ANI quoted the Union health minister as saying. He also urged people get themselves vaccinated without hesitation."Both Indian vaccines are safe and effective. A lot of people still have doubts regarding vaccines. I urge them not to believe what is being circulated in WhatsApp university," he said according to the ANI report."There are only a few rare cases wherein people contracted Covid-19 after taking vaccines. Even if someone tests positive after taking vaccines, it minimises the chances of their hospitalisation or admission to ICU wards," the health minister also said.On March 2, the health minister and wife received the first dose of the vaccine. "I request everyone to get vaccinated. After 28 days of first dose, everyone should get their second dose. Do not worry if you experience minor side-effects, but do let your doctors know," Harsh Vardhan wrote on Twitter after getting the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine.Also Read | 8 states have administered highest number of Covid-19 vaccine dosesSpeaking on Covid-19 situation in the country, Harsh Vardhan said it is "under control now." "There are 430 districts in the country where not a single case of coronavirus has been reported in the last 28 days. The situation is under control but we don't have to be complacent in terms of observing Covid appropriate behaviour," he said.On January 16, India rolled out its vaccination drive in the country. Only healthcare and frontline workers were allowed to be immunised in the first phase of the drive. In the following phase, which began on March 1, the government permitted those above 60 years and people above 45 with commodities to be inoculated.The government has allowed all those above the age of 45 to be administered with the Covid-19 vaccine from April 1, the health ministry announced earlier.India is currently using Covishield, developed by Oxford University and AstraZeneca and being manufactured by the Serum Institute of India, and Bharat Biotech's Covaxin for the inoculation drive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/health-minister-harsh-vardhan-wife-receive-second-dose-of-covid-19-vaccine-101617082373748.html
30-03-2021||India||Jaishankar may present India’s views on Afghan peace process in Tajikistan today||External affairs minister S Jaishankar is expected to present India’s views on the troubled Afghan peace process at a crucial meet on Afghanistan hosted by Tajikistan and hold meetings with leaders of Central Asian states on Tuesday. Jaishankar is in the Tajik capital of Dushanbe at the invitation of his counterpart Sirojiddin Muhriddin. Ahead of the ministerial meeting of the Heart of Asia-Istanbul Process, Jaishankar held talks with Afghan President Ashraf Ghani on Monday night and shared India’s perspectives on the peace process. The minister tweeted about his visit on Monday and said, “Look forward to my bilateral visit and attending the Heart of Asia Conference tomorrow.”A lot of speculation regarding Jaishankar’s visit has focused on whether he will hold a meeting with his Pakistani counterpart Shah Mahmood Qureshi, who is also attending the Heart of Asia meet. However, there was no official word from the Indian or Pakistani sides about such a meeting. On Monday, Jaishankar also met his Turkish counterpart Mevlut Cavusoglu and discussed “Afghanistan-related developments and our bilateral relations”, he said in a tweet. Heart Of Asia, a regional initiative launched by Afghanistan and Turkey in November 2011, is one of the rare forums focused on Afghanistan that includes both India and Pakistan. The initiative includes 15 countries, including China, Russia, Iran, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates and Central Asian states such as Tajikistan and Kazakhstan. Also Read | S Jaishankar, Ashraf Ghani exchange views on peace process in AfghanistanAs the lead country for trade, commerce, investment and confidence-building measures under the Heart of Asia initiative, India has made concerted efforts to strengthen regional connectivity for greater economic integration of Afghanistan with the rest of the region. A dedicated air freight corridor between cities in India and Afghanistan and the operationalisation of Chabahar port in Iran are steps in that direction, the external affairs ministry said. “India, as an important stakeholder for peace, prosperity and stability in Afghanistan, has played a constructive role in the international processes on Afghanistan,” the ministry said. India has engaged regional and international stakeholders on Afghanistan, and Jaishankar’s visit is expected to further enhance the country’s outreach to Central Asian states, with a special focus on Afghanistan, the ministry further said. Besides participating in the Heart of Asia meeting, Jaishankar will hold talks with his Tajik counterpart on all aspects of bilateral ties and regional and international issues. He will also meet Tajik President Emomali Rahmon and other Tajik Ministers and dignitaries. Jaishankar is also expected to meet his counterparts from Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan in Dushanbe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jaishankar-may-present-india-s-views-on-afghan-peace-process-in-tajikistan-today-101617082008431.html
30-03-2021||India||Manipur withdraws earlier order to turn Myanmar refugees away ‘politely’||The Manipur government on Monday withdrew an earlier order directing authorities in districts bordering Myanmar to “politely turn away” nationals from the neighbouring nation who are trying to enter India. The fresh letter was issued by H Gyan Prakash, special secretary (home), government of Manipur, to deputy commissioners of Chandel, Tengnoupal, Ukhrul and Churachandpur districts. “The fresh letter was issued on Monday which directed the deputy commissioners in four districts to disregard the earlier letter issued on March 26,” Prakash said over phone from Imphal. The letter mentions that the earlier order issued on March 26 has been misconstrued and interpreted differently, and the Manipur government has been providing all aid to Myanmar nationals who have entered India via the borders with the state. Also Read | India can’t become capital of illegal migrants: Govt on Rohingyas’ deportationIt maintains that the state government has been taking all necessary humanitarian steps, including taking in some injured Myanmar refugees, who are fleeing the country after last month’s military coup, to the state capital Imphal for treatment. Monday’s order stated that to avoid misunderstanding, the earlier letter has been withdrawn. On March 26, Prakash’s office had issued a directive that there should not be any camp to provide food and shelter to Myanmar nationals and no civil society group should not provide food and shelter to the refugees either. It added that in case of grievous injuries sustained by Myanmar nationals, medical attention “may be provided on humanitarian considerations”. “People trying to enter/seek refuge should be politely turned away,” the March 26 letter read. Manipur government’s actions are in contrast to Mizoram where chief minister Zoramthanga has refused to turn away Myanmar nationals (as asked by Centre) who have entered the state through the border. As per reports, nearly 1,000 Myanmar nationals have entered Mizoram and are taking shelter in the state at present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-withdraws-earlier-order-to-turn-myanmar-refugees-away-politely-101617080748446.html
30-03-2021||India||S Jaishankar to attend Heart of Asia conference in Tajikistan today||During his three-day visit to Tajikistan, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar will attend the ninth Ministerial Conference of Heart of Asia - Istanbul Process (HoA-IP) on Afghanistan in Dushanbe on Tuesday.Jaishankar will attend the conference at the joint invitation of his counterparts from Afghanistan and Tajikistan. He is expected to meet leaders of other participating countries on the sidelines, according to a March 26 statement from the external affairs ministry.The conference, being hosted in Tajikistan, is focused on strengthening a regional and international consensus for Afghan peace.However, the highly-anticipated meeting between Indian and Pakistani foreign ministers has not been scheduled so far. Pakistan Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi, who departed for participation in the conference Monday, had told Dawn that "no meeting has been finalised or requested".The development comes in the backdrop of understanding the resumption of the 2003 ceasefire between Pakistan and India, reached at the end of February and the meeting held on Indus water sharing after a gap of two years.On Monday, Jaishankar met Afghanistan President Ashraf Ghani and held a discussion on the Afghan peace process."Honour to call on President @ashrafghani before the commencement of @HeartofAsia_IP Conference. Shared our perspectives on the peace process," Jaishankar tweeted.According to the MEA, the minister had earlier visited Dushanbe in June 2019 to attend the fifth Summit of Conference on Interaction and Confidence Building Measures in Asia. The ongoing visit is in continuation of the frequent high-level exchanges between the two countries that will further strengthen the close strategic partnership between India and Tajikistan.Last week, Afghan Foreign Minister Haneef Atmar visited India and held-back-to-back talks with Jaishankar and NSA Ajit Doval.In New Delhi, during the meeting of the Afghan Foreign Minister with Jaishankar on the peace process, the two sides reviewed the Troika Peace Meeting in Moscow and assessed the final declaration of the meeting as positive for strengthening and advancing the peace process.During the meeting with NSA, both discussed the peace plan of the Afghanistan government for the success of Afghanistan peace negotiations.Recently, it was reported that the US is reviewing the Doha agreement with the Taliban while also keeping all options on the table when it comes to the May 1st deadline for withdrawal from Afghanistan.The Doha agreement was signed in February 2020 between the Taliban and United States with an aim to end the 18-year old conflict in Afghanistan.The agreement calls for a full US withdrawal from Afghanistan if the terror group upholds counterterrorism commitments such as denying safe haven to al Qaeda.Meanwhile, the Taliban warned the United States on Friday against defying a May 1 deadline for the withdrawal of US and NATO troops from Afghanistan, promising a "reaction" though failing to specify exactly what it would be. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/s-jaishankar-to-attend-heart-of-asia-conference-in-tajikistan-today-101617077086374.html
30-03-2021||India||Farooq Abdullah tests positive for Covid-19, tweets Omar Abdullah||National Conference (NC) president Farooq Abdullah has tested positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19), confirmed his son and party leader Omar Abdullah on Tuesday.Omar added that he and his family will go into self-isolation and get themselves tested."My father has tested positive for Covid-19 & is showing some symptoms. I will be self-isolating along with other family members until we get ourselves tested. I request anyone who has come in to contact with us over the last few days to take all the mandated precautions," the former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister said in a tweet.Prime Minister Narendra Modi took to Twitter to wish Abdullah a speedy recovery from the viral infection. "Praying for the good health and speedy recovery of Dr. Farooq Abdullah Ji. Also praying for your and the entire family’s good health @OmarAbdullah," PM Modi said in a tweet. Abdullah, who is Lok Sabha member from Srinagar, got his first dose of Covid-19 vaccine at a hospital earlier this month on March 2.The NC leader was given the first dose of the vaccine at the Sher-e-Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences during the second phase of nationwide vaccination where those above the age of 60 and 45+ with comorbidities are being inoculated.Omar Abdullah took to Twitter to thank the doctors and other staff at the hospital for administering the vaccine to his father."Thank you to the doctors, nurses and staff at SKIMS, Srinagar. Today my 85 year old father & my mother had their first COVID jab. My father has a number of health issues including being on immunosuppressants for a kidney transplant. If he can get the vaccine, you should as well," Omar tweeted.The 85-year-old NC chief addressed Jammu and Kashmir National Panthers Party (JKNPP) function last week on Tuesday where he spoke about the abrogation of the Article 370 in 2019. The function was organised by the JKNPP to observe its 40th foundation day. JKNPP founder Bhim Singh was unanimously elected its president for the next three years."In an apparent reference to the abrogation of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir's special status in 2019, he said, "It is an attack on our honour… we will lost our land and our children will be left without jobs as people from outside will come and take the jobs".He added that when people will come from outside, will they (the local youth of Jammu and Kashmir) get jobs in neighbouring Himachal Pradesh, Punjab or Haryana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farooq-abdullah-tests-positive-for-covid-19-tweets-omar-abdullah-101617075607445.html
30-03-2021||India||India's daily new Covid-19 cases dip to 56,211; 271 deaths reported in last 24 hours||India recorded 56,211 new cases of the coronavirus disease in the last 24 hours, the Union health ministry data showed on Tuesday morning. With this, the nationwide tally reached 12,095,855.The number of active cases also went up by 18,912 in the said period, the health ministry data showed. The active case count has now reached 5,40,720.In terms of fatalities, 271 people lost their lives due to the infection in the last 24 hours, which took the death toll to 1,62,114. As many as 11,393,021 people were discharged from the hospital.Eight states including Maharashtra, Karnataka and Punjab have reported a high number of daily Covid-19 cases and account for nearly 85 per cent of the fresh cases, the health ministry said on Monday.On the other hand, the total vaccination coverage in India has crossed 6 crore, it said.Five states - Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Karnataka and Chhattisgarh - cumulatively account for 80.17 per cent of the total active cases in the country, it added.Seventeen states and union territories have lower cases per million than the national average (8,724) while 19 states and union territories (UTs) have higher cases per million than the national average, according to the ministry.Ten states - Maharashtra, Gujarat, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Haryana and Rajasthan - are displaying an upward trajectory in the daily new cases, the ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-daily-new-covid-19-cases-dip-to-56-211-271-deaths-in-last-24-hours-101617074917124.html
30-03-2021||India||News updates from HT: After hottest March day in 76 years, Delhi temperature to drop today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Delhi sees hottest March day in 76 years, temperature set to drop from todayDelhi recorded its hottest day in of March since 1945 on the festival of Holi on Monday, India Meteorological Department (IMD) recordings showed. Read morePM Modi to address rallies in Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry ahead of April 6 pollsPrime Minister Narendra Modi will on Tuesday address rallies in poll-bound Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry, where elections will be held on April 6. Read morePresident Ram Nath Kovind to undergo bypass procedure at AIIMS todayPresident Ram Nath Kovind is expected to undergo a planned bypass procedure on Tuesday at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Delhi. Read moreMaharashtra records close to 600k Covid-19 cases in MarchAs the fear of another lockdown looms over Maharashtra, March, 2021, with two days still to go, is on its way to being the state’s worst month in terms of Covid-19 cases. The state has been battling the pandemic for over a year now. Read more‘He takes bit too much risk but it's his strength’: Aakash Chopra hails ‘special player' Rishabh PantThe recently-concluded ODI series between India and England has brought wicketkeeper-batsman Rishabh Pant under the spotlight. Read moreRanbir Kapoor spotted by paparazzi for first time since making Covid-19 recovery. See picsActor Ranbir Kapoor finally stepped out of his home after making a full recovery from Covid-19. He was clicked in Mumbai's Juhu, as he made his way to producer Aarti Shetty's home. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-after-seeing-hottest-march-day-in-76-years-temperature-in-delhi-to-drop-today-and-all-the-latest-news-101617074570980.html
30-03-2021||India||Heatwave conditions likely in parts of central, west, NW India for next few days||Heatwave conditions are likely in some parts of central, west and northwest India with severe heatwave conditions in isolated pockets over west Rajasthan, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD).Heatwave conditions are likely in pockets over Himachal Pradesh, east Rajasthan, Saurashtra, Kutch and Madhya Pradesh on March 29 and 30; and Vidarbha and Odisha on March 30, 31 and 1.Severe heatwave affected Delhi on Sunday as the maximum temperature was 40.1 degrees Celsius (°C), 8°C above normal, which is also the highest March temperature after March 31, 1945 .Dust raising strong surface winds (speed reaching 30-40 kmph) are very likely over Rajasthan, Punjab, Haryana, Delhi and Uttar Pradesh between March 30 and April 1.According to IMD, heatwave is recorded when departure of the maximum temperature from normal is + 4°C to + 5°C or more for the regions where the normal maximum temperature is more than 40°C. Another criterion for IMD to declare heatwave is when departure of the maximum temperature from normal is + 5°C to + 6°C for regions where the normal maximum temperature is 40°C or less. (heatwave is declared only when the maximum temperature of a station reaches at least 40°C for plains and at least 30°C for hilly regions).Also Read | Delhi records hottest March day in 76 years, temperature set to drop from todayheatwave can also declared when the actual maximum temperature remains 45°C or more for a day, irrespective of the normal maximum temperature, officials said.Widespread rainfall with thunderstorm, thundersquall, or lightning at some places is very likely over northeast India till April 2 with the maximum activity during March 30 and 31. Assam, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Manipur will be affected.A cyclonic circulation is lying over the southeast Bay of Bengal. Under its influence, a low pressure area is likely to form over the southeast Bay of Bengal and adjoining the south Andaman Sea during the next 36 hours. It is likely to become more marked over the North Andaman Sea and the neighbourhood during the subsequent 24 hours.Under its influence, widespread rainfall with thunderstorm, lightning, and gusty wind is likely over Andaman and Nicobar Islands during the next five days. Fishermen are advised not to venture into the southeast Bay of Bengal and the adjoining south Andaman Sea on March 30 and 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heatwave-conditions-likely-in-parts-of-central-west-nw-india-for-next-few-days-101617074087975.html
30-03-2021||India||Temperature soars across Uttar Pradesh||Uttar Pradesh is bracing for a scorching summer with day temperature rising in several districts. Jhansi recorded its hottest day in 28 years on Monday with day temperature rising to 42.3 degree Celsius, which was six degrees above normal. The all-time highest day temperature in the district was recorded at 43.3 degree Celsius on March 27, 1982, according to IMD website.The state capital recorded its hottest day in March in four years. On Monday, the maximum temperature in Lucknow rose to 39 degree Celsius, which was four degrees above normal. The all time highest maximum temperature in Lucknow for the month was 41.1 recorded on March 30, 2017.“With western disturbances centred over North India and clear sky, maximum temperature is going North gradually. But expect a drop in day temperature from Thursday onward,” Met department director in Lucknow, JP Gupta said. Day temperature in Prayagraj was 41.4 degree Celsius, the hottest in four years. The all-time highest day temperature in March for Prayagraj was recorded at 42.8 on March 31, 2017. Agra recorded at 41.1 degree Celsius, which was 6.1 degree Celsius above normal temperature.Gaurav (22), who works with an IT company said, “I never experienced such weather during Holi in Lucknow. It was extremely hot. We had to switch on the ceiling fan. We are about to get our air conditioner serviced because it is just a matter of a few days when day temperature will cross 40 degree Celsius.”Vineet Gupta, a shopkeeper in Aminabad market said, “It is getting hot with every passing day.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/temperature-soars-across-uttar-pradesh-101617073788394.html
30-03-2021||India||Heavy rain forecast for Northeast, IMD issues orange alert||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Mondpredicted heavy rainfall in the Northeastern part of the country. The weather body has even issued an orange alert for the region till Wednesday.The IMD alert is in place for Assam, Meghalaya, Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram and Tripura following a prediction of "intense wet spell" over Northeast India until April 2.Under the influence of strong lower level southwesterly winds from the Bay of Bengal, fairly widespread to widespread rain with thunderstorm and lightning at isolated places are very likely over Northeast India during March 29-April 2 with maximum activity on March 30-31, the IMD said.Isolated heavy rainfall on March 29 and April 1 and isolated heavy to very heavy rains on March 30 and 31 are very likely over south Assam, Meghalaya, Tripura and Mizoram, the weather department said.It has predicted waterlogging and localised landslides in the region due to intense rainfall.Meanwhile, the western part of the country is experiencing heatwave-like condition. The mercury crossed the 40 degrees Celsius-mark at many places in Rajasthan on Monday, with Churu recording the highest temperature in the state at 43.3 degrees Celsius.Karauli and Bharatpur recorded a day temperature of 43.1 degrees Celsius, according to the IMD.In Delhi, the maximum temperature shot up to 40.1 degrees Celsius on Monday, making it the hottest day in March in 76 years, according to IMD.The city had recorded a maximum of 39.6 degrees Celsius on March 29, 1973.Delhi's minimum temperature settled at 20.6 degrees Celsius, three notches more than normal.For the plains, a "heatwave" is declared when the maximum temperature is more than 40 degrees Celsius, and at least 4.5 notches above normal.A "severe" heatwave is declared if departure from normal temperature is more than 6.5 degrees Celsius, according to the IMD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rain-forecast-for-northeast-imd-issues-orange-alert-101617073248831.html
30-03-2021||India||From April 1, flying to become costlier as DGCA hikes air security fee||Aviation regulator Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) has hiked air security fee (ASF), making air travel costlier, from April 1. While the rise in ASF for domestic passengers is of ₹40, for international passengers, the rise is of ₹114.38. ASF is one of the components of air tickets which is used to fund the security arrangements across the country. “Aviation Security Fee for domestic passengers will be levied at the rate of ₹200 per embarking passenger. Aviation Security Fee for international passengers will be levied at the rate of US$ 12 or equivalent Indian Rupees embarking passenger. The new rates will be effective on tickets issued on or after April 1, 2021,” stated the DGCA order dated March 19.The Central Industrial Security Force takes care of the security at most airports in the country under the ministry of civil aviation.Also Read | Airlines may ban 15 passengers for not following Covid-19 norms on flightsChildren under the age of two years, holders of diplomatic passports, airlines crew on duty, persons travelling on official duty on aircraft operated by the Indian Air Force, persons travelling on official duty on United Nations peacekeeping missions, passengers in transit of transfer or those departing from any airport due to involuntary rerouting ( ie. technical problem or weather conditions are exempted from paying ASF.The ASF rates have been revised after around six months . In September 2020, the ASF for domestic flyers had been increased by ₹10 (to ₹160). For international passengers, it was increased to US$ 5.20 from US$ 4.85.This comes at a time the Indian aviation has been severely affected due to Covid-19 pandemic and the international sector remains closed since May last year. Though the domestic sector reopened on May 25, 2020, the flight capacity remains around 80%. Moreover, even though domestic air travel is struggling to meet pre-Covid level, the government increased the lower limit of the airfare band by 35% within a month. The government introduced the fare bands while reopening domestic travel last year with pocket-friendly airfares in order to encourage more people to travel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dgcahikes-air-security-fee-for-domestic-international-travellers-101617072708058.html
30-03-2021||India||President Ram Nath Kovind to undergo bypass procedure at AIIMS today||President Ram Nath Kovind is expected to undergo a planned bypass procedure on Tuesday at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Delhi.President Kovind was shifted to AIIMS last week following chest discomfort.The President’s health condition is stable and he is under the care of experts, a statement from Rashtrapati Bhavan said. Kovind, 75, had undergone a health check-up at the Army (R&R) Hospital on Friday morning.“The President of India, Shri Ram Nath Kovind has been shifted to the AIIMS, Delhi, in the afternoon today (March 27, 2021). Post investigations, doctors have advised him to undergo a planned bypass procedure which is expected to be performed on the morning of March 30, Tuesday."The President’s health is stable and he is under the care of the experts at the AIIMS,” the statement said.President Kovind continued to perform his work duties a day after hospitalisation as he gave his assent to a bill that accords primacy to Delhi's Lieutenant Governor (L-G) over the elected government.The central government announced about the presidential assent to the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Bill, 2021 through a gazette notification.According to the legislation, the "government" in Delhi means the "Lieutenant Governor" and the city government will now have to seek the opinion of the L-G before taking any executive action.Parliament passed the bill last week - Lok Sabha on March 22 and Rajya Sabha on March 24.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/president-ram-nath-kovind-to-undergo-bypass-procedure-at-aiims-today-101617068483566.html
30-03-2021||India||LeT may be involved in Sopore attack, shows preliminary investigation report||Preliminary investigation indicates that a local terrorist Mudasir Pandit of proscribed terror outfit LeT and a foreign terrorist are involved in the Sopore terror attack, police said on Monday.On March 29, at about 1310 hours Sopore Police received information about a terror crime incident near SDH Sopore where terrorists had attacked municipal councillors. Senior police and CAPF officers along with their teams immediately reached at the terror crime spot, as per a statement from Jammu and Kashmir police."Preliminary investigation revealed that terrorists had fired indiscriminately upon the Municipal Councillors near Lone Building opposite SDH Sopore resulting in injuries to two Municipal Councillors namely Reyaz Ahmad Pir and Shams-ud-din Pir and a police personnel namely Shafqat Nazir. However, among the injured Councillor Reyaz Ahmad and police personnel Shafqat Ahmad succumbed to their injuries and attained martyrdom. Meanwhile, another injured councillor has been shifted to hospital for treatment of his injuries," police said.It is pertinent to mention that post terror attack, IGP Kashmir Vijay Kumar-IPS visited PD Sopore and inspected the scene of terror crime. Thereafter, he chaired a security review meeting with Commander 5-Sector RR, DIG CRPF and SSP Sopore.The main focus of meeting was today's (Monday) attack by the terrorists in Sopore Town and the necessary security measures to be taken to counter such terrorist attacks. While interacting with the officers, the IGP Kashmir urged upon the participating officers that it is of crucial importance to enhance security of vulnerable persons and to take all necessary measures to thwart away the nefarious designs of terrorists."Preliminary investigation indicates that a local terrorist Mudasir Pandit of proscribed terror outfit LeT along with a foreign terrorist are involved in the said attack. However, further investigations are rigorously going on. IGP Kashmir also took serious note of the poor and inappropriate retaliation by the PSOs of protected persons present on spot and directed SSP Sopore to put four PSOs under suspension," the statement read."Later on, in order to pay honour and respect to these martyrs, a wreath lying ceremony was held at DPL Sopore where floral tributes were paid to the martyrs. Senior officers of Police/SF laid floral wreath on the mortal remains and paid rich tributes to the martyrs," it read.Police has registered a case in this regard under relevant sections of law and officers continue to work to establish the full circumstances of this terror crime. Cordon and search operation at various locations is going on to nab the assailants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/let-may-be-involved-in-sopore-attack-shows-preliminary-investigation-report-101617064064353.html
30-03-2021||India||Third aircraft-shaped balloon with 'PIA' written on it found in Jammu||An aircraft-shaped balloon with 'PIA' written on it was recovered by Jammu and Kashmir police in the Kanachak area of Jammu.This is the third such instance. Similar balloons were recovered by the police on March 10 and 16 in Sotra Chak village of Hiranagar sector and Bhalwal area of Jammu respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/third-aircraft-shaped-balloon-with-pia-written-on-it-found-in-jammu-101617063851882.html
30-03-2021||India||Covid-19: India provides 100,000 doses of Covaxin vaccine to Paraguay||Paraguay on Monday received a shipment of 1,00,000 doses of India's indigenously developed Covaxin vaccine."Paraguay receives 100,000 doses of Covaxin vaccine from India. We guarantee the continued immunization against COVID-19. Thanks to India for its support," Sputnik reported citing Paraguay Health Ministry.External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar took to Twitter to announce that 'Made in India' vaccines have arrived in the south American country."Never too far for friendship. Made in India vaccines arrive in Paraguay," Jaishankar tweeted.Paraguay has reported over 2,09,000 COVID-19 cases. So far, over 4,063 people have died in the country due to the infection.India has been supplying coronavirus vaccines to countries around the world under the Vaccine Maitri initiative. New Delhi has provided vaccines to over 75 countries.According to the Ministry of External Affairs, over 638.81 lakh doses of vaccines have been provided by India to countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-india-provides-100-000-doses-of-covaxin-vaccine-to-paraguay-101617057324587.html
30-03-2021||India||PM Modi's Puducherry visit: Drones, UAVs banned to tighten security||Flying of drones and other unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) has been banned in the entire Puducherry region from March 29-30 to ensure security during Prime Minister Narendra Modi's visit for electioneering.An order to this effect came from the District Magistrate Purva Garg on Monday.In a press release, Garg said an order under section 144 CrPc has been clamped in whole of Puducherry region to prohibit flying of drones and other unmanned aerial vehicles.Any violation of the order would attract action under section 188 of Indian Penal Code and other relevant laws, the District Magistrate said.Modi would address an election rally on Tuesday to woo voters for NDA candidates contesting the April 6 Assembly polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-s-puducherry-visit-drones-uavs-banned-to-tighten-security-101617053469578.html
30-03-2021||India||Heatwave in Odisha; Titlagarh sizzles at 42.2 degree Celsius||Odisha is experiencing a heatwave as at least 13 places across the state recorded temperature at 40 degree Celsius or above on Monday while the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast a likely rise in temperature by two to three degree during next two days.While Titlagarh recorded the highest at 42.2 degrees Celsius, it was followed by Baripada (42 degrees Celsius), Bolangir (41.5 degrees Celsius), Jharsuguda and Sambalpur (41.2 degrees Celsius each), Angul and Hirakud (41.1 degrees Celsius each), Malkangiri (41 degrees Celsius), Bhubaneswar (40.5 degrees Celsius), Nayagarh and Talcher (40.2 degrees Celsius each) and Balasore and Cuttack (40 degrees Celsius each).The Maximum temperature is very likely to rise by 2-3 degrees Celsius over the districts of Odisha during the next two days and no major change thereafter, the IMD said in its forecast.The Regional Meteorological Centre, Bhubaneswar, also issued heatwave warning for several districts of Odisha till April 1.Heatwave condition is likely to occur at one or two places over the districts of Bolangir and Sonepur on Tuesday and continue till 8.30 am of Wednesday, it said. Similarly, it said that the heatwave condition is likely to occur at one or two places over the districts of Bolangir, Sonepur, Sambalpur, Angul, Boudh and Kalahandi from 8.30 am of March 31 till 8.30 am on April 1.Meanwhile, the Special Relief Commissioner asked the district authorities to remain prepared for the heatwave conditions in certain places as predicted by the IMD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heatwave-in-odisha-titlagarh-sizzles-at-42-2-degree-celsius-101617047670555.html
30-03-2021||India||EAM S Jaishankar, President Ashraf Ghani exchange views on peace process in Afghanistan||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Monday called on Afghan President Ashraf Ghani here and shared India's perspectives on the peace process in the war-torn country.Jaishankar is here in the capital of Tajikistan for the 9th Heart of Asia-Istanbul Process (HoA-IP) ministerial conference to be held on Tuesday."Honour to call on President @ashrafghani before the commencement of @HeartofAsia_IP Conference. Shared our perspectives on the peace process," Jaishankar tweeted.Last week, Jaishankar said that India would like to clearly see a sovereign democratic and inclusive Afghanistan that takes into account the interests of its minorities."There is something called the peace and reconciliation process and everybody else is saying that the Taliban is reaching out and changing etc. Let us wait and watch," he had said.The Taliban and the Afghan government are holding direct talks to end 19 years of war that has killed tens of thousands of people and ravaged various parts of the country.India has been a major stakeholder in the peace and stability of Afghanistan. It has already invested USD two billion in aid and reconstruction activities in the country.India has been supporting a national peace and reconciliation process which is Afghan-led, Afghan-owned and Afghan-controlled.The HoA-IP ministerial conference is part of the Istanbul Process - a regional initiative on security and cooperation for a stable and peaceful Afghanistan - that was launched on November 2, 2011 in Turkey.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eam-s-jaishankar-president-ashraf-ghani-exchange-views-on-peace-process-in-afghanistan-101617043562898.html
