06-05-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka sees marginal dip in number of Covid-19 cases, deaths||Karnataka reported 49,058 new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases on Wednesday, recording a marginal dip of 1,054 cases from Tuesday. The daily death toll also dropped slightly compared to Wednesday as the state recorded 328 deaths. Karnataka’s total cases reached 1,790,104 on Wednesday and the death toll touched 17,212, according to data released by the Karnataka government.Karnataka is among the states which has more than 1 lakh active cases and continues to observe a rising trend in daily cases, Union health and family welfare ministry said on Monday. Karnataka currently has 517,075 active cases. Bengaluru Urban continued to remain as one of the hardest-hit districts with 332,732 active cases. Mysuru and Tumakuru reported more than 16,000 active cases while Ballari, Bengaluru Rural, Dakshina Kannada, Hassana and Kalaburagi also reported more than 10,000 active cases.Bengaluru Urban also reported the maximum number of deaths in the last 24 hours. It reported 7,145 deaths followed by Mysuru 1,272 deaths and Ballari with 838 deaths. The case fatality ratio in the state is currently at 0.66%. The positivity rate in the state currently stood at 29.83%. Karnataka also reported 18,943 recoveries taking the total number of recoveries to 1,255,797.A member of Karnataka’s Technical Advisory Committee on Covid-19, Dr Giridhara R Babu said that the state will have to extend lockdown in order to break the chain of transmission, news agency PTI reported. Strict lockdown like measures have been enforced in the state to stop the surge of cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-sees-marginal-dip-in-number-of-covid-19-cases-deaths-101620317569143.html
06-05-2021||Bangalore||Lockdown must be extended for 2 more weeks in Karnataka, says expert||A health expert on Thursday suggested extension of lockdown by two more weeks in Karnataka, saying the state is yet to reach peak though it has been reporting over 50,000 cases. "At least in two weeks we will see a peak in Karnataka," Dr Giridhara R Babu, who is a professor and head of Life Course Epidemiology at the Public Health Foundation of India, told PTI. Babu, who is a member of the Technical Advisory Committee on Covid, said the case detection is presently erratic because the testing numbers have reduced, especially in Bengaluru. "I will not give a clear indication on the number of cases during the peak, but irrespective of the testing, we will see the peak in the next two weeks," he said. Hailing the decision of the state government to impose lockdown from April 27 to May 12, Babu citing an estimate by IISC, said the state has saved 5,800 lives. "Lockdown has helped in reducing the number of deaths, according to the models by IISc Professor Sashikumaar Ganesan. So, I recommend that the lockdown be extended by at least two weeks," Babu opined. He added that there will be an increase in fatalities at least 10 to 14 days from the date of cases being reported. On the measures to be taken in view of surge in infections, he said triage could be a game changer in the fight against Covid. According to Babu, there should be more screening and triage centres with oxygen supply all over Bengaluru where the Covid cases are high. "These (Triaging centres) should be set up every five kilometres. By doing this kind of enhanced triage by using existing manpower, we can tide over the crisis," he claimed. While daily infections and active cases in the state are rising alarmingly, the fatalities too are spiralling. On Wednesday alone, there were 346 deaths taking the total deaths so far to 16,884. Bengaluru was the main contributor of Covid cases in Karnataka with 23,106 infections and 161 fatalities on a single day taking the total infections and deaths to 8,63,380 and 7,006 cumulatively. The city had 3.13 lakh active cases as on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/lockdown-must-be-extended-for-2-more-weeks-in-karnataka-says-expert-101620307963619.html
06-05-2021||Bangalore||'Oxygen produced in Karnataka should be reserved for our state': Siddaramaiah||Former Karnataka Chief Minister and Leader of Opposition Siddaramaiah on Wednesday said that the oxygen produced in the state should be reserved for the state only, amid the acute oxygen crisis faced by the country due to the rampant surge in coronavirus cases.Taking to Twitter, the Congress leader claimed that Karnataka's allocated oxygen quota by the central government is less than 50 per cent of the state's demand.He tweeted, "Oxygen produced in Karnataka should be reserved for our state only. The allocated oxygen share for Karnataka is less than 50 per cent of the actual demand."Siddaramaiah also urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to increase the oxygen supply to the state and said, "I urge PM to increase the supply of oxygen based on the actual demand."The government of Karnataka on Wednesday set up a Commission of Inquiry to probe into the death of 24 patients at a district hospital in Chamarajanagar reportedly due to a shortage of oxygen earlier on Monday.Praising the state government's decision, Siddaramaiah tweeted, "I welcome the decision taken for the judicial investigation regarding Chamarajanagar hospital Oxygen shortage incident. Guilty should be punished."Highlighting the death of four people at SNR Hospital, Kolar also due to oxygen shortage, Siddaramaiah said, "I also urge the government to initiate a judicial investigation regarding the deaths reported in Kolar, Bengaluru, etc due to Oxygen shortage."As the country witnesses a massive rise in coronavirus cases, several reports of patients' death have surfaced due to the shortage of oxygen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/oxygen-produced-in-karnataka-should-be-reserved-for-our-state-siddaramaiah-101620287532595.html
06-05-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka to provide Covid-19 test results within seven hours: Deputy CM||Providing results of Covid-19 tests within 7 hours is being done in KC General Hospital in Malleshwaram and this will be expanded to the entire state, deputy chief minister and state Covid-19 ministerial task force head, Dr CN Ashwatha Narayana, said on Wednesday.Speaking to reporters after reviewing the Covid situation in Malleshwaram, he said, providing reports of Covid tests and Bengaluru Urban (BU) code number generation will be made to happen within 7 hours.As per the procedure, once the laboratories upload the positive test result on the ICMR portal, it should generate the Bengaluru Urban (BU) code number."Earlier it used to take 72 hours to get results after the reach of samples to the laboratory. Now, this has been reduced to 7 hours. This enables early detection of the infection and to start treatment before the infection advances," Narayana explained.He further said that measures will be taken to do the blood tests of those who are in home isolation, adding that blood tests will help to know the condition of the infected patient and to find out the inflammatory markers.Stating that oxygen produced in the state will be completely utilised within the state itself, he informed that currently, there is a supply of 850 MTs of oxygen to the state and if the demand for oxygen increases further, arrangements will be done to get it from other states or from other countries.On antiviral drug Remdesivir, he said: "It will be useful only in the primary stage of the infection. But, when the infection is more this antiviral is of no use.""About 30-40% of the infected are getting admitted to hospitals even though they do not require, because of anxiety. So steps will be taken to reduce the anxiety of the patients. Hospitals are told to keep enough stock of consumables like masks, PPE kits, oximeters, medicines, etc."With regard to a query about the situation in Ramanagara, he said, that an oxygen storage facility and an oxygen generation plant of 1000 liters/minute would be set up in the district hospital. "Also, a discussion is in progress about establishing oxygen generation plants in four other taluk hospitals of the district with the aid of CSR funds. This would resolve the dependency of hospitals on oxygen suppliers and manufacturers."As of now, the number of active cases in the district is around 3000. Generally, 10% of this, i.e. about 300 patients need hospitalisation, whereas the district is equipped to handle 30% of the existing number of cases, Narayana, who is also the district in-charge minister, clarified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-to-provide-covid-19-test-results-within-seven-hours-deputy-cm-101620272576274.html
06-05-2021||Bangalore||Three arrested in Bengaluru for black marketing of Covid-19 hospital beds||The central division of the Bengaluru Police on Wednesday unearthed a case of black marketing of hospital beds amid the Covid-19According to the DCP central Bengaluru, three persons have been arrested in connection with the case.This comes amid the devastating shortage of medical supplies, drugs, and other necessary equipment due to the rapid rise in Covid-19 cases.Over the last few days, black marketing of the anti-viral drug Remdesivir and oxygen cylinders was rampant.Earlier in the day, four persons were arrested for fraud and malpractice in the allotment of beds on the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) portal in Bengaluru."We have registered two cases that have been shifted to the central crime branch (CCB) for further investigation. We are also checking if the software has been misused at any point," said the police commissioner of Bengaluru City.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/three-arrested-in-bengaluru-for-black-marketing-of-covid-19-hospital-beds-101620267491836.html
