07-05-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka imposes complete lockdown for 14 days starting May 10||Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Friday announced lockdown in the state for two weeks in a bid to curb rising coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases. The chief minister said that the decision is temporary and was taken after the state government saw a spike in fresh cases despite the Covid-19 curfew being imposed in the state."As Covid-19 cases are surging in the state we felt the Covid-19 curfew was not successful. Hence, we are imposing a complete lockdown starting May 10 from 6am to May 24 6am." chief minister BS Yediyurappa was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. "All hotels, pubs and bars will remain closed. All eateries, meat and vegetable shops can operate from 6am to 10am," he further added. The chief minister requested migrant labourers in the state to not leave and assured them that this is a temporary measure announced break the chain of transmission. Yediyurappa highlighted that after 10am no one will be allowed and said that police officials will take strigent actions against violators. "We took this decision seeing a continuous surge in number of cases as well as deaths," Yediyurappa said. The chief minister earlier had warned citizens that if people do not follow Covid-19 preventative measures then the government will be forced to implement a strict lockdown. The state reported 592 Covid-19 deaths on Friday, the highest single day count since the onset of the pandemic, and the current case fatality rate is 1.21%. Karnataka has been witnessing closes to 50,000 cases throughout the week. "If we have to break the chain of infection then we have to initiate result-oriented measures like a 14 day lockdown imposed last year at the start of the pandemic. The state has been witnessing a steep rise in Covid-19 cases with a daily caseload of about 50,000 and fatalities are also going up at an alarming proportion," health minister Dr K Sudhakar was quoted as saying by news agency PT||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-imposes-complete-lockdown-for-14-days-starting-may-10-101620396897801.html
07-05-2021||Bangalore||People named by BJP MP Tejasvi Surya not arrested: Report||Investigation into the scam pertaining to blocking beds in private hospitals for COVID patients has so far not revealed the involvement of those Muslims whose names were mentioned by Bengaluru South MP Tejasvi Surya on May 4 in a live programme, top police sources said on Friday. "Other than four-five people, we have not arrested anyone else though our investigations are on," a police officer probing the matter told PTI."We are not going by what's being circulated in the social media.We are limiting our investigation to what is there before us, that is, we are investigating only the bed blocking scam," the officer added. According to police, those who have been arrested in the 'bed blocking scam' are Nethravathi, Rohith, Venkat Subba Rao, Manjunath and Punith.Police said searches were carried out in the COVID war room on Thursday and technical data was obtained to check any irregularity.In addition to this, doctors, who are in charge of each zone war rooms, are being questioned.CCTV footage of all war rooms has already been collected and identification is being done about any unauthorised person in the war room and reasons for it, they said. BJP MP Tejasvi Surya had recently alleged that hospitals here 'blocked' beds in fake names to make money, at a time when COVID-19 cases were rising in Karnataka. Surya said officials of Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike 'colluded' with private nursing homes and hospitals to block beds and reserve it for exorbitant fees.The Karnataka government has ordered reserving 80 per cent of the beds in the private hospitals for COVID patients.The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (city corporation-BBMP) was assigned to allot beds for the COVID patients seeking treatment in private hospitals.However, due to the alarming rise in COVID cases, most of the beds are fully occupied even as the demand is growing manifold.To deal with the demand, the BBMP has set up nine COVID War Rooms at its zonal level and entrusted an employment firm to deploy its workforce on a contract basis.A BBMP official said the War Rooms have 214 people and not just 16 as has been presented by the BJP MP.Hitting out at Surya, Chamarajpet Congress MLA B Z Zameer Ahmed Khan Khan said in a video message:"There were over 205 employees of Crystal Company, who were deployed in the COVID War Room on contract basis but you singled out only 16 Muslims.How fair is this?.. "Khan even claimed that only one person, Mohammed Zaid was assigned with the task of bed allotment while others were given different jobs.He even said the job of 16 people who were making a living with a salary of ₹13,000 is now at stake following the alleged scam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/people-named-by-bjp-mp-tejasvi-surya-not-arrested-report-101620394406232.html
07-05-2021||Bangalore||Lockdown could be inevitable in K'taka if people do not cooperate: Yediyurappa||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Friday said a lockdown to curb the rise in Covid-19 cases could be inevitable if people do not cooperate."People are not following the Janata Curfew properly. They are not abiding by our warnings. Hence, lockdown could be inevitable," he told reporters near Annamma Devi Temple here ahead of a crucial meeting later Friday in view of the alarming rise in coronavirus cases.According to him, the government will finalise in a day or two about the stringent measures required to control Covid."If people wish that stringent measures should not be taken, then people should cooperate by wearing masks and maintaining social distancing," the Chief Minister said.Otherwise, strong measures will become necessary, he added.Regarding the oxygen crisis, Yediyurappa said he has been trying to resolve the issue honestly.To a question on Covid patients and their relatives coming to the CM's house and Vidhana Soudha seeking a hospital bed, he said this was improper and people should stop it."I won't say it is wrong to voice their woes. I understand their sufferings and I am trying to resolve their problems because we are pro-people," the Chief Minister said.He said people should avoid coming to CM House or Vidhana Soudha as the officials would get in touch with them.The Chief Minister hailed Bengaluru South MP Tejasvi Surya for exposing the hospital bed scam in which the beds reserved for Covid patients in private hospitals were blocked by a few people and allotted for a bribe."Tejasvi Surya had obtained the list (of scamsters) after much effort and brought the irregularities in allotment of bed to the Covid patients to the notice of the government," Yediyurappa said.He, however, took a dig at Congress MLA and former minister B Z Zameer Ahmed Khan for speaking ill of Tejasvi Surya.Yediyurappa was referring to the expose`by the young MP and BJP Yuva Morcha president Tejasvi Surya who claimed that 4,065 hospital beds were blocked and allotted for a bribe in the city.During the live expose, Surya read out the names of 17 Muslims, who were deployed at the Covid war room, seeking their credentials.The Basavanagudi BJP MLA Ravi Subramanya, who accompanied Surya, asked the officials whether they have converted the COVID War Room into a Madrassa.Taking strong exception to framing only Muslims, Khan said in a video message in social media as to why Surya did not see anyone else other than Muslims."There were 205 employees of Crystal Company, who were deployed in the Covid War Room on contract basis but you singled out only 16 Muslims. How fair is this? It shows how venomous you are, Tejasvi Surya," Khan said.Khan even claimed that only one person, Mohammed Zaid was assigned with the task of bed allotment while others were given different jobs.The Covid cases in Karnataka have increased at an alarming proportion.The state is reporting about 50,000 cases daily and has about 5.5 lakh active cases.The daily fatalities too were exceeding 300.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/lockdown-could-be-inevitable-in-k-taka-if-people-do-not-cooperate-yediyurappa-101620375300059.html
07-05-2021||Bangalore||After Tejasvi Surya’s comments, police quiz 16 Muslim Covid warriors: Official||Sixteen Muslim men, whose names were read out by Bengaluru south MP Tejasvi Surya, were questioned till 3 am on Wednesday after the WhatsApp chats alleged that they were “terrorists”. Even though these men were not mentioned in any of the FIRs registered by the Bengaluru police in connection with the “bribe for bed” scam, they were allegedly questioned after the MP raised questions about their qualifications, said an official of Jayanagar police station.Describing the events that followed Suraya’s remarks, a manager at the agency Shivu Naayak said soon after their names started coming on social media, they came to the office seeking help. “They were concerned because the messages that followed MP’s remarks called them terrorists. On Tuesday, Jayanagar police contacted us, and all the 16 employees and I were summoned to the police station,” he said.He added that all of them were questioned till 3 am and they were left off, with instruction that they should report police when required.Following the interrogation, all the men have been placed under suspension by the agency until the police investigation is over. “These 16 men are currently placed under suspension till the allegation against them is cleared. They will not be paid during their suspension; however, they have been told that they will get their jobs back once the enquiry is over,” Naik added.The manager dismissed the allegation that these men were involved in a bed booking scam. “WhatsApp messages are calling them terrorists, but except for one person, none of them was directly involved in bed booking. They were responsible for the helpline, home isolation, indexing, death and discharge. Even the person working in the bed allotment had joined recently,” he added.Talking about recruitment, he said that none of them was recruited together. They were among the many candidates who applied and got selected for the post.During the inspection on the centre as part of exposing the bribe for bed scam on Tuesday, Surya, who was accompanied by MLAs Satish Reddy and Ravi Subramanya, was seen reading out the names of the 16 Muslim employees at the centre and demanded the qualifications of these persons.Soon after the MP’s press conference about his inspection, a WhatsApp message titled “List of terrorists working in BBMP WAR ROOM killing thousands of Bengalurians” began doing rounds in Bengaluru. The message listed 16 of the 17 names mentioned by the Surya in his live stream. HT could not ascertain the origin of the WhatsApp message.On Thursday, workers of Karnataka Pradesh Congress filed a criminal complaint against Surya for making communal and inflammatory remarks during his visit to the BBMP south zone war room. Five different complaints have been filed against Surya by Congress leaders and workers across the city.Meanwhile, Deputy Commissioner of Police (South) Harish Pandey denied that any person other than those relevant to the investigation has been called for interrogation. “The doctors who were in custody have given the names of a few people and we have questioned them. We are not following any particular list that has been doing rounds on social media. We are following police procedures. We have questioned only those who were relevant to the case,” he said.Meanwhile, the opposition Congress on Thursday alleged that MP Tejasvi Surya and a party MLA, were behind the scam involving blocking of hospital beds meant for Covid patients in the city. The Congress mounted the attack citing reports in a section of the media alleging BJP MLA Sathish Reddy’s involvement.“It’s like the pot calling the kettle black. The truth has come out now that the BJP leaders are behind the bed blocking scam. Arrest Satish Reddy who has been operating the bed booking scam with the help of his supporters, and the young MP (Tejasvi Surya) who accompanied him, and carry out a detailed investigation,” the Congress tweeted.Satish Reddy was not available for his comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/after-tejasvi-surya-s-comments-police-quiz-16-muslim-covid-warriors-official-101620372633145.html
