13-05-2021||Bangalore||K'taka health minister Sudhakar seeks IISc's support in combating Covid crisis||Karnataka health minister Dr K Sudhakar on Thursday interacted with Indian Institute of Science (IISc) Director Prof Govindan Rangarajan to seek premier science institute's support in tackling the second wave of the Covid-19 across the state.According to the professor, various researches are being carried out by the scientists at IISc which include designing a more efficient oxygen concentrator and also a vaccine for Covid-19 that can be stored at room temperature upto 30 degree Celsius.He informed that IISc has developed an oxygen concentrator of 10 LPM capacity which is being tested for its clinical validation at Bangalore Medical College, as per an official release.Professor Rangarajan said that the results have been promising and claimed that the oxygen output is about 90 per cent and hence more efficient compared to the Chinese concentrators whose output is about 40-50 per cent.He has sought the support of the health minister to expedite the process of clinical validation and also help in obtaining regulatory approval from the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) for its emergency use.Dr Sudhakar has assured all necessary support from the government and said he will take up the matter immediately with Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences (RGUHS) Vice-Chancellor and concerned Union Ministers."As for the Covid-19 vaccine, Rangarajan apprised the minister about the ongoing efforts. The vaccine being developed by IISc is promising as the results show a better neutralising effect than the existing vaccines. This vaccine which is yet to begin the human trial process could be a big breakthrough in India's battle against pandemic as the vaccine can be stored in room temperatures up to 30," read the release.From a public health point of view this is a huge advantage as it enables the government to scale up the distribution of vaccines in a much faster and easier way, stated the professor.The health minister has also sought help from the institute in developing an audit mechanism for oxygen generation plants and finding ways for optimal utilisation of oxygen and minimise wastage at both refilling/bottling units and at hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/ktaka-health-minister-sudhakar-seeks-iisc-s-support-in-combating-covid-crisis-101620908183175.html
13-05-2021||Bangalore||‘Will take 3-4 days to supply more vaccine doses to Karnataka’: Union minister||As Karnataka on Wednesday became the latest state to suspend vaccination against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) for 18-44 years due to lack of doses, Union minister for chemicals and fertilizers DV Sadananda Gowda said on Thursday that it will take another 3-4 days to provide more doses to the state.“In recent days, the production is not up to the expectations of the government. So, we could not provide vaccines. It will take another 3-4 days to provide more vaccines to Karnataka. Exact figures I can’t say,” Gowda, who is also the former chief minister of the state, was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Wednesday’s order to suspend vaccination for 18-44 years comes at a time when Karnataka is clocking a high number of cases and deaths daily and is the second worst-hit state from the pandemic. On Wednesday, 39,998 new cases were recorded and 517 more people succumbed to Covid-19. The state has only managed to inoculate over 10.9 million beneficiaries out of the total population of 64.1 million.Also Read| After Maharashtra, Karnataka suspends Covid vaccines for 18-44 from FridayGowda on Thursday admitted to the fact that certain vaccination centres in Karnataka are facing a "little bit of scarcity" regarding doses, adding that the allotment of vaccines will be made by the Centre on the basis of the production of the two manufacturing units.News agency PTI reported on Wednesday that due to a crunch in supply of doses, eligible beneficiaries across the state were being asked to leave vaccination centres after standing in long queues for hours. Chief minister B S Yediyurappa held a meeting in this regard and instructed officials to resolve confusion on the availability of vaccine doses.Also Read| Karnataka records nearly 40,000 new Covid-19 cases, 517 more deathsThe opposition Congress party, meanwhile, has accused the state government of not being able to supply vaccine doses and lashed out at its poor handling of the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/will-take-3-4-days-to-supply-more-vaccine-doses-to-karnataka-union-minister-101620907616717.html
13-05-2021||Bangalore||Bengaluru rides high: Cyclists provide relief to residents amid the lockdown||As Karnataka tackles the second wave of coronavirus, many are finding it difficult to get access to medicines and other essentials. That has inspired a group of cyclists in the city, Relief Riders to come to the rescue of many, especially the senior citizens. And in return, the citizens have been sending out messages of gratitude such as: ‘I have received my medicines, thank you very much. I am extremely grateful to you for your help, you’ve saved my life.’ Bengaluru resident Sathya Sankaran is one who receives many messages on similar lines everyday, for himself and his team for helping out those in need. “We had started delivery of essentials on cycles during the first lockdown in 2020. Our group stayed active, and when this new lockdown was announced, we knew what we would be needed,” says Sankaran, who is currently overseeing the work of 200 volunteers.“The lockdown has been particularly hard on the elderly, and many others who have Covid or non-Covid medical conditions, and have no one to take care of them... Our cyclists ferry the essentials to them between 6am and 10am,” adds Sankaran informing how their young volunteers are being given training to stay safe while undertaking the deliveries. “As part of Relief Riders, we are being asked to deliver necessities in our local areas, so as to ensure safety of all volunteers,” says Arvind Bhateja, a volunteer with the group. Since cyclists don’t need passes to commute and adhere to norms listed by the local health department for the lockdown, many are coming forward to volunteer with the group. “I started cycling during the lockdown last year, and originally did it for health benefits. But, after a chance meeting with the Relief Riders, I realised it was time to give back to society. It has been a rewarding experience so far,” says Asha Rajdev, a pilot who volunteers with the group, and Dr Arvind Bhateja, a Bengaluru-based neurosurgeon, who along with his wife are active members of Relief Riders. “My wife and I commute to work on cycles, and on our way we take a little detour and try to help as many people as we can with essentials. At Relief Riders, we are being asked to deliver in our local areas so as to ensure safety of all volunteers,” says Bhateja, who had started #ResetWithCycling initiative last year to promote cycling.And for residents, these bikers are God sent! “Relief riders had been my life saviors during the time when my husband was down with 104 degree fever. They searched multiple medical shops to bring my medicines and necessary equipment to me. I can’t ever forget the help I’ve received from them,” says Manisha Mishra, one of the beneficiaries of the initiative.The initiative has now been extended to cycling communities in seven other cities across India including Chennai, Gurugram, Mumbai, and Hubballi. “In one of the households that we cater to, there are two bedridden senior citizens with a nurse. They wanted home deliveries so that they don’t expose themselves to the virus. We helped them out with groceries and it’s heartwarming to be of assistance to people,” adds Bhateja. Author tweets @bhagat_mallikaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/bengaluru-rides-high-cyclists-provide-relief-to-residents-amid-the-lockdown-101620890812884.html
