16-05-2021||Bangalore||Cyclone Tauktae: 98 villages affected in Karnataka, 4 human lives lost so far||With Cyclone Tauktae wreaking havoc in the coastal and surrounding malnad districts of Karnataka, a total of four deaths have been reported in the state so far, officials said on Sunday. According to a situation report by Karnataka State Disaster Management Authority officials, till this evening, 98 villages, 20 taluks in seven districts of Dakshina Kannada, Udupi, Uttara Kannada, Kodagu, Shivamogga, Chikkamagaluru and Hassan have been affected by the cyclone so far.Among the 98 villages affected, a maximum of 31 are from Uttara Kannada district. Of the four deaths reported so far, one each are from Uttara Kannada, Udupi, Chikkamagaluru and Shivamogga, officials said. While one fisherman who went to tie his boat died in Uttara Kannada as he got hit by another boat, a person died in Udupi due to electric mishap, they said, adding that one death each were reported in Chikkamagaluru and Shivamogga due house collapse and lightning respectively. A total of 516 people have been evacuated so far, as per the situation report, and 253 people are currently taking shelter in the 10 relief camps that have been opened. Damages to a total of 216 houses, 491 poles, 27 transformers, 3,000 meters of lines have been reported so far, it added. Meanwhile Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa today asked in-charge Ministers of coastal districts and Deputy Commissioners (DCs) there to visit affected areas and carry out rescue and relief works. Yediyurappa called Ministers incharge of coastal districts and DCs and took stock of the situation there, his office said in a statement. He has directed the officials to call the Ministers concerned or him directly if in need of any emergency assistance from the government. According to a tweet in the evening by the CMO, the Chief Minister once again spoke to three DCs and the Chief Secretary in the evening and directed the Dakshina Kannada DC to take necessary measures to rescue the crew of a tug boat that is caught in the sea. He also directed the Chief Secretary to stay in touch with the Centre for the rescue of crew, and make all the necessary arrangements, including chopper if required. A tugboat named Coromandel has nine crew members, sources said. According to Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre, due to very severe cyclonic storm from 08:30 am to till 07:30 pm rainfall was observed over parts of the state. Widespread moderate to heavy rains were observed over Uttara Kannada, Belagavi and Udupi districts. The officials said as the system is moving further north, towards Maharashtra coast, the impact of cyclone will likely to come down from tomorrow over the State. India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast that rain or thundershowers are very likely to occur at most places over coastal and South Interior Karnataka and at many places over North Interior Karnataka. Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai has said around 1,000 trained personnel from fire force, police, coastal police, home guards, SDRF have been deployed in the three coastal districts and they will work with coordination in rescue and relief operations, also NDRF teams have also been roped in.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/cyclone-tauktae-latest-updates-98-villages-affected-in-karnataka-4-human-lives-lost-so-far-101621183590529.html
16-05-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka's deputy CM suggests new app for Covid-19 vaccination of people in 18-44 age group||Karnataka Deputy Chief Minister Dr CN Ashwath Narayan on Saturday suggested that a new application is needed to be developed for administering vaccine to the people of 18-44 age group.While speaking to ANI, Narayan said, "With regard to administering vaccine for 18-44 years age group, a new app needs to be developed and this will be interfaced with Co-WIN App and later the vaccination schedule will be prepared taking into account the availability of vaccines."Earlier, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kerjiwal has urged the Cente to allow states to develop a separate mobile application and mechanism for effective and smooth Covid vaccination drive amid reports of glitches being reported in the Co-WIN app."A priority list will be prepared. This may include those who are working in the postal department, agricultural department, bank employees, internet service providers, etc", said Karnataka Deputy Chief Minister and Head of State Covid Task Force, Dr CN Ashwath Narayan.Karnataka has been witnessing surge in Covid-19 cases and recording the highest Covid-19 related deaths .The state emerged as the country's new Covid-19 hotspot with 5,98,625 active cases, the highest in the country, followed by Maharashtra with 5,21,683 active infections, the union health minister informed.Meanwhile, Karnataka reported 41,664 new Covid-19 cases, 34,425 discharges, and 349 deaths in the last 24 hours, as per the state health department on Saturday. The active cases in the state stand at 6,05,494.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnatakas-deputy-cm-suggests-new-app-for-covid-19-vaccination-of-people-in-18-44-age-group-101621140044741.html
16-05-2021||Bangalore||Auto driver in Karnataka's Kalaburagi offers free service to Covid-19 patients||With the state of Karnataka emerging as the country's new COVID-19 hotspot, medical services and public health facilities have been stretched thin and people are struggling for access.Rapidly rising cases have resulted in the state government imposing a lockdown, making it harder for many without private vehicles to reach hospitals easily.Amid this turmoil, a young auto-rickshaw driver in Kalaburagi has started a free service for COVID-19 patients who are unable to book ambulances.While speaking to ANI, the driver - Akash Denur, said that he had dreamt of serving the country at the borders in the Army. Since that dream could not be realised, he decided to serve the people on the ground amid the pandemic."Due to the COVID-19 lockdown, there's a dearth of facilities, be it ambulance or autos. That is why I'm giving free services. I have been driving auto for four years. I had a dream to join the Army but it could not be fulfilled. So I am serving the people like this," Denur told ANI.He added, "I have been doing for the last few days. Those who need my services just give me a call, I reach their home and drop them to the hospital. The public is really suffering. This is the least I can do."Over the few two days, Karnataka overtook Maharashtra as the state with the highest number of active coronavirus cases (5,98,625) in the country, the Union Health Ministry informed.So far, 15,10,557 recoveries and 21,085 deaths have been reported in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/auto-driver-in-karnataka-s-kalaburagi-offers-free-service-to-covid-19-patients-101621136429436.html
