18-05-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka requests Centre to set up Covid Care Centers with assistance of DRDO||The Karnataka government has urged the Centre to consider setting up Covid Care Centers in the state with the help of the Ministry of Defence or Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO). In a a letter to Union Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi said the Department of Defence has a large land bank in Bengaluru and Belagavi, which is suitable for the said cause. Referring to DRDO's initiative in setting up exclusive Covid hospitals and medical centers in Delhi, Lucknow, Varanasi and Ahmedabad, he said due to a surge in coronavirus cases in Karnataka, hospitals here are facing tremendous pressure and overloaded. Setting up of such covid treatment centers in Bengaluru and Belagavi will not only help patients in the region but will further ease the pressure on existing hospitals and medical professionals, Savadi noted and requested the Defence Minister to kindly consider it on priority basis. Karnataka on Monday registered 38,603 new cases of Covid-19 and 476 fatalities, taking the total infection count to 22.42 lakh and the toll to 22,313. Out of the 38,603 fresh cases reported, 13,338 were from Bengaluru Urban alone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-requests-centre-to-set-up-covid-care-centers-with-assistance-of-drdo-101621327467192.html
18-05-2021||Bangalore||PM, Yediyurappa greet Deve Gowda on his 88th birthday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa joined several others in greeting JDS Supremo H D Deve Gowda, who turned 88 on Tuesday. Modi called up the former Prime Minister this morning to wish him. "I thank Hon'ble Prime Minister @narendramodi avaru for calling me early this morning to wish me for my birthday. I pray to God to give him the strength to lead our nation during this crisis caused by the pandemic," Gowda tweeted. In his message, Yediyurappa said, "Best wishes to veteran politician and former Prime Minister H D Deve Gowda on his birthday. May God bless you." Leader of Opposition Siddaramaiah in a tweet said, "Happy birthday to former Prime Minister and senior leader of JD(S) H D Deve Gowda. May you be blessed with long life and good health. May your experience guide the state and the country." Many union and state ministers, leaders cutting across political parties wished Gowda on his birthday. The veteran appealed to his followers not to celebrate his birthday, saying it was not the right time for congregations. He has asked them to provide relief to Covid affected people of the state. Born on May 18, 1933 in a remote village of Haradanahalli in Hassan district, the JD(S) supremo had served as the Prime Minister of India for 10 months from June 1996 to April 1997. PT||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/pm-yediyurappa-greet-deve-gowda-on-his-88th-birthday-101621318309318.html
18-05-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka mulls over Covid-19 lockdown extension||Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa on Monday said that his government is mulling over the extension of lockdown in the state amid spike in coronavirus cases.While addressing the press meet briefly, Chief Minister said, "We are still discussing regarding extension of lockdown. Anyway, the imposed lockdown will remain imposed till 24th May. After two-three days, we will discuss and decide the extension of lockdown."As per the state health bulletin yesterday, the state logged 38,603 new Covid-19 cases and 476 deaths in the last 24 hours.Also, the state health minister took cognizance of the black fungus cases being reported in the state.Mucormycosis, also known as black fungus, is now a noticed disease and hospitals should report it to the government, said Karnataka Health and Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar on Monday, adding that it is illegal to hide it."Black fungus is a post-covid complication. Those who have uncontrolled diabetes and use high dosage of steroids are vulnerable to this. Those who undergo organ transplantation and have immunocompromised conditions like HIV are also likely to contract this. Such category of people should be more cautious," the Minister warned while addressing a press conference here.Meanwhile, the state is also bracing with the likely effects of Cyclone Tauktae.One person was killed and over 70 houses got damaged in Uttara Kannada district due to cyclone Tauktae on Sunday, informed the Karnataka Government."In 5 taluks of Uttara Kannada, 71 houses, 76 fishing boats and 271 electric poles were damaged. One person has died," said Karnataka Minister Shivaram Hebbar.At least four people have lost their lives and 73 villages across six districts in Karnataka have been affected amid the intensification of cyclone Tauktae, said the Karnataka State Disaster Management Authority (KSDMA).All the concerned authorities are vigilant and carrying out the necessary action.Tauktae is expected to make landfall today in Gujarat. IMD DG Mrutyunjay Mohapatra informed that the cyclone is very likely to cross the Gujarat coast between Porbandar and Mahuva in Bhavnagar district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-mulls-over-covid-19-lockdown-extension-101621296396197.html
