23-05-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka sees a dip in daily new cases, active caseload falls below 480,000-mark||With 25,979 new infections of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), Karnataka on Sunday reported under 30,000 new cases for the second time in May 2021. So far, 2,424,904 people have been tested positive for the disease in the state, a bulletin from the health department showed. However, new fatalities spiked in the day, as 626 patients lost their lives pushing the death toll to 25,282, the bulletin also showed. There were 31,183 new cases and 451 deaths recorded on Saturday.Earlier on May 20 (Thursday), 28,869 new cases were detected, the only other instance of under 30,000 new cases in the state this month.Karnataka’s active caseload, currently the highest among all states in India, also witnessed a decrease and was recorded at 472,986, a decline of 10,218 cases from the 483,204 reported a day earlier on Saturday. Meanwhile, recoveries on the day exceeded the new cases after 35,573 patients were discharged. With this, total recoveries rose to 1,926,615 and the recovery rate stands at 79.45 per cent.Also read | Maharashtra records 26,672 new Covid-19 cases in 24 hours; 594 deaths take toll to 88,620As many as 125,117 tests were conducted in the state on Sunday comprising 17,848 Rapid Antigen Detection tests and 107,269 RT PCR and other methods. Cumulative samples tested stood at 28,707,320, according to the data from the bulletin. The case positivity rate for the day was recorded at 20.76 per cent and the case fatality rate (CFR) stood at 2.40 per cent.Among the districts, Bengaluru Urban with 7,494 new cases contributed the most to the state’s tally. The district also has 255,842 active cases, which is 54 per cent of the overall active cases in Karnataka and the highest among all districts in the state.The bulletin also showed that 12,049,483 doses of the Covid-19 vaccine have been administered to the beneficiaries in the state. The vaccination drive for people between 18 and 44 years of age was halted earlier in the day due to the non-availability of vaccine stock, news agency ANI reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-sees-a-dip-in-daily-new-cases-active-caseload-falls-below-480000mark-101621782501113.html
23-05-2021||Bangalore||Bengaluru gets help to breathe better: Passing on Oxygen amid second wave of Covid||When a city is gasping for breath, what do you do? Collect oxygen cylinders! That’s exactly what a group of Bangaloreans have started doing. “The situation in the city is very grim. In the second wave of Covid, it has been an uphill task to arrange for medicines, oxygen cylinders and concentrators. Many people have bought cylinders and kept it at home, taking them out of circulation for others. With Bengaluru gasping for air, we decided to start the campaign to tell people to donate oxygen cylinders for others in need,” says Freeda Lazar, one of the minds behind Pass The Oxygen initiative, which aims to make oxygen accessible and affordable. Some Bangaloreans are trying to provide respite to people who are in need of sourcing oxygen by creating a database of acquired cylinders and circulating them after verification. “There are multiple ways people can contribute towards the initiative. Firstly, they can donate the cylinder to us, and we will refill it and pass it on. Or they can just loan it to us for a specific time period and we’ll make sure it reaches back to them. If contributors don’t have cylinders, they can also simply make a donation which we can use to buy more oxygen cylinders,” says Arshiya Sayed, a volunteer with CoV-aid Bengaluru, a citizen volunteer group.Sayed, with a group of 11 other volunteers from CoV-aid Bengaluru, manages the groundwork with help of 10 autorickshaw drivers, who are helping refill and transport the essentials to those in need. “We understood early on that transportation was a problem for those cases where the entire families are down with coronavirus. So the auto drivers helped us out. Our work turns immensely meaningful when we are able to help out people in need. We recently provided an oxygen concentrator to a 7-year-old in Bengaluru, after transporting it across the city, and to see him recover was amazing,” recalls Sayed. The team is renaming the cylinders after the person they choose. “We are grateful for the life-saving step people are choosing to take, and in return we are renaming the cylinder after the person that means the world to them. We will always refer to a cylinder by that name, as a way to remember them every time a particular cylinder goes around helping save lives,” adds Lazar. And one such contributor is Mayura P Kadur, whose donated cylinder is named Prabhakar, in memory of her father who passed away in 2017. She shares, “I saw the initiative on a friend’s Instagram story, and thought of the cylinder we had in storage from my dad’s clinic. I spoke to my mother about the initiative and she said that we should give it away so that they can help someone in need in the present times, as opposed to just keeping it for ourselves. I hope more people come forward to donate cylinders.” Author tweets @bhagat_mallikaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/bengaluru-gets-help-to-breathe-better-passing-on-oxygen-amid-second-wave-of-covid-101621772286242.html
23-05-2021||Bangalore||2 more arrested for black marketing of oxygen cylinders in Bengaluru||Two more persons in Bengaluru were arrested on Sunday for allegedly trying to sell oxygen cylinders in the black market at a time when the shortage of the life-saving gas to treat severe Covid-19 cases remains a major concern, said a senior police officer.“2 accused arrested by CCB (city crime branch) in Sheshadripuram & Byatarayanpura involved in black marketing of oxygen cylinders. 5 cylinders seized..Plz share info on any such activities,” Sandeep Patil, joint commissioner (Crime) said in a post on Twitter.Despite the number of daily Covid-19 infections witnessing a decline in Bengaluru, the demand for oxygenated beds remains high with people struggling to find beds. Karnataka requires at least 1200 MT (metric tonne) of oxygen to cater to its ailing population and is dependent on the centre to fulfil this requirement.However, according to the data shared by Munish Moudgil, the officer in charge of Oxygen supplies in Karnataka, all 30 districts including Bengaluru saw a consumption of 834.84 MT (731.29 kilo litres) of oxygen on May 19 which increased to 858.02 MT (751.59 kilo litre) on May 20.Karnataka is among the seven states that cumulatively account for 66.88 % of India's total active cases and it reported 31,183 fresh cases and 451 deaths on Saturday. The explosion of the second wave of the pandemic has created a shortage of oxygen cylinders, oxygenated and ICU beds apart from life saving medicines such as Remdesivir. The state government has now put in place a SMS-based Remdesivir allocation and information system, aimed at curbing its black marketing and misuse.According to the South Western Railway authorities, the ninth oxygen express reached Bengaluru on Sunday morning carrying six cryogenic containers of liquid medical oxygen measuring 20 MT each. The Union railways minister said the railways had supplied around 1,000 MT of oxygen to the state so far.“#OxygenExpress continues to provide relief to Covid-19 patients, delivered more than 15,000 MT of medical oxygen across Flag of India. Around 1,000 MT oxygen relief supplied to Karnataka to continue helping the people in the State,” Piyush Goyal tweeted on Sunday.A statement by South Western Railway authorities said Karnataka has received 1062.14 tonnes of liquid medical oxygen by rail. “Indian Railways has so far run 224 Oxygen Expresses and transported nearly 14,500 tonnes of liquid medical oxygen in 884 tankers to all over the country to assist state governments in their fight against Covid -19,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/2-more-arrested-for-black-marketing-of-oxygen-cylinders-in-bengaluru-101621769219937.html
23-05-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka implements 'tech-driven' system for Remdesivir allocation, information to check misuse||Karnataka which is battling the second wave of Covid-19, has put in place a SMS-based Remdesivir allocation and information system, aimed at curbing its blackmarketing and misuse."In order to bring transparency in the allocation of Remdesivir a tech-driven system has been developed and now the patient will get a SMS informing which hospital is provided the medicine against the SRF ID," Health Minister K Sudhakar said on Sunday."In case if the #Remdesivir is allocated against the SRF ID & the hospital has not provided it to the patient, a facility is provided in the same link to report it to the government. This will help govt in curbing blackmarketing & misuse of Remdesivir," he said in a tweet.Citizens can also check information on Remdesivir using the link https://covidwar.karnataka.gov.in/service2.Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan too in a tweet said, "In case if Remdesivir is allocated against the SRF ID and hospital has not provided it to patients, you can report it to the Govt. This is largely to reduce misuse of the drug."Remdesivir is in great demand for the treatment of Covid-19 infected patients at hospitals.Aimed at ensuring optimal use of Remdesivir, the state government had recently even issued guidelines directing all healthcare facilities in the state to follow it in letter and spirit.It had also called for each healthcare facility to form a Remdesivir Audit Committee and submit a report on the use to the expert committees constituted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-implements-tech-driven-system-for-remdesivir-allocation-information-to-check-misuse-101621762201011.html
23-05-2021||Bangalore||Ninth 'Oxygen Express' carrying 120 tonnes LMO reaches Bengaluru||The ninth "Oxygen Express" carrying 120 tonnes of Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO), in 6 containers has reached the city this morning, South Western Railway said on Sunday.So far, Karnataka has received 1,062.14 tonnes of LMO by Rail."The ninth Oxygen Express reached ICD Whitefield at 07:30 am today (May 23). It had started from Tatanagar, Jharkhand at 23:35 hrs on May 21," South Western Railway said in a release.A signal free 'Green Corridor' was created by the Railways to enable swift transport of this Oxygen Express, i.e. this train has run stoppage free, and has not had to wait for crossing/passage of another train, it said, adding that this train has carried 6 Cryogenic Containers and each cryogenic container carried 20 tonnes LMO (total tonnage: 120 tonnes).Indian Railways has so far run 224 Oxygen Expresses and transported nearly 14,500 tonnes of LMO in 884 tankers to all over the country to assist state governments in their fight against Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/ninth-oxygen-express-carrying-120-tonnes-lmo-reaches-bengaluru-101621756656542.html
23-05-2021||Bangalore||Volunteers lead Covid-19 fight in Bengaluru while braving personal losses||At a time when Bengaluru, like rest of the country, is battling the surging second wave of Covid-19 pandemic, volunteers from across the city have come forward to help residents while braving personal losses. From providing meals, supplying oxygen cylinders, arranging hospitals beds to burying the dead, the Good Samaritans have made relentless efforts in coming to the aid of scared and scarred city residents.They did all this while battling their own adversities, including losing loved ones to the unprecedented surge of Covid-19 in the past two months.One such volunteer is Anne Morris, who helped in performing the last rites of 16 victims of Covid-19 on May 14, one of whom was her own uncle. She felt anguish that day like never before while volunteering, something that she has been doing since the first wave of the pandemic. “I have been helping to give decent burial to several victims of Covid-19, but when it came to my uncle, there was no one to help me,” Morris said, recalling her uncle’s ordeal.Morris, who is also the curator of the Indian Christian Cemetery, began volunteering with food distribution to migrant workers during the nationwide lockdown when the pandemic hit the country in March last year, before moving to help people with burials when Covid-19 deaths spiked in the second wave.“My uncle needed dialysis and we took him to a private hospital, which charged us more than ₹30,000. It was a daylight robbery and it made me question why I was doing the volunteer work in the first place,” Morris recalled. Besides her uncle, Morris also lost her brother-in-law, another uncle and her godfather to the viral infections, all in the month of May.While undergoing dialysis, her uncle tested positive for Covid-19 and died in a private hospital. Her 52-year-old brother-in-law succumbed to the infection after he was unable to get a hospital bed. “On May 9, after his saturation levels dropped, we approached multiple hospitals. We asked all volunteer groups we knew of, but we couldn’t find him a bed. It was only after five days, we got an ICU bed, but he died soon after he was admitted. By then, his condition had worsened,” she said.Morris said she was upset and anguished after suffering losses. “We helped so many and there was no one to help us. I wondered if I should continue to do volunteer work. But now, I’m back to work. A lot of people need help,” she said.Shahulla Khan, 45, was a third-generation funeral service worker at the Muslim Burial Ground on Mysore Road. According to his family, since the beginning of the pandemic, he had buried more than 300 bodies and even lived in the burial compound itself. He knew several Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) officials, who reached out to him for help in burying bodies, but when he fell ill, there was no one to help, his family said.Khaleel Khan, a relative of Shahulla, said they started looking for a bed when he first complaint of difficulties in breathing. As his saturation level began dropping drastically, the family began making frantic calls, even to the BBMP officials he knew.“We started looking for beds in the last week for April. We couldn’t find any oxygen beds. With help of some volunteers, we were able arrange an oxygen cylinder. We kept him at home on oxygen supply. But we were not able to find more cylinders,” Khaleel said.He added that whenever they called the BBMP officials they knew, they said there were no government beds available. Once his condition deteriorated, the family decided to take a gamble. “We tried several hospitals, but no beds were available. We then took him to a government hospital and told the security guard that we had reserved a bed. Once we were allowed to go in, we pleaded to the doctor, who allowed him to be on the floor with oxygen support,” Khaleel added.Hours later, Shahulla passed away. “Despite helping several families during the pandemic, when the virus caught up with him, he got no help,” Khaleel said.Another volunteer Sagay Raj Ambrose, who has been helping people to find food and oxygen during the pandemic, said he could do little when his younger brother fell sick. “I started volunteering during the first wave of Covid-19. Some told me about a family, where the son was hospitalised and an elderly couple were not able to get food, because they couldn’t get out. With the help of a friend, I delivered ration at their home. It all started there,” said Ambrose, who worked at the Bengaluru international airport.During the second wave, he helped several families in home isolation with ration kits and oxygen cylinders. It was during this time that he got a distressing call. “On May 6, my 45-year-old younger brother Vijay started facing breathing difficulties and his saturation levels were dropping. As soon as I got the call, I tried to get to the hospital, but nothing was working out,” he said.Ambrose said besides the non-availability of beds, hospitals were also demanding Covid-19 test reports before admitting patients. “Since his situation was critical, we didn’t have the time for a test, but with the help of a friend, we got a CT scan done. The scan said his condition was really bad,” said Ambrose.Unable to find an ICU, even with the help of other volunteers, he took his brother to a private hospital, where he was kept in the emergency room. “They gave him oxygen and an injection as well. We kept trying to move him to an ICU, but before we could get it, he passed away,” Ambrose said, wearing a brave face while recalling his brother’s story.Ambrose continues to be a volunteer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/volunteers-lead-covid-19-fight-in-bengaluru-while-braving-personal-losses-101621712153944.html
