26-05-2021||Bangalore||City juice shop helps make soaps, candles from fruit waste||Famous all across Bengaluru, juice shop Eat Raja is known for its zero-waste policy. It doesn’t provide plastic glasses, straws or even tissues. Instead, everything in the shop is either reusable or a fruit product. Making the initiative truly zero waste, the juice counter also uses its fruit waste to make products such as candles and soaps and artworks such as rangoli.Anand Raaj, the owner, takes immense pride in describing his methods. “We only generate fruit waste and have a 7 x 11 segregation method. We have seven bins, out of which two are for paper and plastic that may have come from chilli powder wrappers or strawberry containers, etc. The rest of the five bins are for specific wet wastes,” says Raaj.This separated waste is used as a multipurpose tool by Raaj. He feeds the non-citrus waste to cows and uses the citrus ones to make bio enzymes. Even the seeds that are procured after making the juice are dried, filtered and used by his mother to make rangoli back at home. “After the segregation, we use the fruit pulp to make soaps, such as cucumber or strawberry soaps. It is also used to make candles by mixing the juice with wax. These are mainly fruit-infused candles and soaps. The leftover peels are turned into a powdered substance that can be used in beauty masks, facial products,” he adds.Eat Raja is also working on a 100% zero-waste delivery initiative with Zomato, which will roll out soon. Passionate about environmental protection since his college days, Raaj shares, “In college, I was a part of a club which would conduct green drives to ensure the safety of the environment. Now that I have a shop, I ensure that those principles are followed here. My mother comes from a village where these practices are a day-to-day routine. It’s just that urbanisation has made it easier for us to waste things. It’s time for us to educate the next generation about such methods and their importance.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/city-juice-shop-helps-make-soaps-candles-from-fruit-waste-101622037673978.html
26-05-2021||Bangalore||103-year-old freedom fighter Doreswamy passes away in Bengaluru||Freedom fighter and activist Harohalli Srinivasaiah Doreswamy, 103, died in Bengaluru on Wednesday, days after recovering from Covid-19 this month. He was readmitted to a Bengaluru hospital before his death.“He passed away this [Wednesday] afternoon,” said a close aide to Doreswamy.A former schoolteacher, Doreswamy was born on April 10, 1918, in Harohalli in the erstwhile princely state of Mysore.“It is very sad to hear the news that senior freedom fighters, Gandhian, journalist, social worker, and the voice of the people, HS Doreswamy, has passed away. Praying for goodness to their soul, I ask that God grant their families the power to bear the pain,” Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa tweeted.Also Read | Karnataka sees a dip in daily new cases, active caseload falls below 480,000Doreswamy actively participated in the protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and National Register of Citizens in Bengaluru in 2019-20.“HS Doreswamy, who parted from all of us, was our self conscience. He condemned when he saw wrong, supported when he saw right and guided us. He was an inspiration from a young age, came to the streets when he saw injustice and was an inspiration to all of us,” tweeted former Karnataka chief minister Siddaramaiah.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/103yearold-freedom-fighter-doreswamy-passes-away-in-bengaluru-101622022913567.html
