27-05-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka’s Covid-19 tally goes past 2.5-million mark, daily fatalities continue to remain high||With 24,214 new infections of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), Karnataka’s total cases went past the 2.5-million mark on Thursday, a bulletin from the state health department showed. Also, fatalities continued to remain high in the state after 476 patients succumbed to their infections in the last 24 hours, pushing the death toll to 27,405, according to the bulletin. The state had reported 26,811 new cases and 530 deaths on Wednesday.Active caseload fell by 7,721 cases in the last 24 hours and stood at 402,203 from the 409,924 reported previously. Also, 31,459 people were discharged on the day, taking the total recoveries to 2,094,369 with a recovery rate of 82.97 per cent according to data from the bulletin.Karnataka emerged as the new hotspot of Covid-19 in the country during the second wave and currently has the highest number of active cases in the country.Also read | Covid-19: Strict restrictions in Mysuru for 10 days from May 29, relaxation given for 2 daysIn the week, the daily new deaths have remained above 500 with the exception of Thursday. Earlier, 530 deaths on Wednesday, 588 deaths on Tuesday and 529 deaths on Monday were reported in the state. Earlier in the past week also, the state witnessed at least over 450 new deaths everyday except on May 21, when 353 people lost their lives.Among the districts, Bengaluru Urban with 12,421 deaths, Mysuru with 1,556 deaths and Ballari with 1,306 deaths have reported more than 1,000 fatalities so far. Bengaluru Urban is also the worst affected district in terms of the active caseload and the total positive cases detected so far.Meanwhile, medical workers in the state tested 137,643 samples on Thursday, including 29,885 through Rapid Antigen and 107,758 via RT-PCR tests and other methods. So far, 29,198,945 samples have been tested for the disease.The bulletin also showed that as many as 12,754,056 doses of the Covid-19 vaccine have been administered to eligible beneficiaries in the state.Covid-19 related restrictions are currently in place in Karnataka to curb the transmission of Covid-19. Earlier on Wednesday, stricter restrictions were implemented for 10 days in Mysuru district due to the high number of cases reported in the past week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnatakas-covid-19-tally-goes-past-2-5-million-mark-daily-fatalities-continue-to-remain-high-101622130398387.html
27-05-2021||Bangalore||Covid-19: Strict restrictions in Mysuru for 10 days from May 29, relaxation given for 2 days||The Mysuru district administration earlier on Wednesday decided to impose stricter restrictions in the district for ten days between May 29 and June 6 (6am), according to an order by the deputy commissioner Rohini Sindhuri. However, some relaxation has been given to shops selling essential goods.During the 10-day period, there will be relaxations on Monday (May 31) and Thursday (June 3) when all shops would be allowed to remain open between 6am and 12pm. On the rest of the days, barring milk booths, medical services, Horticultural Producers' Cooperative Marketing and Processing Society (Hopcoms), ration shops and shops that are selling fruits and vegetables, all other activities would be restricted, the order said.Despite the decreasing trend in the number of daily new cases, Karnataka on Wednesday reported 26,811 new infections of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), a slight increase from the previous day’s tally of 22,758 new cases on Tuesday (May 25). Currently, the state is also the highest contributor to the national tally of active caseload with 409,945 cases, data from the Union ministry of health and family welfare, on Thursday, showed.Also read | Karnataka village sealed as hundreds gather to attend a horse’s funeralAmong the districts, Mysuru has been reporting above 2,000 new cases daily for the past week. On Wednesday alone, the district detected 2,792 new Covid-19 cases, the highest it has reported in the past week. Earlier, there were 2,241 new cases on Tuesday, 2,680 new cases on Monday and 2,222 new cases on Sunday, indicating an increase in the daily infections. Also, there were 16,611 active cases reported in the district, according to a medical bulletin by the state health department, released on Wednesday.In terms of active cases, Mysuru contributes the fourth highest among all districts in Karnataka. Only Bengaluru Urban with 207,357 active cases is at a distant first, Tumakuru with 19,770 cases and Belagavi with 18,333 cases are ahead of Mysuru, the latest data showed.Karnataka witnessed a rapid increase in Covid-19 cases during the second wave and the state government has imposed strict restrictions to curb the transmission of the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/covid19-strict-restrictions-in-mysuru-for-10-days-from-may-29-relaxation-given-for-2-days-101622105657686.html
27-05-2021||Bangalore||Bangalore Talkies: Have you exited a WhatsApp group lately?||My friend, Raju, is incensed. He calls me out of the blue and says, “I am thinking of exiting too.”I know exactly what he is talking about. Our high-school WhatsApp group has become a battlefield. On a day last week, six people abruptly exited the group.Some left after a few principled words (which were immediately construed as sanctimonious holier-than-thou natter by the people at whom the words were aimed at). “Those of you who have been defending this government ought to ask yourself if you will take such a strong position if one of your own died in the hospital without bed, oxygen or care.”Others left with a virtual throw of the arms in the air. “Folks, I am tired of this infighting. Will return when things get saner in our group. Thank you all and have a great life.”Raju’s phone call is really a plea. He doesn’t want to leave the group but he wants the fighting to stop.“Can you mute those two jokers?” he asks. “After all, you are the admin.”I know the two people he is talking about. They have hijacked the conversation so that everything is about forwarding articles that support their position.Also Read | Bangalore Talkies: Moonwalking at night on city streetsI attempt a mild plea. “The rest of us can change the discourse. Why can’t you change the topic? Talk about Danish Sait or the latest Kannada movie? Why are you keeping quiet and letting them have at it?”“What’s the use? The two of them just rant and rant. There is no air-time for anything else.”The trouble with what seems like a never-ending, ever-complicated pandemic is that people get testy and want to place blame somewhere. These days, there is enough blame to go around. We want to blame someone for the vulnerability that we all feel.The illusion of control that we all had about our lives has now been irrevocably shattered. Today, we live and breathe because a tiny virus decides not to invade our body.Bengaluru, like much of the country, is teetering under wave after wave of this mutating virus. Battle lines have been drawn and they are as obvious as the Lakshmana Rekha that our politicians like to talk about. There are the pro-BJP folks and the anti-BJP folks.With any large WhatsApp group -- which is where we all live these days -- there are participants who belong to both camps. And they cannot stand each other even if they once played gully cricket together. The result? A potent brew of sarcasm, vicious name-calling, and principled outrage. The stakes, meanwhile, are dug deeper and deeper into the ground. And unlike a battlefield, there are no clear winners. Each side thinks they are right. “Obviously,” they say with a roll of the eyes and a sneer.It didn’t used to be this way. Bengaluru was a different kind of city. It seemed to encourage certain gentility in its citizens. Maybe it is the weather, maybe it is the parks and trees all around. Whatever the reason, I haven’t felt the extreme kind of reaction that happens frequently in say, neighbouring Chennai, during the 15 years that I have lived in Bengaluru. Even road rage is muted and borders on civil.So what do you do? How do you deal with the cacophony of WhatsApp groups? How do you deal with people who once used to be your friends, but have now morphed into folks you can barely stand? How do you keep the vitriol out of the conversation? Do you make a principled and abrupt exit or not? Do you engage or mute the whole conversation?It isn’t only in Bengaluru though. WhatsApp is geography agnostic. Most of the school and college groups that we all belong to have participants from a number of metros all over India and abroad. On the one hand, it is exhilarating to be in this giant courtyard-adda. On the other, it is exhausting to just keep up with the barrage of messages. One of my friends exited all her WhatsApp groups two months ago. It is something I think about every day.A way forward was afforded by Deepa Krishnan, who lives in Mumbai. In a long post on -- what else-- Facebook, she talked about how she used to be one of those abrupt exiters, but eventually made her way back into the groups she exited to figure out how to tolerate the folks whose opinions she was against. “It’s not easy, the process of learning to tolerate someone who is the opposite of you, and whose very presence is constantly pushing your buttons,” she said. “I really struggled a lot. I still struggle, but it is getting easier. What made it possible was my realisation that the group was a community in which I lived (albeit virtually). Communities are made up of all kinds of people, just like the real world around me. I deal with a lot of diverse people in the real world, without getting into fights. Then surely I could do the same in the virtual world?”To clamp down on voices that are the opposite of your own is a slippery slope. If one of the pillars of democracy is free speech, it ought to be part of how we practice it. After 20 minutes of good-natured ribbing, I eventually talked Raju off the cliff he had climbed on. We both agreed that there were two ways to deal with WhatsApp triggers -- to speak louder and take over the conversation, or to stay silent and ignore the fighters.Sanity has to come back sometime. To the world and to the virtual world.Shoba Narayan is Bangalore-based award-winning author. She is also a freelance contributor who writes about art, food, fashion and travel for a number of publications||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/bangalore-talkies-have-you-exited-a-whatsapp-group-lately-101622085556667.html
