18-06-2021||Mumbai||Kandivli Covid vax scam: Five camp organisers arrested||Kandivli police on Friday arrested five persons in connection with the vaccination scam at Hiranandani Heritage housing society whose members alleged that the vaccination camp organisers had given 390 members of their society Covishield shots from bottles with broken seals.The five men are identified as Mahendra Kuldip Singh, 39; Sanjay Gupta, 34; Chandan Singh, 32; Nitin Mode, 32; and Karim Ali, 21. Police officers said the accused have confessed to having organised such camps in nine other societies before holding a camp at Hiranandani Heritage.Dilip Sawant, deputy commissioner of police (zone 11), said they are now investigating to find out the names of the societies. According to police, Mahendra Singh and his associates had no authorisation from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) or any other authority to set up vaccination camps or administer vaccines. During investigation, the police also found out there was no medical officer present at the camps held by the group.After the residents filed a written complaint, the police recorded statements of society members and representatives of the hospitals whose certificates were given to the members.“We found that Sanjay Gupta and Chandan Singh, both of whom work for private hospitals, used to procure the vaccines while Karim Ali used to procure the certificates,” said an officer from Kandivli police station. The police are now finding out the sources from where and how the vaccine doses and certificates given to the beneficiaries were procured, and whether the Covishield bottles were usable, since their seals were already open.Police officers said residents were charged ₹1,260 per jab and none of the beneficiaries had any side effects. The housing society paid Singh a total of ₹4.56 lakh.Police said Singh had approached Hiranandani Heritage Residents Welfare Association (HHRWS), a managing body representing three buildings in the residential complex at Kandivli (West), and offered to set up a vaccination camp aided by Kokilaben Dhirubhai Ambani Hospital, Andheri.On May 30, 390 members were inoculated but they were not registered on the Co-WIN portal. After seven-eight days, the residents started getting messages about their vaccination certificates from two private hospitals — Nanavati Max Super Speciality and Lifeline hospitals, and the civic-run Nesco jumbo centre in Goregaon, which does not even hold vaccination in societies.The five men have been booked under sections 268 (public nuisance), 270 (doing any act known to spread infection or disease dangerous to life), 274 (admiration of drugs), 275 (sale of adulterated drugs), 419 (impersonation), 420 (cheating), 465 (forgery), 467, 468, 470 (forging document) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code and sections 43 and 66(e) of the Information Technology Act.All the five were presented before Borivli magistrate court and remanded in police custody till June 24.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/kandivli-covid-vax-scam-five-camp-organisers-arrested-101624040965796.html
18-06-2021||Other||Palghar back to level 3 as Covid cases rise in district||The Palghar district collector Dr Manik Gursal on Friday issued a circular declaring Palghar district, including the Vasai Virar civic area, level 3 from the earlier level 2. The new restrictions will come into effect from June 21, as per the order.The positivity rate in Palghar has crossed 5.18%, while the oxygenated bed capacity stood at 18.24%. The district has recorded 282 deaths between June 6 to 17, while the Palghar taluka has reported 146 Covid deaths.Level 3 is imposed where the positivity rate is between 5-10% and oxygenated bed occupancy is over 40%. There will be no public movement post 5pm, while the shops can operate till 4pm. On Saturdays and Sundays, there will be a complete lockdown, while malls, theatres, and single screens will remain closed, restaurants can operate at 50% dining capacity till 4pm, and thereafter can remain open for takeaways. Local trains will operate only for people in essential services. Public places, parks will remain open from 5am to 9pm and private offices can remain open on all days till 4pm. Government office attendance will be restricted to 50%. Sports activities will be allowed from 5am to 9am and 6pm to 9pm. Shooting will be allowed, provided there’s a bio-bubble and no outside movement will be permitted post 5pm.Social gatherings will have 50% attendance; marriages can have up to 50 persons and funerals can be attended by a maximum of 20 people. Society meetings and election rallies can have 50% attendance. Construction sites will have in site workers and no labourers will be allowed to step out after 4pm. E-commerce activities will be operational. Salons and gyms can operate with 50% capacity and clients will be allowed by appointments only. No standees will be permitted in public transport. Meanwhile, as on Friday, Palghar district recorded 114,584 cases with Vasai leading with 66,847 and Palghar rural with 47,737 cases. 2,464 deaths are reported with Vasai reporting 1,415 cases and Palghar rural reporting 1,049 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/palghar-back-to-level-3-as-covid-cases-rise-in-district-101624040906441.html
18-06-2021||Delhi||‘Baba ka dhaba’ owner lands in hospital after overdose, family says he was ‘under pressure’||Kanta Prasad, the owner of Baba ka Dhaba, a nondescript roadside eatery in south Delhi’s Malviya Nagar, was admitted to Safdarjung hospital on Thursday after overdosing on alcohol and sleeping pills, even as the police tried to ascertain if the incident was an accident, or if the 81-year-old tried to take his life. Prasad’s family members said the octogenarian was depressed and “under pressure”.Officials at Safdarjung hospital said Prasad was stable but critical, and was put on a ventilator.The police said his family found Prasad unconscious at the dhaba, and took him to a nearby private hospital, which referred him to Safdarjung hospital. Prasad and his dhaba shot to fame overnight in October last year after a city YouTuber, Gaurav Wasan, shared a video showing Prasad in tears, telling him how he struggled to make ends meet as business dried up. The viral video led to thousands of people making a beeline to the couple’s eatery for food, selfies and donating money.He later opened a new restaurant, which was shut in February due to a shortage of business.The octogenarian also filed a cheating case against Wasan after accusing him of allegedly siphoning off donations, a charge that the YouTuber refuted. Last week, the two posed for photographs at his dhaba and claimed they were on good terms. Prasad’s son Karan, however, alleged that his father was depressed because some people, including a few YouTubers, were “pressuring him to withdraw the cheating case and reach a compromise with Wasan.”“My father was being constantly asked to withdraw the case and patch up with Wasan. It was the main reason behind my father’s depression. He was not telling us anything about it, but we could see he was under pressure,” said Karan, without specifying whom he was speaking about.When contacted, Wasan refused to comment. “Doctors asked us to take my father to a bigger hospital as his condition was serious. We brought him to Safdarjung hospital. My father consumed alcohol and an overdose of sleeping pills in an attempt to kill himself,” added Karan.Deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur said the facility informed the police of Prasad’s hospitalisation around 11.15pm on Thursday. The police then collected the MLC (medico-legal case), which pinned his unconsciousness on the intake of alcohol and sleeping pills as the cause of unconsciousness, he said.“Karan’s statement was recorded,” added DCP Thakur.Speaking to reporters, Prasad’s wife, Badaami Devi, said. “I am clueless about what happened to him. I was at the dhaba. He fainted and we took him to the hospital around 4 pm (on Thursday). No one has told us anything about his condition,” she said.An official from Safdarjung hospital, who asked not to be named, said, “He is on ventilator after an overdose of sleeping pills and alcohol. He is critical but stable.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/baba-ka-dhaba-owner-lands-in-hospital-after-overdose-family-says-he-was-under-pressure-101624040425913.html
18-06-2021||Mumbai||55 years on, Shiv Sena looks to grow beyond its traditional strongholds||For the Shiv Sena, which completes 55 years today, a large chunk of its journey has been in the opposition or without administrative power. However, in the past 19 months, the party is on a climb on the back of the chief minister’s seat and his performance — primarily the handling of Covid-19. The party has found an opportunity in the pandemic to expand itself from traditional stronghold of Mumbai, Thane and Konkan region to a pan-Maharashtra reach. The Sena is looking to bank on party chief Uddhav Thackeray’s handling of Covid-19 crisis as the chief minister (CM) as its major card in the upcoming electoral battles.Founded on June 19, 1966 by Bal Thackeray, the Shiv Sena emerged from a movement for preferential treatment for Maharashtrians over migrants in Mumbai when it comes to job opportunities. Over the next few decades, it became a substantial political entity in the state politics. It tasted power at the state-level twice before getting the CM’s chair following a major political realignment in 2019. Since then, the party’s fortunes have changed, as senior Sena leaders put it.The Covid-19 outbreak has provided an unexpected opportunity to the Sena and Thackeray, who was criticised and questioned about his ability to lead the government as he lacked any administrative experience. With a soft demeanour, unlike his father Bal Thackeray, he has made a mark with his direct communication with the citizens.A reluctant entrant into politics and an accidental CM was looked at as a “non-entity” in the party, a senior Sena functionary said. “He was considered a non-entity by many people within the Sena and outside during Balasaheb’s era and even shortly after he passed away. But the manner in which he has changed, steered the party through tough decisions, and he went from being non-entity to a legitimate leader. Even our allies have been pleasantly surprised by his way of functioning,” the functionary said requesting anonymity.The Sena now intends to capitalise on the “popularity” of Thackeray as CM in its upcoming political outings. “Uddhavji has different style of functioning. He has a great connect with people, including Shiv Sainiks. He has utilised this knack during this pandemic… Naturally, this will become our major card electorally. He is now connected to the people of Maharashtra through his addresses to the state,” said Arvind Sawant, Sena deputy leader and party’s chief spokesperson.Senior Sena leader and minister Subhash Desai said a new chapter of the party’s growth has commenced. “We are growing leaps and bounds now. People have the confidence now that this party can deliver. A new chapter of our growth story has started. The popularity of Uddhavji as CM is such that not just the Sena but other parties [in the alliance] also benefit. Currently, there is no leader is as popular as Uddhavji,” Desai said.Political analyst Surendra Jondhale said Thackeray has steered the party from an existential crisis after Thackeray senior’s demise into a major political force. “Thackeray managed to bring his party out of existential crisis after Bal Thakeray’s death. He took some key decisions for political survival in 2014 and 2019 when it snapped ties with the BJP. He has shown good leadership so far in handling of the pandemic. He has remained honest and transparent with the people,” Jondhale said.Over the past one year, the Sena has faced bitter campaigns against the party in connection with actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death, as a member of the Thackeray family was indirectly linked to the case. The party also faced embarrassment after allegations of crime against a woman emerged against one it its cabinet ministers, Sanjay Rathod, who was asked to resign. Desai, who has seen the party since its inception, said the party has seen major changes with a Thackeray becoming the chief minister. The Sena that started off from nativist politics has now grown into the governance role. “The major change now is that we are a ruling party since the past two years. We are growing in the role of ruling party. It is not that we did not have power earlier. The first yuti sarkar [with BJP in 1995] was 25 years back. The feeling among Shiv Sainiks with the previous [Fadnavis] government was that it was not ‘our’ government, we did not feel any ownership with that government. Now with Uddhav saheb as the CM it has changed,” said Desai. However, the Sena is yet to face a major electoral challenge which is expected to come in the form of Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) elections, in February next year, where it will face its former ally, BJP. Jondhale said BMC polls will be a major challenge for the Sena. Another political analyst Hemant Desai added, “The Sena will have to pick votes on Uddhav Thackeray’s popularity. He has dealt with the pandemic and other issues well.”Jondhale said the Sena has chalked an “independent road” for itself after cutting off ties with the BJP. Now with talks of a new political alliance with the Nationalist Congress Party, the Sena is expected to grow, he said. Hemant Desai added, “There is a common thread for both parties — Sena and NCP, both are regional. Maharashtra has not seen a regional party government so far. One national party has always remained in the alliance with a regional party. There is a chance for the Sena to grow in MVA and if the Congress moves out.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/55-years-on-shiv-sena-looks-to-grow-beyond-its-traditional-strongholds-101624039765712.html
18-06-2021||Mumbai||Route Mumbai-Hyderabad bullet train through Marathwada, demands Ashok Chavan||Public works department (PWD) minister Ashok Chavan has demanded that the state should suggest connectivity of the proposed high-speed rail corridor between Mumbai and Hyderabad through Marathwada region. Chavan made the demand through a letter to chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray, saying the state should ask the Centre to take the route from Aurangabad, Jalna and Nanded up to Hyderabad. Currently, the proposed high-speed rail corridor is passing through Raigad, Pune and Solapur districts of the state. However, the National High-Speed Rail Corporation Limited (NHSRCL) has already started the LiDar survey of the proposed route to prepare the final alignment as detailed project report (DPR) for the corridor.In the letter, which Chavan handed over to CM, the minister outlined the need and convenience the project would bring to the region, which is considered backward. “NHSRCL is working to setup a bullet train corridor between Mumbai and Hyderabad via Pune and Solapur. But Marathwada is not getting its due, as per this plan. For the Mumbai-Hyderabad bullet train, a route through Aurangabad-Jalna-Nanded is also available. Therefore, the state must immediately send a proposal to the Centre to alter the route,” the letter said.The minister further said the department will start land acquisition for the proposed extension of the Jalna-Nanded connector to the Mumbai-Nagpur Expressway. “For this highway project, land is being acquired. It is possible to extend the Mumbai-Nagpur bullet train project to Jalna-Nanded. The same route can be extended from Nanded to Hyderabad,” he suggested.Meanwhile, in a meeting, Thackeray directed officials to expedite work on Mumbai-Nagpur Expressway. Phase one of the 701-km expressway between Nagpur and Shirdi, which was expected to be commissioned on May 1, this year, is 72% completed. The CM also directed officials to ensure facilities for motorists including petrol pumps are set up on the 701-km which is named after Sena founder Bal Thackeray.The CM also took stock of the proposed coastal highway being undertaking by PWD to connect Mumbai and Konkan regions, and Versova-Bandra Sea Link in Mumbai, which is undertaken by the Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC). Stating that the Coastal highway project is crucial for connectivity and tourism development in Konkan, Thackeray said the highway should be a four-lane road and the planning should be in a manner that the least amount of land acquisition would be required for the project. He also added that priority should be given to flyover works on the existing highway.He also reviewed the progress of the projects undertaken by the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA), including Metro rail projects and Mumbai Trans Harbour Link (MTHL). According to a statement from the CM’s office, around 35% to 40% of the work on the 21.8-km MTHL project has been completed so far, and the link connecting is expected to be commissioned by September 2023.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/route-mumbai-hyderabad-bullet-train-through-marathwada-demands-ashok-chavan-101624039705664.html
18-06-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: No entrance test for junior college, colleges, says Uday Samant||State minister for higher and technical education Uday Samant on Friday clarified that no entrance exams will be conducted for admission to junior college and colleges under state universities for students who completed Class 10 and 12, respectively. Admissions will be carried out based on their board marks and not any entrance exam, Samant said in a conference in the city. “Qualifications required for those seeking direct admission to second-year engineering diploma courses earlier had to compulsorily clear subjects like physics, chemistry, mathematics and biology. Henceforth, from the 2021-22 academic year, students can clear three out of any of these subjects including computer science, business studies, electronics and information technology among others in order to directly admit such students,” said Samant.In a major relief to students from the disputed Maharashtra-Karnataka border area, Samant said the candidates will not have to produce certificate claiming they are from the “disputed” area. These students faced difficulties in obtaining the certificate from the local competent authorities in Karnataka. A government official said the move signifies that the state government cares for people in the region. From now on, these students can seek admissions in Maharashtra simply by mentioning the region, said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-no-entrance-test-for-junior-college-colleges-says-uday-samant-101624039406311.html
18-06-2021||Mumbai||Congress discusses plan to go solo in Mumbai civic polls||The Congress’s Mumbai unit discussed their strategy for the upcoming Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) elections with All India Congress Committee (AICC) secretary and Maharashtra in-charge HK Patil on Friday. Patil is on four-day tour of Mumbai and is meeting key leaders from Maharashtra and Mumbai.Party Mumbai unit chief Ashok Jagtap and other leaders held a meeting with Patil on Friday evening and discussed election-related plans. “He took review of Mumbai unit’s performance and achievement of the targets set in last three months. AICC has given us programme for the civic polls and review of its implementation is taken every three months. Our Mumbai leaders apprised him of the programmes undertaken since April. We also discussed the plan for BMC elections slated to be held early next year,” said a party leader.Another leader said Jagtap held three meetings with Patil over the past three days and discussed various issues with him. “We already have announced to go solo in the election and insisted on approval from the party high command. The leader was updated about the reasons behind the decision. He was also updated about the strategy being chalked out for campaign and picking right candidates for the polls,” he said.Patil met key leaders and state ministers from the state on Thursday. He also had one-on-one meeting with senior party leaders and office-bearers of the frontal organization.Meanwhile, Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole reiterated party’s stand and said he complemented the Shiv Sena and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) over their plan of joining hands in the forthcoming local bodies and Assembly polls. “We have already announced to go solo in the forthcoming elections and we are firm on it. If the Sena and NCP want to fight them together, we complement them,” he said. Charan Singh Sapra, working president of Mumbai Congress, said, “We apprised Patil saheb of compliance of the target set by AICC. We also reiterated our stand of going solo in the BMC polls, to which he said the party high command will stand by the sentiments of the leaders in Mumbai. Going solo will help the party in expanding our base in Mumbai by giving fair opportunity to the workers who have been working hard for five years. Secondly, it will also help us in not carrying the baggage of anti-incumbency of the Shiv Sena which is in the power for more than 25 years.”Patole’s announcement of going independent had invited sharp reaction from its two ruling allies. The NCP had taunted Patole saying there was no harm in dreaming to become chief minister. Sena’s Sanjay Raut had said if the Congress decides to go solo, other two ruling parties will have to come together in the interest of the state.The state and city units of the Congress are celebrating party leader Rahul Gandhi’s birthday as Sankalp Divas. Former minister and party MLA Sunil Deshmukh is set to rejoin the party on Saturday in the presence of key party leaders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/congress-discusses-plan-to-go-solo-in-mumbai-civic-polls-101624039405707.html
18-06-2021||Other||Woman cop helps save abandoned new-born||PRAYAGRAJ: Timely response by a woman police constable helped save the life of a new-born girl who was found abandoned in the bushes in a village under Koraon police station of trans-Yamuna region here on Friday morning. The woman cop lost no time in taking the new-born to the hospital where she was given treatment. Locals and senior police officials appreciated the efforts of the police team, especially the woman cop who saved the life of the new-born and tended to her. According to reports, some women heard the wails of a new-born from deep inside the thick bushes at Pasna Jawain village and informed police. A team of Koraon police on patrol duty immediately rushed to the spot. Woman constable Pihu Singh lost no time in entering the thick vegetation and rescuing the new-born girl who was left alone to die amid rain and threat of wild animals. Constable Pihu wrapped the new-born in her arms to give her warmth while she was rushed to a local hospital. The doctors there informed that the baby was born only a few hours back. After being given primary treatment, she was taken to another hospital in the city by constable Pihu where the new-born is kept under watch of a child specialist. The immediate response given by police team and outstanding efforts of constable Pihu Singh were appreciated by locals. SP trans-Yamuna Saurabh Dixit said the woman constable’s efforts to save the new-born’s life were worth appreciating. Such acts helped in bridging the gap between police and common people, he added. To note, some time back, two constables on night duty helped a family in taking a pregnant woman to a nearby hospital after their auto had a breakdown at midnight in trans-Yamuna area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/woman-cop-helps-save-abandoned-newborn-101624039345741.html
18-06-2021||Other||BJP using state machinery to secure votes for its candidates, says Akhilesh||LUCKNOW Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav on Friday alleged that the ruling BJP in UP was misusing official machinery to intimidate panchayat members to force them to vote for its candidates in the upcoming zila panchayat chairperson polls. Earlier, Yadav had also accused the BJP of engaging in horse-trading for the polls.He said the SP had recently complained to the state police chief in this regard, but to no avail.Polling for the election of zila panchayat chairpersons in UP will be held on July 3. ZP chiefs are elected indirectly from among the members of zila panchayats of various districts.A statement issued by the SP quoted Yadav as saying, “The BJP is upset over its defeat in the panchayat elections. Not having the numbers, the distraught BJP leadership is misusing government machinery to ensure that their party nominees win the posts of zila panchayat chairpersons.” “This is a gross misuse of power and democracy is in danger due to these repressive policies,” he added.In the UP panchayat elections held in April, the BJP won just eight out of the 40 zila panchayat seats in Ayodhya while the SP claimed that candidates it backed won 22 seats.The result was particularly poor for the BJP in the Sohawal sub-district with the party drawing a blank. The SP claimed to have won three of the four zila panchayat seats there, leaving one for an independent candidate.Yadav alleged that in Auraiya, Mainpuri, Firozabad, Etah, Hapur, Siddharthnagar, Rampur, Gorakhpur and Farrukhabad, the BJP is openly victimising elected zila panchayat members of the SP and those supported by it.He claimed that family members of panchayat members are also being harassed in different ways.Yadav warned the BJP that it will have to face “massive public outrage” if it tries to get its people elected as zila panchayat chairpersons by misusing police, administration and power of money.In another release, SP spokesperson Rajendra Chaudhary said the party has suspended former zila panchayat chairman of Baghpat, Omkar Yadav, and former district unit president, Kiran Pal alias ‘Billu’, for six years for indulging in “anti-party activities.” (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bjp-using-state-machinery-to-secure-votes-for-its-candidates-says-akhilesh-101624039165680.html
18-06-2021||Other||A website to generatejobs for LGBT group||LUCKNOW: Getting a decent job would no longer be a struggle for people belonging to the LGBT (lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender) community. thanks to Yadavendra Singh Darvesh, a part of Awadh Queer Pride Community and a social activist who has developed a one-of-its-kind website to connect them to the employers. Darvesh, who himself is a web designer, said the website would not only bridge the gap between the employers and the talented people of the LGBT community but also showcase their talent in such a way that it would help them in getting jobs. “The website—www.queerlancers.in deals in different streams, including digital marketing, graphic designing, make-up and hair styling, photography, lifestyle, dance etc. For example, if anyone from our group wants to opt for a job as a make-up artist, he/she can select the make-up artist section and upload profile, biodata, work experience and images. It will be a sort of a portfolio, which we will further showcase through social media and other platforms to ensure that the applicant gets a decent job. We are doing it for free,” said Darvesh. He said the aim behind the move was to generate employment for the people of the LGBT community. He said initially, they were offering only freelancer job but in the later phases they would also be offering full time job opportunities. In mere two days of launch, he got more than 80 queries from the people not only from UP but also from other states, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/a-website-to-generatejobs-for-lgbt-group-101624039105662.html
18-06-2021||Other||662 new Covid cases, eight deaths in J&K||Jammu and Kashmir recorded 662 new Covid cases and eight deaths in the last 24 hours, as per the health bulletin issued on Friday.Of the total, 443 cases came from the Kashmir valley while 249 were from the Jammu division. Both divisions reported four deaths each. Officials said with 133 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new infections. The infections in other 19 districts remained below 100, with three districts —Shopian, Reasi and Samba—reporting cases in single digits.Besides, 1,171 persons, including 633 from Kashmir and 548 from Jammu, also recovered from the infection on Friday, taking the active case count down to 10,094. Since the outbreak last year, the UT has recorded 3,10,688 cases and 4,234 deaths. So far, 2, 96,630 persons have recovered from the infection and the UT’s current recovery rate stands at 95.5 %. The last time, the UT saw a recovery rate above 95% was on April 6.From June 7, the UT’s daily toll has mostly remained below the 20-mark. During the peak of the second wave in May, the UT’s daily cases had gone up to 5,443 on May 7 while the highest single-day toll was seen on May 17 with 73 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/662-new-covid-cases-eight-deaths-in-jk-101624039046410.html
18-06-2021||Other||BKU (Asli) embarks on ‘Mission 1000 villages’ to intensify farmers’ stir||MEERUT Leaders and supporters of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Asli) will intensify the ongoing farmers’ movement in Uttar Pradesh through their Mission 1000 villages’ ‘to develop it on the lines of Punjab and Haryana. ‘Mission 1000 villages’ means reaching out to people in 1000 villages of west UP and associating them with the farmers’ stir, as per farmer leader Harpal Singh Bilari who leads the BKU (Asli). Bilari worked with stalwart farmer leader Mahendra Singh Tikait since the beginning of the BKU’s movement in 1987. He was among the four farmer leaders who were booked under NSA in 1997 after they carried out a 110-day movement which resulted in the death of five farmers in police firing. He formed his own organisation BKU( Asli) after the death of Mahendra Singh Tikait in 2011 and has been raising issues of farmers. Bilari is now associated with the 40-member Samyukt Kisan Morcha, which is spearheading the farmers movement. The veteran farmer leader said that farmers were protesting against the three contentious farm laws for over six months but the government had no time for a dialogue with them to resolve the issue. Under such circumstances it was now time to intensify the movement in Uttar Pradesh on the lines of Punjab and Haryana. “A more intensified movement in UP would mount pressure on the government as the state will go to election in the beginning of next year,” said Bilari who has conceptualized ‘ Mission 1000 villages’. Elaborating upon his mission, he said the idea was to reach out to people in 1000 villages of western UP in the coming three months and to associate villagers, especially youngsters, with the movement. “I have started visiting villages since the past one week and so far, covered over 100 villages,” claimed Bilari who has set a target of visiting at least 12 villages daily. The organization’s general secretary Surendra Singh claimed to have received overwhelming response in villages because according to him, in the past six months people had understood importance of the movement. “Legalization of minimum support price (MSP) and repeal of the three farm laws are the demands of protesting farmers and in villages, people now understand their importance. They are, therefore, extending support to the movement”, said Singh. Bilari has visited villages in Sambhal and Amroha districts along with other farmer leaders and supporters and in coming days, they will meet farmers and villagers in Bulandshahr, Hapur, Hathras, Amroha, Rampur, Badaun and Moradabad districts of western UP. The farmers’ leaders aim to associate village youths with the movement, so they get involved in activities which fascinate youngsters. During his visit to Gelua village of Sambhal district, Bilari inaugurated an inter village cricket match and in Mandli village he distributed prizes to cricketers.“Involvement in such activities helps in bringing youngsters closer to us and the movement as well”, he explained. Meanwhile, in its bid to mobilize the masses, the organisation has planned a ‘vehicle rally’ on June 21 in which more than 300 vehicles would gather at Gajraula town of Amroha district and reach Ghazipur border in Delhi after covering a distance of almost 100 kms. The organisation has also planned two big rallies in Dhanaura of Bijnor district and in Sambhal in July to give momentum to the movement. Bilari and his team believe that instead of staging dharna at toll plazas of Meerut and Moradabad regions, supporters of BKU who follow the directions of Rakesh and Naresh Tikait should make all toll plazas free. “It is beyond my understanding why they are simply staging dharna at toll plazas since May 26. They should get them made free for passengers as farmers had done in Haryana and Punjab. Only then would the government listen to farmers,” he said. Bilari advised Rakesh Tikait to let his activists free toll plazas in Meerut and Saharanpur regions and said BKU (Asli) would ensure the same in Moradabad division. The veteran farmer leader advised the Tikait brothers to go hard against the state government and said only then would the state government listen to them. Earlier, Bilari had organised rallies in Bilari, Rajabpur, Bulandshahr and Amroha in which farmers’ leaders Gurnam Singh Chadhuni, Yogendra Yadav, Rajowal and Medha Patekar shared the dais to address farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bku-asli-embarks-on-mission-1000-villages-to-intensify-farmers-stir-101624038865698.html
18-06-2021||Other||344 new infections take Himachal’s caseload past 2 lakh-mark||With 344 more testing positive for Covid in Himachal on Friday, the state’s caseload went past the 2 lakh-mark. The hill state’s cumulative case count since the outbreak last year now stands at 2,00,043 while the toll mounted to 3,413 after five patients succumbed to the infection.59 of CHTS Dharamshal test +ve Of the new cases, the highest, 123, were reported in Kangra. The College of Higher Tibetan Studies (CHTS) has emerged as the new hotspot with 58 more students and staff members testing positive. About 70 people have tested positive at CHTS in three days.Six people had tested positive on Wednesday and 12 on Thursday. The patients have been isolated at CHTS campus which has been declared a containment zone.Fatality ratio at 1.7%Meanwhile, 43 cases were reported in Chamba, 39 in Mandi, 37 in Hamirpur, 24 in Shimla, 21 in Sirmaur, 19 in Kullu, 16 in Bilaspur, nine in Una, 6 in Solan, four in Kinnaur and three in Lahaul-Spiti.Three fatalities were reported in Kangra and one each in Hamirpur and Chamba. The case fatality ratio in the state stands at 1.7%, which is higher than the national average. Recoveries have reached 1,93,418 after 576 people recuperated. The recovery rate is now 96.7%. Active cases have come down to 3,193.Kangra has highest 796 active cases. In all other districts, the figure stands below 500. Shimla has 366 active cases, Mandi 344 and Chamba 322.In terms of the caseload, Kangra remains the worst hit district with 45,593 cases so far followed by Mandi where 26,850 people have been tested positive to date and Shimla with 24,869 cases. Solan has 22,111 cases, Sirmaur 15,228, Hamirpur 14,226, Una 13,163, Bilaspur 12,510, Chamba 10,883, Kullu, 8,728, Kinnaur 3,192 and Lahaul-Spiti 2,690.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/344-new-infections-take-hp-s-caseload-past-2-lakhmark-101624038746346.html
18-06-2021||Other||30 children test Covid +ve in Varanasi since June 1||The health department has conducted Covid-19 test of 24,500 children in Varanasi district in the last 17 days in which 30 kids have tested positive for the viral infection, said an official. “Of the 30, four children were in the age bracket of 0-5 years while the remaining 26 were in the age group of 6 to 18. All of them are under treatment and on path of recovery,” said additional chief medical officer and chief surveillance officer, Varanasi, Dr SS Kanaujia. He said the health department had launched the testing drive of children on June 1 and since then, on an average, 1400 samples of children were collected daily.“The health department teams were paying special focus in rural areas and testing both symptomatic and non-symptomatic children. The step is being taken as a measure to deal with possible third wave of Covid-19,” he said.Dr Kanaujia said the teams were also motivating parents to go for vaccination and in case their child has symptoms of Covid-19 they must get the test done. The department also plans to distribute 12285 Covid-19 medicine kits among the children having symptoms of the infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/30-children-test-covid-ve-in-varanasi-since-june-1-101624038628007.html
18-06-2021||Lucknow||Yogi says no need to panic but caution must on Covid-19 front||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday said there was no need to panic on the Covid-19 front but caution was necessary as carelessness could be dangerous.The chief minister was in Ballia and Varanasi to take stock of Covid management and government schemes at the grassroots level.In Ballia, he said, “After successfully controlling the second wave of Covid-19, we are preparing for the probable third wave. Although, there is no need to panic, caution is necessary. The current season invites all kinds of diseases like dengue, chikungunya, malaria and encephalitis among others. Considering the sensitivity of the area, the state government has started preparations in this regard, be it cleanliness, sanitisation, fogging or aggressive vaccination.”He also said 73,000 nigrani samitis (monitoring committees) will conduct door-to-door screening in villages to identify children with symptoms like fever, cough and provide them with medicine kits from June 26.Those found with fever or cough-like symptoms will be examined by the Rapid Response Teams (RRTs), if needed.The chief minister also said the state had administered more than 2.46 crore (24.6 million) vaccine doses till now.“From June 21, the state will start administering around six lakhs doses a day, while from July the target is to give at least 10 to 12 lakh (1-1.2 million) doses every day. Vaccination will also take place in the village panchayat ghar.”He also inspected the Ballia district hospital where he interacted with patients in the post-Covid ward.In Varanasi, he instructed officials to ensure the oxygen plant at the Haathi Bazar community health centre was installed at the earliest.Yogi, who recently adopted the 30-bed CHC, provided 10 oxygen concentrators to it on Friday. The CM also inspected 44.25- km under construction Ring Road Phase-2 near Harhua. CM interacts with children, distributes giftsChief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday interacted with five eligible children under Uttar Pradesh Mukhyamantri Bal Seva Yojna in Gorakhpur. He asked about their well-being and distributed gifts to the children. He reiterated the state government will take the responsibility of the upbringing and education of children who have lost their parents or an earning member of the household due to Covid-19,Yogi said 174 children in Gorakhpur district had been identified under the Bal Seva Yojana. He visited a shelter home on Jail Road to meet orphaned children up to 10 years of age and gave fruits and clothes to them. The children recited Gayatri mantra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/yogi-says-no-need-to-panic-but-caution-must-on-covid-19-front-101624037846126.html
18-06-2021||Other||After Agra incident, pan-UP drive to identify, plug inactive borewells||The Uttar Pradesh government will undertake a 10-day, pan-UP, extensive drive to cover open borewells and manholes in the state. It has ordered all district magistrates to undertake this ‘time-bound’ and ‘important’ drive in both rural and urban areas of their districts between June 20 and June 30 on top priority and ensure that no open borewell holes remain in any district, officials said.The move follows UP CM Yogi Adityanath taking cognisance of the latest incident in which a four-year-old child fell into a 150-foot-deep open borewell while playing, in Dhariyai village, in Agra, on June 14, necessitating a rescue operation that lasted eight hours, they added.Additional Chief Secretary (revenue) Renuka Kumar in a missive dated June 17 and marked ‘Time-bound/Important’ sent to all DMs, has also instructed that the DMs provide date-wise information regarding open or unsafe borewells identified and made safe as part of the exercise and the count of remaining borewells that are yet to be made safe in the given format through e-mail after the conclusion of the drive.Kumar also reminded the district officials that the UP relief commissioner, through his missive dated June 6, 2019, has provided the districts a copy of the standard operating procedure prepared by the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) to be followed in case of an incident concerning an open borewell. The exercise will be undertaken involving lekhpals, gram pradhans and gram secretaries besides beat constables and sanitation staff as desired by the state government to identify open borewells and to plug them, a district administration official in the know of the development, said.Children falling into open borewells are not new to Uttar Pradesh. Even before the June 14 Agra incident, a number of children have fallen into borewells and many have lost their lives. A four-year-old boy had fallen into a borewell in Budhaura village of Mahoba on December 2, 2020 and could not be saved despite an 18-hour rescue operation. Likewise, a five-year-old boy had fallen into a 100-feet deep borewell at Agaryala village of Mathura while plucking fruits on April 13, 2019 and could be saved only after an eight-hour rescue operation.On April 4, 2019, another eight-year-old girl Seema had fallen into a 60-foot borewell, in Rashidpur village, in Farrukhabad district and could not be saved despite a two-day rescue exercise. In 2012 as many as 19 children had lost their lives in Uttar Pradesh by falling into borewells.In February 2010, the Supreme Court had issued guidelines directing all borewell owners to notify the DM concerned to fill up abandoned borewells. The NDRF recommends filling these holes with mud, pebbles and clay.The ProblemA borewell is a deep, narrow hole drilled into ground from which water is drawn using a pipe and pump Borewells are usually small in diameter ranging from 4.5 inches to 12 inchesIndia has over 27 million borewells with several now abandoned because they no longer supply waterWhen a borewell dries up, its cover is removed and the pipe pulled out, leaving behind a naked hole that causes accidents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/after-agra-incident-pan-up-drive-to-identify-plug-inactive-borewells-101624037306230.html
18-06-2021||Lucknow||Making solar plants more viable: UP units to get life-long power-banking facility||Solar plants in Uttar Pradesh will now get a life-long, power-banking facility, a process under which they will be able to deposit excess power in the grid and withdraw it when they need to sell it to customers.Using its exceptional powers under the section 108 of the Electricity Act, 2003, the state government has directed the UP Electricity Regulatory Commission (UPERC) to make necessary changes in its current regulations to pave the way for the power-banking facility for solar plants during their entire life term. Tamil Nadu and Chhattisgarh are said to be the only two other states in the country to have made provisions for power-banking facility for an open-ended period for renewable power-generating plants.According to government officials, the move will save solar power-generating companies from financial losses they suffer on account of wastage of excess power, apart from helping new investors get the projects financed easily. “In a meeting chaired by the additional chief secretary, energy and renewable energy, on January 23, 2021, it was decided that the power-banking facility will be provided to all solar energy-generating units commissioned during the Solar Policy-2017 till they complete their life or for 25 years from the date of their commissioning, whichever earlier offer a long-term clarity and certainty to investors and financiers,” Alok Sinha, additional chief secretary, energy, wrote in a letter to UPERC on June 15.“The government, therefore, directs the UPERC, using its powers under the section 108 of the Electricity Act, 2003 to act in accordance with the decision taken by it under the Solar Policy-2017 in the larger public interest,” Sinha added in the letter.According to New and Renewable Energy Development Agency (NEDA) director, Bhawani Singh Khagrawat, under the existing provisions known as UPERC (Captive and Renewable Energy Generating Plants) Regulations, 2019, the power-banking facility to solar plants is available only for five years and till March 31, 2024.“This was creating a state of uncertainty about what would happen after 2024, and the investors were also finding it difficult to get their projects financed for the same reason. Now, the government directions to the UPERC will make it possible for these plants to enjoy the power-banking facility during their whole useful life,” he said.The government is learnt to have issued the directions after the UPERC expressed its unwillingness to make changes in the existing regulations which it said were valid only up to March 31, 2024. Welcoming the government decision, Alok Verma of Amplus Solar said, “The decision will bring much needed certainty in the policy and also make solar plants financially more viable in UP.” He said the power-banking facility for an open-ended period was a must because there were times when solar plants generated excess power and without the banking facility the excess power generated would get wasted, incurring losses to investors. “Banking of power is a process under which a generating plant supplies power to the grid not with the intent of selling it to either a third party or to a licensee, but with the intention of exercising its eligibility to draw back this power from the grid within the time period and against the charges as specified under the rules,” Verma explained.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/making-solar-plants-more-viable-up-units-to-get-life-long-power-banking-facility-101624037005563.html
18-06-2021||Other||UP govt to connect all CHCs, PHCs to main roads||LUCKNOW To provide people easy access to proper healthcare facilities, the UP government will connect all primary health centres (PHCs) and community health centres (CHCs) in both rural and urban areas to the main roads. This comes at a time when public representatives are bolstering these facilities as part of the government’s preparations to tackle the possible third wave of the Covid pandemic.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has issued directives to substantially expand road connectivity in a systematic manner to connect all PHCs and CHCs in UP to the main routes so that medical facilities are within the reach of people, said a government statement.There are 3,011 PHCs and 855 CHCs across the state. While the number of PHCs in the urban areas is about 592, the state capital has over 9 CHCs, 28 PHCs, 52 health post centres and eight urban PHCs.The urban development department, municipal corporations, the PWD, gram panchayats and urban/rural bodies have been given the responsibility to improve the road network.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-govt-to-connect-all-chcs-phcs-to-main-roads-101624036345531.html
18-06-2021||Other||HC asks UP govt to apprise it of steps taken to meet challenges of pandemic||PRAYAGRAJ The Allahabad high court directed the state government to apprise it of the steps taken to meet the challenges of the pandemic and to upgrade the primary health centres (PHCs) and community health centres (CHCs) across UP.The court passed the order as the state government, in its affidavit filed in high court, had ‘not divulged’ in respect of the steps taken by it to upgrade the PHCs and CHCs by posting doctors and paramedical staff, etc.The bench comprising chief justice Sanjay Yadav and justice Prakash Padia passed the order on a suo motu public interest litigation (PIL) on ‘conditions of quarantine centres and providing better treatment to corona positive people’ in Uttar Pradesh.During the course of hearing, the court took note of the affidavits filed by the state government. The state government, in its affidavit, said it was monitoring the pandemic situation regularly through the Integrated Covid Control and Health Command Centre (ICCC). It further stated that 73 Covid hospitals had been established in Lucknow district and 33 L-1, 23 L-2 and 12 L-3 Level hospitals were functional in Lucknow.After going through the affidavit, the court said: “However, we perceive that the state government has not divulged in respect of the steps taken by it to upgrade the PHCs and CHCs by posting doctors and paramedical staff as well as upgrading the infrastructure therein.”“In view whereof, let an affidavit be filed by the state government disclosing the present status with regard to the action taken by it to meet out the challenge of the pandemic across the state. Information in respect of the plan to meet out the future challenges be also adverted to; as also the steps taken by the state government to upgrade the PHCs and CHCs across the state”, said the bench while directing to list the case again on July 8 for hearing.The order was passed on June 17, which came in public domain on June 18.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hc-asks-up-govt-to-apprise-it-of-steps-taken-to-meet-challenges-of-pandemic-101624036165554.html
18-06-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 1,607 new Covid cases, 4 deaths||Pune: As 1,607 new Covid-19 cases were reported in the district on Friday, the district’s total count went up to 1.041 million cases of which 1.007 million have recovered, 16,069 declared dead and 17,888 are active cases undergoing treatment in hospitals or are in home isolation. Also, four more deaths were reported in the district in 24 hours, according to the state health department. As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 981 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 302,772 and with two more deaths the death toll stood at 5,537. Pune city reported 470 new cases which took the progressive count to 490,930 and Pune city reported zero deaths on the day the toll went up to 7,957 while PCMC reported 156 new Covid cases and progressive count went up to 248,014, and with two more death the toll stood at 2,387. The state reported that 14,347 patients were discharged on Friday and totally 5,699,983 Covid patients have been discharged after full recovery until Friday. The recovery rate in the state is 95.73%. Also, 9,798 new cases and 198 Covid deaths were reported in the state on Friday. The case fatality rate in the state is 1.96%. Of 39,078,541 laboratory samples, 5,954,508 have been tested positive (15.24%) for Covid until Friday. Currently, 854,461 people are in home quarantine and 4,831 people are in institutional quarantine. Vax drive The Pune Municipal Corporation would soon begin vaccination for those aged above 30 years, tweeted additional municipal commissioner Rubal Agarwal. However, no further details were disclosed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-1-607-new-covid-cases-4-deaths-101624035565548.html
18-06-2021||Other||UP may soon see top level administrative reshuffle||LUCKNOW The UP government may go for a long pending administrative reshuffle soon at the top level to fill up posts lying vacant or likely to fall vacant in the next two weeks. The state government’s likely moves to spruce up the administration and give a message of change ahead of 2022 assembly elections are being watched with keen interest. UP Revenue Board chairman’s post is lying vacant for over one and a half months after the death of incumbent Deepak Trivedi. A 1985 batch IAS officer of the state cadre, Trivedi died on April 29, 2021 while undergoing treatment for Covid. Trivedi, who also held the position of UP IAS Association chairman, was due to retire on April 30, 2021. UP DGP HC Awasthy, a 1985 batch IPS officer of the state, is due to retire on June 30, 2021. The state government’s handling of the Covid situation during the first wave had received a lot of praise. However, it has been under attack for ‘failure’ to handle the second wave and top level changes may be considered as part of a damage-control exercise. Will the axe fall on the chief secy? This is the million-dollar question in the corridors of power. Chief secretary RK Tiwari is the senior-most IAS officer of the 1985 batch. He is known for his integrity and being upright. Tiwari has a long tenure ahead and is due to retire early in 2023. Any change on the top post may provide an opportunity for some officers of the 1986 and 1987 batches who may otherwise retire before Tiwari’s superannuation. The state government also has to take a call on appointments on other key posts. It has not made any appointment on the post of social welfare commissioner lying vacant for a long period. Infrastructure and industrial development commissioner’s (IIDC) post also does not have a full-time appointee after incumbent Alok Tandon was relieved for central deputation. Additional chief secretary, planning, Kumar Kamlesh is due to retire on June 30, 2021 while another ACS Renuka Kumar has been appointed as secretary to union government. The state government’s move to fill up these posts will result in a reshuffle. The state government continues to make appointments on various posts and it’s a continuous process, said an official spokesman. Senior officers refused to comment on the DGP’s post. Those aware of the developments said a panel of senior IPS officers has been sent to the Union Public Service Commission for selection of the new DGP and a decision may be taken by the end of this month. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-may-soon-see-top-level-administrative-reshuffle-101624034666086.html
18-06-2021||Pune||Ajit Pawar to inaugurate NCP party office in Pune on Saturday||PUNE: Pune district guardian minister Ajit Pawar will inaugurate the Nationalist Congress Party’s (NCP) city office on Saturday. Though Pune district is the home district of the NCP and the party’s president Sharad Pawar is from the city, the party did not have its own office. The party leaders were in discussion for long to have its own spacious office in the central part of the city. Ajit Pawar had instructed the party workers to identify a new location as NCP’s present office located at Tilak road was small and on rent basis. Party’s city unit president Prashant Jagtap said, “NCP will be shifting to its new office located near Dengle bridge. It is near Pune Municipal Corporation headquarters, Congress Bhavan and metro station. The new party office will have all modern amenities.” Jagtap said, “The new office is accessible to workers from all parts of the city. It has enough parking place. Now the party can hold its meeting at its own premises. Earlier, the party had to book hotels or go outstation to conduct meetings.” NCP members said that by considering the upcoming municipal elections, the party’s new office will help workers to assemble and chalk out strategies and programmes under one roof.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/ajit-pawar-to-inaugurate-ncp-party-office-in-pune-on-saturday-101624034665457.html
18-06-2021||Pune||BJGMC study shows measles containing vaccine may protect kids from Covid infection||Pune: A study conducted by Pune’s BJ Government Medical College (BJGMC) attached with Sassoon General Hospital on children aged below 18 years, who tested positive for Covid-19 infection, shows that those vaccinated with Measles Containing Vaccines (MCVs) had milder symptoms than those who were not. The observational study showed that MCVs which are part of India’s routine immunisation programme have an effectiveness of 87.5% against the SARS-CoV-2 virus that causes the Covid infection.The study was conducted by the BJ medical college researchers from the Department of Community Medicine, in collaboration with paediatrician- private practitioner Dr Nilesh Gujar and was funded by the Serum Institute of India (SII). Dr Gujar, who first brought up the hypothesis, said that the study needs further clinical trials for confirmation. If proven, the study could help prevent the third wave among kids as a massive immunisation drive of children and adults alike with MCV’s vaccines, which are present in large quantities as well, could minimise severity of the Covid infection.In India, measles vaccine became part of the Universal Immunisation Programme (UIP) in 1985 as a single dose at nine months of age. A mass immunisation campaign was conducted in the country in 2017–2018 with the measles and rubella (MR) vaccine, targeting 410 million children aged nine months to 15 years. Since then, measles vaccine in UIP has been replaced by MR vaccine, in a two-dose schedule at 9–12 months and 16–24 months, respectively, said Dr Gujar.The study included 548 children aged between 1-17 years who has tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 infection through reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) between March 2020 and July 31, 2020 and living within the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) jurisdiction. The results demonstrated that MCVs had a vaccine effectiveness of 87.5% against SARS-CoV-2 infection. It was also observed that the vaccinated participants had less severe symptoms of Covid compared to the unvaccinated participants.Dr Malangori Parande, who is a researcher in BJGMC said, “Although the study is promising, it should be noted that this was a retrospective case-control study and such studies may have certain limitations. Results obtained in this study need to be confirmed further through prospective randomised controlled clinical trials before a definitive conclusion about the protection offered by MCVs against SARS-CoV-2 infection can be made.”The results of the study were recently published in the journal of Human Vaccines & Immunotherapeutics.Explaining why MCV vaccines could work against Covid, Dr Gujar said, “There could be two reasons as to why the MCV’s work against Covid which are, one in case of rubella vaccines, the macro domains of SARS-CoV-2 and rubella virus share 29% amino acid sequence identity, suggesting they have the same protein fold and second for measles vaccines the spike S of coronavirus and Hemagglutinin H of measles virus have a critical involvement in receptor recognition, as well as virus attachment and entity.”He said that since the ACE 2 receptor is not present in kids and the childhood vaccination could be the reason why the incidences of Covid positive cases among kids is low compared to adults.Dr Parande said that documentary proof of MCV vaccination was asked and those who were symptomatic only had fever, cold and cough and they were not vaccinated with NCV while the asymptomatic positives who were vaccinated had to be tested as their close contacts had tested positive for Covid.The enrolled participants included 274 SARS-CoV-2 positive cases (216 vaccinated and 58 unvaccinated) along with 274 SARS-CoV-2 negative controls (265 vaccinated and 9 unvaccinated). Of the 274 cases, 180 (65.7%) were asymptomatic while 94 (34.3%) were symptomatic, all with mild severity. The number of participants with symptomatic SARS-CoV-2 infection was significantly lower in the vaccinated group compared to the unvaccinated group. Dr Gujar said that the study if taken forward could initiate mass immunisation of adults too with MCV’s as most of the adults now have got only one shot of the vaccine whereas the Indian Paediatric Association had recommended in 2018 that three doses of MCV’s could be given for better immunity. Dr Nilesh Gujar, Dr Murlidhar Tambe, dean of BJGMC, from BJGMC community Medicine department, Dr Malangori Palande, Dr Ganesh Jagdale and Dr Nandkumar Salunkhe participated in the study. Dr Sarah G Anderson from Dept of Biostatistics, Emmes Services Pvt ltd and from Serum Institute of India (SII) Abhijeet Dharmadhikari, Prasad Kulkarni and Anand Lakhkar also participated in the study.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/bjgmc-study-shows-measles-containing-vaccine-may-protect-kids-from-covid-infection-101624034065478.html
18-06-2021||Ranchi||HC restrains police from taking coercive action against suspended IPS officer||The Jharkhand high court on Friday restrained authorities from taking any coercive action against suspended senior IPS officer Anurag Gupta, who is allegedly involved in 2016 Rajya Sabha horse trading case, till August 11.The bench of justice SK Dwivedi, however, didn’t impose any restriction on authorities to carry out its ongoing investigation against Gupta.The court also sought a reply from the government in response to Gupta’s petition challenging police decision to invoke charges under the Prevention of Corruption (PC) Act against him.Gupta informed the court that the police invoked corruption charges against him without a forensic report .Controversy gripped the 2016 Rajya Sabha biennial polls after BJP candidates Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi and Mahesh Poddar made it to the upper house on two vacant seats from Jharkhand, election for which was held on June 11 that year.The election of the BJP’s second candidate Poddar sprung a surprise as the party didn’t have sufficient number of votes.Soon after the elections, Jharkhand Vikas Morcha (Prajatantrik) chief Babulal Marandi lodged complaint with the Election Commission of India (ECI).Marandi, who is now BJP’s leader of opposition, annexed a compact disc (CD) with his complaint that contained telephonic conversations among the then additional director general, CID, Anurag Gupta, the then chief minister Rahubar Das’ political advisor Ajay Kumar and a former Congress minister Yogendra Sao, whose wife Nirmala Devi was then a sitting legislator.It was alleged that Gupta and Kumar coerced Sao to convince his wife Devi not to vote in the polls.Following ECI’s direction, the state government lodged named FIR against Gupta and Kumar.Gupta on Friday informed the court that the police, without having a forensic report about the veracity of the CD, invoked corruption charges against him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/hc-restrains-police-from-taking-coercive-action-against-suspended-ips-officer-101624034006681.html
18-06-2021||Other||Saryu Roy highlights more anomalies in auction of iron ore mines, stocks||Jamshedpur (East) MLA Saryu Roy has tweeted to chief minister (CM) Hemant Soren, demanding stalling of auction of “illegally mined” iron ore stock from Ajitaburu mine leased to a firm in West Singhbhum district.“The state mining department has done unpardonable offence by coming out with auction notice for 17 lakh tonnes of iron ore without inspecting and assessing 12 hectares of mining area out of 46 hectares leased to M/S Debuka Bhai Belji. Technical and administrative officials in the mining department are idiots or shrewd! Stop them and save the state from huge revenue loss,” Roy said while tagging CM Soren in a tweet on Thursday.The state mining department came out with a tender for Ajitaburu iron and manganese block on June 14, with July 13 being the last date for submission and July 14 as the tender opening date. The state mining department has estimated that this mine, spread over 46.62 hectares, has 17.538 million tonnes of iron ore and 2.318 million tonnes of manganese reserve. The lease of M/S Debuka Bhai Belji expired on March 31, 2020 after the state government cancelled mining lease of over three dozen mines. Only the mines belonging to Tata Steel and Steel Authority of India Limited (SAIL) have currently been operational, while the lease of one M/S Anil Khirwal was still in effect. Jharkhand has about ₹20,000 crore revenue dues pending on 187 iron ore, manganese and coal mining companies.Roy, in another tweet, questioned the legality of the decision by the West Singhbhum district mining officer (DMO). “How did the DMO give permission to transport iron ore from a closed mine to Vishakhapatnam by rail route to M/S Global Traders and M/S Animesh Ispat,” Roy asked. Tender notice for stock auction of Thakurani and Rajabera mines leased to M/S Padma Kumar Jain has already triggered controversy over difference grading percentage of the illegally mined iron ore and fines stocked. The state government in 2017 cancelled leases of the two aforementioned mines in wake of the amended Mines and Minerals (development and regulations) Act, 2015 (MMDR Act) and a Supreme Court (SC) order in this regard. The government raised a fine of ₹334 crore on Thakurani Mine and ₹7 crore on Rajabera mine on charges of illegal mining, which is now to be realised by auctioning the stocked iron ore and fines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/saryu-roy-highlights-more-anomalies-in-auction-of-iron-ore-mines-stocks-101624034005348.html
18-06-2021||Other||Remdesivir blackmarketing probe: HC pulls up govt for transferring CID official||Ranchi: The Jharkhand high court has pulled up the state government for transferring additional director general (ADG) of crime investigation department (CID) Anil Palta amid the ongoing probe into alleged Remdesivir injection blackmarketing case, which is being monitored by the court.A division bench of chief justice Dr Ravi Ranjan and justice Sujit Narayan Prasad observed that the government should have taken permission from the court before transferring the ADG.“The government knows that the above case is being monitored by the high court. Then what was the hurry to transfer the officer heading the department. It seems that the transfer was done to influence the ongoing investigation,” the bench observed. It added, “Remdesivir blackmarketing case can be transferred to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) for a thorough probe.” The bench, however, sought an explanation from the government in this regard by June 21. It said the court will take a final decision only after inspecting the government’s reply.The matter relates to suo moto cognisance taken by the high court over Covid-19 issues in the state in April last year.The recent development in the case came before the court after lawyer Rajendra Krishna filed an interlocutory application, questioning the government’s decision to transfer the ADG. He said the ADG earlier appeared before the court and assured free and fair investigation into the above case. “However, hardly few days later, Palta was transferred, raising suspicion about the fate of the above case,” he said, urging the court to quash the transfer order.Responding to this, the bench asked the advocate general (AG) as to why the government didn’t take the court’s permission before transferring the ADG. “There are several orders of the Supreme Court and the high courts that clearly say that the government must take court’s prior permission for transferring an officer connected with cases under court’s monitoring,” the bench said.The AG, however, informed the court that the ADG’s transfer was a routine matter. He was not the investigating officer of the case. The senior official, who replaced him, is equally competent and the ongoing probe into the case will not be influenced in any manner, the AG said.The court, however, observed that people infected with coronavirus didn’t get Remdesivir injection on time that led to many deaths. “The medicine was sold in black market, which is a very serious issue,” the bench said.The AG informed that he will inform the court after seeking government’s instruction. After some time, he informed that the government will set up a special investigation team (SIT) under Palta in this matter.The bench asked the government to furnish its decision in writing by filing an affidavit by Monday.The bench also enquired the CBI’s counsel if the agency will investigate the matter. The counsel said the CBI will probe the case only after the court’s order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/remdesivir-blackmarketing-probe-hc-pulls-up-govt-for-transferring-cid-official-101624034005980.html
18-06-2021||Ranchi||BJP protests in farms over paddy procurement, payment to farmers||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers and leaders led by state president Deepak Prakash demonstrated in agriculture fields across the state, accusing the government of failing farmers by not procuring enough paddy and delay in payment against paddy procurement.Several members of Parliament, MLAs and senior office bearers of the party joined the protest in their respective constituencies on Friday, even as the ruling party leaders led by agriculture minister Badal Patralekh hit back, reminding the BJP of its government’s performance in agriculture sector in the past.“This anti-farmer and anti-poor government has cheated people. Last year, despite the Covid-19 crisis, the farmers yielded record paddy. On November 7, the chief minister announced that the government will procure paddy. But within days, state finance minister and Congress chief said they won’t buy paddy as it was not dry. This exposed the government’s claims. Even for the paddy that has been procured, the government has not paid the farmers till now,” said Prakash.The party chief was addressing farmers and party workers at a protest site in a village under Ranchi’s Kanke block. The BJP leader also accused the state government of discontinuing the pro-farmer scheme of providing ₹25,000 to registered farmers every year of the previous Raghubar Das government.Reacting to the allegations, state agriculture minister said the saffron party’s leaders need to check the records of their own previous government in providing relief to farmers. “The Raghubar Das government in 2017 and 2018 procured only 53% and 56%, respectively, of the targeted 40 lakh metric tonnes of paddy. After we came to power, we raised the target to 60 lakh metric tonnes for paddy procurement and have exceeded our target to 102%. Most of the payment has also been done, with 50% of the amount paid within a week of procurement. The Food Corporation of India (FCI) owes the state government ₹180 crore, and the finance minister has written to the Centre to disburse the amount so that it could be paid to farmers. Despite that, the state government on Thursday released ₹98 crore from its own account for payment,” Patralekh told media persons.The minister also underlined that ₹980 crore has been provided to the bank for waiving agriculture loans as promised by the Hemant Soren government. “We have already waived farm loans of 2.46 lakh farmers. As per the updated data, 9.2 lakh farmers are eligible under the farm loan waiver scheme,” said Patralekh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/bjp-protests-in-farms-over-paddy-procurement-payment-to-farmers-101624033946843.html
18-06-2021||Ranchi||Two persons tied to tree, thrashed for ‘sorcery’, one dead||One of two men died after a group of people tied them to a tree and thrashed them with sticks allegedly for practising sorcery at a village in Garhwa district, police said on Friday. Four persons were arrested in this connection. The deceased was identified as Shivnath Paswan, while the other injured victim Adalat Singh was currently under treatment. The incident took place at Buka village under Bhawanathpur police station of the district on Thursday.“On the basis of the complaint by Paswan’s wife Malti Devi, an FIR has been lodged against eight persons. Four of them have been arrested and sent to jail,” said Nagar Untari subdivisional police officer (SDPO) Pramod Kesri.According to Devi’s complaint, one Anil Rawat, along with a couple of persons, on Thursday came to their house and took her husband with them. One of her husband’s friends also went with him, she said. “Then, my husband and his friend were tied to a tree. They alleged that my husband practised black magic. Hundreds of people gathered there, but nobody came to their rescue. Then, after one Vijay arrived, they beat the two with sticks and rods,” she alleged.On getting information, police reached the spot and rescued the two men. “Police took them to a community health centre in the village. However, my husband was referred to Garhwa Sadar hospital, where he died during treatment,” the bereaved wife said.Dr Abhijit Biswas, who provided the first-aid at the community health centre, said, “There were no external injuries on the body. But, it seemed Paswan suffered internal injury. So, we referred him to Garhwa Sadar hospital for better treatment.”Police said prima facie, it seemed to be a case of internal rivalry. “However, everything will be clear after investigation gets completed,” the SDPO said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/two-persons-tied-to-tree-thrashed-for-sorcery-one-dead-101624033945390.html
18-06-2021||Other||Jamshedpur shelter home case: 2 more girls, who went missing after shifting, recovered||Two more girl inmates, who recently went missing from a Patamda-based shelter home in the district, were recovered safely on Friday from Telco-based Mother Teresa Welfare Trust (MTWT) children’s home, officials said. Meanwhile, two other MTWT girl inmates, who went missing on June 11 during shifting to Bal Kalyan Ashram (BKA) children’s home in Patamda, were still untraceable. “We have safely recovered the two girls from MTWT shelter home based on a tip-off Friday morning. They had run away from BKA on Thursday morning on the pretext of going to the washroom. They have been brought back to BKA. We are writing to higher authorities to shift these children to a safer place near the city because the children don’t want to stay at BKA, which is located in a forest,” Ashhok Ram, Patamda police station officer in-charge (OC), said.The 15 and 18-year-old girls were among the 38 children shifted to BKA from MTWT shelter home late on June 11 evening, days after serious allegations of sexual abuse, physical and mental harassment were levelled by two minor girls, who fled MTWT on June 5, against the home’s director and four other persons. An FIR was also lodged in this regard against MTWT director Harpal Singh Thapar, his wife and former child welfare committee (CWC) chairperson Pushpa Rani Tirkey, warden Geeta Kaur, her son Aditya Singh and staff Tony David on June 6 under sections of Pocso Act and IPC. Four of the accused, including the Thapar couple, have since been held, while David is absconding.According to officials, the BKA children’s home doesn’t have a boundary wall and is located in a secluded place in a forest. Two women constables, along with an ASI and four armed constables, were deputed there after the 38 MTWT inmates were shifted there, officials said. Meanwhile, four of the arrested accused in the MTWT shelter home sexual abuse case filed a regular bail application in the special Pocso Court of additional district and sessions judge-5 in Jamshedpur. The bail plea is likely to be heard on Monday, their lawyer Vimal Pandey said.Earlier, the arrested accused filed an anticipatory bail, but now they have filed for a regular bail since they were arrested on Tuesday. “Three of the four arrested accused are not facing sexual exploitation and abuse charges. They have been only charged with torture and scolding,” said Pandey.Girl spotted in MTWT office, roomMeanwhile, a district team of circle office staff found that MTWT’s office and another of its allegedly illegal constructed room open after photos and video surfaced on social media platform Twitter.The tweet, posted by one Amit Shrama and tagging East Singhbhum DC Suraj Kumar, showed an adolescent girl at the MTWT’s office and a room while some persons were cleaning the premises on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jamshedpur-shelter-home-case-2-more-girls-who-went-missing-after-shifting-recovered-101624033946098.html
18-06-2021||Other||Police probe parcel blast at Darbhanga station||DARBHANGASenior police officials, including zonal inspector general Ajitabh Kumar, on Friday visited Darbhanga station to review ongoing investigation in connection with Thursday’s blast in a parcel packet sent to Darbhanga from Secunderabad. According to Harun Rashid, in-charge of Government Railway Police (GRP) at the station, a parcel carrying a bundle of clothes exploded near foot overbridge on platform number 1 on Thursday evening. The consignment had been booked in the name of Mohammed Sufian on June 15. Though no one sustained injuries in the low-intensity blast, police rushed to spot and doused the fire.“Preliminary investigation had revealed that the parcel contained clothes and a 50 ml bottle carrying some unknown chemical believed to have explosive properties. A forensic team is working to find out the nature of chemical,” informed LNMU police station in-charge Satya Prakash Jha.The GRP in-charge said that upon the verification of mobile number pasted below the name of consignee, the man who received the call feigned ignorance about any parcel packet booked in his name. Moreover, he gave his name as one Arif Khan. GRP Darbhanga has lodged an FIR in this regard.A police team has been dispatched to Secunderabad for further investigation in this regard, said an official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/police-probe-parcel-blast-at-darbhanga-station-101624033827559.html
18-06-2021||Other||A monumental tragedy in making at heritage sites in Bihar||PATNASeveral monuments in Bihar, including those designated a UNESCO World Heritage Site, are a picture of dereliction and negligence, which authorities blame on shortage of funds, the Covid-19 pandemic and most recently the flooding caused by heavy rain in parts of the state.While the Ashokan pillar at Lauriya in West Champaran is under water these days, the Buddhist Stupa at Kesaria in East Champaran too is water logged and thick bushes have grown all over its walls and terraces. Even at Nalanda University remains, portions of the ancient structure have been overrun with thick bushes. There are 72 Nationally Protected Monuments in Bihar, including the Ashokan pillar and Buddhist Stupa at Lauria Nandangarh in West Champaran, Buddhist Stupa at Kesaria and the Nalanda University remains. The Nalanda University, the most ancient university in the country, was declared World Heritage Site by the UNESCO in 2016. The Kesaria Stupa is the tallest cylindrical Buddhist Stupa in the world, built by Emperor Ashok. All these monuments and sites are managed and maintained by Patna circle of the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI). “These are prime tourism attractions in our state. Vaishali and Kesaria Stupas are in a miserable condition,” says SK Singh, vice-president of Tourism Association of Bihar. Terraces of Kesaria Stupa are covered by thick bushes while the ground around is marshy land. The approach road to the monument has big potholes, Singh said. Often the tour planners plan to promote Kesara Stupa as foreign tourists are found to be eager to go there while being on way to Lumbini, Lord Buddha’s birthplace in Nepal. “But what can be done in this situation?,” he asked. HS Naik, superintending archaeologist at ASI (Patna circle), said he was aware of the conditions but pleaded helplessness. “I have been told that water level around Ashokan pillar is almost eight feet high. It has to be stopped as it will damage the monument,” he said. The ASI is sending letter to the West Champaran administration to plan something to stop it, Naik said. He said the condition of monuments at Kesaria and Nalanda too have been affected because of Covid-19 pandemic and prolonged lockdown. “There has been shortage of man power. Many workers are on leave during the second wave of Covid,” he said. Naik said he recently visited Nalanda University remains and asked employees to take proper care of monument. “ I will soon visit Kesaria to take stock of situation,” he said. He said efforts are being taken to maintain monuments in the limited budget they have. “It has been almost halved in the last five years,” he said, adding that it had come down from ₹6 crore in 2015 to ₹3 crore in 2021. Bihar’s tourism minister Narayan Prasad said he had a plan to visit Champaran to review development plans for heritage sites on June 18, but it had to be postponed due to flood situation there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/a-monumental-tragedy-in-making-at-heritage-sites-in-bihar-101624033826825.html
18-06-2021||Other||Sasaram Nagar Parishad chief held for embezzlement||SASARAMThe Rohtas police on Friday arrested Sasaram Nagar Parishad (city council) chairperson Kanchan Devi for alleged embezzlement of over ₹50 lakh of government fund, superintendent of police Ashish Bharti said.Earlier, district magistrate Dharmendra Kumar had ordered a probe, which found the allegations true in a report submitted on January 4 this year.The report said Kanchan Devi, in connivance with others, had withdrawn over ₹50 lakh against forged master rolls of 11 schemes “undertaken” by the Nagar Parishad in 2019-20, which had already been completed several years ago with MLA’s local area development fund.On March 1, Parishad executive engineer (EE) Abhishek Anand had registered a criminal case against Kanchan Devi, the then EE Kumari Himani and junior engineer Arun Kumar Singh for alleged embezzlement of government funds at Sasaram Town police station.Himani was already suspended by the department in March 2020 in a different case while Singh has since retired. Police was tracing their present whereabouts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sasaram-nagar-parishad-chief-held-for-embezzlement-101624033825348.html
18-06-2021||Other||SHO arrested for graft||PATNAStation house officer (SHO) of Didarganj police station in Patna was arrested Thursday night after Vigilance sleuths raided his house and recovered ₹5.49 lakh in cash and documents related to land following a complaint that he had been demanding bribe from sand traders.Earlier, constable Vivek Kumar of the same police station had been arrested and he reportedly said during interrogation that he was collecting bribe at the behest of SHO Rajesh Kumar, the police said.Both the constable and the SHO were produced before court on Friday and sent to jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sho-arrested-for-graft-101624033826129.html
18-06-2021||Noida||Major fire breaks out at Noida Metro office, none hurt; probe ordered||A major fire broke out at the corporate office of the Noida Metro Rail Corporation (NMRC) located in the Ganga shopping complex in Sector 29 here on Friday afternoon, prompting evacuation of scores of people from the building, officials said.Nobody was hurt in the blaze that was reported from the NMRC office located on the third floor of the complex around 1.30 pm, Chief Fire Officer Arun Kumar Singh said.NMRC Managing Director Ritu Maheshwari said the fire was triggered at 1.15 pm due to an electrical short circuit. No documents were damaged in the incident and a departmental investigation was launched, she added."Thirteen fire tenders in total were rushed to the spot where local police were also deployed and the blaze brought under control within three hours," CFO Singh told reporters, adding that he personally oversaw the relief and rescue operation.The fire caused damage to the office of the managing director and a large conference room within the NMRC premises, the senior fire-fighter said, adding that the blaze spread quickly due to the presence of a false ceiling."With false ceiling, it became difficult to ascertain the extent of the area the fire had spread into. The fire has been controlled except for some small patches on the false ceiling, which are being doused," Singh said at 4 pm.He said around 60 to 70 people were working inside the office when the fire broke out and all of them were evacuated to safety immediately and added that no one was injured.He said the fire-fighters had to break open some glass windows in the NMRC to make way for the smoke out of the premises in order to douse the fire.Asked if safety measures installed in the building functioned properly, the CFO said, "In events of a major fire, power supply in the buildings are discontinued. Here also the power supply was discontinued and we relied on our fire tenders for the operation.”The Ganga Shopping Complex in the posh Sector 29 of Noida houses several daily utility shops, commercial officers, restaurants and fast-food outlets besides the Noida Media Club.In a statement, the NMRC said the fire was triggered due to an electrical short circuit."Immediately the area got evacuated and necessary preventive actions by staff have been taken. Police and fire department were informed,” NMRC's Maheshwari said."There is no loss of life or injury reported and none of the documents got damaged due to this incident. ED (Executive Director) of the NMRC has been instructed to carry out a detailed investigation to assess loss and reasons for incident through technical team," the IAS officer added.Several purported videos of the major blaze also surfaced on social media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/major-fire-breaks-out-at-noida-metro-office-none-hurt-probe-ordered-101624033407893.html
18-06-2021||Other||Culvert collapses in Kesariya||BETTIAHA culvert over a tributary of Gandak river collapsed in Kesariya block of East Champaran on Thursday, disconnecting two villages from block headquarters, official said. “The culvert was old and collapsed due to heavy water pressure,” said Praveen Kumar Sinha, circle officer (CO), Kesariya. “Around 80 families living in two villages have been affected. We have arranged a boat for their movement,” he said.Meanwhile, flood-like situation persisted in some villages in Sangrampur block in East Champaran following a surge in the water level in Gadank river. A National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) team rescued 45 people from different villages. “They were trapped in their houses in low-lying areas. We shifted them to the safer places,” said Santosh Kumar, Inspector NRRF. In West Champaran, water receded in many villages due to lower discharge of water from Valmikinagar barrage, but vehicular movement on Chanpatiya-Narkartiaganj road and Lauriya-Narkaritaganj road continued to be disrupted as water from Sikarahana river overflowed, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/culvert-collapses-in-kesariya-101624033768350.html
18-06-2021||Other||Gandak crosses danger mark at Dumariaghat, vigil hiked on embankments||PATNAHeavy downpour in the foothills of Himalayas in Nepal has aggravated fears of flooding in north Bihar regions with the onset of Monsoon. While Sikharna river in west Bihar is wreaking havoc in parts of the West and East Champaran, rising level of Gandak across its stretch from West Champaran to Gopalganj has compounded the miseries of those living near its embankments. The Gandak river has crossed the danger level (DL) at Dumariaghat in Gopalganj by over 1.50 metre, even as it’s approaching near DL at Chatia (East Champaran) and Rewaghat (Muzaffarpur). Dozens of villages in the two Champaran districts have been flooded by the swollen Sikharna river, which does not have any embankments in the initial 50km. Water resources department (WRD) secretary Sanjiv Hans said all embankments were safe and monitoring had been heightened to avert any mishap. “A junior engineer has been deployed every 10 km of the embankment with 10 volunteers on each kilometre to keep constant vigil,” he said. WRD officials hoped the situation would ease in days as the discharge in Gandak and other rivers originating from Nepal had been maintaining a falling trend over the past 24 hours. “The discharge in Gandak at Valmikinagar barrage has come down to 1.58 lakh cusecs on Friday morning, as compared to 4.12 lakh cusec recorded on June 16,” said Hans. The WRD secretary said that the department had already advised the people living in low-lying areas or those within the embankments of different rivers to relocate to safer places owing to heavy rains in their catchment areas. “We have also increased vigil on Ghaghra river, whose catchment in Uttar Pradesh received heavy showers in the past 24 hours. Situation is, however, under control in Siwan, where the river’s upper stream is nearly one metre down the DL,” said Hans. Residents claimed that Sikharna river, which is known by Burhi Gandak downstream, flooded over 100 villages of around two dozen blocks of Narkatiganj and Bagha by Friday afternoon. “People are moving to safer places along with essential belongings in a large numbers, after the floodwaters entered their houses,” said Ravi Mahato of Pipra village. Kosi river was reported flowing near one metre down the DL at Basua in Supaul and Kamla was 30 cm below the danger mark at Jainagar in Madhubani. Officials said flooding in northern parts of Bihar was mainly because of small streams that flow down unprotected from Nepal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gandak-crosses-danger-mark-at-dumariaghat-vigil-hiked-on-embankments-101624033766536.html
18-06-2021||Pune||Three arrested for extorting ₹20 lakh from Chitale Bandhu Mithaiwale||Three persons have been arrested for extorting ₹20 lakh by blackmailing Chitale Group after alleging ‘black colour’ in their milk. Police have arrested Karan Sunil Pardeshi (22), Sunil Benni Pardeshi (49), and Akshay Manoj Karthik (27), Poonam Sunil Pardeshi (27) and two more persons are named in the FIR. The accused were arrested by a team of crime branch Unit I officials under the guidance of additional commissioner of police ( Crime ) Ashok Morale and booked under IPC sections 388 ( extortion by threat of accusation ), 389 ( Putting person in fear of accusation of offence, in order to commit extortion ) and 34 ( common intention ). Chitale Bandhu Mithaiwale is Pune’s prominent milk supplier who is well known for their sweets and snacks across the country and the globe. Poonam works as a teacher with a prominent school initially lodged a complaint with the Chitale group on its email and phone facility and demanded that she be paid ₹5 lakh as they had received milk with a black substance inside. She even threatened to defame and shut the shop if her extortion demand was not met. She demanded ₹5 lakh extortion money and later the amount was escalated to ₹20 lakh. Following the complaint, a trap was laid and the accused were picked up and immediately arrested. The police gave the complaint fake notes worth ₹20 lakh in the denomination of ₹2,000 to be given to the accused. Once they accepted the money, the police who were watching them from a distance, nabbed and whisked them to the police station. One of their accomplices identified as Karthik has been arrested from Mumbai. According to the police, Sunil, Karan and Akshay are criminals on record and have an FIR against them at a city police station. Sunil and Karan run a laundry business as their public profession, crime branch officials said. Additional CP ( Crime ) Ashok Morale said “ Akshay, Manoj and Karthik have cases lodged against them at Wanowrite police station related to creating obstruction for a public servant to perform his official duty while there are cases related to fights against Sunil Pardeshi. We have arrested three of them and further investigation is on in the case,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/three-arrested-for-extorting-rs-20-lakh-from-chitale-bandhu-mithaiwale-101624033765944.html
18-06-2021||Other||BSEB awards grace marks to students who failed in max two subjects||PATNAState’s education minister Vijay Kumar Chaudhary on Friday announced that students who failed in one or two subjects by a few marks in intermediate and matriculation examinations conducted by the Bihar School Examination Board (BSEB) have been awarded grace marks.The decision has been taken considering unfavourable conditions for conducting board exam in near future because of Covid-19 pandemic.As per BSEB, grace marks have been awarded to those students who were eligible for compartment exams and failed in maximum two subjects.Anand Kishor, chairman of BSEB, said, “Altogether 97,474 students passed the class 12 examinations after getting the grace marks. Of them, 53,939 students are from art stream, 41,691 of science, 1,814 of commerce and 30 of vocational stream. Similarly, a total of 1,21,316 students of class 10 have been awarded grace marks to pass them.” Kishor said the list of students who passed after receiving grace marks will be uploaded on the official website of the Board — www.bsebonline.in — by 5 pm on Saturday. After awarding grace marks, the overall pass percentage of intermediate jumped to 85.53%, which was earlier 78.26%, while matriculation pass percentage rose to 85.50 from 78.17%.As per BSEB, altogether 13.40 lakh students appeared in intermediate exam following 16.54 lakh students in matriculation exam held in February and March across the state. The board announced intermediate and matriculation results on March 26 and April 5 respectively.Chaudhary said grace marks have been awarded as an exemption to Covid-19.“The department has taken the decision for the welfare of students. We assessed Covid-19 situation but conducting compartment exam doesn’t seem feasible any time soon. Even if we conduct compartmental exam in next 2 or 3 months, result announcement would have possible by November or December. In such circumstances, students were likely to miss admission in colleges or senior secondary schools,” he said.BSEB passed a total of 2.8 lakh students of Class 10 and 12 last year by awarding grace marks owing to Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bseb-awards-grace-marks-to-students-who-failed-in-max-two-subjects-101624033765409.html
18-06-2021||Pune||Two-wheelers damaged due to tree falling in Katraj||Heavy rains in Pune led to a major incident of tree falling in Katraj where 22 two-wheeler vehicles were damaged. According to fire brigade chief Prashant Ranpise, a large tree fell near Chowgule industry in the Katraj area around 3.30pm. As many as 22 two-wheeler vehicles have been damaged in this incident while nobody was injured. Fire department officials said work was underway to remove the tree that fell on the bikes and the total damage was being assessed. Ranpise said “There were 14 incidents of major tree branches falling onto the roads and one incident of a tree fall today. No casualties were reported in the accident and no one was injured in the accident,” he said. A team comprising fire officer Subhash Jadhav, Tandel Ramdas Shinde, driver Gogavale as well as Jawan Mahadev Mangde, Pankaj Ingwale, Prasad Kadam and Devdoot Jawan Nilesh Tagunde, Shrikant Waghmode, Avinash Lande carried out the operation to remove the tree in Katraj. As many as nine incidents of tree falling have been reported in different parts of Pune city due to heavy rains since Thursday. The first incident of tree branch falling took place opposite Chaturshringi police station on University road and similar incidents were reported at Laxminagar, Parvati and Prabhat Road lane no 3. In other cases, trees fell opposite Shinde High School in Sahakar Nagar, near Shell Petrol Pump on Senapati Bapat Road, Ideal Colony and Bhusari Colony in Kothrud, near hotel Lajjat in Sadashiv peth, and Royal Society in Khadki. The fire brigade officials have issued an advisory to commuters to remain vigilant while riding on the city roads during heavy downpour.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/twowheelers-damaged-due-to-tree-falling-in-katraj-101624033585373.html
18-06-2021||Pune||Shivajinagar ST bus stand to be revamped soon: Parab||Pune: The new state transport (ST) bus stand at Shivajinagar that will be aligned to the Metro plan will have modern and better facilities for passengers. We are committed towards providing good public transportation to citizens and will make it happen,” said Anil Parab, state transport minister, in the city on Friday. The minister reviewed the works at the Pune metro project site at Shivajinagar and Wakdewadi ST stand. “Our priority is to complete the Metro project and revamp the ST stand at Shivajinagar. The motive behind today’s visit here was to take the review of ongonig metro work, new ST stand development work and also a visit to the temporarily shifted ST stand at the Wakdewadi,” added Parab. Parab was accompanied by state transport commissioner Shekhar Channe and other senior officials from Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) and Pune Metro project department. Parab visited the Wakdewadi ST stand where bus operations are presently functional. He checked the platforms, entered the buses and interacted with passengers. He reviewed the cleanliness and Covid norms followed at the ST stand. “The arrangements made at the Wakdewadi ST stand are good and passengers have also expressed their satisfaction with the provided facility. I have instructed the officials to ban vehicle parking inside the ST stand premises as it blocks passengers’ entry-exit access,” said Parab after his visit to the ST stand. The minister saw two-wheelers parked in front of the drinking water tank making it difficult for passengers to reach the taps. He instructed officials to remove the vehicles and take action against the offenders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/shivajinagar-st-bus-stand-to-be-revamped-soon-parab-101624033405365.html
18-06-2021||Pune||Covid helpline in Pune: for children by children||Pune: To provide children information regarding the Covid-19 infections, prevention and treatment ahead of the anticipated third wave that may pose greater risks to kids, the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) will launch a children helpline next week. The initiative of starting a helpline is to convey information to the children in a much simpler way under the guidance of doctors, by kids themselves. On Thursday, the PCMC civic chief met doctors, schoolteachers and students and discussed the plan to start the helpline facility. The administration has shortlisted 20 students who will be trained by the health department officials. “These students will learn on how to convey information to the young listeners. They will always be assisted by doctors so that if they face any query where expert opinion is required, the latter could provide it on the spot,” said Rajesh Patil, civic chief PCMC. The students are selected from PCMC-run and private schools. PCMC is focusing on introducing various awareness programs ahead of the anticipated third Covid wave. “The information about the virus will be given in different forms like Power Point slides, animated slides, and small informative videos. Teachers can also join these initiatives,” added Patil. Majority of the students selected are from Class 8 and Class 9. The information on helpline will be given to children in English and Marathi languages. “Children speaking to children will be an overall different experience. Although the topic is Covid, children will enjoy such informative sessions as the details will be conveyed in a much simpler way,” said Vandana Phadnis, parent of Manas, who studies in a PCMC-run school in Thergaon. The PCMC administration has briefed students on how they will be trained regarding what questions are expected and what points are important to explain on every call. PCMC plans to keep four students for the helpline every day on a rotational basis. “We will soon announce how the helpline will be functional as the facility will be assisted by doctors and teachers,” said Patil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/covid-helpline-in-pune-for-children-by-children-101624032385347.html
18-06-2021||Pune||Screening facility for hearing loss in newborns to start in Pune||Pune: Health minister Rajesh Tope on Thursday said that screening of newborns for hearing ability will be launched in Pune as an experimental project. Gadchiroli and Jalna will also be a part of the project. Dr Bhagwan Pawar, district health officer, said that primary healthcare centres will soon start the screening facility. “We do not have a newborn screening for checking the hearing capacity of infants. Hence, the initiative will soon be introduced at primary healthcare centres,” said Pawar. The project was conceived by Member of Parliament (MP) Supriya Sule and presented by Abhijit Raut, state organiser, Disability Rights Development Forum, Yashwantrao Chavan Pratishthan. Dr Arti Kinikar, head of paediatric department at Sassoon General Hospital (SGH), welcomed the decision. “We at Sassoon General Hospital started a similar programme in 2017. It has helped in timely detection of hearing disability in a lot of children and provide treatment,” said Kinikar. She said that early detection and confirmation of hearing impairment can help children get therapy early and improve their cognitive development. There was a detailed discussion on the implementation of Otoacoustic emissions (OAE) method in newborns. The test checks the sounds produced by the cochlea. The National Deafness Prevention Programme is being implemented in 16 places in the state and while expanding its scope, instructions were given to implement it across the state. At present, the number of hearing and language impaired people in the state is around 92,000, of which 51% are in rural areas and 49% in urban areas. Deafness can be prevented if the test is done at an early stage. Therefore, the programme should be planned according to the method of early diagnosis and treatment, a state official said. “The mobile unit will visit a primary health centre and screen the newborns. Hearing tests can also be done during a child’s immunisation session,” said Tope.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/screening-facility-for-hearing-loss-in-newborns-to-start-in-pune-101624031665228.html
18-06-2021||Lucknow||Lallu incompetent, remove him as UPCC chief: Congress leader||At a time when political parties are gearing up for 2022 assembly elections, the challenge before the Congress party in Uttar Pradesh is to bring its own house in order.In yet another controversy, a senior party leader has now accused Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee (UPCC) president Ajay Kumar Lallu of allegedly being anti-upper castes.“Those from upper castes can’t work with Lallu. He is not capable of taking all sections of the society along. Under his leadership, party’s support base in the state is only narrowing,” said former UPCC secretary, Sunil Rai, while speaking to media persons at the Uttar Pradesh Press Club here on Friday.“I have sent letters to Congress president Sonia Gandhi and Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and requested them to remove Lallu from UPCC president’s post,” said Rai.Lallu was not available for comments.Those aware of the developments in the party said, Rai had been targeting Lallu for past few months.It all started after removal of a hoarding carrying pictures of Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and Rai from near the UPCC headquarters a few months ago.Rai claimed Lallu got the hoarding removed as it did not carry his picture and he got an FIR registered against the UPCC president narrating the whole issue.A UPCC functionary, however, said Lallu had no role in removing the hoarding.It may be the handiwork of some other rival partymen or the Lucknow Nagar Nigam that launches drives to remove hoardings from time to time, said the functionary.This is, however, not for the first time that voices have been raised against Lallu.A section of young partymen have already formed a group titled “Shoshit Congressi Savarn” and had been running a campaign on social media against Lallu, dubbing him as anti-Brahmin.A group of party’s old timers had earlier accused Lallu of neglecting those who had spent their lives for the Congress. As many of them organised separate get together to celebrate birth anniversary of India’s first Prime Minister late Jawahar Lal Nehru on November 14, 2019, the UPCC expelled them.Those expelled included former ministers and former MPs and legislators, mostly belonging to upper castes.The action led to a divide between the old timers and Lallu’s new team constituted to lead the party in 2022 assembly elections.Another party functionary said the Congress was already late in gearing up for the polls. “Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra though had been leading the party’s campaign against the BJP government at the centre and in the state, the party’s organizational infrastructure needed to be strengthened further. It is high time to make necessary changes and prepare party for 2022 polls,” said the functionary.“The Congress does not appear to be in a mood to strengthen itself in the state. It should resolve the grievances of partymen and undertake an exercise to control the damage already done in Uttar Pradesh,” said SK Dwivedi, former head of department political science, Lucknow University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lallu-incompetent-remove-him-as-upcc-chief-congress-leader-101624031370139.html
18-06-2021||Pune||PMC’s 30% cut in elected members’ budget draws opposition||PUNE: Pune municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar on Friday said that the civic body is in poor financial condition as factors like seventh pay commission, hike in fuel and electricity charges have shot up the annual revenue expenditure by Rs1,200 crore in a year. The commissioner has introduced a 30 per cent cut in works suggested by the elected members to strengthen the financial position of Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). However, the public representatives across all party lines have opposed the proposal put forward by the revenue committee. They sought clarification from the municipal commissioner over the issue at the general body meeting. Kumar said, “The municipal corporation’s revenue dropped due to the Covid pandemic. Last year in 2020-21, we generated Rs4,170 crore revenue and expect the figure to touch around Rs5,600 crore this year (2021-22). The revenue generated depends on various proposals cited to increase income. The revenue expenditure increased from Rs3,100 crore in previous year to Rs4,300 crore this year.” According to the civic chief, the total growth in revenue expenditure would be Rs1,200 crore because of rise in fuel (petrol, diesel) prices and electricity rates. “Even the implementation of the seventh pay commission to staff will also add to the expenditure part. Hence, after considering these factors, hardly Rs1,400 crore would remain for carrying out development works,” he said. “If we do not introduce cuts to the works suggested by the elected members and approve the tenders, the municipal corporation would not have money to pay the bills and it would an additional burden on the next financial year,” Kumar said. Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol said, “All elected members are unhappy with the administration’s decision to introduce cut only in elected members’ budget. We will hold a separate meeting with all party leaders and the civic administration at the mayor’s office and chalk out a plan.” One of the office-bearers on anonymity said that most of the elected members have proposed ward-level works. “Many of the proposals are unnecessary like renovating footpaths or making roads and sewage works. Same roads are dug up repeatedly and footpaths are unnecessarily getting renovated,” the official said. Meanwhile, Subhash Jagtap of NCP said, “It shows how the ruling BJP has poorly run the economy of the municipal corporation in the last four years despite getting a clear majority.” Aba Bagul (Congress) said, “It is unjustified that taxpayers’ Rs4,300 crore should be spend only on revenue work and no fund available for development works suggested by the elected members. During the Covid-19 pandemic, the administration spent money on works without informing the elected members.” BJP’s leader of the House Ganesh Bidkar said that despite the pandemic, PMC collected record property tax last year and even allowed the elected members to spend their ward development fund. “Almost Rs350 crore was spent by elected members in just last two months from ward development funds in last financial year. Pandemic is an unprecedented situation and led to financial crisis. The commissioner will place the facts before elected members,” he said. Prithviraj Sutar (Shiv Sena) said, “Without informing any committee or elected members, the administration approved the tender for sewage works in 11 villages. We do not oppose development projects, but demand transparency in budget allocation.” Mohol said, “The administration and elected members both are important. Elected members suggest works as per citizens’ demand and to develop their areas. Instead of introducing cuts, we would discuss the issue with party leaders and reach an amicable solution.”. Arvind Shinde (Congress), “It was mandatory for the administration to put all proposals before the elected members before approving it during the Covid times. In the name of pandemic, the administration behaved like a superior and approved tenders without informing the elected members.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmcs-30-cut-in-elected-members-budget-draws-opposition-101624030886571.html
18-06-2021||Other||NDRF rescues 112 people stranded on boat in Gandak river in UP||Around 112 people, stranded in the middle of the Gandak river on a boat in Kushinagar on Thursday night, were successfully rescued by National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) in an overnight operation, said officials.Of the people rescued, 62 were men, 31 women and 19 children, who were stuck in mainstream of Gandak in Barwapatti area of Kushinagar district as engine of the motorboat they were onboard developed some technical snag on Thursday evening.The incident took place when the locals were coming back in a boat from across the river after working in their fields, said NDRF officials.According to locals, when the boat reached the mid-stream, boat’s engine turned off due to some technical snag and the boat started drifting with current of water and after some distance it got stuck.The district administration initiated the efforts to rescue people with available resources.District magistrate Kushinagar, S Rajlingam informed NDRF control room, Varanasi in the night.NDRF commandant Manoj Kumar Sharma said that soon after receiving the information, a team of NDRF rescuers led by NDRF deputy commandant PL Sharma was sent to the spot from regional response centre of NDRF in Gorakhpur. The team reached the Barawapatti Ghat at 2.30am and rescued all 112 people stuck in mainstream of the river in the operation that ended around 8.30am.The team also rescued 4 goats, Sharma said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ndrf-rescues-112-people-stranded-on-boat-in-gandak-river-in-up-101624030886028.html
18-06-2021||Other||Taj to remain open from Monday to Thursday only||The monuments in Agra, including Taj Mahal, will remain closed on Saturday and Sunday in view of weekend partial corona curfew.With Friday the weekly closure day, the Taj Mahal will open from Monday to Thursday unlike other monuments which will remain open from Monday to Friday till further orders are issued about weekend partial corona curfew, said Vasant Swarnkar, superintending archaeologist Archaeological Survey of India, Agra Circle.Other monuments include Agra Fort, Fatehpur Sikri and Sikandra.“Opening time of Taj Mahal is sunrise and closing time is sunset. But because of night curfew operative from 7 pm to 7 am next day, the gates of Taj Mahal open late at 7 am and for closure at 7 pm.Tourists are not allowed inside after 6 pm,” said an ASI official.“The inflow of tourists increase manifold on weekend as on these days domestic tourists coming through expressways form a majority of visitors. The extended closure of three days at Taj would harm in a big way,” said Rajeev Tiwari from Paryatan Mitra.Some relaxations are expected in the timing of the night curfew from June 21 in Uttar Pradesh. Also, the duration of night curfew would be from 9 pm to 7 am the next day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/taj-to-remain-open-from-monday-to-thursday-only-101624030591323.html
18-06-2021||Chandigarh||Moga girl tops Punjab Civil Services exam||Upinderjit Kaur Brar of Moga district has topped the Punjab Civil Services 2020 entrance exam.Khanna resident Abhishek Sharma is placed second while Sachin Pathak from Ludhiana is ranked third, according to results declared by the Punjab Public Service Commission on Friday.A total of 174 candidates appeared for the interview round, and the results were declared an hour after the interviews concluded.“The entire credit for my success goes to my parents and teachers,” said Upinderjit, who belongs to Smalsar village in Moga and completed postgraduation in zoology from Panjab University, Chandigarh, in 2019. The only child of a government schoolteacher couple, she has been preparing for the UPSC and it was her first attempt at the PCS exam. “Self studies and focused approach helped me sale through,” she said, adding that she would continue to prepare for the UPSC.Abhishek Sharma, 28, who is a civil engineer, is ranked second. His parents are retired government employees. Preparing for the exam for the past three years, he said he got a job as an assistant commandant in the CRPF, but didn’t join it as he wants to serve Punjab. Sachin Pathak, 26, who is from Sahnewal area in Ludhiana, completed electrical engineering from Thapar Institute in Patiala and got a job with ₹15 lakh annual package, but opted for public service. His father is a shopkeeper. “I owe my success to my family, and particularly my siblings, who supported me whenever I felt low in this five-year journey to crack the exam,” he said. He is also associated with an NGO that educates underprivileged children.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/moga-girl-tops-punjab-civil-services-exam-101624029985762.html
18-06-2021||Jaipur||Nine more die of Covid-19, 150 infected in Rajasthan||Covid-19 claimed nine more lives and infected 150 people more, taking the total number of deaths to 8,884 and infection cases to 9,50,768 respectively in Rajasthan on Friday. Udaipur recorded the maximum number of our deaths, 4, while the highest number of cases of infection, 25, was reported from Jaipur. A total of 9,38,101 Covid-19 patients have recovered so far while the number of active cases is 3,783, according to an official report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/nine-more-die-of-covid-19-150-infected-in-rajasthan-101624028590849.html
18-06-2021||Pune||Body of suspect in double murder case found||The Pune police have found the body of Abid Shaikh ( 38) who was missing since the murder of his son Ayan ( 7) and wife Alia (35). The bodies of the wife and child were found from two different locations on Tuesday. Police confirmed that the body of Abid Shaikh was recovered early morning on Friday in the Haveli area of the district. Currently, the investigation is going on to ascertain whether he died due to suicide or was murdered. The body was found in Khanapur, about 26 km from the city on the way to Panshet dam under Haveli police station. Senior police inspector Jagannath Kalaskar, in charge of Bharati Vidyapeeth police station, said, “Abid’s body has been recovered in Khanapur and Haveli police station is investigating the cause of his death.” While Inspector Sadashiv Shelar, in charge of Haveli police station, said, “Abid’s body was found in the backwater s of Khadakwasla lake near Jawalkar Farm in Khanapur. Prima facie he died of suicide but before that, it seems he had injured himself with a sharp weapon. Further investigation is going on.” he said. However, no further information has been divulged. Ayan’s body was recovered near Katraj new tunnel while the wife’s body was found abandoned in Saswad. According to the police, Abid, who worked as a regional manager in a private company was allegedly involved in the murder of his wife and son and was absconding. A case under IPC 302 was lodged and seven teams were formed to detect the accused in the murder case under the guidance of Zonal DCP Sagar Patil. The Bharati Vidyapeeth police in their search bulletin said that he had dumped the body in ditch near Katraj tunnel with the motive of destruction of evidence and has been absconding from his residence since June 15. The post mortem report of Alia stated that she died due to physical beating while Ayan died due to strangulation. The police had issued a lookout notice as his last location was traced to Lohegaon and they had suspected that he might leave the country going by his past visit to Dubai. According to the FIR, Abid had rented a car from June 11 to 14 and went from Saswad to Dive Ghat and had killed her en route at 8.30 pm on June 14 and later killed his son. He was last seen parking his car near Hotel City Pride and walking towards Swargate. The police had recovered two iron pipes from the car and the rear seat was stained in blood.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/body-of-suspect-in-double-murder-case-found-101624027885069.html
18-06-2021||Pune||Parents unhappy with CBSE evaluation method for class 12||Parents of class 12 students are unhappy with the evaluation method that was declared by the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) on Thursday. The evaluation method that CBSE declared included 40 per cent marks from class 12 whereas 30 per cent marks from class 11 and class 10 will be included for the class 12 assessment as per the board. Ruchi Uppal, parent of a class 12 student said that the decision will not be good for students who have worked hard this year. “Students who have worked hard throughout the year may be disappointed with this decision of the board. The pre-board marks should be considered. The class 10 marks are at least good but for class 11, the marks may not be great for every student,” said Uppal. Ketki Dalmiya, another parent of class 12 student said that her daughter in class 11 was not well. “She had a major surgery and was not able to attend school. In such a scenario, if class 11 marks were to be included then it may affect her score overall. My daughter wants to go abroad for her further education and these marks are very crucial to her. But due to this decision taken by the board, there is a lot of uncertainty,” said Dalmiya. She added that students who are preparing for further examinations do not pay attention to their school score in class 11. “Students are usually very relaxed in class 11. Even if the board is including only 30 marks, it will affect the overall performance of the child and overall score card,” added Dalmiya. CBSE in its notification clearly stated that in some cases students may not have applied themselves fully in class 11. “However, this will be addressed to an extent by taking into consideration the marks of class 10 along with class 11 marks,” said the notification. The notification makes it mandatory that every school should have a five-member review committee where in two members will be from external schools. Jayshree Venkatraman, principal, SNBP international school, Rahatani said that the evaluation pattern of class 12 reflects consistency in students. “The ethos of hard work and consistency is important for every student and this is reflected in the evaluation pattern for class 12 which was released,” said Venkatraman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/parents-unhappy-with-cbse-evaluation-method-for-class-12-101624027704987.html
18-06-2021||Pune||City records 22.6mm rainfall on Friday, more in forecast: IMD||On Friday, Shivajinagar reported a total of 6.2 mm rainfall and Lohegaon reported a total of 16.4 mm rainfall, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). The day temperature dropped to 28.3 degrees Celsius which was 2.6 degrees cooler than normal. The night temperature also saw a decrease to 21.3 degrees Celsius which was 1.6 degrees cooler than normal. India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted that ghat areas will continue to witness isolated heavy rainfall on June 19 as well. Southwest Monsoon is now active in Central Maharashtra, Konkan and Goa but in Vidarbha and Marathwada the southwest monsoon is not active, said IMD officials. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather forecasting department at IMD Pune said that westerlies are strong as of Friday and the upper air has depth. “In Pune city and Pune district, there is cloud concentration over Pune. Due to Orography, we may receive generally cloudy skies and rainfall of moderate level, Pune may get rainfall on June 19 as well,” said Kashyapi. As per IMD, Southwest Monsoon has further advanced into some more parts of north Arabian sea, most parts of Gujarat region, some parts Saurashtra, southeast Rajasthan and some more parts of Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh on Friday. As of Friday, the Northern Limit of Monsoon (NLM) passes through Junagarh, Deesa, Guna, Kanpur and Meerut. “Conditions are favourable for further advance of southwest monsoon into remaining parts of north Arabian sea and Gujarat state, some more parts of south Rajasthan, west Uttar Pradesh and remaining parts of Madhya Pradesh until June 19,” said IMD officials. All four subdivisions of Maharashtra received rainfall on Friday. Rainfall is likely to continue in Vidarbha, Marathwada and Konkan and Goa till the next few days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/city-records-22-6mm-rainfall-on-friday-more-in-forecast-imd-101624027645029.html
18-06-2021||Mumbai||Malavika’s Mumbaistan: In Golden Memory||Golden Wafers. The very name evoked their mouth-watering appeal. The finest quality of fulsome, handpicked potatoes, sliced to paper-thin perfection, then deep-fried in generous dollops of butter and oil, until each wedge emerged crisp and flaxen, ready to be dusted with a sprinkling of salt and packed in paper bags, the freshness of their content secured with a single staple. How much of Mumbai’s fondest memories are predicated on this iconic snack, sold from the counter of a modest shop at Grant Road? Mumbai’s leading foodie Kunal Vijaykar remembers his first encounter with them as a child. “My mum had instructed me to go buy some packets. ‘Just go to the Neptune cinema and then follow your nose,’ she’d said.” To be sure, in the India of the Sixties, when liberalisation was not even a gleam in Dr Manmohan Singh’s eye and shopping carts laden with international fast-food brands hadn’t rolled into India, Golden Wafers, begun by the late Khodadad Irani and run by his young widow Jeroo, had been renowned for its finger-licking deliciousness. Sold at all the city’s finest venues — its cinemas and clubs — it had been a city staple from kiddie’s birthdays to elegant tea parties. “Nothing could have been more exciting than to know that those glorious wafers originated in our very own backyard!” writes Kavita Ezekiel Mendonca, daughter of late poet Nissim Ezekiel, who had been a neighbour of the Iranis in Byculla. “Jeroo aunty was fondly known to us as Golden Wafer aunty, the maker of the best chips in the world and each birthday she would present me with a 100-gram packet of those heavenly smelling wafers. It was one of the best treats of my childhood.” *********************************“My father started Golden Wafers, from a little shop at the end of a lane in Grant Road, but after he passed away, my mum, who was then only 32 and had three daughters aged between 12 and four, with me along the way, had stepped in to run it,” says celebrated actor Boman Irani, about his remarkable mother Jeroo, who passed away in her sleep earlier this month, at the ripe old age of 94, surrounded by her doting children and grandchildren. “My father’s protracted illness and early death had taken its toll and there were lots of debts in the form of hospital and commercial bills and so mum decided to carry on the business, though until then she hadn’t even known how to sign a cheque,” he says, adding, “In fact, though she was privately petrified of not being equipped to deal with things like sales tax, municipality and oil and potato dealers, she had risen to the challenge and handled things with great ferocity and fortitude.” Irani’s admiration for his mother is palpable. From recounting how as a young widow she had cleared each and every debt, no questions asked, even as she steered the business to success, all the while nurturing her young children, so that they never felt the loss of a father, he waxes eloquent. Jeroo had been passionately fond of the arts — of poets like Wordsworth, Tennyson and Ezekiel; of the music of Kishore Kumar and Shirley Temple; of filmmakers like Guru Dutt, Billy Wilder and Hitchcock. This had been matched by her relish for good food. From chicken rolls from Paradise to Parsi Dairy Farm’s Malai nu Kulfi, her zest for life had remained till the end. Above all, she had been defined by her kindness. “Kindness was in her DNA,” says Boman. “If I went to a movie, she would make sure that I took along every kid in the colony. ‘And don’t forget to get them popcorn and ice cream,’ she would say. We’d be rows of kids and she was mother to them all. She was all for children having fun. We called her the Picnic Queen. Regardless of how tired she was, when she’d return from the shop, she would say ‘who wants to go on a picnic’ and we would be up all night making sandwiches and planning games and next morning we would drive to Panvel or Juhu beach, with our basket and chaddar and ball — just like in the Sound of Music,” he says. *********************************The daughter of a well-heeled clan from Iran, convent-educated Jeroo had grown up in Pune and had come to Bombay to stay with her uncle while attending college. A chance meeting with a brilliant young orator named Khodadad had led to marriage at 18. The couple and their children had lived in an old-world colony in Byculla, known as The Retreat, a set of seven, one-storey bungalows, inhabited by a colourful bunch of Parsi, Irani, Muslim, Christian, Anglo-Indian and Jewish families. Here, Jeroo had spread her warmth and kindness with the same spirit with which she had produced her famous packets of chips. It was also the same loving attention with which she encouraged Boman, born six months after the death of his father and diagnosed with dyslexia and ADHD, to pursue his love for cinema. “She understood the power of cinema and my affinity for it, and she encouraged me in that direction,” he says. “She wasn’t the kind of mother who’d say, ‘Go do your homework!’ Rather she would say: ‘Learn from cinema. It teaches so much like history, art and music’,” recalls her grateful son, now one of the leading stars of Bollywood. *********************************Fittingly, the end for this much-loved matriarch had come peacefully. Boman and the rest of her family had spent her last days reading out her favourite poems and playing her favourite songs. Even in her semi-conscious state, she would mouth their words, her face lighting up at their familiar beauty. On her last night, she had requested a bowl of her favourite kulfi, and on tasting it, had made the thumbs up sign, to indicate to her family how much she enjoyed it. “She had some staple phrases. ‘Make people happy” was one of them,” says Boman, adding, “The other was ‘Sparkle, son, sparkle’. It’s what I tell people too.” He says, “I encourage them because I know if my mother hadn’t encouraged me or hadn’t had faith in my ability, I probably would not have had the confidence to become an actor. She helped me to sparkle as much as I could.” Last week Jeroo’s family gathered to offer prayers in her memory and partake in a traditional lunch, and it is no surprise that the menu, down to its last detail from the kebabs to the bake and lemon pudding, had been meticulously planned by her.After all, right till the end, Jeroo Irani had wanted whatever was being served in her name, to bring a smile and spread a golden sparkle…||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/malavikas-mumbaistan-in-golden-memory-101624025066346.html
18-06-2021||Other||Mahakumbh fake Covid testing: Max Corporate Services moves court against FIR||Max Corporate Services on Friday moved the Uttarakhand high court against the First Information Report (FIR) filed a day earlier against it in Haridwar over alleged fake Covid-19 testing during Mahakumbh in April.Kartikey Hari Gupta, the Max Corporate Services’ lawyer, said they have pleaded before the court that his client was merely a service provider and that it gave the contract of the testing to two nationally accredited laboratories for conducting rapid antigen testing. “If any fake testing has been done, Max Corporate Services has no role to play and in fact is willing to help in the probe if any such thing has happened.”Gupta cited the government order for the testing and added Max Corporate Services only facilitated it through the two labs. “All the sample collection and other data entries were done well with the knowledge and supervision of the government health authorities. We have requested the court to protect the petitioner from any coercive measures of police and in whatever manner government wants to investigate, our client is ready and willing to cooperate.”Gupta said they are hoping for an early hearing in the matter.Also Watch | IMA holds protest seeking central law to protect doctors against violenceOn Thursday, Haridwar police lodged the FIR against Max Corporate Services, Nalwa Lab (Hisar, Haryana), and Lalchandani Lab (Delhi) in connection with alleged fake testing on the complaint of Haridwar’s chief medical officer. The FIR has been filed under the Indian Penal Code’s Sections including 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 471 (forgery for the purpose of cheating), 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property), 120B (criminal conspiracy) and the Disaster Management Act and Epidemic Act.A top Kumbh Mela official on Wednesday ordered a probe into the Covid-19 tests carried out during the Mahakumbh after reports that the private labs contracted by the Haridwar district administration generated fake reports to meet targets.This was the second inquiry ordered into the Covid-19 tests conducted in Haridwar during the fair.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mahakumbh-fake-covid-testing-max-corporate-services-moves-court-against-fir-101624020205247.html
18-06-2021||Pune||What’s the buzz in Pune: June 18-24||“Coolphi”: workshop on PhilosophyTeam IAPAR is all set to bring to you “Coolphi”, a three- day introductory workshop to Philosophy. Questions about the nature of the world, our existence, what is life and much more will be tackled. The workshop introduces the discipline that addresses such questions, namely, Philosophy. To register: call +917775052719 or email iapar.contact@gmail.comWhen: June 18 and 19; 6pm to 8 pm; June 20, 10 am to 1 pmWhere: OnlineThe art of making Mediterranean tiles Learn to make an artwork with complete step-by-step guidance with expert demonstrations. Make an Indigo- coloured tile design inspired from Mediterranean culture using grids and symmetry techniques. You will need watercolours, watercolour paper (A4/A5), round brushes, palette and a rough cloth, masking tape, tracing paper, rough A4 copier paper, a geometry box, and a 12-inch scale. Recording will be available for 72 hours after the session. Cost of admission: ₹99/- per headTo register online call +919725347694When: June 19, 2021; 4pm Where: Online Standup comedy workshop Learn the basics of standup comedy by understanding how to create and perform jokes in this workshop, where you will learn the techniques to develop comedy from daily chores. The workshop will be conducted by Amit Khuva, founder of ‘Cafe Comedy’ and a well-known comedian. Cost: ₹299/- per personTo register call 9512182874When: June 19, 20; 10am to 11am Where: OnlineWorkshop on working with ocean resin At this workshop, using ocean resin, you will learn to make coasters and a shell jewellery dish. As absolute beginners you will be taught resin pouring techniques, resin marbling, casting sand, how to make realistic waves and adding embellishments to resin art; all in a ‘live’ demo onlineTo register online call call 08097020702 or email studionatasha@yahoo.comWhen: Jun 19; 2:30 pm to 4:30 pmWhere: OnlineLate-night writing circleThis circle is all about writing. Are you not finding the time to write? Do you feel blocked? Ideas dried up? Learn how to cut through the noise and capture your fleeting thoughts on paper. Meet like-minded people hoping to improve their writing. All you need is a pen and paper. This is suitable for anyone above the age of 16 years. Conducted by Akshay Gajria, is a Mumbai-based writing coachTo register email akshay@talltales.in or WhatsApp 9920077055Fee: ₹750 per person.When: Friday, June 18; 11pm to midnight Where: OnlineVedic mathematics |In this workshop, learn the concepts of Vedic mathematics. After an introduction to Vedic mathematics, learn how to incorporate it into the present school curriculum. Vedic maths is an excellent tool for developing an interest in numbers and making calculations fun. The workshop is given by by Dr Yogesh Chandna, author and certified Vedic mathematics’ trainer.Cost: 199/- per personTo register online call 7015761074When: June 19 and 20; 2pm-4pm Where: OnlineYoga on the ‘gram‘Live’ yoga sessions with Pranit Shilimkar from Fitnesstalks’.Entry: FreeWhen: Every Monday, Wednesday, Friday and Sunday; 6:30 amWhere: Instagram @fitnesstalks.indiaImprov drama workshop Learn the magic of drama with a tinge of improve, with Saloni Prasad and Apsara Iyengar. Build an original story through with games and activities. Open for children of all ages.For details call +91 98799 18914When: Every Wednesday, Thursday, Friday till June 25; 5pm to 6pm Where: Online||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/whats-the-buzz-in-pune-june-1824-101624017985053.html
18-06-2021||Other||Man dies, another injured after mob attack over sorcery charges in Jharkhand||A person died while another was injured when a mob tied them to a tree in Jharkhand’s Garhwa district and thrashed them with sticks for allegedly practising sorcery on Friday, said police and added they have arrested four people while a hunt was on to nab the remaining accused.Pramod Kesri, a local police officer, said eight people have been named in the First Information Report filed in the case. “The investigation is on. However, prima faciAlso Read | Kotkhai rape and murder case: Lone accused gets life imprisonmentThe widow of the slain man said hundreds of people gathered when the two were being beaten up, but nobody came to rescue them.Police rushed to the scene and took the two to a community health centre, but one of them died before he could get advanced treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/man-dies-another-injured-after-mob-attack-over-sorcery-charges-in-jharkhand-101624017264940.html
18-06-2021||Other||Woman Maoist killed in Bastar gunfight; AK-47 recovered: Chhattisgarh police||A suspected woman Maoist cadre was killed in a gunfight with security forces in Bastar district on Friday. Police said they have recovered three weapons, including an AK-47 rifle, from the site and combing operation is going on. The deceased is yet to be identified, they added. Also Read | NIA takes over probe of Maoist ambush which killed 22 jawans in AprilInspector General of Police (IG), Bastar range, Sunderaj P said, “A joint team of security forces [District Reserve Guard and Central Reserve Police Force] were out on an operation in the jungles following information that some Maoist cadres of Darbha Area Committee of CPI (Maoist) were camping near Chadameta village of Bastar district. When the forces were cordoning off the area, an exchange of fire took place with the Maoists. Later, the body of a woman Maoist along with one AK-47 rifle, two pistols and a huge amount of camping material were recovered from the spot,” he said. Sunderaj added that a combing operation of the nearby jungles was on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/woman-maoist-killed-in-bastar-gunfight-ak-47-recovered-chhattisgarh-police-101624015045022.html
18-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi records 165 new Covid-19 cases and 14 deaths; positivity rate at 0.22%||Delhi registered 165 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 14 deaths due to the viral disease in the last 24 hours, a health department bulletin said on Friday. With this, Delhi's cumulative Covid-19 cases have risen to 1,432,033 including a death toll of 24,900, the bulletin showed.With 76,480 tests conducted in this period, the Capital registered a test positivity rate of 0.22%. Delhi's new Covid-19 cases, fatalities and positivity rate saw a miniscule rise from the previous 24-hour period, when these stood at 158, 10 and 0.20% respectively. A total of 20,626,314 tests have been conducted in the city till now, as per the health bulletin.Also Read | India’s third Covid-19 wave may arrive by October: ReportFriday's data also showed 260 fresh recoveries or discharges -- as against 343 previously -- taking cumulative recovered cases to 1,404,688 which comprise 98.09% of Delhi's total Covid-19 caseload. Active cases, meanwhile, slumped further to 2445, a decline of 109 infections, and constitute 0.17% of the city's cumulative positive cases.Additionally, the number of beneficiaries in Delhi who have been vaccinated against Covid-19 rose to 6,346,561 as 90,217 vaccine doses were administered in the last 24 hours, the bulletin showed. The number of beneficiaries vaccinated with their first dose rose by 60,395 to 4,809,551 while the corresponding figures for those who received their second dose stood at 29,882 and 1,537,010 respectively.Also Read | 'Remain cautious,' warns health minister Harsh Vardhan as states relax Covid-19 restrictionsOn May 14, Delhi began the third stage of unlock from its Covid-19 induced lockdown, which came into effect on April 19 and remained in force till May 30. The first stage of unlock began on May 31, while the second stage commenced on May 7.However, with heavy crowds flooding Capital's markets, the Delhi High Court on Friday observed that such breaches would only "hasten the third wave of the coronavirus pandemic." The high court also issued a notice to the Centre and Delhi government, asking them to file a status report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-records-165-new-covid-19-cases-and-14-deaths-positivity-rate-at-022-101624012210174.html
18-06-2021||Bangalore||IMD issues red alert for very heavy rainfall in 3 districts in Karnataka, 4 other districts issued orange alert||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Friday issued red alerts for heavy to very heavy rainfall in three districts in Karnataka for Friday and Saturday. The weather body has also issued an orange alert for three other districts for the same period, in its weather bulletin earlier in the day.“Red alert for heavy to very heavy rainfall issued in Dakshin Kannada, Udupi and Uttara Kannada districts for today and tomorrow. Orange alert issued in Kodagu, Hassan, Chikkamagaluru and Shivamogga districts for the same period,” news agency ANI on Friday quoted IMD Karnataka as saying.Between 1pm on June 18 and 8.30am on June 19, a red alert was issued for Dakshina Kannada, Udupi and Uttara Kannada districts. For the same time period, four districts namely Chikkamagaluru, Hassan, Kodagu and Shivamogga, have been issued an orange alert, according to the IMD’s bulletin. Dakshina Kannada, Udupi and Uttara Kannada districts were also issued an orange alert for the 24 hours beginning from 8.30am on June 18.Fishermen have been advised against venturing into the sea for two days on Friday and Saturday because of strong winds reaching between 40kmph and 50kmph speed, the IMD further said.The IMD also said that rain is very likely for the capital city of Bengaluru and its surroundings in the next 48 hours. However, it also said that a generally cloudy sky could be observed in the city and its neighbourhood.“Southwest monsoon was vigorous over north interior Karnataka and active over coastal Karnataka and south interior Karnataka,” the IMD’s latest update at 1pm on the day said. It also forecasted that “heavy to very heavy rainfall with extremely heavy falls likely to occur at isolated places over all the districts” on Saturday (June 19).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/imd-issues-red-alert-for-very-heavy-rainfall-in-3-districts-in-karnataka-4-other-districts-issued-orange-alert-101624014140223.html
18-06-2021||Pune||Manjari gate No. 3 crossing on Pune –Daund railway route shut indefinitely from June 18||The central railway authorities have closed Manjari railway gate number 3 crossing on Pune–Daund railway route for commuters indefinitely from today (June 18) on account of flyover construction and underground transit road work.The railway administration has appealed to commuters to use an alternate route to reach their destinations. The commuters will now have to use Manjari-Keshavnagar-Mundhwa, Manjari-Bhapkar Mala-Solapur highway routes to commute.The construction work of the said flyover from Pune-Solapur highway till Wagholi has been completed up to 80 per cent and work related to joining the gap is remaining along with the construction of an underground tunnel.“Post completion, the issue of traffic jams at the spot will be a thing of the past as all heavy and light vehicles will be able to use the tunnel and the flyover,” traffic police officials said.Nanasaheb Parbhane, branch engineer, public works department, said, “The railway authorities have taken a decision to close the crossing as they are completing the flyover and tunnel construction work here.”“Also, the construction work of service road on both sides of the flyover will also be completed simultaneously,” he added.Dadasaheb Chudappa, traffic incharge, Hadapsar, said, “During the closure of the crossing, three routes can be used by the commuters. Information boards about the closure of railway crossing and alternate routes available to the commuters have been fixed at important locations for viewing and guidance.”The railway crossing in Manjari, over which a railway flyover was scheduled to be built at that time was closed for two years beginning July 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/manjari-gate-no-3-crossing-on-pune-daund-railway-route-shut-indefinitely-from-june-18-101624013365348.html
18-06-2021||Pune||Global Village Idiot: Present, but absent in the always connected digital world||One of the most deep-rooted needs of a human being, is the need to belong. It is a core need that is also an intrinsic motivation among humans, a motivation that drives many actions and decisions... and also instils the fear of being alone.I have kind of always suspected the co-relation between needing to belong and the fear of being alone, but the past five years has been an education, thanks, of course, to Facebook and Whatsapp in particular. It’s one thing to share life experiences. It’s another thing to do stuff alone, and then while you’re doing it, to be on social media exhorting others to do the same thing.Stuff like: I’m sitting down to watch this great movie on so-and-so channel - why don’t you watch the same movie? Or, I am all ready to watch the Euro 2020 match and ordered kebabs from Wah Wah restaurant, why don’t you do the same… you get the drift.It’s absolutely fabulous, this inability to do anything on one’s own, to have this need to be talking to someone, anyone, all the time. It’s as if you are running away from yourself, fearful even to be with yourself, afraid to be alonnnnnne.I like company, I like talking to people, meeting friends and strangers alike, learning new things, listening to what others are doing, spending time on social media… but, I love my own company. Being on your own, without the need to connect, takes practice if you are not “born to it”. And it’s much easier being connected to others online than being with people face-to-face (you have to pick and choose company, take the good with the bad, etc), or with yourself (too many decisions and thoughts to deal with). Online networks are fantastic because you can decide what to react to, what not to, and keep saying/sharing/communicating all you want to.The online world fulfils one need that is greater than belonging: the need to be heard. Most people listen because they await the opportunity to speak, and social media is the perfect anti-thesis of socialising - it’s a media that allows you to stay in society, even if you are anti-social at your core, and to keep expressing yourself without the burden of listening.In fact, social media is the most aggressively passive form of social interaction I have ever encountered. And it gives a complete new meaning to the phrase: “Alone in a crowd”. It’s fascinating.It also brings a whole new level of performance into classrooms and workplaces. What’s the most common behaviour I see at work and in online education? People engaged in a web session and chatting simultaneously with (many) peers on the inbuilt messaging platform. Absent, but present. Classic example: last year I was engaged for a couple of hours a week as a mentor to a group of educators and teens. I remember having lively chat discussions on business solutions and processes, while they were attending school meetings and sessions. That’s multitasking while multi-jobbing. And to their credit, the educators and students delivered great solutions to the project and am sure delivered very good work at school as well.But, the same technology environment also brings a whole new series of levels of procrastination into classrooms and workplaces. With everyone always connected and engaged, work seems to be taking twice sometimes thrice as long as it used to. The number of iterations has also increased exponentially, which in turn has made project planning and execution much less predictable and much more challenging.Am not sure how all this is going to turn out. There’s a lot of good that’s coming out of these developments, but I can also see a lot of changes in the behaviour of people due to these changed circumstances. Changes that may lead to other long-term personality changes and give rise to newer wellness and mental health challenges. The cycle of performance and gratification, for instance, is now a daily cycle. Which also means, people are going through intense emotions related to performance, judgment, acceptance, rejection, adjustment, reconciliation on a daily basis at the very least. Which means the pressure on the neural system and the physical body is tremendously higher. Of course, gratification options and cycles are also much shorter, but the emotional life of the average human seems to have become a rubber band - constantly stretching and easing.I wonder if anyone is doing a study to predict how often these rubber bands are going to snap…||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/global-village-idiot-present-but-absent-in-the-always-connected-digital-world-101624012885168.html
18-06-2021||Chandigarh||Milkha Singh’s health deteriorates in Chandigarh||Legendary sprinter Milkha Singh’s health worsened on Friday, barely two days after he was shifted out of the Covid intensive care unit at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh. Hospital sources said that his condition is critical after he developed fever and his oxygen levels dropped on Thursday night. Milkha Singh was admitted in the non-Covid medical intensive care unit (ICU) on Wednesday after recovering from coronavirus infection. Though the PGI did not issue any release, it is learnt that doctors are keeping a close watch on his health. “It’s been a slightly rough day for Milkha Ji. But he is battling away,” read a statement from his family.Also read: Nirmal Milkha Singh, an unmatched administrator who transformed Chandigarh sportsMilkha contracted coronavirus infection on May 19. His wife, Nirmal Kaur, 85, succumbed to Covid-19 complications at a private hospital in Mohali on June 13. Milkha was admitted to PGIMER on June 3 after his oxygen levels dipped at home following treatment at Fortis Hospital, Mohali, for a week. He is a four-time Asian Games gold medallist and 1958 Commonwealth Games champion but his greatest performance remains the fourth-place finish in the 400m final of the 1960 Rome Olympics. He also represented India in the 1956 and 1964 Olympics and was bestowed the Padma Shri in 1959.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/milkha-singh-s-health-deteriorates-in-chandigarh-101624011144638.html
18-06-2021||Chandigarh||Kangra-based pharma unit shut for making medicines without approval||The state health safety and regulation authorities raided a pharmaceutical company at Surajpur in Indora sub-division of Kangra district for manufacturing and selling medicines without approval from the drug regulator, police said on Friday. Nurpur drug inspector Piar Chand led the raid and seized 1.71 lakh tablets of an anti-inflammatory medicine that had been made illegally. Also read: China unit targets Indian telcos, firms in cyber espionageThe company is already facing probe for manufacturing fake Remdesivir injections and selling it in black. Chand said the raid was conducted jointly with the local police on Thursday and the illegally made medicine was seized from the company’s storehouse. “The medicine is a combination of ibuprofen and paracetamol used as a painkiller,” said Chand, adding the medicine was in demand during the spike in Covid-19 cases recently. Samples sent for testingThe company was selling the medicine under the Tulip brand but did not have the approval of the authorities to make the drug. “Production has been stopped and the pharma unit has been sealed,” he said, adding that the samples were being sent for testing and if the medicine was found spurious, the management would be booked under relevant laws. He said a case for manufacturing the drug without approval will be filed in a Nurpur court. MP officials alerted HP counterpartsUnit manager Pintu Kumar said the company was closed since the lockdown last year. In August, a person identified as Dr Vinay Tripathi got operations resumed at the unit. He was paying the operation cost and the salary of the staff. Dr Tripathi was arrested in Indore, Madhya Pradesh, in April for selling spurious Remdesivir injections. He was found in possession of 400 vials of Remdesivir. The Madhya Pradesh drug control authorities then alerted their Himachal Pradesh counterparts about the fake Remdesivir injection being sourced by the accused from the Kangra-based pharma unit. During investigation, it emerged that the company had applied for a licence for manufacturing Remdisivir that was rejected. However, the company started manufacturing it without approval. Units of the company are also located in Jammu and the Chintapur area of Madhya Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kangrabased-pharma-unit-shut-for-making-medicines-without-approval-101624009704667.html
18-06-2021||Real||No hike in property tax in Mumbai till Covid situation continues, says mayor||In contrast to the earlier reports, Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar on Friday provided relief to the Mumbaikars as she informed that the property tax will not be hiked in Mumbai till the Covid situation continues, reported news agency ANI."There will be no hike in Property tax in Mumbai till the Covid situation continues. We don't know how long will it take but till then we will not burden Mumbaikars by increasing the property tax," ANI quoted Pednekar saying.Also read: Are Mumbai’s flamingos in the pink of health?The development came after the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) proposed a hike in property tax. The mayor rejected the proposal saying that the people are already facing financial hardships due to the Covid-induced lockdowns, according to media reports.“The proposed hike in property tax will not be implemented. Although Covid-19 cases have dipped, the situation is still not normal. People have lost jobs and the economy has been affected. Considering that, there will be no hike in property tax," The Indian Express quoted the mayor as saying.Most of the elected corporators are not in the favour of raising the property tax, they claim that the proposal for its hike has been moved by bureaucrats running the BMC, as per the reports.The BMC’s assessor and collector department tabled the proposal earlier this week, to be effective from April 1, 2021 to March 31, 2025, before the Standing Committee for final approval. The property tax rate was proposed to go up to 14 per cent, the IE report claimed.Last year too, the state cabinet decided to not go for property-value assessment, leading to no revision in property tax during the financial year. A hike of around 17 per cent was expected last year.The richest civic body in India assesses the value of properties every five years to charge a property tax, which is levied on the capital value of the property and is based on the existing ready reckoner rates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/real-estate/no-hike-in-property-tax-in-mumbai-till-covid-situation-continues-says-mayor-101624006148523.html
18-06-2021||Jaipur||7 killed, 8 injured in two road accidents in Rajasthan||Seven persons were killed and eight others injured in two road accidents in Bikaner and Jaipur on Friday. Four persons were killed and six injured when a jeep and a truck collided near Jamsar area, close to Bikaner. The deceased were identified as Saroj (30), Prabhu (35), Satpal (40) and Moolaram (37), SHO Jamsar police station Gaurav Khidiya said. He said that the victims were on their way to Nokha town of Bikaner from Hanumangarh in an SUV when the driver tried to overtake a vehicle and collided head-on with a truck coming towards Bikaner. The injured persons, including two children, are admitted to Prince Bijay Singh Memorial (PBM) Government Hospital in Bikaner. Also Read | 12 arrested across state in Raisoni state credit society cheating caseThree passengers died on the spot while one lost his life during treatment in the trauma centre of PBM Hospital. Meanwhile, in Jaipur, three men were killed and one injured when their car rammed a truck on Ajmer highway in the wee hours. The car was being driven at high speed and rammed the truck outside Delhi Public School in Bhankrota area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/7-killed-8-injured-in-two-road-accidents-in-rajasthan-101624008624631.html
18-06-2021||Other||As J&K reports drop in Covid-19 cases, govt readies to tackle 3rd wave||As Covid-19 witness a fall in Jammu and Kashmir, the government has already started preparation for the third wave of the Covid-19 by augmentation of more oxygen plants in the UT, HT has learnt.“In the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, the health and medical education department has taken an initiative to augment the existing oxygen generation capacity in 37 major hospitals of the UT by way of installation and commissioning of additional 84 medical oxygen generation plants having capacity of 71650 LPM. 44 oxygen generation plants (39,350 LPM) have been installed and made operational so far,” J&K government official spokesman said.He added that the remaining 40 oxygen generation plants (31,750 LPM) are in the process of installation and are likely to be installed by July 2021. “Before April 2021, the oxygen generation capacity of the UT of Jammu and Kashmir was 15082 LPM only,” he said.The government is now planning to set up 32 more Pressure Swing Adsorption (PSA) oxygen generation plants. Though from the past six months, the augmentation has more than doubled.In J&K, the second wave of the pandemic peaked in May with the highest daily cases of 5,443 on May 7 and the highest daily death toll of 73 on May 17. Afterwards, it started declining as the number of active positive cases begin to come down.The government spokesman said that 30 oxygen generation plants (13,300 LPM) are being installed across 30 community health centres/sub district hospitals, 15 each in Jammu and Kashmir division.“The new plants will be funded by the World Bank Fund and its installation is also in progress through J&K Economic Reconstruction Agency,” the spokesman added.The overall number of people who recovered in J&K from the infection has reached 295,763, prompting the recovery rate to climb to 95.21%. The last time the Covid-19 recovery rate in the UT was above 95% was on April 6.“Considering further demand and need to make the oxygen generation facility available in all tertiary care hospitals/district hospitals and some major community health centres for tackling the second wave and possible third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, the J&K government approached the ministry of health and family welfare for providing additional PSA plants to the UT under Prime Minister CARES Fund. The Government of India sanctioned additional 32 PSA plants of 24,850 LPM, 13 for the Kashmir division (13,550 LPM) and 13 for the Jammu division (12,350 LPM), thereby raising the total no of PSA plants to 146. The UT of Jammu and Kashmir shall have the capacity of generating oxygen to the extent of 1.26 lakh litre per minute after the installation of additional 102 PSA plants, including 32 sanctioned under PM CARES Fund by GoI,” the spokesman said.The month of May was most devastating for Jammu and Kashmir as the Union territory reported the highest 114,382 Covid-19 cases and 1,625 deaths fatalities. So far, J&K had 310,017 cases since the pandemic began in 2020. As many as 295,189 of them recovered while 4,226 people died due to the fatal infection. Currently, there are 10,602 cases active across 20 districts of the UT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/as-j-k-reports-drop-in-covid-19-cases-govt-readies-to-tackle-3rd-wave-101624007844600.html
18-06-2021||Delhi||Update mobile number in ration cards to avoid difficulties: Here's how you can add||With the central government announcing free ration to people till Diwali this year, updating the correct mobile number on details regarding ration card is essential for all families to avail the benefit. Along with the mobile number, it is also necessary to keep all required details updated correctly.Earlier on June 7, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced that 800 million people would benefit from the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKAY) scheme. The scheme was initially announced during March 2020 when the Covid-19 pandemic began in India to ensure supplies and support families during the nationwide lockdown.Here is a look at how to add mobile numbers and update existing ones correctly for residents in Delhi:Updating the details online1. Visit the government’s department of food, supplies and consumer affairs website (https://nfs.delhi.gov.in/Citizen/UpdateMobileNumber.aspx) to update the details.2. On the page that opens, enter the Aadhaar card number of the head of the household or the NFS ID.3. The ration card number of the user should be filled in the second column.4. Name of the head of the household should be entered in the third column. The name entered should be the same and spelled according to what is mentioned on the ration card.5. In the last column, enter the correct mobile number that needs to be updated or added to the ration card.6. Once the details are entered, click on the ‘Save’ button to complete the process. Once saved, the mobile number entered would be linked with the ration card.Offline applicationTo add a new number or to update the existing number in the ration card manually, an application for the same should be submitted to the food department officer. Along with the application form, a photocopy of the ration card and the Aadhaar card also need to be submitted to the officer. Following this, the mobile number would be updated in a few days.(With inputs from livehindustan.com)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/update-mobile-number-in-ration-cards-to-avoid-difficulties-here-s-how-you-can-add-101624006964134.html
18-06-2021||Chandigarh||Mansa, Pathankot get new police chiefs||Gulneet Singh Khurana has been posted as the Amritsar (rural) senior superintendent of police (SSP) in place of Dhruv Dahiya, who has proceeded on central deputation.Mansa SSP Surendra Lamba replaces Khurana as the new Pathankot police chief.Also read: ‘Modi will have to take the initiative to resolve farm stir’, says Sukhbir Singh BadalNarinder Bhargav, the assistant inspector general (AIG), crime branch-criminal investigation department (CB-CID), Ludhiana, with additional charge of SSP, Vigilance Bureau, Bathinda, has been posted as the Mansa SSP.The posting orders, issued on Thursday, are with immediate effect.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mansa-pathankot-get-new-police-chiefs-101624006224414.html
18-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi man arrested for defrauding neighbours of ₹50 lakh||Police on Friday said they had arrested a 40-year-old man who cheated over two dozen people, most of them in his neighbourhood, of over ₹50 lakh. At least 24 persons approached the economic offences wing (EOW) earlier this month after the man sold his house and fled with his family and the money he had been collecting since 2019, the police said.The arrested man, identified as Mool Chand, lived in northeast Delhi’s Sonia Vihar. He was caught on Wednesday from northeast Delhi by a team of the EOW probing the cheating case filed in March this year, said additional commissioner of police (EOW) RK Singh.Also Read | Covid protocol breach will only hasten 3rd wave: Delhi HC on violation of normsExplaining his modus operandi, the additional CP said that Chand launched a chit-fund scheme in August, 2019, to collect easy money by targeting people in his neighbourhood. Chand floated a scheme where investors were asked to purchase 20 shares, each for ₹10,000, for 20 months. They were told that the collected money would be given as loans to loan-seekers on a fixed monthly interest rate. The interest amount collected was to be distributed among the investors after the scheme matured.“Chand collected the monthly deposit in cash and maintained records of the investors and their respective shares. Some investors were given cheques as security against their investments. But when the scheme matured and the investors went to the bank to withdraw the money, the cheques bounced. As the investors started demanding their money back, Chand fled with his family,” said additional CP Singh.Police said that a case was registered after 24 investors filed separate complaints with the EOW alleging similar cheating and fraud. During the probe, the name of a local politician also emerged as a co-conspirator. The police questioned the politician and it turned out that he too was duped by Chand, they said.“Through technical investigation and human intelligence network, we collected information about the suspect and arrested him from northeast Delhi on Wednesday. Further probe is on,” said the additional CP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-man-arrested-for-defrauding-neighbours-of-rs-50-lakh-101624005324387.html
18-06-2021||Lucknow||Govts should prepare in advance for possible 3rd wave of Covid-19: Mayawati||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati on Friday asked the governments to make preparations in advance, especially in rural areas, to effectively deal with a possible third wave of Covid-19."Public participation in the coronavirus vaccination can be ensured only when the vaccine is available easily to everyone everywhere. Like the second wave of the coronavirus, preparations should completed at every level, especially in the rural areas, to save people from a possible third wave," she said in a tweet in Hindi."This is the demand of the BSP from all state governments," Mayawati added.In a related tweet, the BSP supremo said it was necessary for the governments in the country to work sincerely towards bringing normal life and the economy back on track.It is necessary to solve the public problems arising out of Covid-19 or else the country's self-reliance will be at risk, and then people will have to face bad days, she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/govts-should-prepare-in-advance-for-possible-3rd-wave-of-covid-19-mayawati-101624003906593.html
18-06-2021||Other||Odisha govt asks fully vaccinated employees to start attending office||Odisha government employees, who have been fully vaccinated, have to attend office while other administrative departments and sub-ordinate offices in Odisha can function with 50% staff strength till June end, as per a state notification.The notification of the general administration department stated that employees in every department of state government running with 50% employees on roster arrangement have to come to office if they have received both the doses of Covid-19 vaccine. Since April 29, except for a few departments, like police and health, only 50% of employees were attending office.Officials said 50% of the state secretariat employees can start attending offices as they have been received two doses of vaccines. As per the order, various administrative departments and heads of offices will be at the liberty to decide the manner of selection of employees who will attend office based on a roster.Essential offices like special relief commissioner, Odisha State Disaster Management Authority, fire service, health services and municipal service will function with full strength. The state government, however, exempted employees with disability and pregnant employees from attending office.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/odisha-govt-asks-fully-vaccinated-employees-to-start-attending-office-101624004545876.html
18-06-2021||Mumbai||Two TV actors arrested for stealing ₹3.20 lakh in Mumbai||Two actors, who were struggling after the Covid-19 pandemic stalled shooting of a popular TV serial they worked in last year in Mumbai, have been arrested for allegedly stealing their roommate’s ₹3.20 lakh. Police said they were held on Thursday in Navi Mumbai and remanded in police custody till June 23. They added Surabhi Shrivastava, 25, and Mosina Mukhtar Shaikh, 19, allegedly stole the money days after shifting to a flat in Aarey Milk Colony where the housemate was already staying.Also Read | Parts of a building collapse in Thane, no injuries reportedA police officer said the two allegedly stole the cash from a locker and left the house. Police zeroed in on them after they found a CCTV recording in which the two were seen leaving their building with a bag.The two have told police that they were facing financial problems since the shooting was stalled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/two-tv-actors-arrested-for-stealing-rs-3-20-lakh-in-mumbai-101624004544196.html
18-06-2021||Lucknow||UP CM announces monthly pension for children who lost their parents to Covid-19||Keeping in view the need of the children who lost their parents due to Covid-19, Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath on Friday announced a monthly pension of ₹4,000 under the Mukhyamantri Bal Seva Yojana."The state government will give ₹4,000 per month to children who lost their parents, till they turn 18 under Mukhyamantri Bal Seva Yojana," the CM said.Giving the statistics of such children in Gorakhpur, he said, "There are six children in Gorakhpur who lost one of their parents due to Covid-19 and others to some illness earlier. At least 174 children have lost bread-earner of the family."The state government has also arranged for the education of such children under various schemes.For those children who are above 18 years of age, and are presently enrolled for higher education in technical courses, the state government will be providing them a tablet along with free education, the CM informed.The state government also came up with various other schemes to help the children and young adults who have lost their parents or legal guardians to the pandemic.Uttar Pradesh has 6,019 active cases, along with 1,675,684 cumulative recoveries and 22,030 cumulative deaths, as per the data of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-cm-announces-monthly-pension-for-children-who-lost-their-parents-to-covid19-101624002975722.html
18-06-2021||Mumbai||Parts of a building collapse in Thane, no injuries reported||Some portions of the first floor of a 30-year-old residential structure in Wagle Estate collapsed on Friday morning. The four-storey building had already been vacated hence no injuries were reported. However, residents from six adjacent residential buildings were asked to evacuate by the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) immediately.Around 174 families from the adjacent buildings were shifted to Ambika School in the vicinity immediately as a precautionary measure. Also Read | Went to ask about vax, got cert sans jab, alleges Thane manShivbhavan, the first floor of which began to crumble on Friday, had been in a dangerous condition for some time and hence the residents were asked to empty the premises around 8am. “Some portions of the first floor of the building have collapsed and the rest are in a dangerous condition. The buildings that can impact if this collapses have been evacuated,” said a senior officer from TMC.Pradeep Telli, an evacuated resident of one of the adjacent buildings, said, “We had just woken up and had no idea about the incident. Officials from TMC came to our building and asked us to move out, taking only important things. We are at a makeshift facility near our house currently and there are many like us. We were offered breakfast by the civic staff.”Heavy rains on Thursday and Friday morning caused water logging in 12 locations in the city. Parts of a roof of a residence in Vartak Nagar fell on Thursday night and the remaining structure continues to be in a dangerous condition. “Part of the roof of a house owned by one Rajendra Pawar at Hindubai chawl collapsed on Thursday night. No one was injured. We have asked the family to vacate the premises. Regional Disaster Management Cell (RDMC) officials reached the spot immediately to help the residents,” said Santosh Kadam, chief, RDMC, Thane.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/parts-of-a-building-collapse-in-thane-no-injuries-reported-101624002924244.html
18-06-2021||Pune||Body of Pune man suspected of killing wife, son found||The Pune Police on Friday found the body of a man suspected of having killed his wife and son earlier this week.Thirty-eight-year-old Abid Shaikh had been missing since the bodies of his wife and their 7-year-old son were recovered from two different locations on Tuesday. Senior police inspector Jagannath Kalaskar, in charge of Bharati Vidyapeeth police station, said, “Abid’s body has been recovered in Khanapur and Haveli police station is investigating the cause of his death.”While Inspector Sadashiv Shelar, in charge of Haveli police station, said, “Prima facie, it appears he died by suicide after injuring himself with a sharp weapon. Further investigation is going on.” Abid’s son’s body was recovered near Katraj new tunnel while his wife’s body was found abandoned in Saswad. According to the police, Abid, who worked as a regional manager of private company, was involved in the murders was absconding. A case under IPC 302 was lodged and seven teams were formed to search for the accused. According to the FIR, Abid rented a car from June 11-14 and went from Saswad to Dive Ghat, killing his wife en route on June 14. He killed his son later. He was last seen parking his car near a hotel and walking towards Swargate. The police recovered two iron pipes from the rented car and the rear seat was also stained in blood.Abid had been absconding since June 15. His wife’s post mortem revealed she was beaten to death while their son had been strangulated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/body-of-pune-man-suspected-of-killing-wife-son-found-101624002624384.html
18-06-2021||Kolkata||Suvendu Adhikari seeks disqualification of Mukul Roy as Krishnanagar MLA, sends petition||Suvendu Adhikari, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and the Leader of Opposition in the West Bengal assembly, has sent a petition to the Speaker seeking disqualification of Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader Mukul Roy as the MLA from Krishnanagar Uttar constituency, news agency ANI reported on Friday. Adhikari had earlier demanded Roy's resignation under the anti-defection law, pointing out that the latter switched camps to the TMC despite winning the assembly polls from the Krishnanagar Uttar assembly constituency on a BJP ticket. In his petition to the Speaker today, Adhikari has raised the same demand and called for the disqualification of Roy's MLA post.The Bengal BJP camp had been preparing since Thursday to send the petition seeking Mukul Roy's disqualification as the Krishnanagar Uttar MLA and had consulted its lawyers for the purpose. Manoj Tigga, BJP's chief whip in the assembly, submitted the petition to Biman Banerjee on Friday.Former BJP national vice-president Mukul Roy had contested the assembly election from Krishnanagar Uttar constituency and defeated TMC candidate actor Koushani Mukherjee. However, following weeks of speculation, Mukul Roy and his son Subhranshu rejoined the TMC in Kolkata last Friday in the presence of West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, a month after the party's landslide victory in the state assembly elections. Suvendu Adhikari had criticised the move and said that it calls for action under the anti-defection law.However, Trinamool Congress (TMC) senior leader Kunal Ghosh on Sunday hit back at BJP's Suvendu Adhikari for his 'anti-defection law' comment and asked him to teach the law to his father Sisir Adhikari as he was a TMC MP, who joined the BJP before the elections while he was still holding the post.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bjp-leader-suvendu-adhikari-seeks-disqualification-of-tmc-s-mukul-roy-as-krishnanagar-mla-101624001081482.html
18-06-2021||Jaipur||Sachin Pilot met Priyanka Gandhi, in talks with other top brass: Ajay Maken||Sachin Pilot is a senior leader of the Congress party and there is no way that he will not be given an appointment with party leadership if he seeks an audience, said Ajay Maken, general secretary of the All India Congress Committee (AICC), to news agency ANI on Friday. His statements come amid a renewed political tussle in the Rajasthan Congress, as members loyal to Sachin Pilot accuse Congress of sidelining him within the party in favour of the state's chief minister, Ashok Gehlot."Sachin Pilot is a senior leader and an asset to the party. It is impossible that he seeks time from a party leader to meet and is not given an appointment. Priyanka-ji has spoken with him. Many leaders, including KC Venugopal, have also been speaking to him," said Ajay Maken while speaking on the matter.The Sachin Pilot faction of Rajasthan legislators has recently ramped up on the pressure on the Ashok Gehlot government, reportedly demanding a cabinet expansion as well as other political appointments. Pilot himself was in Delhi last week waiting for an audience with senior party leaders. Although he was expected to meet the party central leadership over his demands, Pilot later returned to Rajasthan after meeting AICC general secretary Ajay Maken. This, in turn, gave fuel to the talks of him being sidelined within the party.Senior Congress leader Depender Singh Shekhawat later rubbished all reports of a "bargain" for positions in the cabinet, and said that the Pilot camp is only striving to seek its lost honour and self-respect within the party."These reports of a bargain going on for a number of positions in the cabinet, boards and corporation are absolutely false. Sachin Pilot and all of us have been striving to seek honour and self-respect for the grassroots Congress workers in Rajasthan," the former Rajasthan assembly speaker said.The rumblings in the ruling party in Rajasthan have recently grown louder with calls to address the issues that the Pilot camp raised one year ago. Congress members loyal to Sachin Pilot insist that the leaders and workers in Rajasthan who gave their "sweat and blood to revive the party after it suffered its worst-ever defeat in 2013" are not getting adequate recognition and respect now that the party is in power.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/sachin-pilot-met-priyanka-gandhi-in-talks-with-other-top-brass-ajay-maken-101623998212081.html
18-06-2021||Other||Wild elephant kills two in Bihar’s Araria district||Two persons were killed after a wild elephant attacked them in Narpatganj police station area of Araria district of Bihar on Thursday. The elephant had strayed into the area from Nepal’s forest.An eight-year-old boy was playing outside his house at Manikpur village when the elephant attacked him, killing him on the spot. The animal also killed a man whose identity could not be ascertained. Locals found the man’s body in mud and reported to the police. The animal destroyed houses and damaged a tractor that came in its way. Shopkeepers at Fulkaha market downed the shutters on Thursday.Police and forest officials tried to capture the elephant which is said to have left for Jogbani and Kursakanta areas of the district.Also Read | Elephant found dead in Chhattisgarh’s Surguja districtStation house officer (SHO) of Narpatganj police station, Sunil Kumar Singh, said on Friday villagers had been asked to remain alert. Pachyderms from Nepal forest often stray into Indian villages along the border in search of food. “They are mostly hungry and stray into villages as this part has a bumper crop this season,” Supaul district forest officer Sunil Kumar Sharan said, adding, “We are planning a strategy to check their menace.”Recently, Bihar minister (environment and forest) Neeraj Kumar Singh directed the forest officials to assess the damage caused by elephants along Indo-Nepal border.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/wild-elephant-kills-two-in-bihar-s-araria-district-101623998724165.html
18-06-2021||Lucknow||Students allege AKTU teachers rushing 6-month syllabus in 5 weeks||Engineering students at Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Technical University (AKTU) in Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh allege that as soon as the examination schedule was announced, teachers have been trying to complete six months’ syllabus in just five weeks, giving no time for students to comprehend and grasp. Some students complained about the same by taking to microblogging website Twitter.“How can our mind capture anything at that speed. We are unable to understand a single chapter. This is not the way to complete the course ahead of the final exam of B Tech,” said a student, Apurva Verma, in a tweet tagging AKTU and vice-chancellor Vinay Kumar Pathak.Another student, said, “How can AKTU take our exam covering the entire syllabus when the semester duration is reduced to just 3 months. Also, there was a 20-day holiday during online classes in May.”“First of all, students are finding it difficult to adapt to an online learning environment immediately after traditional classroom learning. Due to the sudden change, we are not able to adapt to computer-based learning. Students who have always been studying in the classroom, their minds are not able to focus on online platforms,” read Apurva’s tweet.According to a student, many of them are not equipped with a high-speed internet connection that is required for online learning. Due to this, they face problems in going live for virtual learning and other platforms that require an internet connection, they said.Students allege that even teachers face severe network problems and that’s why they reschedule classes quite often according to their convenience. “Not a single student is ready to take exams because we all faced many problems in this pandemic and many of us are under huge mental stress,” a student claimed.Mohsin Afroz, a student, said, “We need time to study. At present, in my college, almost three units are remaining in each subject. So, for six subjects, 18 units are left to be taught that must be completed in five weeks. The college is ready with extra classes but there’s little time to study. It is not fair to just complete the course as a formality. If AKTU is willing to hold exams, they must give proper time or give relaxation in the syllabus.”“AKTU may hold exams of only core subjects and must leave the elective subjects. In this way, we can get some relaxation. This semester started in April and classes remained suspended for almost one month, so we are left with only 3 months,” he added.A student of a private engineering college said, “Most students live in villages where engineering books are not available. Poor internet connectivity is another issue. The students could attend only 50% or less of online classes. The AKTU semester should be of four months but online classes started on April 12. With weekend off and 20-day closure in May due to Covid-19, we only had 25-30 days of online classes. And I don’t think 25-30 days are enough for a whole semester at this level.”A section of students said they are not wary of examinations. But what was bothering them was the online exam. “First of all, we are not worried about the exam. But I don’t think the online exam will be a great idea with just one month of classes. At least 20% of the syllabus is yet to be completed. How do they expect us to clear the exam? I am not begging for promotion. I am just asking to postpone the exam and conduct it offline in September. We need approximately four months of classes,” another student said.“The university is aware that our syllabus is incomplete but still wants to hold examinations,” another student, named Arpit, said.Another student urged the AKTU to “reduce the syllabus as colleges have not completed even half the syllabus and now they are trying to cover the remaining portion in a few weeks by increasing the number of classes. Due to this, students are facing huge pressure.”Some students also that all students of the first year should be promoted because it is difficult to cover 70 to 80% syllabus in just one month.AKTU pro-vice-chancellor Vineet Kansal said, “There are 750 colleges affiliated to the AKTU. By and large, a majority of the colleges continued their online classes except for a few days when the government ordered discontinuation following rising cases of Covid-19. There’s a possibility that some colleges may not have conducted online classes regularly. Maybe, a few students of these colleges are not happy with the examination and are opposing it. The final exams are still a month away. Students may start preparing for it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/students-allege-aktu-teachers-rushing-6-month-syllabus-in-5-weeks-101623998364119.html
18-06-2021||Delhi||Covid protocol breach will only hasten 3rd wave: Delhi HC on violation of norms||The Delhi High Court on Friday took cognisance of the violation of Covid-19 protocols in markets across the national capital after restrictions were eased earlier this week and observed that such breaches will only hasten the third wave of the coronavirus pandemic. The high court also issued a notice to the Centre and the Aam Aadmi party-led Delhi government, asking them to file a status report.A vacation bench of Justice Navin Chawla and Justice Asha Menon took note of photographs sent to one of the judges of the high court by a doctor at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) showing street vendors in Delhi violating the Covid-19 protocols in markets, according to news agency PTI.Also read | Post lockdown, signs of revival tinged with hope for restaurants in Delhi"We have paid a huge price in the second wave. We don't know if there is any household which has not suffered in the second wave, closely or remotely," the Delhi High Court bench observed, TI reported.The Delhi High Court asked the Centre and Delhi government to take strict measures, sensitise shopkeepers and hold meetings with markets and vendors associations in this regard, the report said.Also read | Delhi defies social distancing norms, doctors say brace for Covid-19 'explosion'As the number of Covid-19 cases saw a decline, the Delhi government allowed shops, malls and restaurants to reopen fr Monday. It also allowed weekly markets to open but only 50 per cent of vendors and only one market in each municipal zone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid-protocol-breach-will-only-hasten-3rd-wave-delhi-hc-101623997603326.html
18-06-2021||Noida||Active Covid-19 cases fall below 200 in Noida, death toll at 466||Gautam Buddh Nagar recorded 14 new Covid-19 cases on Thursday while Ghaziabad had 18 along with one death, as the number of active patients also reached below 200 in both the districts, official data showed. With this, the overall number of positive cases reached 62,993 in Gautam Buddh Nagar and 55,486 in Ghaziabad, according to Uttar Pradesh's Health Department data for a 24-hour period.The death toll reached 460 in Ghaziabad with one more fatality while it stood at 466 in Gautam Buddh Nagar, the data showed.On the brighter side, 15 patients recovered in Gautam Buddh Nagar and 72 in Ghaziabad, with the overall recoveries surging to 62,379 and 54,855 in these districts, respectively, it showed.The active cases have come down to 148 in Gautam Buddh Nagar and 171 in Ghaziabad, according to the official figures.The mortality rate stood at 0.73% and recovery rate at 99.02% in Gautam Buddh Nagar, while the figures stood at 0.82% and 98.86% in Ghaziabad, the statistics showed.The number of active Covid-19 cases in UP reached 6,019 while the overall recoveries surged to 16,75,684 and the death toll mounted to 22,030 on Thursday, the data showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/active-covid-19-cases-fall-below-200-in-noida-death-toll-at-466-101623996417367.html
18-06-2021||Bhopal||Congress claims over Covid-19 200,000 deaths in Madhya Pradesh, demands correct figures||The Congress sharpened its attack on the Madhya Pradesh government over alleged underreporting of deaths in the state due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Addressing a press conference on Thursday, the Congress working president of the Madhya Pradesh unit, Jitu Patwari said, “A new report shows that over two lakh (200,000) people have lost their lives to Covid-19 in the state. We want the correct figures to come out to ensure delivery of government schemes.”The Congress leader also demanded that chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan should correct the data of Covid-related deaths so that beneficiaries of the state government’s schemes can be benefited.Also Read| In Madhya Pradesh, CM Chouhan announces new plan to promote Covid-19 vaccinationPrior to Patwari, senior Congress leader and former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Kamal Nath said the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government in Madhya Pradesh under-reported deaths due to the viral disease and added that over 100,000 people died between March and April.Nath accused the government of the shortage of vaccine doses in the state and black marketing of essential antiviral drugs like Remdesivir. The senior Congress leader had been booked for allegedly creating panic by his comments about the pandemic.Hindustan Times reported on June 15 that Madhya Pradesh under-reported the Covid-19 deaths from January 1 to May 31 by a factor of 42, citing data. In April, when the entire country was severely affected by the second wave of the pandemic, the number of funerals in Madhya Pradesh had massively increased, sparking fears that deaths were being underreported.Also Read| Number of Covid-19 funerals in Madhya Pradesh raise underreporting fearsOn April 15, the state capital of Bhopal saw 84 bodies being cremated, crematorium officials told HT, even though health department figures stated that there were only five deaths reported in the city. Of these 84 bodies, 47 were cremated at Bhadbhada Vishram Ghat, 28 at Subhash Nagar, and nine bodies were buried at the Jahangirabad graveyard.As per the health department’s data, Madhya Pradesh has so far reported 8679 deaths due to the Covid-19 disease of which 30 were reported on Thursday. While 145 more people tested positive on Thursday, taking the caseload to 788,954.(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/congress-says-over-200-000-died-due-to-covid-in-mp-demands-correct-figures-101623996460827.html
18-06-2021||Patna||Bihar STF arrests gangster from Gurugram for abduction, murder of Nepali citizen||A joint team of Bihar’s Special Task Force (STF) and Supaul police arrested a gangster from Haryana’s Gurugram on Thursday in connection with the abduction and subsequent murder of a Nepali citizen in Birpur police station area on April 19. The Interpol had issued a red notice against him in 2012. Ramkumar alias Rajkumar Yadav alias RK alias Nepali alias Maowadi was arrested by a team led by DIG (STF) Binay Kumar and brought to Bihar. He was involved in the abduction and murder of one Somanth Yadav, a resident of Bairiyahi in Sirha district of Nepal. Somnath Yadav was abducted on April 9 for a ransom of Rs1.5 crore in Nepali currency. He was the head of a noted finance company in Nepal. He was killed and his body dumped in Kosi river when his family refused to pay the ransom on April 19. The matter came to light when Nepal Police started inquiring about Somnath Yadav’s abduction. They found that Somnath Yadav was kept in the house of one Umesh Yadav, a resident of Mahua village in Supaul district. The Nepal Police sought help from Interpol, leading to Supaul police lodging an FIR on May 31 against five persons, including Ramkumar, on the basis of the statement of Somnath Yadav’s father Harinarayan Yadav. Also Read | Honeytrapped businessman sets himself on fire over extortion threatsPolice said that Ramkumar, a resident of Sukhipur in Sirha district, is wanted in several cases of murder, loot, bomb blast and abduction. He is also the self-styled commander of an organised outfit.Supaul SP Manoj Kumar on Thursday said that following directions from Interpol and Bihar’s CID department, he constituted an SIT led by DSP Ramanand Kaushal and arrested one Satish Yadav from Phulkahi in Madhubani district. During interrogation, Satish revealed that Somnath was killed and his body dumped in Kosi river by Ramkumar. Later, police launched a search operation to recover the body but in vain. Police also recovered the SUV from Madhubani after the arrest of another accused Ramanand Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-stf-arrests-gangster-from-gurugram-for-abduction-murder-of-nepali-citizen-101623996146795.html
18-06-2021||Kolkata||Mamata Banerjee vs Suvendu Adhikari: Calcutta HC lists Nandigram election plea for next Thursday||The Calcutta high court on Friday deferred to June 24 hearing in the petition filed by West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee challenging Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Suvendu Adhikari's Nandigram win in the 2021 state assembly elections. The high-profile case was slated to be heard virtually by Justice Kausik Chanda at 11am today. "Let the matter be listed next Thursday. In the meantime, the Registrar shall file a report before this court as to whether the petition has been filed in conformity with the Representation of People Act," the Calcutta HC directed in its Friday order.Also Read: Former TMC leader sends legal notice to Suvendu Adhikari over tweetsThe Calcutta high court began hearing West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee's petition on Friday. When the matter was listed before Justice Chanda, the chief minister's counsel Soumendra Nath Mukherjee requested that the matter be deferred to next week. The court accepted the request, listing the matter for next Thursday, i.e. June 24.Even though the Trinamool Congress (TMC) returned to power for the third consecutive term, Mamata Banerjee lost to her former aide Suvendu Adhikari by a narrow margin of 1,956 votes. This was Banerjee’s first electoral loss in over three decades, one that saw several twists and turns throughout the high-stakes counting process.Also Read: 'Teach your father first': TMC's Kunal Ghosh hits back at Suvendu Adhikari over 'anti-defection' remarkThe TMC chief had, on May 3, a day after the election results were announced, said that she would move court. Banerjee's petition alleges that the votes were not counted properly. “We will definitely move court. Our party workers are also staging a protest. We want a written statement from the Election Commission of India [EC] that the EVM machine, VVPAT, and postal ballots will be kept separately so that they are not tampered with. And if found tampered with, they will have to undergo forensic tests,” Banerjee had said.Before and during the assembly elections, the TMC was at loggerheads with EC, with the ruling party repeatedly accusing the poll panel of working at the behest of the BJP-led government at the Centre. Both the BJP and the commission had, however, refuted such charges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/mamata-vs-suvendu-calcutta-hc-lists-nandigram-election-plea-for-next-thursday-101623994617663.html
18-06-2021||Gurugram||Customers return to Gurugram’s Banjara Market, shop owners elated||Gurugram’s famous flea market is a home to vintage, imported, second hand furniture and décor pieces. The flea market is located in sector-56 and marks a landmark for the sector. The ever bustling market saw a major downfall during the Covid-19 pandemic. The hundreds of local and nearing shoppers daily, dropped down to zero, for a long stretch of 2-3 months.As the pandemic restrictions eased a little bit in the past week, the market saw the light of excited shoppers flowing in again. “I was waiting for the restrictions to ease a little bit, only and only to visit banjara maket. This market is best for shoppers who have a unique taste and love reclaimed items of furniture. No other market can match the price point and value of stuff that you can get here. I am shopping for planters, as I often do,” quips plant enthusiast and Gurugram based architect, Animesh Rao.The market is a haven for interior designers and architects, who are always on the lookout for unique looking pieces at a low price point.Due to restrictions, the lockdown was financially harsh for a lot of businesses and industries. However, it was especially difficult for daily wage earners.The monthly income of the shop owners at the market ranges form 15-20k after a busy month. The income drastically reduced during the restrictions. Therefore, shop owners at banjara market had to dig in their savings, just to survive the lockdown. “Koi customer aa hi nahi raha tha, toh koi kamaai nahi hui, there were no customers and hence there was no earning during the lockdown,” says Ravi Pratap Singh, a shop owner at the market. He further adds, “We had to survive off our savings, which was not too much either. People used to come to distribute food at times, but not a lot.”Some shop owners even had to take loans, “Karza (loan) lekar bhi kaam chala liya, koi na koi maddad kar hi deta hai. Somebody or the other helped with lending money to survive,” says Ravi Rajput, who owns a carpet shop in the market.During the course of lockdown, a lot of migrant workers decided to move back to their native place. Answering the question if they thought about going back, Sunil Singh, who sell vintage wooden frames, says, “Never thought of going back to where we came from, all the work is here only. Going back was futile and hence was never an option.” The market is majorly run by rajput migrants from Chittorgarh, who have settled in tents right behind their respective shops.Since, all the shop owners live on the market space; it has created a sense of community on the field. With no customers coming, there was not a lot to do. “We live right behind our shops, we cook also. When there were no shoppers, we used to cook meals and spent time with each other, socialising. There was nothing else to do,” explains Indira Rajput, who owns a décor shop in the market.On the bright side, the market remained Covid free, as no one contracted the coronavirus, the shop owners tells us. “Hum sab theek rahe ekdum, kuch nhi hua,” quips one, elated with joy of seeing the market flourish with customers again.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/customers-return-to-gurugram-s-banjara-market-shop-owners-elated-101623994584051.html
18-06-2021||Other||Odisha govt announces ₹1690 cr special package for farmers, tribals and others||As the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic casts its shadow on Odisha’s rural and urban economy due to prolonged lockdowns, the Naveen Patnaik government on Thursday announced ₹1690 crore Covid-19 assistance package for landless farmers, construction workers, NREGS workers, particularly vulnerable tribal groups, SC/ST students and physically handicapped students, as per a state press release.Under the package, all the 17.89 lakh landless farmers in the state would get special assistance of ₹1,000 each while ₹207 crore will be given to landless farmers who did not receive their third instalment under the Krushak Assistance for Livelihood and Income Augmentation (KALIA) scheme.Similarly, NREGS labourers will be paid an extra wage of ₹50 daily in addition to ₹207 that they already get. For the beneficiaries under the state food security scheme, 5 kilograms of extra rice will be given every month from July till November.Families of 13 particularly vulnerable tribal groups would get financial assistance of ₹5,000 each while ₹1,500 would be given to each construction workers registered with the state government.Scholarship ranging from ₹200 to ₹350 would be provided to all divyang or students with disability who are not admitted in special schools. Similarly, students of special schools who are studying through online classes would get ₹1,245 every month as food assistance.Earlier this month, Patnaik had sanctioned an amount of ₹26.29 crore from the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund as Covid-19 assistance for 87,657 street vendors in urban areas as the prolonged lockdown impacted the livelihood of street vendors. The lockdown has been in place in the state for over a month and a half and would continue till the end of June. On Wednesday, the state government had announced some relaxation in lockdown in 17 western and southern Odisha districts.As per the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy’s (CMIE) latest data, over 7 lakh people in Odisha lost their jobs after the lockdown was imposed on May 5. As per CMIE, the unemployment rate in Odisha was 1.9 per cent in April but by May-end it shot up to 7 per cent.Last year, CM Patnaik had announced a Covid-19 assistance package in which working capital support up to ₹50,000 was provided to small eateries, vegetable retail shops, tea shops, bakeries, grinding mill, tailoring, small farm input suppliers, welding, plumbing and automobile mechanic shops facing crisis owing to reduced economic activities and changing business scenarios. A one-time loan amounting to ₹1.5 lakh was given to producer groups and enterprise groups formed by individuals working in the agricultural and non-agricultural sectors.Enterprises managed by very poor or destitute families like physically challenged, particularly vulnerable tribal groups (PVTG), widow, third gender, families with women as head were provided with a loan up to ₹20,000 for the development of the enterprise and uplifting of livelihood. Loans up to ₹1 lakh were provided to skilled and semi-skilled migrant workers who have returned during the Covid-19 pandemic for the development of existing enterprises and establishing new enterprises under package 4.In a separate package announced in May last year, Patnaik had announced a ₹17,000 crore package to provide employment and income generation opportunities to the worst affected sections, including the 9 lakh migrant workers who returned to Odisha after the lockdown..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/odisha-govt-announces-rs-1690-cr-special-package-for-farmers-tribals-and-others-101623992483672.html
18-06-2021||Patna||CPI-ML gives one month deadline for super speciality hospital at DMCH in Bihar||The Communist Party of India (Marxist-Leninist) Liberation (CPI-ML) polit bureau member and party’s Mithilanchal in-charge Dhirendra Jha, in a press statement on Thursday, warned to launch an intensive agitation if the much-delayed construction work of the super speciality hospital being built under Pradhan Mantri Swasthya Surakasha Yojana (PMSSY) at Darbhanga Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) was not finished in a month.“Score of lives could have been saved had the super speciality hospital become operational in January as per the commitment made by the Union health minister earlier,” he said.Appealing to the civil society to extend support to bring back the DMCH on the right track, Jha pilloried the indifferent attitude of both the Centre and state government on this score.A day earlier, CPI-ML activists staged a demonstration with placards on DMCH campus under “DMCH Bachao Jan Swasthaya Abhiyan” on Wednesday. The party workers took out a march from DMCH to Karpoori Square.Party’s district unit secretary Baidyanath Yadav, Abhishek Kumar, Devendra Kumar, Prince Raj, among others, made scathing attacks over the state government’s failure to improve health facilities and the plight of the campus due to acute water logging during monsoon at DMCH, the largest government hospital in north Bihar.Meanwhile, the expected date of completion (EDC) for super speciality hospital (SSH) has been revised again on the PMSSY dashboard. As of now, the revised EDC for SSH is July 31, 2021. As per the information available on the PMSSY dashboard, the progress of civil construction works stands at 78.87%.In December last year, minister of state for health and family welfare, Ashwini Kumar Choubey, committed to start the OPD facility of the hospital by mid-January.The project worth ₹150 crore, is being executed with funds allocated by both central and state governments, having a respective share of ₹120 crore and ₹30 crore.Initially, the construction for the 210-bed specialised treatment facilities on the DMCH campus started in December 2016 and carried an 18-month deadline.DMCH incumbent principal Dr KN Mishra, who assumed charge in February this year, said, “At the given pace, it would take another six months to start the SSH.”“Construction works on the first two floors of the building have been completed while work on the third floor is nearing completion,” he said.Of the total budget, ₹85 crore was to be spent on the construction of the building while ₹15 crore was meant for painting, colouring and finishing touch. Likewise, the fund allocation of ₹50 crore was earmarked for the installation of equipment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/cpiml-gives-one-month-deadline-for-super-speciality-hospital-at-dmch-in-bihar-101623990084805.html
18-06-2021||Other||Phaldaani, the fruit donor of Prayagraj’s Pachkhara village||Babban Singh, an orchardist in Prayagraj’s Pachkhara, has left a quarter of trees in his orchards for his fellow villagers to source Indian gooseberry, wood apple, bananas, and mangoes free of cost for over a year now to help them tide over the hardships they have been facing because of Covid-19. The gesture has earned Singh the nickname of “Phaldaani” (fruit donor).Bhupendra Kumar, a former village head, said the free supply of fruits worth around ₹two lakh has been of great help to Pachkhara’s around 4,000 residents.Also Read | Six, including husband-wife, held for selling infant to childless coupleThe bulk of the residents are dependent on farming while some worked as migrant workers in big cities such as Delhi and Mumbai. Many of those migrant workers have been forced to return home because of the pandemic.Singh said the pandemic has caused hardships as people lost jobs and those working in big cities were forced to return. He added daily wage workers have particularly struggled to find work and that has made ensuring three meals a day a challenge. Singh said that is why he decided to leave a share of the seasonal fruits from his orchards for his fellow villagers. He added it will help them boost their immunity and help fight Covid-19.Choti, a 33-year-old housewife, and mother of three, said her husband was without work for six months and the fruits from Singh’s orchard were a great help to her family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/phaldaani-the-fruit-donor-of-prayagraj-s-pachkhara-village-101623987983633.html
18-06-2021||Patna||CBSE class 12 assessment criteria evokes mixed response among Patna students||As the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) released its assessment scheme regarding the calculation of subject marks for Class 12 results on Thursday, city students expressed a mixed response, HT has learntAs per a press release issued by the CBSE, class 12 assessment will be done constituting 40% of class 12 internal marks obtained in unit tests, mid-terms and pre-board exam, 30% based on class 11 final exam and 30% based on average theory component of best three subjects of Class 10.Many students expressed satisfaction with the inclusion of class 10 marks, however, another section of students seemed disappointed with the inclusion of Class 11 marks.Anurag Gupta, a student who has opted Commerce stream, said, “I didn’t fetch good marks in Class 11 as commerce was a new subject to me. What’s the use of working hard and learning if students will be assessed on their previous performances? Appearing in improvement exam may improve board result but college admissions would be over by then.”“Usually, students reserve their efforts for board exams and perform exceptionally well. Inclusion of Class 11 marks is not fair,” he rued.Another class 12 student Vaishali Singh seemed happy over the assessment scheme.“I am not worried about the board results as I have scored good marks in the past. My class 11 score was slightly lower than class 12”, she said, adding that she had scored 10 CGPA in class 10. Meanwhile, several parents blamed Covid-19 infection for the poor performance of their wards in internal exams.Manoj Singh, whose daughter studies in class 12, said, “My daughter could not write three papers of her pre-board exam as she was Covid-19 infected. I am worried about her college admission which is likely to be impacted due to a low percentage. She aspires to take admission in Delhi University”.According to people privy to the matter, more than 82 thousand students in the state have filled the examination form to appear in class 12 exam conducted by the CBSE.Rajiv Ranjan Sinha, city coordinator of CBSE, who is also the principal of Baldwin Academy, welcomed the board’s decision. “The assessment scheme is friendly for students. We have received an elaborated guideline for dealing with various cases while result preparation. Inclusion of class 11 marks is important as students opt for different streams after their matriculation and class 11 results show their understanding of their selected subject. Those who will not be satisfied with results can appear in the improvement exam.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/cbse-class-12-assessment-criteria-evokes-mixed-response-among-patna-students-101623987203680.html
18-06-2021||Kolkata||It’s ‘Mamata Banerjee vs Suvendu Adhikari’ in Calcutta high court today||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee has moved the Calcutta high court challenging her defeat in the Nandigram seat to her protégé-turned-adversary Suvendu Adhikari. Justice Kausik Chanda is scheduled to hear the high-profile case virtually at 11am on Friday. Even though the Trinamool Congress (TMC) returned to power for the third consecutive term, Banerjee lost to Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Adhikari by a narrow margin of 1,956 votes. This was Banerjee’s first electoral loss in 32 years. According to TMC leaders Banerjee’s petition alleged that the votes were not counted properly. Adhikari, who switched to the BJP in December 2020, won the seat and went on to become the Leader of Opposition in the Bengal assembly. Also Read | ‘Wrote thrice to PM seeking Governor’s withdrawal’: Mamata on Jagdeep DhankharThe TMC chief had, on May 3, a day after the election results were announced, said that she would move court. “We will definitely move court. Our party workers are also staging a protest. We want a written statement from the Election Commission of India [EC] that the EVM machine, VVPAT and postal ballots will be kept separately so that they are not tampered with. And if found tampered with, they will have to undergo forensic tests,” Banerjee had said. She had also appealed to all political parties to jointly move the Supreme Court against the EC and urge the apex court to impose some restrictions on the poll panel. “How do you lose an election twice? First, at the hustings and then, like a sore loser, challenging people’s verdict in the court. It would be fascinating to see Mamata Banerjee suffer the humiliation of Nandigram defeat twice over,” tweeted Amit Malviya, national head of the BJP’s IT cell, on Thursday.Before and during the assembly elections, the TMC was at loggerheads with EC, with the ruling party repeatedly accusing the poll panel of working at the behest of the BJP-led government at the Centre. Both the BJP and the commission had, however, refuted such charges. Controversy about the Nandigram election had broken out the day it went to polls, April 1. On the day of voting, Banerjee, who was wheelchair-bound at the time because of an ankle injury, levelled charges of booth-rigging and refused to leave a polling station for two hours. When the election results were declared on May 2, the Trinamool Congress sought a recount when the results were announced but the EC didn’t allow it. Days later, Banerjee claimed that the returning officer who turned down the request for a recount was threatened, a charge the BJP promptly dismissed, insisting that the chief minister wasn’t able to “accept the reality”. The defeat in Nandigram was a blow to Banerjee, who led her party to a landslide victory in West Bengal assembly elections with 213 of the 292 seats — her party’s third straight win. Banerjee, who represented Bhabanipur in the 2016 assembly, announced her decision to contest from Nandigram a month before the eight-phase elections began.The high-profile seat, where a land agitation in 2007 propelled TMC to power in the state, elected Adhikari in 2016 when he was with the TMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/mamata-challenges-suvendu-s-nandigram-win-in-calcutta-hc-hearing-today-101623985943111.html
18-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi weather: Intermittent pre-monsoon showers likely, says IMD||Monsoon showers will continue to evade the national capital on Friday as Delhi is likely to see light rain or drizzle and a cloudy sky as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast. Scientists said patchy, intermittent pre-monsoon showers are likely to continue in Delhi-NCR in the coming days though it will not reduce the temperature, which will hover around 37°C-38°C, much.The minimum temperature on Friday is likely to be 27°C while maximum temperature is predicted to reach 37°C. The minimum temperature on Thursday was 26.2°C – two degrees below normal and the maximum temperature was 35°C – four degrees below normal.Also Read | How forecasters got their monsoon predictions wrong, againLast week, IMD predicted that the monsoon, which had advanced into northwest India, would hit Delhi by June 15. However, in a later forecast, IMD said that its arrival was delayed by 10-12 days.Meanwhile, Delhi’s air quality was in the satisfactory category on Friday morning. Data from Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am stood at 92. On Sunday, the average 24-hour AQI had been 108, which is in the moderate category. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe".On Thursday, the Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) said, “Rainfall and aerosol washout are expected to improve AQI. AQI is likely to stay in the ‘moderate’ to ‘satisfactory’ category for the next three days. An increase in dust emission from dry region of Rajasthan and a marginal increase in long-range dust transport is expected due to favourable wind direction but impact is unlikely to be significant as washout effect in and around Delhi will neutralise it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-weather-intermittent-pre-monsoon-showers-likely-says-imd-101623984383059.html
18-06-2021||Delhi||Land for Ram temple was bought at hiked rates: AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) again alleged on Thursday that land for the Ram temple in Ayodhya was bought at a higher cost than prevailing rates, and suggested that there was corruption in the deal.Addressing a press conference, the party’s Uttar Pradesh in-charge and Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh said 12,080 square metres (sqm) of land was bought for ₹18.50 crore, while a 10,370sqm-plot next to it was bought for ₹8 crore.“This clearly shows that there has been corruption in the purchase of land. If the rate of 10,370sqm of land for ₹8 crore is considered correct, then about 26,000sqm of land could be bought for ₹18.50 crore, whereas only 12,080 square meters of land was bought for ₹18.5 crore. The agreement, which the Ram Janmabhoomi Trust, the Bharatiya Janata Party and the Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) were repeatedly referring to, was cancelled on March 18,” Singh said.The temple trust has denied all allegations, saying the deal was done quickly, but in a transparent manner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/land-for-ram-temple-was-bought-at-hiked-rates-aap-101623977870098.html
18-06-2021||Delhi||Supreme Court to hear pleas against activists’ bail release today||The Supreme Court will take up on Friday petitions by the Delhi Police for an immediate stay of Delhi high court orders giving bail to three student activists — Natasha Narwal, Devangana Kalita and Asif Iqbal Tanha — arrested in May last year for allegedly instigating the February 2020 Delhi riots.The bench of justices Hemant Gupta and V Ramasubramanian will consider three separate appeals moved by the Delhi Police on Wednesday to contest the high court orders, which have indicted the police for invoking the anti-terror law against the students in their “anxiety to suppress dissent”.Police approached the apex court less than 24 hours after the bail orders, and also pressed for an urgent hearing on the ground that a stay on bail orders was imminent since persons accused of serious offences under Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) were to be released.However, the three student activists were released from prison on Thursday evening, and the development virtually negates the rationale behind the rush shown by Delhi Police in moving the Supreme Court and asking for a stay.Till the time the Supreme Court finally decides the appeals and accepts the Delhi Police’s request for setting aside the bail orders, the three will not be sent back to the jail. As a common principle of bail jurisprudence, once an accused gets released following a bail order, they cannot be sent back to jail until the bail order is not finally quashed on merits. No interim order, including an order of stay, impacts the liberty of the accused who was let out after a court of competent jurisdiction applied its mind and granted bail. The superior court must allow the appeal against the order of bail, and cancel the bail for an accused to be remanded back to prison.Therefore, even if the Supreme Court were to stay the Delhi high court order and the observation made therein with regard to the UAPA after hearing the Delhi Police’s appeals on Friday, the three student activists will remain out on bail for the time being.Narwal, Kalita and Tanha have also filed their caveats in the top court to ascertain no judicial orders are passed in the appeals without hearing them.Meanwhile, the police’s appeals claimed that the high court orders were not only “perverse” but also based mainly on a “social media narrative”. They added that the high court overlooked evidence on record and made “insinuation” against the state going beyond the remit of the bail pleas.Delhi Police further contended that bail for Jawarharlal Nehru University (JNU) students Narwal and Kalita, and Jamia Millia Islamia student Tanha was premised “on a preconceived and a completely erroneous illusion”. The judicial scrutiny by the high court, the appeals said, seemed to have been not to ascertain whether the evidence on record showed a prima facie case (under the anti-terror UAPA law) but to establish that it was a case of a protest by students and suppression of dissent by the government of the day. This, the plea said, was “without any foundation and appears to be based more on the social media narrative than the evidence gathered and elaborated in the charge sheet”.Challenging the three separate but similarly worded bail orders, the police said the high court “erroneously” interpreted certain provisions of the UAPA and watered down its provisions that will have far-reaching consequences for cases before investigating agencies.The high court order was a scathing indictment of the Delhi Police, terming the charges against the student activists “stretched”, “verbiage”, and “hyperbole” while adding that the state may have, by going after the protesters, blurred the line between the “right to protest” and “terrorist activity”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/supreme-court-to-hear-pleas-against-activists-bail-release-today-101623976663649.html
18-06-2021||Chandigarh||GMADA’s Aerotropolis project: 90% owners apply for land pooling scheme||In a major boost to Greater Mohali Area Development Authority’s (GMADA) Aerotropolis project, around 90% of the landowners in the earmarked area have applied for land pooling.An extension of Aerocity, Aerotropolis is the seventh independent township being developed by GMADA on over 5,400 acres on both sides of the Zirakpur-Banur road.Delhi-based Architecture Studio has been hired to develop the project, located in the vicinity of Chandigarh International Airport, and work is likely to begin in a month.Through the land pooling scheme, owners will be provided residential or commercial plots instead of monetary compensation in lieu of their land.Through an amendment in the land pooling policy in August last year, the Punjab government had decided to give 1,000 square yards of developed residential plots and 200 square yards of commercial plots, excluding parking, instead of cash compensation for every 1 acre of land acquired from land owners for Aerotropolis. Earlier, the size of the commercial plot allotted was 121 square yards.A senior GMADA officer said there was a good response to the scheme and they will be issuing letters of intent (LoI) to the owners in August. GMADA had announced land compensation for 1,600 acres in 11 villages in February this year. While 1,400 acres are privately owned, the remaining are panchayat land.Owners of around 1,300 of the 1,400 acres have applied for the scheme. Land is being acquired in Bakarpur, Rurka, Safipur, Matran, Siaun, Manauli, Patton, Saini Majra, Chau Majra, Naraingarh and Chhat villages. The compensation ranges from ₹1.82 crore to ₹4 crore per acre, the highest provided by GMADA to date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gmadas-aerotropolis-project-90-owners-apply-for-land-pooling-scheme-101623963620907.html
18-06-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh adviser Manoj Parida transferred to Delhi||Six months before the completion of his three-year tenure, UT adviser Manoj Parida was transferred to Delhi on Thursday.Parida will take over as the chairman of the National Authority of Chemical Weapons Convention, in the rank and pay of secretary to the Union government under the Cabinet Secretariat.The decision on his new appointment was taken by the appointments committee of the cabinet in its latest meeting on Thursday. As his replacement has not been announced yet, Parida is likely to continue in the Chandigarh adviser’s post for the time-being.“I am happy to get a chance to serve the Government of India at the secretary level. But I am happier that coronavirus is under control in Chandigarh when I am leaving,” said Parida, who joined the UT administration on December 26, 2018.Among those whose names are said to be in fray for the new UT adviser are 1987-batch IAS officer Naresh Kumar, chief secretary, Arunachal Pradesh; 1988-batch IAS officer Renu Sharma, additional chief secretary (transport), Delhi; Dharmender Sharma, director general, Election Commission; Chetan Bhagat Sanghi, chief secretary, Andaman and Nicobar Islands; and former chairmen of the Chandigarh Housing Board – Maninder Bains, an IAS officer of Assam cadre, and Satya Gopal, additional secretary, Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-adviser-manoj-parida-transferred-to-delhi-101623963320968.html
18-06-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh offers one-time rebate to water bill defaulters||The UT administration has approved a one-time settlement scheme for water bill defaulters with provisions for rebate.The scheme first got a nod from the MC General House in August last year and has now been approved by the administration.Under the scheme, 10% rebate will be given to consumers depositing their dues in one instalment. The rebate will drop to 7% in case of payment through two instalments and further to 5% in case of three instalments. The rebates will be available till August 17, 2021.The scheme was passed by the MC House to recover more than ₹41 crore pending in unpaid water bills. Of this, ₹28 crore are owed by domestic users, ₹7.29 crore by commercial establishments and ₹1.7 crore by industrial units. Besides, MC also has to recover ₹4.54 crore from different government departments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-offers-one-time-rebate-to-water-bill-defaulters-101623962900871.html
18-06-2021||Chandigarh||Four debt-ridden men arrested for Chandigarh teen’s abduction||Piling debt, an addiction to online games, and poor investments led bank recovery agents to concoct a scheme to abduct a 15-year-old Kishangarh resident while he was out cycling with his friends in Manimajra on June 15. The accused, Rajat, 21,and Mukesh Kumar, 23, of Phase 1, Ram Darbar, and brothers Vishal, 24, and Pankaj, 28, of Kishangarh, Manimajra, have been arrested. Their accomplice Ajay Sharma is at large. The kidnappers had demanded ₹50 lakh as ransom, but later released the teen after four hours. “Three of the accused worked as recovery agents with a private bank, while Rajat was unemployed. The accused devised a plan to kidnap the 15-year-old for ransom so that they could settle their outstanding monthly instalments as their financial condition had been rendered tenuous after the lockdown, ” Chandigarh senior superintendent of police (SSP) Kuldeep Singh Chahal said. “Pankaj, who is addicted to online games such as PlayerUnknown’s Battlegrounds and Garena Free Fire, was the mastermind. He had invested some money online and had suffered losses,” said Chahal. The accused were produced in court on Thursday and sent to four-day police remand. The knife used to commit the crime has been seized but the vehicle and toy pistol have yet to be found. Accused knew victim’s family The brothers, Pankaj and Vishal, knew the victim’s family. They were aware that the victim’s sister was to get married in October. “The victim had confided in the brothers about the purchases being made for the wedding. Therefore, the accused knew that the family had cash and gold in their home,” the SSP said. Mukesh was the first to be arrested. He was found by the technical cell after combing through CCTV footage. His statement led to the arrest of the other three. CCTV footage revealed that a white Maruti Suzuki Brezza with a fake Haryana number had been used to commit the crime. The same vehicle was spotted again but with a different number plate registered in the name of a resident of Sector 19, Panchkula. It was learnt that the vehicle’s owners had moved to Baltana and the vehicle was being used by one Ajay Sharma. How the plan fell through While Ajay, Mukesh and Rajat kidnapped the victim, Pankaj and Vishal shadowed the family. They even accompanied the family to the police station. “Pankaj also spoke to the kidnappers on behalf of the family and told them that money was being arranged. Later, Pankaj tipped off the kidnappers about police teams’ presence in the vicinity, after which the accused dropped the victim at Golden Estate, Baltana, from where he was recovered after he contacted his family,” the SSP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/four-debt-ridden-men-arrested-for-chandigarh-teen-s-abduction-101623962606234.html
18-06-2021||Chandigarh||From Gettysburg to Tololing, new book narrates army’s five great artillery battles||A new book that weaves a coherent narrative of the evolution of artillery and the lessons to be imbibed from historic battles in which guns played a decisive role was released by Lt Gen Raj Shukla, GOC-in-C, ARTRAC, Shimla, on Tuesday. The book, With Honour and Glory: Five Great Artillery Battles, spans iconic artillery battles across four continents and 136 years, and includes the battles of Gettysburg (1863), Vimy Ridge (1917), Bir Hacheim (1942), Chhamb (1971) and Tololing/Tiger Hill (1999).It is written by Maj Gen AJS ‘Abdo’ Sandhu (retd) under the aegis of the United Services Institute of India’s Centre for Military History and Conflict Studies. Maj Gen Sandhu is the best-selling author of the 2017 book, Battleground Chhamb: The Indo-Pak War of 1971.Lt Gen Shukla released the book in an online ceremony, where discussions, chaired by Maj Gen Ian Carduzo (retd), were attended by the director-general, artillery, Army HQs, Lt Gen K Ravi Prasad, Colonel Commandants of the artillery regiments, and senior officers from artillery divisions, brigades and regiments.“The book fills in the gaps in narratives and paucity of information on great artillery battles. The role of artillery is somewhat underplayed while writing military history and my book aims to overcome this,” said Maj Gen Sandhu, a retired gunner officer, with familial roots in Chandigarh. The book features a chapter by HT’s Sunday Read columnist, Vikram Jit Singh, detailing his eyewitness accounts of artillery firing from vantage points at 15,800 feet and above during the Kargil War. It includes Singh’s recount of artillery firing during the night he spent on the Khalubar ridge, Batalik LOC sector, with troops of the 12 JAK Light Infantry, and being subjected to ground-burst and air-burst artillery by the Pakistan Army during his exposed climb up the Bhimbet nallah, Drass, with the 18 Garhwal Rifles, and while negotiating the cliff face above the Gragario nallah, Batalik. The first print of the book has been distributed by the Directorate of Artillery, Army HQs, to the School of Artillery, Devlali, and all formations and regiments of the artillery. The second print will soon be made available in the public domain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/from-gettysburg-to-tololing-new-book-narrates-army-s-five-great-artillery-battles-101623962241813.html
18-06-2021||Chandigarh||‘Modi will have to take the initiative to resolve farm stir’, says Sukhbir Singh Badal||Chandigarh: Sukhbir Singh Badal, 59, has emerged as the lynchpin of the Shromani Akali Dal (SAD), coming out of the shadow of his nonagenarian father and five-time Punjab chief minister Parkash Singh Badal. But, with the Punjab assembly elections due early next year, he faces a slew of challenges in reviving his party’s political fortunes that hit a rough patch after snapping a 24-year-old alliance with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) last year. It also upset its core constituency of the peasantry over the three contentious farm laws that the SAD initially endorsed. The Badals also face heat over the politically sensitive cases of desecration of Guru Granth Sahib and police firing during the Akali-BJP government’s tenure in 2015 as the Captain Amarinder Singh-led Congress government pushes for a fresh probe.Last week, Badal stitched up a seat-sharing pact with the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) with an eye on Dalit votes that account for 32% of the state’s overall votes. He also took to the aggressive politics of protests to amplify anti-incumbency and galvanise his cadres. In a wide-ranging interview, the SAD president exuded confidence about next year’s high-stakes electoral battle. Edited excerpts:What is your take on Punjab’s political landscape?The ruling Congress has lost its credibility completely. Chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh doesn’t have a single worthwhile achievement. He made a whole lot of promises in the last elections by swearing by the Gutka Sahib (Sikh religious scripture). The people of Punjab are religious and emotional, and a lot of them voted for the Congress. He used the ultimate weapon he had to garner votes. If you don’t live up to a normal manifesto, people don’t get that angry. But, if you swear by God and fail to deliver, they’re not ready to accept it. Second, Congress MLAs have created havoc in their constituencies. They don’t think there’s a rule of law. Not a single sand mine has been auctioned in five years, but the MLAs have been given a free hand to steal government resources. The Congress will pay a price for corruption and abuse of power.There are several parties in the Opposition space, such as the Shiromani Akali Dal, the Aam Aadmi Party, the BJP, and breakaway Akali factions. Who will gain the most from all the issues that you have listed ?A party which people believe has the capacity, credibility and experience to run the government. If you leave the Congress out, people have three choices. One is the Aam Aadmi Party, which has also lost its credibility. It was a bubble that burst. Look at the downslide in its vote share, from 22% in the 2017 assembly elections to 6% in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. The second is the BJP, which will not be able to open an account because it is facing so much public ire. Then, there are splinter groups that will lose their security deposits. The only alternative for the people is the SAD-BSP alliance. It will be successful because of the SAD’s credibility. My father, Parkash Singh Badal, has been a five-time chief minister because of his credibility. In 2017, even though we lost and got only 15 seats (out of 117), our vote share was hardly 4% less than the winning Congress’s.The SAD has forged a poll pact with the BSP after 25 years. But the BSP has been a fringe player in Punjab as is evident from its performance in election after election. In the 2017 assembly polls, it got a mere 1.59% vote share and drew a blank in 111 of the 117 seats it contested. Where does your confidence about the alliance stem from?Our reference point is the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. They (the BSP) fought three of the 13 Lok Sabha seats. In Jalandhar, their vote share was 20%; it was 14% in Hoshiarpur, and 13% in Anandpur Sahib. In fact, when AAP first emerged in Punjab in 2014, it took away the vote bank of the BSP and Communist parties. It talked about ‘inquilab’ and was seen as the next party of the poor. But now when the AAP has lost its steam, the same vote bank has reverted to original parties. Still, it was a dead-end for BSP. But, after allying with the Akalis, the BSP cadre will feel empowered that they can also form the government.Your party has historically identified itself with the Sikh peasantry that forms the core of the Akali support base. How has the ongoing agitation against the three farm laws changed your party’s equation with the farmers’ constituency?We are a part and parcel of farmers. The biggest farmers’ organisation is the Shiromani Akali Dal. Farmer bodies never wanted their movement to be politically supported because it would have given a ruse to the Narendra Modi government to brand their agitation as a political game. So, neither us, nor the Congress nor the AAP is a part of that. But, if you go to protest sites, 80% of those sitting there are from the Akali Dal.Your party initially endorsed the Centre’s ordinances Will that not cause a political blow back?Being an ally in the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government, we got caught in that trap. When the Centre bulldozed its way on farm laws in Parliament, Harsimrat Kaur Badal, the sole SAD minister in the Union cabinet, resigned and we pulled out of the NDA. So, the SAD has stood by farmers. It was only when her resignation happened that the farmers’ protest, which was till then limited to Punjab, became a national issue. In 1984 when the army stormed the Golden Temple, the President and Union home minister were Sikh faces, but they never resigned. Harsimrat is the only Union minister to have left the Cabinet on an issue of grave significance for Punjab.What is the way forward to resolve the farmers’ agitation?The Prime Minister will have to take the initiative. He is like the head of a family. Laws are made for people. If the people you are making the laws for don’t want it, nobody should have an ego that I have done it and now I cannot withdraw it. If Mr Modi wants to be seen as Prime Minister of the people, then he should immediately withdraw the farm laws.What if the Centre doesn’t repeal the laws?Then this agitation will continue, whether it takes six months, one year or two years. Look at the way those poor farmers are holding on despite the cold, heat, Covid and mosquitoes.A new special investigation team (SIT), set up by the Captain Amarinder Singh government, is probing the 2015 police firing cases which is seen as a move to put the sacrilege issue in the spotlight in the run-up to the assembly elections.The SIT was not formed with an intention to find the criminal, rather it was done with political intention. That is why four-and-a-half years were wasted and the previous SIT head, Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh, got a rap from the Punjab and Haryana high court. Rather than going after criminals, he wanted to defame the Akali Dal. Even now, the intent is not to give justice. I urge the new SIT to rise above politics as sacrilege is an emotional issue.A section of the ruling Congress leaders, particularly Navjot Singh Sidhu, accuses chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh of going soft on the firing and sacrilege issues, alleging a quid pro quo between him and the Badal family.Did Sidhu ever make this comment when he was a minister? The Congress leaders say such things when they turn Amarinder’s opponents. It’s their internal politics. Have we done anything wrong that the CM can charge us with? Capt Amarinder Singh has used SITs to defame the Badal family. He used Kunwar Vijay Partap Singh and the whole police machinery to go against us. He took every recourse, including the Justice Ranjit Singh Commission, to put us in the dock. But, just because he couldn’t find anything against us doesn’t mean he is soft on us.After snapping ties with the BJP, your party initiated talks on forming a third front at the national level with non-BJP and non-Congress parties. What has been the progress?The natural process has started. The regional parties have started winning elections; the Trinamool Congress in West Bengal and the DMK in Tamil Nadu. Next year, elections in Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and other states will take place. More regional parties will come up. As we move closer to 2024, all of them will come on a platform. For instance, we have tied up with the BSP and are open to allying with the Left. Talks are happening. After all, they represent the same political ideology of social welfare that Sardar Parkash Singh Badal has worked for.Now that your father has almost retired from active politics, will you be the party’s CM face in the 2022 assembly polls?That is for the party to decide. He is already 94. From the bottom of my heart, I want him to continue in politics. I want his flag to continue till the end. At the moment he is not agreeing. For me, he is the Harvard University of politics. But for his guidance, I would have made a thousand more mistakes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/-modi-will-have-to-take-the-initiative-to-resolve-farm-stir-says-sukhbir-singh-badal-101623962240772.html
18-06-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Respite for patients as elective surgeries resume at GMSH, GMCH||In a huge relief for patients, Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, and Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, have decided to resume elective surgeries.However, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) has yet to take a call on these procedures.Elective surgeries are planned in advance and do not involve a medical emergency. While emergency services continued, elective surgeries and out-patient departments (OPDs) in these three government hospitals were suspended after a sudden surge in the Covid-19 infections in April. “Since the cases have been dropping, we will start conducting two to three elective surgeries daily. In another fortnight, the number will be increased to 12-15 surgeries to reduce the pendency of cases. Before the pandemic struck, the hospital was performing over 25 surgeries on a daily basis, including the emergency ones,” said Dr VK Nagpal, joint director of the UT health department and medical superintendent, GMSH-16.He added that the hospital was also attending to nearly 1,300 people daily at the OPDs.At GMCH-32, director-principal Dr Jasbinder Kaur said, “Orders have been issued to resume elective surgeries, but we have not decided on resuming physical OPDs for now. We have extended the teleconsultation timings and will contact the patients whose surgeries are pending.”PGIMER’s official spokesperson Dr Ashok Kumar said, “We are also deliberating on resuming elective surgeries and OPDs for physical consultations. A decision will be taken soon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhrespite-for-patients-as-elective-surgeries-resume-at-gmsh-gmch-101623962180965.html
18-06-2021||Chandigarh||76% people aged over 45 have received first vaccine dose in Chandigarh||The UT health department’s target of inoculating the entire eligible population with at least one vaccine dose may soon be accomplished, as a significant 76% of those aged above 45 have already received the first dose as of Thursday.Besides, 33% of those aged between 18 and 45 have also taken their first dose since May 14, when Chandigarh began the third phase of the vaccination drive.“As per the latest electoral list, a total of 2,50,000 people in Chandigarh were eligible to take vaccine in the 45+ category, of which 1,91,925 people (76.7%) have received their first dose. A total of 47,394 beneficiaries have also completed their vaccination cycle after taking their second dose that amount to nearly 19% of the total people in the category,” said Dr Manjit Trehan, immunisation officer, Chandigarh.“In the 18-45 age bracket, 3,50,000 people are eligible to take the vaccine and 1,15,584 (33%) have already been inoculated once,” Dr Trehan said, adding that 69 beneficiaries in this age group had received the second dose as well.As far as special target groups are concerned, 70.3% of the total healthcare and 75.66% of the total frontline workers have received the first shot.In all, a total of 4,31,853 vaccine doses have been administered to people in Chandigarh.Though residents of other states have also received the jab in the city, the health department does not have specific data on their number.Vaccine supply regular, coverage to rise“The vaccination drive for the 18-45 age group is gradually picking up pace in Chandigarh, as we are now getting regular vaccine supply from the central government. On Thursday, 6,058 beneficiaries in this age bracket got inoculated. To vaccinate the remaining beneficiaries at the earliest, the UT health department has increased the number of mobile vaccination vans from four last week to 13 this week,” said Dr Amandeep Kang, director of health services, Chandigarh.On the road ahead, she said, “We aim to inoculate at least 8,000 beneficiaries daily for the next 10 days, as we have enough vaccine stock for this month, including 50,000 doses for those above 45 and 24,000 for the 18-45 age group. We expect another 71,000 doses in the June quota.”Walk-in vaccines for all over 18 from June 21From June 21, Chandigarh will start walk-in registration for all those above 18 years of age. Currently, prior appointment on the CoWin portal is required.“Many people are unable to book online appointments. So, we will open on-the-spot registration from June 21. Health department teams will also visit highly dense areas and call upon people to take the jab,” said Dr Kang.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/76-people-aged-over-45-have-received-first-vaccine-dose-in-chandigarh-101623961940779.html
18-06-2021||Chandigarh||SAD’s Jaspreet Kaur elected Kharar MC president||Jaspreet Kaur Longia, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) councillor from ward number 19, was elected the president of Kharar municipal council on Thursday.Gurdeep Kaur and Jasbir Singh Rana became the senior-vice president and vice-president of the civic body, respectively. Both had contested the elections as Independents.On April 19, violent scenes were witnessed during the election of president and senior vice-president of the municipal council, following which the authorities deferred the polls to May 3 and it was further postponed due to Covid-19 surge.Earlier on February 17, the municipal council polls had resulted in a hung house as out of total 27 seats, Congress won 10 seats, SAD got 8, while one went to AAP. Eight seats were won by Independents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sads-jaspreet-kaur-elected-kharar-mc-president-101623961760768.html
18-06-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s Covid cases drop to lowest in 116 days||For the second time in the past four days, the tricity logged less than 100 new Covid-19 cases on Thursday and Chandigarh, too, saw its cases dropping to the lowest in 116 days.As many as 78 people tested positive in the tricity, down from 101 on Wednesday.Panchkula reported just eight cases, Mohali 38 and Chandigarh 32, a first since February 21 when 28 cases were recorded.Six people died in the tricity for the second consecutive day, including three each in UT and Mohali, while Panchkula had no death for the second day in a row.The daily positivity rate was again less than 2% in Chandigarh and Panchkula, but 3% in Mohali.Tricity’s active cases showed further decline, dropping from 1,270 a day ago to 1,189 on Wednesday. As many as 627 patients are recuperating in Mohali, followed by 432 in Chandigarh and 130 in Panchkula. The recovery rate continued to remain over 97% across the three jurisdictions.Those who died in Chandigarh were a 90-year-old woman from Sector 43, a 77-year-old man from Manimajra and a 57-year-old man from Sector 44.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhs-covid-cases-drop-to-lowest-in-116-days-101623961700656.html
18-06-2021||Chandigarh||Sharp drop in daily Covid tests in Chandigarh tricity as second wave ebbs away||With the Covid-19 pandemic abating, the health departments of the tricity also seem to have lowered their guard, if the number of daily tests is any indicator.Worst-hit by the pandemic, Mohali has seen the biggest drop of 75% in the number of daily tests between May and June, and the health teams here have also discontinued contact tracing.In Panchkula, there has been a 50% decline in the number of people tested in the same period, while the figure is a tad better in Chandigarh at 33%.Health experts have warned against these declining figures, as it may result in delayed detection of positive cases and invite a deadlier third wave.During the peak of the pandemic in May, nearly 4,500 people were being tested every day in Mohali that logged 19,924 cases and 373 deaths in the month, highest in the tricity.But since the advent of June, as the cases and deaths dropped to 1,464 and 373, respectively, in the past 17 days, now only 1,200 people are being tested each day.In Chandigarh, 17,399 people tested positive and 275 succumbed to the virus in May when 3,000 tests were being conducted daily. But the number has decreased to 2,000 per day, as the cases and deaths came down to 1,227 and 49, respectively.A total of 8,915 cases were reported in Panchkula in May and the district also lost 142 residents to the pandemic in the same month.As the district battled an unprecedented spike in cases, aggressive sampling was conducted, which helped in early detection of cases. This helped the cases drop to 540 and deaths to 17 in the first 17 days of June, when no fatality was reported on nine days.But with the decline in pandemic figures, testing has been reduced to less than 1,000 per day. On some days, even less than 500 people were tested.Fewer people turning up for testing“The decrease in testing is due to decline in voluntary testing. We have not withdrawn a single person from the testing teams. They are on duty the entire day but get only one or two samples. Rather, we are persuading people to get sampled but they are not cooperating. We can only provide the facility, cannot force anyone,” said Dr Amandeep Kang, director, health services, Chandigarh.Mohali’s civil surgeon Dr Adarsh Pal Kaur also attributed the sharp dip in testing numbers to people not coming forward. “But on Thursday we got the fresh target of 4,000 tests per day, which we will pursue next week, she said.A senior official in the Mohali health department said the fall in the number of new cases could be because of lower testing. “Had the department kept up its pace of testing, the cases would have been much higher,” the official added.“The number of tests should be nearly 50 to 100 times the number of cases being reported. If there are an average of 50 new cases in a city every day then at least 3,000 to 5,000 tests must be conducted. In our experience this helps in early detection of cases,” said Dr Rajesh Kumar, former dean of PGIMER.“Health teams should also focus on contact tracing and at least 15 contacts of every infected person must be tested. Then all those visiting OPDs with flu-like symptoms, pregnant women, admitted patients and their attendants must also be sampled,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sharp-drop-in-daily-covid-tests-in-chandigarh-tricity-as-second-wave-ebbs-away-101623961463012.html
18-06-2021||Chandigarh||1.75 lakh saplings through fiscal to help Chandigarh get greener||The Chandigarh administration on Thursday rolled out an action plan to plant 1,75,000 saplings in the city in this fiscal.UT administrator VP Singh Badnore released Greening Chandigarh ‘Action Plan 2021-22’, prepared by the forest and wildlife department, and a short film on Sukhna Wildlife Sanctuary at the Raj Bhavan here. This was done on the eve of World Day to Combat Desertification and Drought.As part of the greening plan, the plantation target assigned to the forest department is 75,000 saplings, to horticulture wing 40,000 and to the municipal corporation 60,000, alongside free distribution of saplings to the public. Last year’s target of 2.55 lakh was surpassed by planting 2.83 lakh saplings across the city.Badnore appreciated the work done by the departments and said that the people of Chandigarh, who are traditionally nature lovers, would whole-heartedly support and participate in the endeavour of the forest department in preserving the ecological wealth of the city.Adviser to the administrator, Manoj Parida added that in the recent years, global warming has been showing its adverse effects, and due to this, the importance of trees has been understood and acknowledged manifold.Chief conservator of forests, Debendra Dalai said Chandigarh boasts of having preserved 46% of its geographical area under forest and green cover. To increase it further, the action plan (2021-22) was prepared for implementation by all the greening agencies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/175-lakh-saplings-through-fiscal-to-help-chandigarh-get-greener-101623961282191.html
18-06-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Two men held for fraudulent credit card transaction||The cyber crime investigation cell of Chandigarh Police has arrested two men who fraudulently withdrew ₹59,999 from a Sector 27 resident’s credit card by posing as bank officials. The accused, Ashish, 23, and Nikhil, 24, hail from Delhi. In his complaint, Ashok Rohilla, 47, had stated that on June 6, he received a phone call, with the caller identifying himself as an RBL bank official.To help him stop deduction of monthly charges, the caller took his credit card details and an OTP sent to his mobile phone number. Following this, ₹59,999 that were deducted in four transactions from Rohilla’s credit card. On his complaint, a case under Sections 419, 420 and 120-B of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the Sector-26 police station and the accused were arrested. Police also seized their mobile phones containing data related to the RBL credit card.The duo was produced in a Chandigarh court on Thursday and sent to eight-day police remand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-two-men-held-for-fraudulent-credit-card-transaction-101623961280729.html
18-06-2021||Chandigarh||Dug-up sidewalks a safety hazard in Chandigarh’s Sector 8||The residents of Sector 8 are fumed over the UT electricity department leaving the roadsides dug up. They allege that the department failed to level and repair such patches after laying underground wires in the area.With monsoon already unfurling in the city, their fears have only compounded. They say that accumulation of water in the pits due to rainfall poses huge safety risk.Sector 8 was chosen for a pilot project in which underground power lines were to be laid by the department. While the project was sanctioned in 2017, works were taken up only at the beginning of this year, giving rise to numerous trenches over the past few months.President of the sector’s resident welfare body, RS Gill said, “Since November last year, sidewalks have been dug up thrice, giving much trouble to the residents. After two telecom companies laid underground wires here, the electricity department dug up the roadsides again for a project.”Gill complained that the earthworks were taken up indiscriminately before people’s houses. “At some places, the road has caved in, inviting mishaps. These pits are also dangerous for pedestrians, especially during rain when they won’t be visible. The sand taken out after digging these holes has been washed away by the recent spells of rain, clogging the water gullies. Now more waterlogging awaits us,” he rued.Captain (retd) GS Ghuman, who lives opposite to the Sector 8 market, contended, “It has been many months now and it seems that the work has been abandoned by the officials, leaving the ruts behind. The dug-up sidewalks pose risk for senior citizens, many of whom tend to use them frequently.”Local area councillor and senior deputy mayor Maheshinder Singh Sidhu said, “The timing of the three projects has been such that the trenches have stayed there for the past few months. However, we have followed it up with the UT administration. Once the underground wiring work of Sector 8-C is completed, the MC will start restoration work of all spots that were dug up. If any resident is facing problems due to this, they may approach me, and I shall resolve the issue.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dugup-sidewalks-a-safety-hazard-in-chandigarh-s-sector-8-101623961100866.html
18-06-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab ministers Sarkaria, Randhawa threaten to boycott meeting, CM’s aide Suresh Kumar stays away||Amid their ongoing standoff with chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh, cabinet ministers Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria and Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa threatened to boycott a pre-cabinet meeting held on Thursday to keep his (CM’s) chief principal secretary Suresh Kumar out. Sarkaria and Randhawa were part of one of the two groups of ministers called for discussion on the recommendations of the 6th Punjab Pay Commission that are to be placed before the state cabinet on Friday. The duo expressed reservations about the presence of the chief minister’s top aide in the meeting. “Sarkaria told an officer of the chief minister’s office (CMO) that he would not participate in the meeting in case Kumar is attending it. When the CPSCM learnt about the minister’s stand, he decided to keep away from the meeting,” according to two persons aware of the developments. Both Randhawa and Sarkaria have been critical of the chief minister lately, particularly his handling of the 2015 Kotkapura police firing case and over-reliance on bureaucrats. Sarkaria and Randhawa were in the first group of cabinet ministers that also included Brahm Mohindra, Sadhu Singh Dharamsot, Charanjit Singh Channi, Razia Sultana and Gurpreet Singh Kangar. The remaining ministers were in the second group and four of them, including Manpreet Singh Badal and Bharat Bhushan Ashu, asked Kumar to join the meeting, but he did not, according to sources. Barring Razia Sultana who was away, all other ministers attended the discussions. Thursday’s developments are being seen in political and bureaucratic circles as part of the ongoing rift in the ruling party and an embarrassment for the chief minister. Kumar, who has been the top aide of Amarinder in the past four-and-a-half years and enjoys his confidence, had along with the chief secretary, arranged for discussion with the ministers on the pay commission recommendations. The pay panel has recommended a two-fold increase in salaries of all employees over the previous pay panel, with increase in minimum pay from ₹6,950 to ₹18,000 per month, with retrospective effect from January 1, 2016. The overall financial implication, including the arrears for the previous five years, of the salary revision has been pegged at a whopping ₹35,000 crore. “Once approved by the council of ministers, the revised pay scales will be implemented from July 1,” he said. It is not clear whether Kumar would attend the cabinet meeting on Friday or not.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-ministers-sarkaria-randhawa-threaten-to-boycott-meeting-cm-s-aide-suresh-kumar-stays-away-101623960680536.html
18-06-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: The work-from-home pro||On the laptop, the Microsoft Excel file is open. The young man with a week-old stubble is urgently poring over sales invoices and balance sheets. This concerns a UK client, and he must complete the auditing of their financial year revenue before the next morning in London.This is just another day for Zubair Alvi, 25. A “Senior 2” in a Gurugram consultancy firm, his office is in the Cyber City. But he is in Chitli Qabar, in Old Delhi. Outside his window the lane is teeming with hawkers and goats. His mother is sitting next to him, checking a recipe (fried rice) on her mobile.“This is my WFH,” says Mr Alvi. Since the pandemic’s second surge, he has—again—been obliged to work from home.Earlier, he would wake up every morning at 7.30, when everybody else at home would be asleep. His mother would have prepared his lunch box the night before, and kept it in the fridge. He would put it into his bag and walk out of the house, then out of the gali, and then towards the Chawri Bazar Metro station. He would reach by 9.45 for the morning meeting with the team.That meeting still takes place at the same time, but Mr Alvi now gets up just a minute before and attends it on his mobile, while still in the bed. “I go to my office by 10.30.”The office is downstairs, the family’s living room, where no one in the large household disturbs him. It has a mattress laid on the floor, covered with a white sheet, and long gaontakian pillows stacked against the wall. The niche has the portrait of poet, the late Musheer Ul Hasan Jhinjhanvi. He was Mr Alvi’s grandfather.“It’s nice to work from home. You get to have short naps in between, which freshens up your mind.”Here his mother intervenes, wishing old days could come back so that her son could start going to Gurugram again. “Hai, it feels so nice to have mera bachcha (my child) going to Gurgaon for work.”Before the second surge, Mr Alvi would leave his office at 8pm and reach home at 10. These days, he shuts down his laptop by 10 “because when you work from home, you end up working for longer hours.” He then walks up the stairs, to a fresh hot dinner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-the-work-from-home-pro-101623959630347.html
18-06-2021||Chandigarh||NGT panel visits Una to probe illegal mining in Swan river||A five-member panel constituted by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) visited Una district of Himachal Pradesh on Thursday to probe the allegation of illegal mining in Som Bhadra or Swan river.The panel headed by former judge of Punjab and Haryana High Court Justice Jasbir Singh has regional officers of the Central Pollution Control Board, Ministry of Environment and Forests (MoEF), Central Soil and Water Conversation Research Institute (Dehradun) and the Himalayan Forest Research Institute, Shimla, as its members.Una DC Raghav Sharma and officers of state mining department and pollution control board were also present during the inspection. Justice Singh asked the state and district mining authorities to conduct a survey of illegal mining and submit a report in this regard.He said the panel would make some recommendations to curb the illegal mining like geo-fencing of mining lease, use of global positioning system (GPS) in the vehicles carrying the mining material and setting up a control room.“The panel would also recommend reducing the mining lease duration from five to two years. Recommendation would also be made that the after completion of mining period, the same area should not be leased out for at least one year,” he said.Justice Singh directed the mining authorities to fix permanent level signpost in each mining area indicating that the mining cannot be done beyond a specific depth from the surface level.He expressed surprise that while the mining was being carried out in the entire area, no one was to be seen during the inspection. If they were doing mining as per norms, it should have continued today, he said.The panel later also visited a stone crusher in the Basal area and directed the operators to maintain a record of labourers engaged and wages paid to them. He observed that the stone crusher had not built storage tanks for gravel washing water and it was being released into the river.He also directed to take immediate steps to curb the air pollution caused by the stone crusher units and minimise the damage to the agriculture. Amandeep, the complainant in this case, told the team that mining mafia already knew about the visit of the panel and had filled up the pits dug earlier. The NGT had constituted an independent five-member committee on March 2 on a petition filed by Amandeep.In his petition, he stated that the Centre had sanctioned ₹ 922 crore for channelisation of the river. Under the project, 73 rivulets were also channelised to save the agricultural land from flooding in monsoons.He alleged that the sand mafia, enjoying political patronage, under the garb of mining licence has been lifting sand and gravel from the riverbed in an unscientific manner.Amandeep alleged that overloaded trucks were damaging the roads and causing pollution while the unscientific mining was defeating the purpose of channelisation and may also cause damage to the bridges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ngt-panel-visits-una-to-probe-illegal-mining-in-swan-river-101623959783367.html
18-06-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal logs 292 fresh infections, 10 fatalities||Himachal Pradesh recorded 292 Covid cases on Thursday, taking the state’s tally to 1,99,699 while the death toll mounted to 3,408 after 10 more patients succumbed to the contagion. Of the new cases, 61 were reported in Kangra, 59 in Mandi, 34 in Chamba, 32 in Shimla, 16 each in Sirmaur and Solan, 15 in Hamirpur, 11 in Una, seven in Bilaspur and six each in Kinnaur, Kullu and Lahaul-Spiti.Four fatalities were reported in Kangra, two in Mandi and one each in Chamba, Hamirpur, Shimla and Una. Recoveries reached 1,92,841 after 585 people recuperated while the active cases have whittled down to 3,430.In terms of the cases, Kangra remains the worst-hit district with 45,470 cases followed by Mandi where 26,811 people have been tested positive to date and Shimla with 24,845 cases.Solan has 22,105 cases, Sirmaur 15,207, Hamirpur 14,189, Una 13,154, Bilaspur 12,494, Chamba 10,840, Kullu, 8,709, Kinnaur 3,188 and Lahaul-Spiti 2,687. 21.88 lakh people inoculated so farHimachal Pradesh has inoculated 21,88,947 people with Covid vaccine so far, of whom 4,38,750 have also been given the second dose, director, National Health Mission, Dr Nipun Jindal said on Thursday.He said 85,650 healthcare workers and 1,78,047 frontline workers have received their first dose in the state.After the launch of vaccination drive for 18-45 age group in the HP, 2,03,487 people have been vaccinated within one month and this number would further rise in the coming days. He said since the commencement of the vaccination drive in the country, 9,84,687 people of 45-plus age group and 7,37,076 of 60-plus age group have received their first dose in HP. Dr Jindal said Hamirpur has vaccinated the highest 49% of its population with first dose of the vaccine followed by Kinnaur (46%) and Bilaspur (45.6%).He said in order to mitigate the effect of the anticipated third wave of the pandemic, it is very essential that people are vaccinated against the virus. He said the vaccines are being provided to different age groups on the basis of prioritisation strategy. He appealed to the people, whose second dose is due after 84 days, to get themselves vaccinated at the earliest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-logs-292-fresh-infections-10-fatalities-101623959782321.html
18-06-2021||Chandigarh||70% of HP central varsity campus to come up at Dehra, 30% at Dharamshala, says V-C||The issue of permanent campus of Central University of Himachal Pradesh (CUHP) is likely to heat up again after vice-chancellor Prof Roshan Lal Sharma on Thursday clarified that the major part of the campus would come up at Dehra as planned at the time of inception of the varsity.Sharma, in a press conference, said 70% campus with main academic block will come up at Dehra. Thirty percent part that is proposed to come up at Dharmshala mainly includes administrative block.CUHP was handed over the possession of 81.7 hectares of land at Dehra on June 14, fuelling hopes that it would soon get its permanent campus. The issue of permanent campus is hanging fire for more than a decade. Since its inception in 2010, the varsity still functions from three temporary academic blocks situated at Dharamshala, Dehra and Shahpur.“CUHP has now 115 hectares of land at Dehra to its name and we are soon going to hold a meeting of the building committee which would plan next course of action so that construction work is started at earliest,” said Sharma.We, however, want to make it clear that campus would come up at both the sites.Acting registrar of CUHP Hem Raj said as per the central government’s norms, 300 hectares of land is required for setting up campus of a central university.He said 99 hectares of land has been identified at Jadrangal near Dharamshala, geological survey report of which is yet to come.The CUHP campus has been a bone of contention between the BJP and the Congress, which is also the major reason for delay in its setting up. When the varsity came into being in 2010, the BJP was in ruling and proposed two campuses — 70% and Dehra and 30% at Dharamshala.The Congress opposed the decision stating that the institution was meant for Dharamshala and was being shifted to Dehra on behest of Hamirpur MP Anurag Thakur as it is a part of his parliamentary constituency.The forest clearance delayed the project and the state saw a change of government in 2012. The Congress after coming to power reversed the previous government’s decision proposing 70% campus at Dharamshala. First land was indentified at Indrunag which was rejected by the centre for being unfit for construction. Later, a chunk of land was identified at Jandrangal. In 2017, the BJP again came to power but there was no progress in the project. Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur and Union minister Anurag Thakur even had an argument over the issue during a public meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/70-of-hp-central-varsity-campus-to-come-up-at-dehra-30-at-dharamshala-says-vc-101623959780523.html
18-06-2021||Chandigarh||J&K’s Covid recovery rate shoots past 95%||Jammu and Kashmir on Thursday recorded 656 Covid infections while 1,426 patients were cured of the disease, taking the recovery rate past 95% after 72 days.The UT also witnessed 12 deaths with total fatalities climbing to 4,226, while total cases stood at 3,10,017. There were 466 cases and four deaths in Kashmir while Jammu division saw 190 infections and five fatalities. Since June 7, the UT has mostly recorded below-20 daily fatalities.The second Covid wave peaked in May in the UT with the highest daily cases of 5,443 on May 7 and the highest daily deaths of 73 on May 17.The number of patients who were cured in the UT on Thursday was 1,426, including 920 from Kashmir and 506 from Jammu. The active cases dropped to 10,602 from the highest ever active cases of 52,848 on May 13. The overall number of people who recovered reached 2,95,289 prompting the recovery rate to climb to 95.21%. Last time the recovery rate in the UT was above 95% was on April 6.Health officials said that 50,735 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours in the UT with the overall number of tests crossing 9.35 million.They said with 112 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new infections. All other 19 districts had below-100 cases with single-digit cases in five districts.Srinagar and Jammu districts have together contributed for about 1.2 lakh cases and 1,933 deaths of the total. The Jammu district has the highest number of 1,118 fatalities followed by Srinagar with 815 deaths.The month of May was the most devastating for Jammu and Kashmir as the UT logged highest 1,14,382 Covid-19 cases and 1,625 deaths related to the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jks-covid-recovery-rate-shoots-past-95-101623959721853.html
18-06-2021||Chandigarh||Environmentalists fume over forest dept’s move to axe hundreds of trees in Budgam||The forest department has axed hundreds of trees in central Kashmir’s Budgam in the past 10 days, causing outrage among environmentalists and forest lovers.The action comes shortly after a four-year-old girl was mauled to death by a leopard. Locals accused the forest department of ‘wanton felling’ of hundreds of cuprous and robinia trees in the name of thinning the eight hectare (160 Kanal) forest nursery at Ompura in Budgam, where the mauled body of the girl was found on June 4, just 1km from her home.“On the pretext of thinning, the forest department is destroying this nursery of trees. They have been randomly cutting down the trees with utter disregard of the environment and the role this nursery played in the ecosystem of this area,” said a local, Irshad Ahmad.“How can cutting down the forests stop man-animal conflict? The officials have to strike a balance. They have to protect the vegetation as well as the human lives,” he said.Irshad said that officials were also burning the fallen foliage and branches inside the nursery which can trigger forest fires. “They have no idea that it can cause a huge disaster,” he said. Following the death of girl and to assuage the emotions of the enraged locals, the district administration then decided to remove the “fallen material and other cultural operations” from the forest area to “avoid any further loss of life”. On June 15, Jammu and Kashmir administration announced that the leopard responsible for killing was captured following a massive operation.Another resident of Ompura said that the fencing of the lawn of the house from which the girl was taken was open at certain places through which the animal was believed to have entered. “Before the incident, we had been repeatedly asking the wildlife department about the sightings of the wild animals, but they did not seem to care,” he said, not wishing to be named. He said that the administration needs to erect a strong and effective iron-mesh fence around this forest area wherever it has been damaged to prevent animals from entering the colony. Officials said that the eight-hectare land was turned into a forest nursery in the early 90s to stop the soil erosion in Budgam which has many natural slopes.Raja Muzaffar Bhat, a prominent social and environmental activist of Budgam, was aghast over the felling of trees.“It is not right. Instead of afforestation they are cutting down the trees. Most of the nurseries of the forest department are not being properly taken care of,” he said.Wasim Balki, range officer, Budgam forest department, said they have trimmed down and pruned trees on two hectares out of the eight hectares so far.He, however, denied that they were “wantonly felling” the trees.“We are clearing the trees which have fallen on the ground, or those uprooted or broken. We don’t touch healthy green trees. Only their branches are being cut to thin out the area,” he said. “There is no random feeling of trees. Every tree is enumerated and a list of trees which have to be cut and which not, has been prepared,” he said.He said the nursery was having dense vegetation. “We are also pruning big branches to increase the visibility. It may take another 15 days,” he said.He did acknowledge that they were burning the dried foliage to clear the area. “Where else will we take it,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/environmentalists-fume-over-forest-dept-s-move-to-axe-hundreds-of-trees-in-budgam-101623959720775.html
18-06-2021||Chandigarh||BJP stages protest against Ludhiana MC over revocation of exemption on water, sewer charges||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) staged a protest outside all four zonal offices of the municipal corporation (MC) on Thursday against revocation of the exemption on water-sewer charges for houses upto 125 square yards. BJP leaders and councillors also slammed the civic body over its decision to hand over recovery of taxes/fee to a private contractor, stating that this will encourage “gunda raj” and result in harassment for the public.They said that not only will houses upto 125 square yards now have to pay ₹2,400 every year, the tariff has been increased by upto 60% for different categories. Only houses upto 50 square yards are exempted.BJP district president Pushpinder Singal said that the civic body is putting additional financial burden on residents when they are struggling to make ends meet , which is unacceptable. “We appeal to residents living in houses upto 125 square yards to not to pay the hiked charges, as exemption will be reintroduced after the BJP comes into power after the 2022 legislative assembly elections,” he said.Leader of BJP councillors in MC house, Sunita Rani and former councillor Inder Aggarwal said that the MC should revoke the decision to hire a private firm for recovery of taxes/fee from the residents. They said that BJP will intensify the agitation if relief is not provided. Apart from the opposition, Congress councillors from central constituency and MLA Surinder Dawar had also opposed the move. Dawar had said that he will also take up the matter with mayor Balkar Sandhu and if required, approach local bodies minister Brahm Mohindra.Revised tariff approved by MC House: MayorHitting back at the BJP, mayor Balkar Sandhu said that the MC general House, of which BJP councillors are also a part of, had approved the revised tariff in the past. He said that the state government is working to introduce the canal-based water supply project in the city which has to be funded by the World Bank. So, It was mandatory to make changes in the water tariff, otherwise the funds for the project would not be approved. He said that houses upto 50 square yards area have been exempted and less than ₹4 per day is being charged for water supply from houses with area upto 125 square yards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bjp-stages-protest-against-ludhiana-mc-over-revocation-of-exemption-on-water-sewer-charges-101623958044929.html
18-06-2021||Chandigarh||Master cadre recruitment exam:1,033 candidates to appear in Ludhiana||With the easing of lockdown restrictions, the examination for recruitment of master cadre teachers — fresh and backlog — for English, science and mathematics will be conducted at three examination centres across the district on June 20 and June 21. The Punjab government will be enlisting 2,527 teachers to fill vacancies in border-area schools. The examination will be conducted in two shifts — 9.30am to noon and 2pm to 4.30pm.  As many as 1,033 candidates have applied for the examination from Ludhiana, of which 742 applicants will appear for the English examination in the morning shift and 291 for the science examination in the evening shift on June 20, while 333 candidates will take the mathematics examination on June 21 in the morning shift. Three government schools have been made centres for the examination. Government Model Senior Secondary School, Punjab Agricultural University, will accommodate 291 candidates; Government Senior Secondary School (GSSS), Jawahar Nagar, 242 candidates; and GSSS, Mundian Kalan, 500 applicants. Applicants will be asked to answer 150 multiple choice questions for each subject. Each question will carry one mark. As per Covid protocols, no more than 24 candidates will be accommodated in a room and social distancing will be observed. Arrangements will be made to sanitise the hands of staff and candidates at the examination centre. Candidates will be allowed to enter the examination hall at 8.45 am and 1.15 pm in the respective shifts. Those reaching the examination hall after 10am and 2pm will not be allowed to take the exam.District education officer, secondary, Lakhvir Singh, said, “School principals have been asked to depute Class-4 employees from their own school for the examination. Superintendents, deputy superintendents and invigilators will be deputed by the department.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/master-cadre-recruitment-exam-1-033-candidates-to-appear-in-ludhiana-101623957924014.html
18-06-2021||Chandigarh||Covid in Punjab: Active caseload drops below 10,000 after 14 weeks||Punjab recorded 726 Covid cases and 32 deaths due to the virus on Thursday, while 1,255 patients were discharged and cured across the state, according to medical bulletin.With this, the active case load plunged to 9,479 from the previous day’s 10,046, dropping below 10,000 after 14 weeks.Also Read: Punjab’s weekly positivity rate sees sharp declineDuring the second wave, active cases had gone past 10,000 in the second week of March and peaked at 79,963 on May 12 before starting a descent. With 5,65,339 of the 5,90,556 patients tested positive so far being cured and discharged, the state’s recovery rate has reached 95.7%. The death toll stands at 15,738, according to the bulletin.The deaths were reported from several districts, including Amritsar, Barnala, Faridkot, Ferozepur and Ludhiana.Among the fresh cases, Jalandhar reported 79, followed by 64 each in Hoshiarpur and Ludhiana and 54 in Bathinda.There are 164 critical patients who are on ventilator support, 478 other critical patients and 2,117 on oxygen support, the bulletin said. A total of 1,02,45,131 samples have been collected for testing so far, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-in-punjab-active-case-load-drop-below-10-000-after-14-weeks-101623957801206.html
18-06-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana clocks 64 more virus cases, 3 deaths||Three deaths and 64 coronavirus cases were reported in Ludhiana on Thursday, pushing the death toll to 2,071 and overall case count to 86,491.Two men and a woman lost their battle to the virus. The victims included a 39-year-old woman of Payal, 58-year-old man of Jagraon and 83-year-old man of Salempur.One patient succumbs to black fungus One patient succumbed to the black fungus infection, while five more patients were diagnosed with the fungal infection, as per district health department officials.The number of confirmed cases in the district has reached 130, of which 19 patients have succumbed to the infection so far and 50 cases remain active.Of the confirmed cases, 72 are residents of Ludhiana, while the rest are from other districts and states. Similarly, of the black fungus victims, nine were locals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-clocks-64-more-virus-cases-3-deaths-101623957800109.html
18-06-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Punjab’s weekly positivity rate sees sharp decline||Punjab’s Covid-19 curve appears to have flattened completely with the state’s average weekly positivity rate coming down to 1.5% from 5% within four weeks. The figures obtained from the health department reveal that the state’s average positivity rate for May 20-26 was 5%, which dropped to 3% and 2% in the subsequent two weeks and was recorded at 1.5% in the week ending June 17. The past one month has also seen the number of daily cases dropping from around 7,000 to 669 on June 17. The sharp dip in the positivity rate has been witnessed even as the state government has been conducting over 50,000 tests a day despite the drop in new cases. Experts say it is expected to go down further. Positivity rate is the true indicator of the growth or decline in the spread of an infection, as it is the proportion of people testing positive among all those sampled. “We have not compromised with testing at all even with the decline in cases. That is why we consider the 1.5% positivity ratio as a sign of relief for us. We expect further dip in the cases by the end of this month,” said the state’s nodal officer for Covid-19, Dr Rajesh Bhaskar. Punjab had registered the highest positivity rate of 14.2% on May 12. The state at present has 10,046 active cases, which are lowest in the past three months. High fatality rate cause of concernMeanwhile, as in the past, the case fatality ratio (CFR) continues to remain a cause of concern, as the number of deaths registered proportionate to the new cases is still high in Punjab. Data suggest that the state’s CFR has further notched up to 2.7% from 2.6% a week back. In the week between June 9 and 15, the state registered 257 deaths, with an average of 36 deaths a day. “The number of deaths is high as serious patients may take two to three weeks to recover. We expect the daily deaths to fall further by the end of next week,” said the nodal officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid19punjabs-weekly-positivity-rate-sees-sharp-decline-101623957620097.html
18-06-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab AG accuses ACS (home) of interference, complains to CM||Punjab advocate general Atul Nanda has complained to the state government accusing additional chief secretary (home) of interference in his office and abolishing some posts without consulting him. In a letter, shot off to chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh and chief secretary Vini Mahajan on June 14, Nanda alleged that 23 posts in AG office were abolished by the additional chief secretary, home (he did not name Anurag Agarwal) without any discussion with him. Nanda said the move has come at a time when next six months were crucial as the Congress government was nearing towards the end of its tenure and may face critical litigation which will require the AG office to work at its full strength. “It’s a serious matter and amounts to clear interference that affects functioning and administration of my office. At a time like this, to try and cripple my office with the abolishing of posts, betrays an arbitrary approach, if not, a total non- application of mind by the ACS, home,” the AG’s strongly worded letter reads. The letter seeks intervention from the chief secretary so that the ACS (home) can be directed to revive the said posts. The posts, as per letter, were abolished in February. When contacted, Nanda said he would not comment on any communication between the AG office and the state government. Agarwal, on the other hand, said he had not seen the letter. “It is normal government communication, I will respond to it after seeing it, he added. The posts in question are of librarian and steno’s etc which the AG has termed critical for the functioning of any lawyer’s office.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-ag-accuses-acs-home-of-interference-complains-to-cm-101623957440270.html
18-06-2021||Chandigarh||Portion of road caves in at Model Town’s Gol Market in Ludhiana||A portion of the road caved in at Gol Market in Model Town after one of the walls of a manhole collapsed on Thursday. No casualty or damage to property was reported. Shopkeepers in the area blame the civic body’s nonchalance for the incident, saying that no corrective measures were taken to repair the damaged manhole despite alerting the authorities and submitting a complaint. Arvind Sharma, one of the traders in the area, says the municipal corporation officials were not startled into action after the cave in and have merely poured sand on the damaged portion. “It seems the officials are waiting for some major accident. If the manhole is not repaired in time, the road may be further damaged,” he said. Municipal corporation superintending engineer Ravinder Garg said the damaged portion was covered with sand so that accidents can be avoided. “The field staff has already been directed to take corrective steps. Residents say that the road caved in because of a damaged manhole but the exact reason will be known once the MC staff digs up the road.” A road collapse just ahead of the torrential monsoons does not bode well for the civic body officials as cave-in incidents are reported across the district every year during the period. Authorities say laying of underground wires, which has damaged sewer lines and caused leaking water to wash away the sand, is primarily responsible for the incidents. Last year too, road cave-in incidents were reported in Dugri, and Kaka Marriage Palace Road among other areas. The Gol Market road cave-in comes a day after former councillor Parminder Mehta had slammed the civic body for incomplete sewer installation work near the Clock Tower. He had alleged that sand poured over the dug up areas had caved in due to rain accumulation on June 4, causing at least half-a-dozen vehicles to get stuck in the pits at the construction site.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/portion-of-road-caves-in-at-model-town-s-gol-market-in-ludhiana-101623957380763.html
18-06-2021||Other||Mumbai civic body to review lake levels to decide on cuts||As the city only has drinking water for around the next 50 days, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said that it will take stock of the lake levels in the next two weeks to ascertain if there will be a need for water cuts. However, a water cut is not on the cards yet, civic officials said. According to BMC data, the water level is only 12.57% in the seven lakes supplying drinking water to the city as on Thursday morning, which is a decline from last week’s 12.84% owing to absence of rainfall at catchment areas.A BMC official from the hydraulics department said, “ On June 30, we will hold a review meeting wherein the lake level stock will be considered for deciding whether any water cut needs to be announced or not. Though the catchment areas have not got much rainfall yet, the forecast is good. Hence, we are expecting that in the next two weeks before the review meeting, there will be good rainfall in the catchment areas.” For nearly 10 days, it has been raining heavily in Mumbai and the neighbouring areas, but the catchment areas of the lakes supplying water to the city have not received substantial rainfall. As such, the available water stock has not increased yet. Of the seven lakes, five are situated in Mumbai as well as neighbouring Thane and Palghar districts. Only Tulsi and Vihar lakes – located inside the city – are half-filled at 52%, but the remaining five lakes are yet to get substantial rainfall for water levels to increase.Bhatsa, which supplies 55% of the total annual water requirement, has water level at 10%. Modak Sagar has 34% water, followed by Tansa and Middle Vaitarna lakes at 14% and 11%, respectively. Upper Vaitarna has no water left as on Thursday. Last year around this period too, there was no water in Upper Vaitarna dam.The lakes are bifurcated into two systems: the Vaitarna system supplies water to the western suburbs and the island city, while the Bhatsa system provides water to the eastern suburbs. The civic body supplies 3,850 million litres of water daily against the city’s demand of 4,200 million litres.The city had experienced 20% water cut last year in August amid the Covid-19 outbreak, owing to low levels of water in the lakes. Last year, BMC chief Iqbal Singh Chahal had also prepared a backup plan to bring water to Mumbai from Bhandardara dam in Ahmednagar, if required. However, later the water cut was rolled back owing to good rainfall. No water cut was imposed in 2019, owing to good rainfall in catchment areas, but in 2018, BMC had imposed 10% water cut, while in 2016 and 2014, the city faced 20% and 25% cut water cut.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mumbai-civic-body-to-review-lake-levels-to-decide-on-cuts-101623957379546.html
18-06-2021||Other||Indian Coast Guard rescues all 16 onboard a sinking ship in Raigad||In a coordinated air-sea operation, the Indian Coast Guard (ICG) on Thursday rescued all the 16 members of a merchant vessel that went aground near Revdanda in Raigad district. ICG used one of its ships and two Chetak helicopters for rescuing the crew members of MV Mangalam amid inclement weather and very rough seas.An ICG official said that the maritime rescue coordination centre (MRCC) had received a call in the morning from the second officer of MV Mangalam, alerting the centre that the vessel was partially sinking with 16 crew members on board around 3km near Revdanda jetty. The officer also informed MRCC that the crew members were in panic as the water had started entering the vessel. Immediately after getting the information, ICG ship Subhadra Kumari Chauhan sailed out from Dighi harbour and proceeded towards the distressed vessel. “During the conversation, an MRCC team pacified the caller and crew members and requested them to remain on board as the coast guard ship had been deployed for their help,” said an ICG official.“The ICG ship reached the distressed vessel around 10.15am, and after assessing the situation, lowered her boats to rescue the crew amid challenging weather situation,” stated an ICG release.In the meanwhile, two Chetak helicopters were also launched from ICG’s air station at Daman . The helicopters commenced winching of the crew against the vagaries of weather. “The crew was taken to Revdanda port,” said ICG commandant (JG) and spokesperson Avinandan Mitra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/indian-coast-guard-rescues-all-16-onboard-a-sinking-ship-in-raigad-101623957259689.html
18-06-2021||Other||Farmers with land on border not paid compensation for three years||Tarn Taran Over 35,000 farmers of 220 villages who own land between the barbed wire fence and the zero line at the India-Pakistan border continue to wait compensation that is due to them for not being able to use their land effectively, because of restrictions that the Border Security Force (BSF) imposes in the area. The National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government that was in power at the Centre in the early 2000s had started a scheme to provide relief worth ₹2,500 per acre to border farmers. In 2016, the compensation was enhanced to ₹10,000 per acre in 2016. The Centre and state governments contribute 50% each to fund the compensation.Farmers in Tarn Taran are harassed as the administration is yet to clear Utilisation Certificates (UCs) on distribution of compensation to some farmers for 2016 and 2017.The land, roughly around 27,000 acre, is spread across the six districts of Tarn Taran, Amritsar, Gurdaspur, Pathankot, Ferozepur and Fazilka. Farmers, who had approached the Punjab and Haryana high court (HC) in December 2020, for the release of the compensation from 2018-2020, said the Centre was ready to issue its 50% share, but with a condition that the state government should clear the UCs of the compensation distributed to farmers for 2016 and 2017. Farmers, however, have now threatened an indefinite stir outside Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh’s residence in Patiala if the issue is not sorted out by July.“During our hearings in court, the BSF said that it will release its share immediately after the state government issues UCs of the earlier distributed compensation. Barring Tarn Taran, other districts have issued the UCs. Tarn Taran has not issued the UCs due to a scam in the distribution of compensation in 2016 and 2017,” said Raghbir Singh Bhangala, president of Border Area Farmers Welfare Committee (BAFWC).“Over 4,000 farmers were excluded in Tarn Taran for 2016 and 2017 compensation. Some revenue officers, with the collusion of the then sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Anupreet Kaur, misappropriated the funds. These farmers, who belong to 32 villages, are now being asked by officials to sign papers that they have received the compensation,” he alleged.Kabal Singh Muhawa, BAFWC’s Amritsar district president, said, “The compensation should be released immediately as many farmers are struggling to make ends meet due to covid-19.”Bhikhwind SDM Rajesh Sharma said, “The scam was pegged at around ₹2 crore. We have recovered around 30 lakh from the accused and this amount has been distributed to some farmers. We have requested the government to release last three year’s compensation amount.” He said a case against the accused in this regard is pending in a court and UCs of ₹1.75 crore could only be issued, once it was settled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/farmers-with-land-on-border-not-paid-compensation-for-three-years-101623957080766.html
18-06-2021||Mumbai||Are Mumbai’s flamingos in the pink of health?||For the past three years, a group of 20-25 researchers and field staff have been residing at the Bombay Natural History Society’s (BNHS) field station in Airoli, which was set up in 2017 to facilitate scientific studies in and around Thane Creek and Navi Mumbai. On three consecutive days each month — depending on when the tide is most favourable — the researchers set out to survey 46 kilometres of marshes that line the banks of Thane Creek, a coastal inlet off the city’s eastern waterfront separating it from mainland Maharashtra. Armed with gumboots, lifejackets, binoculars, cameras, and a variety of data sheets, the group breaks off at Airoli jetty into smaller teams. A few team up with local fishermen, who help them wade into the mudflats on long, wooden planks, where the researchers use a tube-like implement called a grab sampler to extract columns of the loose, squishy sediment that makes up the creek’s mudflats. Each excursion lasts between three to five hours. Samples and data collected from the field are then brought back to the BNHS campus for laboratory assessment. During the months when flamingoes and other migratory shorebirds arrive to feed on the algae, cyanobacteria and small crustaceans that live in the creekbed, the group ventures into deeper water to count, photograph and observe these birds in their habitat. The end goal, researchers explained, is to draw up an evidence-based conservation blueprint for the ecology of Thane Creek, which many say is at risk from pollution and upcoming infrastructure projects. It’s also part of an ongoing long-term study — the first of its kind — to assess the populations and behaviours of flamingos and other waders in Thane Creek. Bridging the gap Flamingos have been flocking to Mumbai for close to three decades, and though experts maintain they have probably visited in smaller groups earlier, the first large congregation (about 8,000 birds) was observed only in 1994. Their numbers have since grown, with hundreds of thousands annually migrating from their breeding grounds in the Rann of Kutch to the landscape in and around Thane Creek, arriving usually in November and staying till early June.Little else is known about why they visit and what their relationship is to the city’s environment. The BNHS conducted a preliminary assessment of the area’s avian biodiversity and prepared a report in 2015, when they were commissioned to conduct a 10-year-long study after the Mumbai Trans Harbour Link (MTHL) — a 22-km-long bridge to be built across the mouth of Thane Creek from Sewri in south-east Mumbai to Chirle in Uran, Raigad district — was given the go ahead. In September 2015, ahead of the then chief minister Devendra Fadnavis’ visit to Japan, to meet with the project’s primary benefactors — the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) — the state accepted a key condition put forth by the Union environment ministry, without which the MTHL would have been denied the mandatory environmental clearance (EC) needed for work to take off. The condition was that a long-term monitoring study of flamingos and other shorebirds in Thane Creek be outsourced to BNHS, who would track their numbers alongside the construction and operation of the MTHL. The BNHS study (which began in 2017) will conclude in 2027. Learning about waders Researchers highlighted four broad aims of their ongoing study. First, they are trying to assess the true extent of the Creek’s flamingo population, with recent estimates putting it between 100,000 to 150,000 annually. The second is to assess the availability and distribution of food in the creek’s intertidal mudflats. The third goal is to learn more about the flamingos’ migratory paths. Though largely from Gujarat, researchers now believe that some birds may also be flying over from Kazakhstan and Iran. A total of 39 birds in the creek have been tagged with aluminium rings bearing unique ID numbers, and may be re-sighted in other countries. Two birds tagged in Mumbai have been tracked from Tamil Nadu and Rajasthan in the last two years, and researchers also plan to tag about 10 flamingoes with radio-collars by December 2021. And finally, the researchers also hope to also understand the relationship of the birds to the creek. They now know that the birds are habituated to feeding sites, and that a group of flamingos will forage in the same spot, day after day. Researchers also know that the largest groups congregate in Sewri, Mahul and Airoli, and that they use satellite wetlands in Bhandup, Navi Mumbai and Uran as roosting grounds during high-tide, when the water level in the creek rises. “We are also studying the birds’ behavioural responses to disturbances like the MTHL construction, and fishing,” said Mrugank Prabhu, a scientist at BNHS and one of the residents at its Airoli field station. At the moment though, Prabhu added, it is still too early to draw any conclusions from the work his team has done. When asked specifically if the MTHL construction underway had an impact on flamingo numbers in Sewri and Nhava, he emphasized that “the birds have not abandoned the area despite the project.” “They are keeping a safe distance from the construction site, and are feeding there in good numbers. The disturbance may be temporary, but only long term monitoring will reveal that,” added Rahul Khot, assistant director at BNHS. ““There is a paucity of historical data on the subject of flamingos and the ecology of the creek, which is an incredibly dynamic system. Our long-term ecological monitoring study is a flagship effort toward shaping conservation policies in future. We are finally producing the critical data that is required for this,” said Khot. The absence of a proper study has been a sticking point for environmentalists. Had such a long-term monitoring study been undertaken prior to the construction of the MTHL, the impact of the project would be easier to gauge and mitigate. “The state has been content to use these flamingos as tourist attractions, but didn’t think of investing in conservation until it absolutely had to,” said Stalin D, director of non-governmental organisation Vanashakti. Raising concerns The environmentalists’ main objection to the MTHL has been its direct passage through the Sewri-Mahul mudflats, which provide a habitat for as much as 15% of the near threatened lesser flamingo (Phoeniconaias minor) in South Asia. In its preliminary assessment, the BNHS recommended that this section be re-routed, but the suggestion was not accepted by the state government. However, based on environmentalists’ demands and a recommendation by the Union ministry of environment, the state declared 1,690.5 hectares of the creek — in Mulund, Vikhroli, Bhandup, Kanjur and parts of Mandale village — as a Flamingo Sanctuary in 2015. The forest department even prepared a 10-year management plan. With MTHL cutting through a sizeable portion of migratory bird habitat in Sewri and Nhava, the sanctuary, which is north of the MTHL, has delineated a zone in which further development and infrastructure projects would be restricted. Experts, however, also cautioned that the MTHL isn’t the only thing to watch. Pollution from domestic sewage, effluents from over 4,000 industrial units which line the creek, and hot water discharges from Tata thermal power plant and the BARC nuclear research reactor causes an edge effect: rapid ecological changes between two habitats (such as land and water) which can create a set of specific conditions that allow certain species to thrive. In this case, rapid pollution and siltation in the Thane Creek is leading to a proliferation of food (and feeding) grounds and driving up flamingo numbers. “It’s somewhat of a paradox that pollution helps the flamingos thrive. The real question is to what degree the creek could sustain these processes before risking their survival?” asked Dr Prasad Karni, a biologist and member of the Paryavaran Dakshata Mandal, a Thane-based environment advocacy group. Rapid siltation is making the creek shallower and narrower. HT reported on June 14 that a study by the state forest department’s mangrove cell indicated that Thane Creek has lost 30 sq km of its water spread since 1972, with most of this area having been turned into fresh mudflats. These are believed to support flamingos for a time, but soon become overrun with mangroves that take root in the silt. “Flamingos and migratory waders are benefiting from the shrinking waterways as their population increase is being witnessed in the same trajectory as the expansion of mudflats and mangroves. This in combination with high sewage load that MMR is pumping into the creek as well as warm water from refineries and power plants make it a perfect feeding ground, with nutrient rich flora and fauna,” said Dr Deepak Apte, a marine biologist who helmed the MTHL flamingo monitoring programme as former director of BNHS. “The way I see it, MTHL is not as much of an issue as these other changes happening inside the creek. Heavy siltation is already promoting growth of mangroves, which if left unchecked will outgrow the available area for birds to forage. This is not good news for flamingos, who prefer shallow mudflats over mangrove forests,” said Apte, calling for the implementation of an ecological restoration plan for Thane Creek.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/are-mumbai-s-flamingos-in-the-pink-of-health-101623957079553.html
18-06-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana woman sent abroad for spouse visa disowns husband, 3 booked||A man who had funded his wife’s education in Canada on the condition that she would eventually help him procure a spouse visa lodged a case against her, and her family on Wednesday after she refused to hold her side of the bargain. The complainant, Jaskaran Singh of Sherpur Khurd village, had married the accused Gurleen Kaur in 2018.He had borne all expenses for sending her abroad on a study visa. However, Gurleen, allegedly refused to honour the deal once she reached Canada and said she will divorce him. Gurleen and her mother Sarabjit Kaur of Ayali Kalan village, and their relative Karan Grewal of Aasi Kalan village have been booked for fraud under sections of the Indian Penal Code. Foreign dreams shattered There has been an upsurge in cases where grooms’ foreign dreams have been shattered after their wives, whom they married for the express purpose of procuring a spouse visa, have disowned them upon reaching foreign lands over the last three months, especially in rural areas. The majority of the cases are lodged in Ludhiana rural, Ludhiana police commissionerate and Khanna.Targets found in matrimonial columnsSenior superintendent of police (SSP, Ludhiana rural) Charanjit Singh Sohal says women aspiring to settle abroad often find their targets through advertisements in matrimonial columns of newspapers, which read along the lines of ‘groom wanted for girl with seven IELTS bands’— a clear indication that the woman is willing to help men who have been unable to clear the mandatory International English Language Testing System ( IELTS ) examination themselves to fulfil their ambition of settling in another country.“There is mutual understanding between both the families that the groom will bear the expense for sending the woman abroad. Later, she will apply for a spouse visa for her husband,” the SSP said. ASI scammed by daughter-in-law It is not just men from rural areas who fall prey to women looking for somebody to sponsor their dream of studying in a foreign country, an assistant sub-inspector was also duped of ₹12 lakh by his daughter-in-law, who cut all contact with her marital family once she reached Australia. In his complaint, the ASI, Roshan Lal, had said, “I had arranged for the accused’s visa, college fee, laptop and air ticket after selling one of my plots and taking a loan from the bank as she had promised to arrange a spouse visa for my son, Rakesh. However, the accused stopped taking our calls after the wedding was solemnised and she returned to Australia in February 2020.” The accused’s father, Pardeep Kumar of Captain Colony, Meharban, was booked on April 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-woman-sent-abroad-for-spouse-visa-disowns-husband-3-booked-101623957020075.html
18-06-2021||Other||Online drive hits IIT-Bombay placements||As the Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) are busy wrapping up their placement report for the season, an article made public by the students of IIT-Bombay (IIT-B) shows that the season was anything but smooth. From complaints of students cheating on tests to companies going back on their promises, the student-run placement team shared anecdotes of what the 2020 placement season at the prestigious IIT-B looked like this year.For starters, the pandemic forced this annual process to go completely online, eliminating any chance of face-to-face interaction and causing more anxiety among students. “Students were not present on campus, which hampered the usual mode of communication through in person interaction. Team dynamics and transparency were also affected due to the lack of visibility of any and every part of the placement process taking place on campus,” stated an article released late on Wednesday night in the IIT-B in-house student magazine, Insight. Members of Insight refused to comment on the article but said a follow-up analysis on the placement season is in the offing. “We had complaints from multiple recruiters regarding evidence of malpractices in tests from the students’ end which led to serious repercussions, including hampering the relations with the placement cell and affecting the recruitment numbers on campus as well. Some companies had even planned to back out from the process,” highlighted the article that quotes members of the students who were a part of the placement cell.While members of the placement cell refused to comment, an official of the placement office said that the details in Insight were circulated for internal purposes. “As this was our first experience in conducting the entire placement drive online, there were a lot of challenges, from lack of face-to-face interviews to the poor hiring market. Despite these odds, we had a decent placement season, with the number of offers made similar to last year’s,” said the official, Owing to the increasing Covid-19 cases and travel restrictions in place across several states, IITs across the country had decided to conduct their annual placements online in the 2020-21 academic year. Tests, group discussions and personal interviews were conducted virtually with neither the students nor the hiring companies stepping foot on campus at all.Across IITs, the first phase of placements took place in the first two weeks of December, while the second phase started sometime in January this year and went on till the end of the academic year. “We sat through several mock tests that were available online and also attended some mock sessions conducted by our institute. However, the real experience was scary, and I didn’t do well in the first two tests, only to find out later that some of my batch mates cheated in the test and scored well,” said a student from IIT-B, who was recruited in the first phase of placements itself.“Several of us raised this point with the placement team in last December itself, and it looks like some companies found out about it and had similar complaints,” he added. The Insight article also mentioned feedback from recruiters about students not performing at par with other IITs. “We received feedback from multiple companies and alumni in the respective firms citing poor performance of students in tests and interviews by the students as compared to other IITs. This led to a decline in the shortlist size as well as final selections,” said the article.Recruiters, too, posed their own share of problems, which started with offering fewer jobs and smaller pay packages this year due to the pandemic. “Companies were also much less flexible to negotiate things such as increase in salary [due to a cash crunch], eligibility and job openings in additional departments,” the article said and further highlighted that logistical issues due to the virtual setup was also not taken into consideration by several recruiters. “There was little or no scope of a retest in case a student faced internet trouble during the test. Many also took longer periods of time to confirm jobs, adding to the anxiety among the student community,” the article added.Channel OptionsNo Product SelectedHT-WebHT-PrintHT-MobileNo Edition SelectedHT_WEUPHT_EDGEHTN_DELHHTN_MUMBHTN_CHANHT_JALAHT_AMRIHTN_JALAHT_UTTAHT_RAJAHT_HARYHT_ALLAHT_VARNHT_KANPHT_RANCHT_PATNHT_PATMHT_EAUPHT_LUCKHT_LULCHT_KOLKHT_BHOPHT_INDOHT_DELHHT_DELSHT_GURGHT_NOIDHT_MUMBHT_MUMNHT_THANHT_BLRUHT_JAMMHT_HIMLHT_HARLHT_PUNJHT_PATIHT_HARNHT_CHANHT_LUDHHT_CHPUHT_LUPUHT_AMPUHT_PAPUHT_BAPUHT_JAPUHTES_DELHHTES_MUMBHTES_CHANHTSH_DELHHTSH_MUMBHTSH_CHANHTSH_PATNHTSH_LUCKHTED_DELHHTED_MUMBHTED_CHANHTED_PATNHTED_LUCKHTED_RAJAHTED_WEUPHT_PUNEHT_PUNPHTC_DELHHTC_DELNHTC_DELSHTC_DELWHTC_DELEHTC_GURGHTC_RAJAHTC_MUMBHTC_MUMWHTC_MUMSHTC_POWAHTC_BLRUHTC_PUNEHTC_LUDHHTC_AMRIHTC_JALAHTC_BATHHTC_CHANHTC_LUCKHTC_AGRAHTC_DEHRHTC_BAREHTC_PATNHTC_RANCHTB_DELHHTB_MUMBHTB_PUNJHTB_PUNEHTS_DELHHTS_MUMBWK_DELHWK_NOIDWK_GGNWK_MUMBSL_TIMENo Style SelectedShow Channel BarsFilter AlternatesShow Strike OutShow AnnotationsAbout the ObjectCreatordivya.nairWorkflow Status Story/ReleaseLocker Object Not LockedMetadataAuthordivya.nairWeb Main SectionWeb Secondary SectionsWeb AssigmentsWord Count686Char Count4250CountryCityLinked ObjectsMUM_COMM_IIT-B@HT-Print-HT_MUMB.xmlEOM::WorkflowTaskUsage TicketsEOM::StatusUsermanjiri.joshiTimestamp17/06/2021 22:59:00CommentEOM::TaskUsermanjiri.joshiTimestamp17/06/2021 22:59:00CommentPrintOutputUserramchandra.pandagreTimestamp17/06/2021 23:24:00Comment||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/online-drive-hits-iit-bombay-placements-101623956899642.html
18-06-2021||Other||Slum rehabilitation authority rolls back project in Mumbai’s Aarey Colony||After declaring its intent to notify 32,310 square feet (sq ft) of land inside Aarey Colony for a slum rehabilitation project last month, the slum rehabilitation authority (SRA) on Thursday issued a public notice rescinding its decision to go ahead with the project, in line with previous orders of the Bombay high court (HC), which in 2016 had debarred all slum rehabilitation schemes inside Aarey. Though the land parcel in question, which comes under a 66-acre plot inside Aarey Colony, is outside the 812 hectares (ha) that have now been declared a reserve forest under the Indian Forest Act, 1927, and handed over to the forest department for safekeeping last week, the SRA project would have been located inside the Sanjay Gandhi National Park (SGNP) eco-sensitive zone — that is the buffer area around SGNP where development projects are aimed to be restricted. “Not only that, there are multiple directives from HC going back to 2003, which clearly state that SRA schemes need to be kept out of Aarey. So the very act of notifying or intending to notify this land was in contravention of the HC’s clear directives. The fear was that such a project would be snuck in before the remaining area of Aarey is given forest status, which is still remaining,” said Stalin D, director of NGO (non-governmental organisations) Vanashakti, which filed three petitions relating to the Aarey dispute in the Supreme Court. When asked about the authority’s decision to rescind its notification, Satish Lokhande, CEO (chief executive officer) of SRA, said, “When we issued our intent to go ahead and notify the area in Aarey, we were not aware of HC’s past orders. It was brought to our attention only later, after objections were raised by citizens to our public notice in May. As there is a clear directive from HC, we have decided to de-notify our earlier notice.” In response to a 2003 public interest litigation (PIL) by NGO Citispace, all SRA schemes inside Aarey were disallowed. Subsequently in 2014, as a part of the same petition, HC said that any project proponent seeking to implement an SRA scheme would have to record Citispace’s objections in the matter, and also seek the permission of the court. In an unrelated PIL in 2016, HC had barred SRA schemes in Aarey altogether.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/slum-rehabilitation-authority-rolls-back-project-in-mumbai-s-aarey-colony-101623956779489.html
18-06-2021||Mumbai||Sena-BJP trade charges over Hindutva and Marathi manoos||A day after the Shiv Sena and the youth wing of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) clashed over Sena’s criticism of the alleged scam in the land deal for Ram Temple in Ayodhya, the issue has now become a Hindutva versus Marathi manoos between the two former allies. Calling its party headquarters Shiv Sena Bhavan a pride of Marathi manoos, Sena leaders said they will not tolerate or allow protest outside the building in central Mumbai. The BJP, on the other hand, questioned the Sena if opposition can hold a protest in matter related to Hindus and Hindutva.With the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) elections seven months away, the two parties could target each other over their pet agendas — Hindutva and Marathi manoos. Sena leader Sanjay Raut said no one should hold protest outside Shiv Sena Bhavan. He added that if the BJP is accusing them of ‘gundagiri’ then they accept the charge, saying the Marathi manoos’s gundagiri helped save Mumbai from the Centre. “If there is an allegation that the Sena indulges in hooliganism then it is correct. If you come onto us or at Shiv Sena Bhavan, which is a matter of pride, then we are gundas. Nobody needs to tell us that, we are certified gundas when it comes to Maharashtra’s pride and Hindutva. Because the Marathi manoos did “gundagiri” against Centre, that Mumbai is a part of Maharashtra today,” Raut said, adding that the incident near Shiv Sena Bhavan was “unfortunate” but there was “no other alternative”.The Sena MP said no one has the courage to attack Shiv Sena Bhavan, and those who attempted it were given “Shiv prasad”. He questioned the BJP on why it was enraged by the Saamana editorial. Sena mouthpiece Saamana on Tuesday published an editorial saying that Prime Minister Narendra Modi must intervene to ensure there is no “blot of scam” on the construction of Ram Temple in Ayodhya. Following this, high-voltage drama was witnessed near Sena headquarters on Wednesday afternoon, as workers of Sena and Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) clashed after the latter held a protest against the editorial.“You (BJP) say allegations were made about Ram Temple [in the editorial]. First, read what is written in Saamana. It is written in Saamana that the allegation should be probed and if they are done with wrong intentions, action should be taken on those who levelled them. Why should it anger anyone? Nowhere have we made allegations against the BJP. Have we said that the scam (ghotala) has been done by the BJP? Ram Mandir Teerth Kshetra Nyas is an autonomous body. The people appointed there are independent. Are there any BJP workers in it? Allegations are levelled in connection with the place of faith. Is it a crime to ask for clarification,” he asked.Maharashtra BJP chief Chandrakant Patil slammed the Sena. “You will go on writing editorials in Saamana but we cannot protest in a democracy? All required permission were taken for the protest. They claim that the [BJP] workers had stones and sticks in their hands; check CCTV footage from the area and take action as per the law if anyone was carrying them... The matter is not about BJP, VHP, or the Ram Mandir Trust. We feel we should react to matter related to Hindus. They have abandoned Hindutva. This issue [of the alleged scam] was raked up by the Congress and anti-national forces, but if you call yourselves nationalist, how can you support it,” Patil questioned.Responding to Patil, Raut said they stand by the opposition party’s right to protest and believe that opposition must protest against things they do not feel are correct. “We stand by the opposition’s right to hold protests. But while doing so they must consider things that concern our faith, such a Shiv Sena Bhavan. What happened yesterday was unfortunate but there was no other alternative... Shiv Sena Bhavan is an exception in Maharashtra and this country; no protest must be held outside it,” Raut said.Political analyst Surendra Jondhale said the clash between the two parties is expected as their ideologies remain similar. He said it was a “miscalculated step” by the BJP to hold protest outside Shiv Sena Bhavan, as Sena’s credential on Ram temple is clear since the demolition of Babri mosque. “When BJP or no other Hindu outfit took the ownership of the mosque demolition, Balasaheb Thackeray took the moral responsibility saying if it is done by Sainiks he is proud. Sena’s credentials on Ram temple cannot be questioned. Besides that, the BJP seems to be afraid of the alleged financial irregularities in the land deal. They shouldn’t be afraid if questions are raised. The Sena still claims it believes in Hindutva; while their concept of Hindtuva is cultural, BJP’s remains political, so these ideological clashes could continue,” said Jondhale, former professor of political science at University of Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/senabjp-trade-charges-over-hindutva-and-marathi-manoos-101623956659485.html
18-06-2021||Mumbai||After Congress talks of going solo, Sena-NCP say they may contest Assembly polls as allies||Days after Maharashtra Congress president Nana Patole said the party will go solo in the next Assembly polls, the Shiv Sena and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) said they may forge an alliance for the next Assembly elections. Sena leader Sanjay Raut said if the NCP and Sena come together to contest polls then there would be miracles in the state. State NCP chief Jayant Patil responded saying his party wants to continue the alliance with the Sena in future. He, however, said he was hopeful that the Congress will reconsider its stand ahead of the polls, even if it is talking about going solo in the polls at present.The three parties formed a coalition, Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA), that runs the government in Maharashtra. However, so far there is no clear announcement on their future plans — whether they will contest coming municipal and district council elections as a coalition and whether they would be allies in next Assembly elections scheduled in 2024. Earlier this week, Patole said his party would fight all the forthcoming elections alone. The Congress will be the single-largest party in 2024 Assembly polls, he had said. Later, senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and Union minister Raosaheb Danve made a statement that his party would also contest the next polls on its own.“It is good that the BJP and Congress are preparing towards that [going solo]. That leaves two parties, the Sena and NCP, in the state. If everybody else is going solo then these two prominent parties will have to come together in the interest of the state. Statements to this effect have been made by Uddhav Thackeray and Sharad Pawar,” an editorial in Sena mouthpiece Saamana stated on Thursday.Raut later said that in light of the Congress going solo, the two other parties in the MVA will think about their poll strategy. “In the future, if the two leading parties of Maharashtra, NCP and Sena, come together to contest elections then it can lead to miracles in the state… Both the parties will think about it (pre-poll alliance) in future,” he said.Patil on Thursday said that even if the Congress chose to take a different path, their alliance with Sena will continue. “MVA comprises three parties and all of them should give priority to remain united. In case one of the parties (Congress) decides to contest the elections on its own, the alliance between the other two will remain intact,” Patil said in response to statements made by the Congress.He also said the Congress may reconsider its stand ahead of the polls. “May be the state Congress chief is talking like this with an intention to strengthen the party. After all, everyone knows the strength of all the parties; hence the three parties are expected to work with more unity. It is likely that they (Congress) will reconsider its stand ahead of the polls,” the water resources minister said.In an apparent jibe at Patole, an editorial in Saamana on Thursday said that a party needs to reach the majority mark of 145 to form a government and get the throne. “Maharashtra Congress president Nana Patole is a warrior leader. He has announced that his party would fight the next Assembly elections on its own and install a chief minister of the Congress. He has also said that if the party allows, he himself would be the next chief ministerial face. Hence, it is clear that until Patole installs a Congress chief minister in Maharashtra in 2024, he won’t sit quiet,” the editorial said.It further said Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar stated that the one who gets the support of 145 MLAs will form the government. “Parliamentary democracy is all about majority figures. Those who succeed will be able to occupy the throne,” it added.The Sena mouthpiece said that the 2024 polls are still far away and asked if there was any plan to hold mid-term polls in the state. “The 2024 Lok Sabha and Assembly polls are still far away, but the major political parties (BJP and Congress) are suddenly talking of contesting the elections independently. Are there any plans to have mid-term polls?” it asked.Meanwhile, Patole’s predecessor and Maharashtra minister Balasaheb Thorat said the aim of MVA is to keep the BJP away from power and a decision on going solo or an alliance will be taken at an appropriate time. “Every party has the right to expand their party’s base and every party intends to come to power on their strength. Therefore, there is nothing wrong with it. Our stand is that keeping the BJP away from power is in the national interest. Therefore, we will take appropriate decisions at the right time,” Thorat said.Senior NCP leader and state minister Chhagan Bhujbal said there is still more than three years for the next polls and expressed confidence that all three parties within MVA will contest together. “What Raut has said is that if the Congress goes alone then Sena-NCP can come together. But there is still over three years for the next Assembly polls; by then all the parties in MVA will come together, and like Pawar saheb has said, all will contest together,” said Bhujbal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/after-congress-talks-of-going-solo-sena-ncp-say-they-may-contest-assembly-polls-as-allies-101623956599432.html
18-06-2021||Other||Heavy rain in Mumbai to stay for two more days, says IMD||The suburbs received heavier showers on Thursday than it did the rest of the week. Mumbai’s suburbs recorded 58.2mm of rain in nine hours against 23.8mm of rainfall received the previous day, as per data from the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD’s) automatic weather station (AWS) in Santacruz, which is representative of the city and suburbs. The AWS in Colaba, however, recorded lighter showers of 15.8mm of rain against Wednesday’s 98.6mm. IMD has reiterated the yellow category weather alert for the city on Friday and Saturday, indicating the possibility of ‘heavy rain at isolated places’, after which lighter showers are expected to prevail on June 20 and 21. As of 8.30am on Thursday, the city had received a total of 757.7mm of rain this month. This is a 249% departure from the normal rainfall up to June 17, which is 217.7mm. The average rainfall for the entire month of June is 505mm. The city recorded a maximum daytime temperature of 29.6 degrees Celsius on Thursday (two degrees below normal), while the minimum nighttime temperature stood at 26 degrees Celsius, which is at normal temperature. As per IMD’s seven-day forecast for the city, the mercury may rise slightly and settle at a maximum of 32 degrees Celsius by next week, while the minimum is expected to hover at 26 degrees Celsius. At present, there is no monsoon trough persisting in close proximity to the city, though there is an offshore trough hovering at sea level off the coasts of Karnataka and Kerala, while another stretches from the south Arabian Sea to south Konkan districts. As a result, Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg districts have been receiving heavy rainfall since Wednesday, with both districts being placed under an orange category storm warning on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/heavy-rain-in-mumbai-to-stay-for-two-more-days-says-imd-101623956539462.html
18-06-2021||Mumbai||HK Patil holds meeting with Maharashtra Congress leaders||All India Congress Committee (AICC) secretary and party in-charge for Maharashtra HK Patil, who is on a three-day tour of Mumbai, held meetings with key party leaders from state on Thursday. The leaders discussed various issues such as Maratha and Other Backward Classes (OBC) reservation, election to the post of Assembly speaker, forthcoming local body elections among others.Patil is holding meetings with the party’s Mumbai unit on Friday to discuss upcoming Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) elections and the infighting within the unit. He met state unit chief Nana Patole, party’s legislative party chief Balasaheb Thorat and all ministers from the state cabinet at Sahyadri guest house on Thursday.According to Congress leaders, Patil took stock of the political situation and discussed the party’s stand on various issues. “He met all Congress ministers in Maharashtra under the leadership of Thorat and Patole. Right from Maratha and OBC reservation, the leaders discussed election of the speaker of the state Assembly, forthcoming local body elections among others. Patil insisted that party ministers press for the implementation of the common minimum programme which is the base of the formation of the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi,” a Congress minister said.Patil also reiterated that the Maharashtra unit should press for separate farm laws in Maharashtra to negate the farm laws passed by the Central government, said another leader. The party leadership has also told the state unit and the minister to push for development schemes meant for scheduled castes and scheduled tribes. Party chief Sonia Gandhi had written a letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray a few months ago, asking him to give priority to the welfare of tribal communities. The party in-charge for the state also took review of the compliance of the tasks set before party and its frontal organisations.In his meeting with party’s Mumbai unit leaders on Friday, besides discussion on preparations for the ensuing BMC elections, the infighting within the unit is also expected to surface. “AICC had set tasks before Mumbai unit soon after Ashok Jagtap was appointed as its president in December. He will take review of their compliance and the discuss issues and appointments in frontal organisations. The issue of MLA Zeeshan Siddique’s complaint against Jagtap is also expected to be discussed,” said a Mumbai unit leader.Meanwhile, former minister of state and a key Vidarbha leader Sunil Deshmukh will re-join the Congress on Saturday. Deshmukh had quit the Congress in 2014 after he was denied ticket to choose former president Pratibha Patil’s son Raosaheb Shekhawat from Amaravati. Deshmukh lost 2019 election to Congress’s Sulabha Khodke.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/hk-patil-holds-meeting-with-maharashtra-congress-leaders-101623956422169.html
18-06-2021||Mumbai||The Maharashtra vaccination gender divide||Nirmala Vishwakarma, a domestic help in Andheri, cannot afford to take time off work and even unsubstantiated rumours about the vaccine are enough to keep her away from getting an anti-Covid jab.“I’ve heard that after the first shot, I may fall sick. I’ve just resumed my work after almost a year of unemployment,” said 40-year-old Vishwakarma, who is yet to register on either the CoWin platform or the Arogya Setu app.After eight months of unemployment, Vishwakarma resumed working in January. A month later, as the second wave of Covid-19 hit the city, she found herself out of work yet again. Since May, she resumed work in few houses. A day off is a luxury, she said. Her husband Vijay (56), who lost his jobs as a driver in Covid-19, got his first shot in April. Since then, he has lost his job which makes Vishwakarma the sole earning member of the family.“If I fall sick, the building societies I work in will ask me to take an RT-PCR test at my own expense. I can’t bear that expense either,” said Vishwakarma.Forty-five-year-old in Ghatkopar homemaker Tilottama (who goes by her first name) is the only one in her family of four who hasn’t been vaccinated. While her 55-year-old husband has received both his shots, her two sons, aged 20 and 22, took their first shots in May. “First we (the family) thought that I should get the vaccine last because someone in the house has to be healthy to take care of the others. Now it’s just pending,” she said.In Maharashtra, more than 1.6 million fewer women have been vaccinated when compared to men, across all age groups eligible for vaccination (18 and above). Of the total vaccinated population in the state, 46.1 % are women and 53.8% are men, as on June 13. In Mumbai, the gender divide is even more prominent as over 350,000 fewer women were vaccinated. The gender divide is most prominent in the neighbouring Raigad district, which includes Alibag, parts of Navi Mumbai, Uran and Pen, where 57.8% men have been vaccinated against 42.2% women. Indeed, even accounting for the skewed sex ratio in India, the gender gap in vaccination is being seen across the country: As of May 28, 161.3 million people have been given at least one dose of vaccines and men comprised 53% of this number.As it turns out, the gender gap has been seen in other immunization drives, and even in accessing healthcare facilities.In 2013, the department of Community Medicine, Bharati Vidyapeeth Deemed University Medical College in Pune surveyed 210 children aged 12-23 months in 1,913 houses in the district. The survey found boys (87.61%) outnumbered girls (85.57%) when it came to full immunisation. World Health Organisation defines full immunisation as a percentage of one-year-olds who have received one dose of Bacille Calmette-Guérin (BCG) vaccine, three doses of polio vaccine, three doses of the combined diphtheria, tetanus toxoid and pertussis (DTP3) vaccine, and one dose of measles vaccine. Experts said that historically women have lagged behind in immunisation drives in the country including that for polio and Bacillus Calmette–Guérin vaccine against tuberculosis.“The gender gap in Covid-19 vaccination is not surprising, especially because the number of women testing for the virus and seeking hospital treatment is also low. This has to do with lack of mobility and decision-making powers in the family,” said Shalini Bharat, professor at the Centre for Health and Social Sciences, School of Health Systems Studies, Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS), Mumbai.Bharat, who is also the director of TISS, said that lack of digital familiarity and anxieties over the impact of vaccines on their reproductive health.“What we have observed with other vaccines is that traditionally there is greater hesitancy, not just among women but among their family members. Worries about effect of vaccine on their fertility, impact on menstruation, pregnancy and lactation can lead to family members discouraging women to seek vaccination. These worries do not apply to men,” said Bharat, whose research areas include social aspects of HIV and TB including stigma and discrimination.Suvarna Kamble, an Accredited Social Health Activist (ASHA) at the Satpala subcentre in Virar, agreed that women had worries regarding the vaccination. “Once you explain how the vaccine works and that any side effects are temporary, the women understand and then come for the vaccine.”Gender divide in digital literacyThe registration process for vaccination requires digital familiarity. While Vishwakarma doesn’t even possess a smartphone (husband Vijay, however, does), Tilottama said she didn’t understand the process for vaccine registration. “My husband got me registered but we have been struggling to get a slot,” said Tilottama.In Maharashtra, 68.2% of women in urban areas and 43.1% in rural areas have a mobile phone that they themselves use, according to the fifth National Family Health Survey. Only 54.3% of women in urban areas have ever used the internet, compared to 76.8% urban men. In the rural set up, only 23.7% women have ever used the internet, as opposed to 47.2% men.Apart from generating awareness about the vaccine and ensuring that more women are registered on the platform, policy makers can make vaccines available to women closer to their homes.“While women have lagged in the immunisation drives in the country, the gender gap reduces for polio after the door-to-door immunisation programme started,” said Bharat.“The pandemic has affected women worse than it has affected men. Being at home, women have been forced to become the primary caretaker of the house and the family. Not just women but men, too, are worried that if the woman falls sick after taking the shot, who will then take care of the house? I know of many men delaying the shots for vaccines for the women in the house for this reason,” said Neelam Gorhe, member of legislative council and a women’s health rights crusader. “Access to vaccination is a major concern, said experts. “Mobility of women is either restricted or dependent on men. With public transports not available during a lockdown, women find it difficult to reach the vaccination centres,” said Gorhe.Vulnerable identitiesAt least 0.01% of vaccinated population comes from other gender communities.So far Maharashtra has inoculated 2,984 persons who identify as other genders. They include transgender persons and gender non-binary persons, and 61% come from six out of the 35 districts in Maharashtra—Mumbai accounts for 587 (20%) alone; 363 in Pune, 233 in Thane, 176 in Nagpur, 173 in Aurangabad, 159 in Kolhapur and 119 in Nashik.“The root cause of the problem is that there is no official data for the population of transgender persons in India. So, it’s difficult to bring invisible people in the vaccination drive,” said Amrita Sarkar, advisor, Transgender Wellbeing and Advocacy, India HIV/AIDS Alliance.Yet another problem is that of identification, Sarkar added. “Most trans persons have identifications that identify them as cis-gendered persons. So, they may be getting vaccinated but must be recorded incorrectly,” she said.Sarkar has been demanding special vaccination drives for the transgender community. “We need the government’s support. As organisations and community centres, we can arrange for a vaccination drive but we can’t source vaccine shots. The government must help us with vaccine doses,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/the-maharashtra-vaccination-gender-divide-101623956421399.html
18-06-2021||Mumbai||Maratha outfits put forth six demands; govt urges them to call off agitation||A day after Maratha community outfits launched silent marches to push for reservation for the community, Maharashtra government held a marathon meeting with their leaders on Thursday and requested them to call off the agitation. The state assured that a review petition will be filed in the Supreme Court within a week to challenge the Apex court’s May 5 verdict scrapping the Maratha quota in government jobs and education. The outfits have decided to take a call on the government appeal on Monday at Nashik, and insisted that the agitation has not yet been called off.The delegation representing Maratha outfits led by Rajya Sabha MP Sambhajiraje Chhatrapati held the meeting with chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray, deputy CM Ajit Pawar, public works minister and cabinet sub-committee head Ashok Chavan, at Sahyadri guest house on Thursday evening. The delegation put forth six demands for immediate compliance to give respite to the community on legal and administrative grounds. Sambhajiraje said that the state has positively admitted to comply with all the demands and has also appointed a committee for their compliance on war footing.The outfits have demanded review petition in the Supreme Court against its verdict quashing quota to Marathas in jobs and education. They have also demanded to simultaneously approach the Central government to accord reservation to Marathas through the central list of backward classes under article 338(B) and 342 (A). They also demanded for strengthening of SARTHI, an institute formed to ensure educational and social well-being of the Maratha youth and hostel for the community youth in every district. The leaders also demanded financial allotment of ₹1,000 crore for Annasaheb Patil Backward Financial Development Corporation which finances Maratha youth for entrepreneurial ventures. The community has also sought immediate appointment of the community candidates who have been selected for the jobs but weren’t given letters before the quota was quashed. The delegation also pushed to expedite the Kopardi rape case proceedings to ensure conviction of the accused. They have also sought withdrawal of cases against community members during protest march in 2017-18.Sambhajiraje said the government reacted positively to their demands. “Though we have about 18 demands, we have prioritised six of them. We have been told by the government that the review petition will be filed by next Thursday while the Central government has already been requested for the steps for reservation using its powers. Barring one, 149 cases against our protesters will be withdrawn in the next few days by complying with the legal procedure. We have also been assured appointments to our youth at the earliest. The deputy CM is holding a meeting in Pune on Saturday to take required decisions related to SARTHI,” he said.The MP also said that despite the positive response from the government, they were not calling off their agitation. “We have resolved to hold silent marches in all 36 districts and the second one of them is in Nashik on June 21 after launching it in Kolhapur on Wednesday. The state government has requested us to call off the agitation. The call on their request would be taken in a meeting with all organisers representing all outfits on June 21 in Nashik,” he said.He also said that the government has appointed a coordination committee under principal secretary Vikas Kharge to look into the compliance of the assurances on daily basis.Ashok Chavan, who heads the cabinet sub-committee on Maratha reservation, said the government has already started taking steps on some of the demands put up by the outfits. “The CM has also constituted a special committee to ensure speedy compliance of the demands. We have already met Prime Minister Narendra Modi, requesting the Centre to initiate the process of giving quota to Marathas using their constitutional powers. CM Thackeray has requested the outfits to withdraw their ongoing agitation and we expect their positive response,” he said.The Supreme Court on May 5 quashed 12% and 13% quota given to Marathas in education and jobs under the Socially and Educationally Backward Classes Act, 2018. The court had said that the quota breached the 50% cap of reservation laid down in Indra Sawhney case in 1992 and also stated that the community does not comply with the conditions of backwardness. The five-judge bench had also stated that the states do not have right to decide quota after the 102nd constitutional amendment in August 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maratha-outfits-put-forth-six-demands-govt-urges-them-to-call-off-agitation-101623956419499.html
18-06-2021||Mumbai||Congress refutes RSS’s claims about RSS veteran worker vacating bed for youth in Nagpur||The Congress has hit out at the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), alleging that the organisations used the death of a veteran worker for image building. Referring to the information related to the death of octogenarian Narayan Dabhadkar revealed under the Right To Information (RTI) Act, Maharashtra Congress’s general secretary and spokesperson Sachin Sawant said BJP-RSS spread wrong information.As per reports, Dabhadkar, who died of Covid-19 at the age of 85 years in Nagpur in April this year, had offered his hospital bed to a younger patient who was struggling to get admitted for the want of vacant bed. A post stating that Dabhakar, an RSS worker, sacrificed his life to save a youngster by offering his bed to him made rounds on social media platforms.Bed scarcity was at its peak in Nagpur as well as other parts of the state during the second wave of Covid-19 in April and May.Indira Gandhi Hospital, where Dabhadkar was admitted, clarified that he was discharged from the hospital when his relatives insisted on taking him to another hospital since they did not have ventilator at the hospital, said Sawant. The information provided by the hospital stated that the patient and his relatives insisted on discharge against medical advice (DAMA) and took him home. Dabhadkar and his son-in-law Amol Pachpor had given an undertaking to the hospital management, the information has revealed. Sawant tweeted the information while attacking the RSS and said that many BJP leaders including Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan had promoted the story on social media.“The information and hospital documents including letters given by the patient and his relatives have come to fore under RTI. It proves that RSS’s claim of sacrifice was wrong. Our full sympathy and respect is with the departed, but dragging the deceased worker in politics is unfortunate,” Sawant said.BJP’s media cell chief Vishwas Pathak said, “What is the Congress trying to prove by raising questions on the act of an octogenarian RSS worker? The whole world knows about the training imparted in shakhas (run by the RSS), towards selflessness and sacrifice. Documents (revealed under RTI) speak of the legal and administrative procedure needs to be followed while taking discharge. It is possible that Dabhadkar completed the formalities to achieve what he intended to do. How can one expect his intention behind the act to come there on the records? His discussion with his son-in-law and other family members cannot be part of the hospital records, but it is important to bring the truth behind the story forward.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/congress-refutes-rss-s-claims-about-rss-veteran-worker-vacating-bed-for-youth-in-nagpur-101623956360663.html
18-06-2021||Other||No headway in probe into covid medicine theft from Patiala hospital||Patiala A month after six vials of Covid critical care medicine, Tocilizumab, were found to be missing from the isolation ward of the Covid care centre at the Rajindra Hospital, there has been no breakthrough in the case. The injections are administered to critical Covid patients, mainly on ventilator support.  A single vial of the medicine costs around ₹34,000 and is provided to hospitals at government price; in the black market, however, the injection is sold at between ₹80,000 and ₹1 lakh. On May 14, an First-Information Report (FIR) was registered under Section 380 (theft) of the IPC against unidentified persons, after the hospital filed a complaint with the SSP. The hospital had formed an internal committee to investigate the matter, but the panel recommended that the police needed to be involved. A doctor with the hospital claimed that the role of staffers could not be ruled out, as isolation wards were under CCTV surveillance. “Policemen had been deployed outside wards to restrict entry of outsiders. The injection were stolen at the time when there was shortage of injections in the open market, and were provided to hospitals in limited stock,” a doctor added.Rajindra Hospital medical superintendent Dr HS Rekhi said the internal committee did not find any concrete evidence. “The committee’s report said the investigation should be shifted to the district police, so that a thorough inquiry can be carried out,” he added. Civil Lines SHO Gurpreet Singh said they have scanned footage from CCTV cameras at the hospital. “The investigation slowed due to a spurt in covid cases. The inquiry process will be streamlined now,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/no-headway-in-probe-into-covid-medicine-theft-from-patiala-hospital-101623956360203.html
18-06-2021||Other||Row over remarks: SAD-BSP, AAP up ante against Ludhiana MP Bittus, eek his arrest||Ludhiana The SAD-BSP alliance and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) intensified protest against Congress Ludhiana MP Ravneet Singh Bittu for allegedly casteist comments he has made in a video that has gone viral on social media. To make their point, the opposition made sure it protested in the MP’s constituency. The protesters, however, violated all covid norms with most of them without masks and no social distance maintained at all.  Senior leadership of Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD)-Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) that former cabinet ministers Daljit Singh Cheema and Gulzar Singh Ranike led, submitted a complaint to Ludhiana police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal on Thursday, seeking an FIR against Bittu. They also sought immediate arrest of Bittu. The alliance wants Bittu booked under Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989 and Sections 295A (outraging religious feelings), 500 (defamation), 504 (intentional insult to provoke breach of the peace).The AAP, led by leader of opposition Harpal Singh Cheema, burnt the effigy of Bittu and CM Captain Amarinder Singh at the Jalandhar Bypass Chowk for allegedly inciting hatred towards the dalit community. Cheema (of SAD) claimed that conclusive evidence was available against Bittu in public realm (via the video) and police should not try to save him, just because he was from the ruling Congress. “Bittu has effectively stated that holy seats have been given to unholy persons. This is intolerable as it goes against the Constitution which guarantees equality to all and is also against Sikh ethos and culture,” AAP leaders said the ‘Gurus’ had risen above castes and religions. “The opinion and views of Congress leaders is completely contrary to the message given by the ‘Gurus’,” they claimed.“If the CM had been serious in the matter, he would have condemned Bittu’s statement and acted against him,” said Harpal Cheema, accusing the Congress of dividing society for political interests. Bittu was not available for comments despite repeated calls on his phone. Previously, he has said that his statement had been misinterpreted, and he meant to say that the Akali Dal had deserted ‘Panthic’ seats. In the video, Bittu had flayed SAD for giving away the pious seats of Anandpur Sahib and Chamkaur Sahib to the BSP, as part of their poll alliance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/row-over-remarks-sad-bsp-aap-up-ante-against-ludhiana-mp-bittus-eek-his-arrest-101623955880064.html
18-06-2021||Other||Man set ablaze at Tikri protest site dies, one held||A 42-year-old man died of burn injuries after four men allegedly sprinkled some inflammable material on him and set him ablaze at Tikri protest site, police said on Thursday.The deceased’s family has alleged that the four accused are part of farmers’ protest at Tikri border near Delhi, police added. The deceased was identified as Mukesh, of Kasra village in Bahadurgarh, Jhajjar.Victim’s brother Madan Lal said his brother had gone to the Tikri protest site adjacent to their village on Wednesday evening.“We got information that he was set ablaze by a few people who were in inebriated state,” Lal said.“We took him to Bahadurgarh civil hospital and the doctors referred him to PGIMS, Rohtak but we had shifted him to a private hospital in Bahadurgarh, where he succumbed in the early hours of Thursday,” he added.“Krishan Kumar, of Aleva village in Jind, and his associates had hurled abuses at him before setting him ablaze,” he said.A spokesman of the Jhajjar police said the Bahadurgarh police have arrested Krishan Kumar while his associates are absconding.“It is not clear as to why the accused committed the crime,” police said.“We have registered a case of murder against the accused. Victim’s postmortem was conducted and a probe was launched into the matter,” the official spokesman said.On Thursday, family of the deceased and some villagers protested demanding compensation for next of kin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/man-set-ablaze-at-tikri-protest-site-dies-one-held-101623955823587.html
18-06-2021||Bangalore||Yediyurappa’s critic alleges phone tapping||Bengaluru Karnataka BJP MLA Arvind Bellad, identified with the camp seeking ouster of chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Thursday alleged that his phone was being tapped and that there was a conspiracy to trap him by some powerful people. The two-time legislator from Hubli-Dharwad west went on to say that he was being monitored and being set up by unknown persons. “My phone is tapped and they are monitoring me wherever I go,” Bellad told reporters in Bengaluru on Thursday. The statement comes days after TV news channels played on loop a few seconds footage of Bellad leaving BJP national general secretary’s (Arun Singh) house in Delhi .Singh is currently in Bengaluru holding meetings with state ministers and legislators to gather information on the current rumblings in the party and communicate the same to the central leadership. Bellad said that he was receiving calls from an accused in jail enquiring about the political developments, which he said was a “move to trap” him. Though Bellad did not name anyone, his allegations purportedly point towards the ruling dispensation headed by Yediyurappa. “I think there is a huge conspiracy behind this call. My father, Chandrakant Bellad, was five-time MLA and led a political life without a black spot. I have practiced smart honest politics,” Bellad said. “Since they could not find any black spot in my career, they are trying to fix me. A few people are made to call and trying to trap me in such issues. Such an effort is happening with the effort of some big hands,” he said. Bellad said that he has formally written a complaint and handed it over to the Karnataka assembly speaker and home minister Basavaraj Bommai on June 14 and asked them to conduct an investigation into this allegation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/yediyurappas-critic-alleges-phone-tapping-101623955820569.html
18-06-2021||Bangalore||HC pulls up govt over ₹2,000 relief for unorganised sector workers||Bengaluru: Karnataka high court on Thursday pulled up the state government over the practicality of the direction asking unorganised domestic workers to register themselves online for availing the ₹2000 compensation announced in view of the pandemic. The state government had issued an order on May 20 to announce a compensation of ₹2,000 to all unorganized workers in view of financial difficulties faced due to the lockdown imposed across the state. A division bench of Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Suraj Govindaraj asked: “How will persons know that they have to go to this common service centre and other places to get registered on the portal. Perhaps the state government is proceeding on the assumption that all workers can use the internet and upload photo and employment certificate on the portal.” The court made the observation while hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) petition seeking registration of domestic workers under the Unorganised Workers’ Social Security Act, (Act) and related Rules, 2009. During the hearing, the government informed the HC that a procedure has been laid out where domestic workers will require a photo and Aadhaar card to register themselves in the Seva Sindhu Portal to get the compensation. It further added that if it is not possible, they may go to gram panchayats or common service centres among others to get themselves registered, the court was told. Responding to this, the bench said: “Suppose he does not have an Aadhaar card, you will not give the amount? Then what is the point of the scheme?” The state’s counsel responded saying very few don’t have Aadhaar cards. The bench then added that the state must correct this procedure and said that the state has not mentioned that beneficiaries can approach offices of gram panchayats, common service centres etc, and get online registration done. “The more we hear, we are convinced that you only want this scheme to remain on paper. This is only a small amount. So many adjournments. The government is giving so many excuses. All this will remain on paper as there is no publicity provided by the state informing the availability of these modes of getting registered on the Seva Sindhu Portal,” the order said. Therefore, it directed the state government to ensure that wide publicity is given informing that those domestic workers who are unable to register themselves may go to such other places as notified by the government. The matter will be next heard on June 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/hc-pulls-up-govt-over-2-000-relief-for-unorganised-sector-workers-101623955819994.html
18-06-2021||Other||Man shot dead, two injured in Rohtak village||A 23-year-old man was shot dead and two others sustained injuries after a group of assailants barged into the victim’s house and fired shots at them in Rohtak’s Samain village on Wednesday night, police said.The deceased has been identified as Rohit, of Samain. His brother-in-law Anesh, of Panipat, and his friend Sandeep, of Samain, also received bullet injuries and are undergoing treatment at Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS), Rohtak.Anesh is working with the Haryana Police and is posted at Panipat Police Lines.In his complaint, victim’s father Jagdish said co-villager Kuldeep’s wife Bala had passed outside their house at 9pm on Wednesday night and had abused them.“She had also threatened us of dire consequences. Then, five motorcycles were parked outside my house. A group of armed assailants entered our house and started firing at Rohit, Sandeep and Anesh,” the complainant said.“We had snatched a weapon from Amit alias Mittu during the scuffle,” he added.Sunny Loura, spokesman of Rohtak police, said they have booked Amit alias Mittu, Ramlu, Vikas alias Matri, Sandeep, Dhilu and others under Sections 302, 307, 148, 149, 323, 452, 120-B and 506 of the IPC and Sections 25, 54, 59 of the Arms Act, 1959.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/man-shot-dead-two-injured-in-rohtak-village-101623955760882.html
18-06-2021||Mumbai||Bulk drug park project at Raigad: Maharashtra decides to take locals into confidence||The Maharashtra government is making all the efforts to get the ₹30,000 crore bulk drug park (BDP) project at Raigad approved by the Centre. It has decided to take all the locals and farmers in confidence to make setting up of the project a smooth process. It has also decided to give competitive rates against land to be used for the project and also decided to give back 10% of developed land to the affected people. The decision was taken in a meeting chaired by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday.The decision assumes significance considering strong opposition to the proposed Nanar oil refinery project at Ratnagiri, which would have brought an investment of ₹100,000 crore in the state.The state government is hoping to get approval from the Centre and is also ready to go ahead with the project even if the Centre’s decision goes otherwise, the officials said.The Centre has proposed three bulk drug parks to be set up in the country to reduce the dependence of the Indian drug manufacturing companies, especially from China. It has asked the states to send their proposal for incentive schemes and the top three attractive schemes will be selected by the Centre for setting up the bulk drug park. If approved it will get a grant of ₹1,000 crore for the project.The state government has earmarked 5,000 acres of land covering 17 villages in Roha and Murud tehsils of the Raigad district for the project.In a review meeting held on Thursday, the chief minister asked the officials to ensure locals will not be migrated because of the project. He also directed to take locals in confidence before going ahead with the project.“The project involves no rehabilitation at all as we are not using a single piece of residential plot for the project. Moreover, over 80% land is non-cultivable and around 20% cultivable land for which competitive rates will be offered to the affected people,” said a senior official, requesting anonymity.“In addition to the compensation against the land, they will also get 10% developed land which will be allowed to be used for commercial, residential and industrial purposes. The villagers can also give them on lease and create a permanent source of income for them. The affected families will be given jobs in the project and the state government will also develop skill development centres to create skilled labours for the project.,” said state industries minister Subhash Desai.“Fishing is a major source of income for the locals in the district considering that the state government has decided to release sewage water 10-km deep sea. Consequently, local fishermen will not be affected by the project,” said Aditi Tatkare, minister of state for industries. “Besides, the corporate social responsibility (CSR) funds of the pharmaceutical firms will be used for developing strengthening of civil amenities and welfare schemes for the locals,” she added.On October 29, 2020, the state cabinet has decided to waive 100% goods and services tax (GST) on the first sale of the product from the drug bulk park. It has waived electricity fees against power consumption for the next ten years, a waiver in stamp duty for buying a plot, taking a plot on a lease, bank loan and other related activities. The state has also decided to give a concession of ₹1.5 per unit in power tariff for a period of ten years against power consumption for the project.Besides, the firms will also get a concession of ₹2 per unit against power consumption for sewage management, water supply, solid waste management and other related activities for ten years. This particular concession will be provided by the Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) against which the state government will pay ₹50 crore per annum to the industrial body. The state government will also assist MIDC in getting a license for power supply for the parks, said an official from the state industries department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bulk-drug-park-project-at-raigad-maharashtra-decides-to-take-locals-into-confidence-101623955759885.html
18-06-2021||Bangalore||As B’luru unlocks, authorities wary of Covid case spike||Bengaluru: Even though the government’s new guidelines allows only essential services to remain open from 6am till 2pm in Bengaluru, several ‘non-essential’ shops across the city have started operations after the government relaxed the lockdown rules from June 14. While nod had been given to only those establishments providing material to construction and other related industries, the city saw hardware and garments store reopen since Monday. “We run an engine oil shop. The guidelines are not clear whether we belong to establishments allowed to remain open. There was no one to ask either. So, we opened our shop on Monday. A garment shop next to us and the automobile store few streets away are opened as well. That evening, officials fined the garment store but didn’t say anything to us. So, we now assume that we are allowed to be open,” said a shopkeeper who didn’t want to disclose his name and location. Several shops opening on Monday and the lack of clarity on the guidelines has kicked off a chain reaction, where more shops are opening across the city. This has also resulted in several people returning to the city to re-join work. City authorities expressed concerns over the surge in people returning to Bengaluru from various parts of the state since the lockdown restrictions were removed. “While the number of cases in Bengaluru has come down, the influx to the city could result in another spike in Covid-19 cases,” said a Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) official on Thursday Pointing out that one of the reasons why the lockdown restrictions have not been lifted in some districts is because the positivity rate there is high, and the free movement of people could affect the city’s current status on Covid-19, the senior BBMP official said, “Even though the regulations allow only emergency travel, there is hardly any checking. Police are allowing people to come through without any checks at the city borders.” For the first time in over two months, on Tuesday, Bengaluru’s daily infection count dropped below 1,000 as it recorded 985 new Covid-19 cases. Bengaluru recorded 1,209 new Covid-19 infections on Thursday, according to the state health department. The city also witnessed 1,510 recoveries that brought down the active caseload to 78,943. According to officials in the know of the developments, BBMP has asked the government to continue with the restrictions on intra-city travel till the positivity rate across the state comes down. Bengaluru city police commissioner Kamal Pant, who had issued prohibitory orders across the city on Monday, however, on Thursday said there were some practical difficulties in the implementation. “The government has allowed garment factories, construction activities, private companies and others to operate. This means there is a large number of people on the road. The garment factories account for around one million workers. It is not possible to check every vehicle on the road when the volume is high and these industries need to restart work,” Pant said. He added that even on the main highways leading to the city, there was a large movement of people from different districts. “Once again, the numbers are high here. We are conducting as many checks as possible but in some cases, where there is a pile-up, we have to allow traffic. It is the government’s decision to open these industries and these workers are critical for it,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/as-b-luru-unlocks-authorities-wary-of-covid-case-spike-101623955759376.html
18-06-2021||Other||Students urge Haryana govt to reopen libraries, coaching centres||After the Union and Haryana governments announced dates for many competitive exams, students preparing for these exams have urged the government to reopen libraries and coaching centres.All coaching institutes and libraries were shut down for the last two months owing to the second wave of Covid-19.Kuldeep Kumar, a postgraduate student of Maharshi Dayanand University in Rohtak, said the government has reopened gyms and malls with 50% capacity but it is yet to open libraries and coaching centres.“The Haryana government has announced dates for over 20 competitive exams, including Haryana Civil Services (HCS) exam. We are waiting for reopening for libraries and coaching centres so that we can excel in our studies,” he added.Jyoti Rathee, a resident of Jhajjar who is preparing for UGC-NET exam, said the Covid curve is declining. “We hope that the government will reopen educational institutes especially for postgraduate students,” Rathee said.“Almost two years of our studies have been spoiled due to Covid and the government is yet to reopen educational institutes and conduct new recruitments. We are capable of taking all precautions. We are expecting that the National Testing Agency will conduct the UGC-NET exam in July. For its preparation, we urge the government to reopen libraries,” she added.Sandeep Kumar, who runs a library in Rohtak, said that the government has reopened malls but is still not allowing opening of libraries.“Last year, we suffered a loss of ₹3 lakh. And in the last two months, I had to bear a loss of ₹1 lakh as libraries were shut down due to the pandemic. If the government will not open libraries and coaching centres, we won’t be able to survive,” he added.Arvind Sihag, a private library owner in Hisar, said they suffered huge losses due to both waves of the pandemic.“We had a sitting capacity of 80 students before restrictions were imposed by the state government. Our business has taken a hit. We urge the government to reopen libraries with 50% capacity,” he said.“Most students coming here are from rural areas and are unable to make arrangements of WiFi, newspapers, magazines, books and other facilities due to financial issues,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/students-urge-haryana-govt-to-reopen-libraries-coaching-centres-101623955583756.html
18-06-2021||Bangalore||BS Yediyurappa can’t function with same spirit: BJP MLC||Fissures within the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Karnataka unit appeared to have widened on Thursday with party MLC AH Vishwanath saying chief minister BS Yediyurappa is too old and “cannot function with the same spirit as before”.“Today it’s not the question on Yediyurappa. It is about how the government is functioning. What people are talking about and what action the high command should take. It’s not grumbling against anybody but it’s the actual and factual of Karnataka’s political situation. I have explained in depth to the general secretary,” said Vishwanath after meeting BJP national general secretary and state in-charge, Arun Singh, who is in Bengaluru to gauge the extent of the unrest within state unit.Vishwanath was among the 18 legislators who switched allegiance from the Congress-Janata Dal (Secular) alliance to the BJP in 2019, causing the downfall of the HD Kumaraswamy government.He has proposed the names of Murugesh Nirani, Basanagouda Patil Yatnal and Arvind Bellad as chief minister.Vishwanath’s statement came a day after Singh and BJP’s state leadership had said that nobody in the party should air grievances against the CM or the government.“I was told about Vishwanath’s statement, but he is someone who is new in the party and is not aware of its ideology or functioning,” said BJP national general secretary and state in-charge, Arun Singh.MP Renukacharya, MLA from Honalli and Yediyurappa’s political secretary and staunch loyalist, countered Vishwanath, saying his words have “no worth” and that he had “cheated” the JD(S) and the Congress before.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/bs-yediyurappa-can-t-function-with-same-spirit-bjp-mlc-101623955584244.html
18-06-2021||Chandigarh||Khattar informs Shah of ‘incidents against women’ during farm stir||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Thursday apprised Union home minister Amit Shah of “increasing inappropriate incidents, especially against women” during the ongoing farmers’ agitation.A government spokesperson said Khattar met Shah in Delhi and discussed issues revolving around the farmers’ movement in Haryana.The spokesperson said Khattar apprised Shah of incidents against women at the protests sites on Haryana-Delhi border.Speaking with mediapersons after meeting Shah, Khattar said there is no objection as long as the farmers’ movement remains peaceful.“But inappropriate incidents, especially against women, are a cause of worry,” Khattar said.“The Haryana government will not allow law and order to deteriorate under any circumstances and Shah has assured action in this regard,” Khattar said, according to an official spokesperson.Meanwhile, state health and home minister Anil Vij also went to Delhi on Thursday and called on BJP national president JP Nadda. Vij said that it was a “routine meeting.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/khattar-informs-shah-of-incidents-against-women-during-farm-stir-101623955460725.html
18-06-2021||Chandigarh||Khattar announces ₹1,100 cr package on BJP 2’s 600 days||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Thursday announced an economic package of over ₹1,100 crore in view of unfavourable effect of the pandemic on the economy.Khattar also announced a series of relief measures including waiver of property tax, surcharge on electricity bills and motor vehicle tax.The announcements were made by Khattar during a press conference held to mark the completion of 600 days of the second tenure of the BJP-led Haryana government.Khattar said in view of the financial constraints faced by labourers working in the unorganised sector, a relief package of ₹600 crore was announced for 12 lakh such families.Under the ambit of this package, a financial assistance of ₹5,000 each will be given to all such families. Besides this, a relief package of ₹150 crore was also announced for small shopkeepers.The CM said 25% discount will be provided to 600 farmers purchasing e-tractors. He also announced a financial aid of ₹5,000 each to families of corona-warriors including ASHA and NHM workers.The state government had also announced ex-gratia of ₹2 lakh on death of a family member in the age group of 18-50 years of BPL families due to coronavirus. The benefits of this scheme were given to 46 families by transferring an amount of ₹2 lakh each to their accounts through direct benefit transfer, thereby initiating the scheme.Khattar also got ₹5,000 per family transferred directly to bank accounts of 2,755 BPL families, who have Covid-affected family members in home isolation.The CM said that the state government has decided that surcharge will not be levied on electricity bills till June 30 in view of the pandemic.Khattar said for providing relief to traders whose average electricity bill for April, May and June is 50% less than the average electricity bill for January, February and March, their fixed charge of ₹10,000 will be 100% waived off for them.Consumers whose fixed charge ranges from ₹10,000 to ₹40,000 will get a rebate of up to ₹10,000. A rebate of 25% will be given on electricity bills having fixed charges of more than ₹40,000.Khattar said it has been decided to waive off property tax for the first quarter of 2021-22. Consequently, a financial burden of about ₹150 crore will be borne by the urban local bodies department.The CM said the government has also given permission for registration of fourth floor in big cities.Khattar said motor vehicle tax for the first quarter of 2021-22 will not be levied on vehicles carrying passengers. Due to this, financial burden of about ₹72 crore will be borne by the transport department. Apart from this, the fitness date of vehicles has also been extended till June 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/khattar-announces-1-100-cr-package-on-bjp-2-s-600-days-101623955341132.html
18-06-2021||Mumbai||Antilia and Hiran case: Pradeep Sharma, an encounter specialist to arrested accused||Pradeep Sharma, who was arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Thursday in connection with the murder of Thane industrialist Mansukh Hiran, and the Antilia explosives scare case, was well known as an “encounter specialist” and is believed to have to gunned down several members of the Chhota Rajan gang. The 59-year-old was reportedly involved in the killing of more than 100 criminals during his years of service.A 1983 batch police officer, he was dismissed in August 2008 for alleged underworld links, but was reinstated in May 2009 following the orders of the Maharashtra Administrative Tribunal.Sharma is believed to have been involved in the “encounter killings” of several noted criminals between 1995 and 2004 – a period when Mumbai police officials were a given free hand purportedly to maintain law and order. Other “encounter specialists” of the time included Daya Nayak, Ravindra Angre, Prafulla Bhosale, Vijay Salaskar and Sachin Vaze.In 1999, Sharma and his team reportedly killed gangster Vinod Matkar, a henchman of Chhota Rajan. When Rajan had planned to kill Dawood Ibrahim in Pakistan, Matkar was part of a team that also comprised Ejaz Lakdawala, Vicky Malhotra, Balu Dokre and Farid Tanasha. The same year, Sharma is said to have also killed Dawood Ibrahim’s close aide and sharp shooter Sadiq Kalya in Dadar.In 2001, Sharma is believed to have killed gangster Ashwin Naik’s aide Ganesh Devadiga in Versova. Devadiga had 26 serious offences registered against him.Sharma, however, became famous after his team killed three Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) terrorists in 2003 in Goregaon, while he was incharge of the Andheri Crime intelligence unit (CIU). Of the three, two -- Abu Sultan, who was LeT’s southern India commander, and Abu Anwar Ali -- were Pakistani nationals.During the gun fight between the three LeT terrorists were armed AK-56 rifles and inspector Daya Nayak was also hit. Several arms and ammunition were recovered from the terrorists.In 2010, Sharma was arrested in connection with the extra judicial killing of Chhota Rajan gang member Ramnarayan Gupta alias Lakhan Bhaiya which had taken place in November 2006. Gupta was picked up from Navi Mumbai and killed in Andheri by Sharma and his team, which also included police constable Vinayak Shinde.Shinde was convicted of Gupta’s murder and was released on parole last year during the drive to decongest the city’s prisons during the ongoing pandemic. Shinde has also been arrested by the NIA in connection with industrialist Mansukh Hiran’s murder. Vaze masterminded the murder and the planting of explosives outside billionaire Mukesh Ambani’s house, the NIA contends.Sharma spent about four years in jail for his alleged role in Gupta’s death, but was acquitted in July 2013 for the lack of evidence. All the other 21 accused in the case were convicted in the case. Sharma’s acquittal is under challenge before the Bombay High Court.In 2017 Sharma was reinstated and became head of the Anti Extortion Cell of the Thane police. Within a month of taking charge, Sharma arrested Iqbal Kaskar, brother of fugitive gangster Dawood Ibrahim Kaskar. He continued to head the anti-extortion cell at Thane till he resigned in July 2019.He then joined Shiv Sena and contested and lost 2019 Maharashtra assembly elections from Nallasopara constituency against Hitendra Thakur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/antilia-and-hiran-case-pradeep-sharma-an-encounter-specialist-to-arrested-accused-101623955099297.html
18-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai may see Covid third wave in September; BMC in prep mode||The third wave is likely to hit the city as late as in September, according to the projections of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). While preparing for a larger number of Covid-19 cases in the city during the anticipated third wave, in comparison to the second wave, the BMC said it will scale Covid beds by over 10,000, and is in the process of setting up 16 oxygen plants across the city. Additional jumbo facilities are being set up at Malad, Kanjurmarg, Sion, and Mahalaxmi. While mathematical projects have not been made for cases in the third wave, the civic administration said it is prepared to handle double the number of cases in comparison to the numbers seen in March, April, and May 2021 (second wave). Currently, the bed occupancy is as low as 10% to 20% on some days. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner in-charge of BMC’s public health department, said, “The number of Covid cases during the second wave were almost twice more than those during the first wave. However, these are mathematical projections, if we are to assume the same in case of the third wave. BMC is preparing for worst case scenario, and ramping up its infrastructure urgently, stocking up medicines needed for critical care, and ramping up its oxygen production, and supply network. It is likely the third wave could hit around September, if we go by past trends post gradual unlock.” According to experts, the first wave hit between May and September 2020, which saw highest active cases at above 34,000, in Mumbai. The total number of covid-19 cases reported during this period in Mumbai was 200,559, according to data from the state government. The second wave started by the end of February 2021, experts say, and has lasted until now. According to BMC, highest active cases during this period crossed 90,000, and the total Covid-19 cases reported in Mumbai during this time were 391,255, according to data from the state government. Through the course of one year, BMC set up centralised bed management system, tightened the micro containment policies. The shortage of ambulances felt during the first wave was dealt with by allotting five ambulances to each ward, by the end of the first wave itself. A presentation was made by the state health department to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday, which stated Maharashtra should prepare for a scenario where Covid cases double, during the third wave. Dr Rahul Pandit, a member of the state Covid task force said, “Most models predict waves come in about 100 days. But models don’t talk about real-life scenario. We need to be prepared for the worst case scenario, assuming everything in the city opens up tomorrow itself, and we see a rise in covid cases. The meeting discussed Maharashtra’s preparedness to handle a surge in covid cases, assuming the worst case scenario.” According to experts, the civic administration was able to carry forward learnings in handling Covid-19 outbreak from the first wave to the second. This led to more scientific understanding of the spread of Covid-19, understanding of medical management and line of treatment, and which is the high-risk group. Dr Pandit said, “The administration did much more proactive work during the second wave. Similarly, for the third wave, Mumbai needs to learn from the second wave. We need to prepare for the worst, ramp up oxygen capacity, stock up on lifesaving drugs and start with dedicated testing in hotspot clusters.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-may-see-covid-third-wave-in-september-bmc-in-prep-mode-101623955039373.html
18-06-2021||Mumbai||3rd Covid wave in Maha: Curbs, vax can delay it, reduce impact||Maharashtra is likely to witness the third wave of Covid-19 infections as early as mid-August, according to state Covid task force members, but they feel curbs, coupled with faster vaccination, could delay it and reduce its impact.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had convened a meeting on Wednesday over preparations for the possible third wave, where the state health department had projected that the state could see double the cases in a possible third wave, while the active case count could go up to 800,000.Dr Rahul Pandit, task force member and head intensivist at Fortis Hospital, Mulund, said mathematical projections suggest the next wave could hit in eight to 12 weeks of the second wave ebbing and the state must prepare for it hit in the next four weeks. “The third wave hit the UK was shorter [than the 8-12 weeks period]. Therefore, we have to be prepared based on all models. We have to be prepared in the next four weeks, let the wave come whenever it comes. Our efforts should be towards preparing for it, at the same time, avoiding it altogether. It may not hit us for another eight to 12 weeks but we need to be prepared it before,” he said, adding that no model can accurately predict the virus.Dr Pandit added the state needs to learn from the lessons it got from second wave and experiences in dealing with the Delta variant. The B.1.617.2 strain or the Delta variant of SARS-CoV-2 was identified as one of the main drivers of the second wave of Covid-19 infections that devastated parts of India, including Maharashtra, earlier this year. The Delta variant of SARS-CoV-2 has further mutated to form the Delta plus or ‘AY.1’ variant. However, Dr Pandit said the new variant is not well documented. “We have to think about the worst-case scenario and then we must prepare and come out with the solutions so that we are not caught off-guard. We have to assume that the virus will mutate. Especially since we have learned out lessons from the Delta variant and the UK variant,” he said. Another task force member Dr Shashank Joshi said that the onset of a possible next wave of Covid-19 infections could be pushed with keeping curbs on and vaccinating a large chunk of the population in the next one or two months. The task force has cautioned against crowding and lack of covid-appropriate behaviour which would invite the third wave faster.“It is predicted that the third wave can come after easing of the curbs completely, which would be another month and a half or two months from now at the most. But it is unlikely [that it will hit soon] as curbs are still in place. What is worrying is the non-adherence to Covid appropriate protocols and crowding,” Dr Joshi said.Of the 35 districts in the state, 19 districts and some cities including Mumbai, Nagpur and Pune do not have strict curbs as part of the five-level unlock plan. Senior government officials said that the unlock mechanism is theoretically fine but enforcement has been an issue. “For instance, the activities have almost opened up completely in Mumbai. There is no enforcement of the curfew after 8pm. Certain activities like opening of malls are not open in Mumbai, but neighbouring Navi Mumbai has malls open. The mobility of people is unrestricted,” a health department official said who did not wish to be named.Maharashtra added 9,830 fresh Covid-19 infections, taking the tally to 5,944,710. It reported 236 deaths in the last 24 hours, while 400 fatalities were added to the tally taking the death toll to 116,026. The state’s active case count stood at 139,960.Mumbai on Thursday added 660 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking its tally to 717,832. Mumbai saw 20 deaths in the past 24 hours, pushing the death toll to 15,247. The active cases in the city were 18417 on Thursday.Of the 400 deaths that were added to the tally after reconciliation process, 137 occurred in Ahmednagar, 63 in Pune, 32 in Nagpur, 28 in Nashik, 23 in Sangli, 21 in Aurangabad, 20 in Ratnagiri, 13 in Solapur, 11 in Kolhapur, nine in Satara, six in Thane, five each in Beed and Raigad, four in Akola, three each in Bhandara, Hingoli and Nanded, two each in Buldhana, Latur, Osmanabad, Wardha, and Yavatmal, 1 each in Chandrapur, Nandurbar, Palghar and Sindhudurg districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/3rd-covid-wave-in-maha-curbs-vax-can-delay-it-reduce-impact-101623954979252.html
18-06-2021||Mumbai||Kandivli Covid vax drive: Mumbai civic body seeks details from hospitals, centre||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has sent letters to Nanavati Max Super Speciality and Lifeline hospitals along with the civic-run Nesco jumbo centre, Goregaon, on Thursday seeking information about the vaccination drive conducted at Hiranandani Heritage, Kandivli on May 30. This is a part of the civic body’s internal investigation, a report of which is likely to be submitted by Saturday. An employee of Kokilaben Dhirubhai Ambani Hospital, Andheri, Rajesh Pandey, using his official hospital identity card, gained the trust of the society committee members to conduct a vaccination drive. Later, with help of his partners, the vaccination drive was organised on May 30 at the society. After seven-eight days of the vaccination, when beneficiaries started getting vaccination certificates from Nanavati, Lifeline hospitals and Nesco jumbo centre, they became curious as these vaccination centres weren’t involved in the immunisation drive. A total of 390 beneficiaries were vaccinated at the drive, however, none of them developed any minor side effects like fever and body ache.Considering the seriousness of the issue, BMC decided to investigate the matter. The R-South ward on Thursday sent a letter to Nanavati, Lifeline and Nesco jumbo centre seeking details of the drive. “So far, the hospitals have denied their involvement in the vaccination drive. Thus, we need this officially on paper for your internal investigation. We have also asked for details like if they have signed any Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with the society among other queries,” said Sanjay Kurhade, assistant municipal commissioner of R-South ward. Now, all the details of the beneficiaries are being reflected on the centralised Co-WIN app with the names of the three vaccination centres. “We can’t individually call people employed with private hospitals as it doesn’t come under our purview. Now, it is up to the police to get their statements,” he added. The Kandivli police station is also investigating the matter. The police have taken two of the accused for questioning.“We have also taken statements of the hospitals whose names have come on the vaccination certificates. But all the issued certificates are genuine,” said a police officer, who is part of the investigating team. Dr Neelam Andrade, dean of Nesco jumbo centre confirmed that police has recorded their statement. “As I have already said earlier, we have no role in it. We have completely cooperated with the police. I don’t know how the name of our centre has got reflected in vaccination certificates,” she said. As per police sources, allegedly, the accusers have also conducted a similar vaccination drive at other places in the city. Just like the residents of Hiranandani Heritage, other beneficiaries also didn’t develop any side effect after vaccination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/kandivli-covid-vax-drive-mumbai-civic-body-seeks-details-from-hospitals-centre-101623954919816.html
18-06-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC extends Fr Swamy’s stay at hospital for two weeks||The Bombay high court (HC) has extended the stay of Elgar Parishad accused Fr Stan Swamy, the 84-year-old Jesuit priest who was shifted to Holy Family Hospital in Bandra from Taloja jail on May 28, for two more weeks till July 5. The decision comes after the court was informed that the hospital report indicated that he was suffering from critical health issues and has to be kept in the intensive care unit (ICU). The court initially intended to extend the stay for four weeks, however after the National Investigation Agency (NIA) submitted that it wanted to peruse the report before deciding on the court’s proposition, the court accepted it and directed the registry to give the report of the hospital to NIA and the state with the consent of Swamy’s counsel. The division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice NJ Jamadar, while hearing Swamy’s bail application filed on medical grounds as well as on merit, was informed by senior counsel Mihir Desai that the report on Swamy’s health, obtained from the hospital as per the June 10 order of the HC wherein the priest’s stay at Holy Family Hospital had been extended till June 17, stated that Swamy’s condition was very critical and he had to be shifted to ICU. In view of this, Desai sought further extension for two weeks. After perusing the medical report, the bench observed, “The hospital report findings are that Swamy’s condition is critical and requires ‘intensive care’ as there are ‘serious medical issues’. In view of aforesaid report, we deem it appropriate to extend the stay of appellant.” After NIA and the state said they had no objection to extending the hospital stay of the priest, the court said it would grant an extension of four weeks. However, advocate Sandesh Patil for NIA said they wanted to see the medical report before agreeing to it. The court then extended the hospital stay for two weeks till July 5, and posted hearing of the application to July 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-extends-fr-swamy-s-stay-at-hospital-for-two-weeks-101623954919276.html
18-06-2021||Mumbai||Will publish weeklong jab slots, provided there is supply, Maharashtra govt assures HC||The state on Thursday informed the Bombay high court (HC) that it was willing to publish weekly plans for Covid-19 vaccination for all districts including Mumbai provided sufficient vaccines were made available to them by the central government. The state also submitted that while it had published weekly plans for some districts previously, the plan for those districts had also been reduced to daily plans as they were not receiving adequate jabs. The division bench of justice Sunil Deshmukh and justice Girish Kulkarni while hearing the public interest litigation filed by Yogeeta Vanzara through advocates Rajesh Vanzara and Jamsheed Master was informed that there was a need to have weekly plans for vaccination jabs as citizens were finding it difficult to book slots on the Co-WIN portal. The PIL also pointed to other issues problems faced by citizens especially the senior citizens and the poor who did not have access to smartphones and computers through which slots are to be booked on the Co-WIN portal.Advocate Master in an earlier hearing on June 9 had informed the HC that while some districts in the state districts like Kolhapur, Yavatmal, Gadchiroli had published week-long vaccination slots in advance on the Co-WIN portal, booking for Mumbaikars was available only a day in advance. He had urged the court to direct the BMC to adopt a similar approach as people were facing problems with the current system. Master had suggested that apart from publishing week-long plans the portal should also have a fixed time which was known to everyone so that they can book slots without any hassle. The court had directed the state and BMC to consider the suggestions. In response to the suggestions, the state filed an affidavit prepared by Sadhana M Tayde, director, commissioner of health services which stated, “The state government will publish a weekly plan for vaccination calendar in districts including Mumbai city as per the availability of vaccines which will be supplied to the state government by manufacturers as per the allocation of the vaccines by Union of India.”The affidavit added that due to the reduced supply of vaccines, Kolhapur, Yavatmal and Gadchiroli districts were not in a position to publish a weekly plan for inoculation anymore. It was also clarified that with a limited supply of vaccines, distribution to districts was based on factors including the number of active patients, performance of Covid vaccination, active case positivity rate, beneficiaries pending for second dose and available vaccines stock.The state also assured the HC of having fixed time for booking of vaccination slots and said, “The state government will accordingly issue instructions to that effect to all districts and municipal corporations to publish vaccination session slots at a predetermined time based on the availability of stocks of vaccine to avoid inconvenience to persons.” The affidavit while informing the HC of having a task force to oversee the facilitation of the vaccination programme in each district also said that it would direct district authorities to give priority to persons between 18 and 44 years of age with commodities after adequate stocks were made available.In light of these submissions the state and even the centre requested the court to dispose of the PIL however on the insistence of the petitioner, the court posted a hearing of the PIL after two weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/will-publish-weeklong-jab-slots-provided-there-is-supply-maharashtra-govt-assures-hc-101623954802066.html
18-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Heroin worth ₹21 crore seized from Zambian national||The Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) officials have arrested a Zambian national at the city airport and seized three kilograms of heroin from her baggage on Thursday. The seized drug is estimated to be worth ₹21 crore in the illicit international market.DRI officials have said that the foreigner is part of an international drug syndicate that is smuggling narcotic drugs through mules by way of concealment in body and luggage.The accused Zambian national Juliana Mutale was travelling from Johannesburg to Mumbai via Doha. She was apprehended by the officers of DRI Mumbai zone unit based on the specific intelligence the agency had received recently.When her baggage was searched in one stroller bag the DRI officials noticed a specially made pocket to conceal articles.“On tearing the packet three kilograms of cream coloured powder wrapped in black carbon paper packaging was recovered. The recovered material tested positive for the presence of Heroin with the help of the field test kit,” DRI stated.The three kilograms of cream coloured substance purported to be Heroin is valued at ₹21 crores in the illicit market. The same was seized under Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, 1985.Mutale during her interrogation revealed that the drugs’ package was handed over to her in Johannesburg and she was supposed to deliver it in Mumbai. But she is claiming that she does not have many details about the person who was supposed to receive the package. The DRI officials are now trying to find out about other members of the group in the city by scanning her phone call details. She has admitted her role as a carrier of narcotics drugs and told that she was doing that for monetary gain, the central agency said. The accused woman hails from a poor background. She had come to India first time and is holding a business visa.She has been lodged at the Byculla women’s jail.The officials have produced the accused foreigner in a city court that remanded her to judicial custody. The investigators may question her again soon to know more about her handlers. DRI stated that this is the fourth such case of smuggling of narcotics through passengers, detected by the Mumbai unit of the agency in the past six months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-heroin-worth-21-crore-seized-from-zambian-national-101623954799364.html
18-06-2021||Pune||Pune civic body urges mechanised cleaning of septic tanks; violators to face action||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), as part of the Central government’s “Safai Mitra Suraksha” challenge, has appealed to housing societies and individual households to ensure the mechanised cleaning of septic tanks at least once in three years. The PMC has also recommended that an authorised contractor or agency, be used to clean the tanks.Those not adhering to the cleanliness drive will be liable to face action, as per the civic body.Sushmita Shirke, superintending engineer, sewerage, and maintenance and repair department, said, “Under this challenge, we will have to provide safety to safai workers. The challenge is focused on avoiding manual cleaning and promotes mechanised cleaning.”She added, “We have appealed to all citizens to stop manual cleaning of tanks to use machinery instead. If it is essential to use manpower for cleaning, it is mandatory to take prior permission from the chief superintendent of the drainage department. It is also compulsory for societies and individual households to have their septic tanks cleaned once every three years by PMC-affiliated contractors; otherwise, they will have to face action.” The Safai Mitri Suraksha challenge is taking place in 243 cities throughout the country, and began in November 2020. The initiative aims to ensure that no life is lost due to the cleaning of any sewer or septic tank.The PMC has carried out a self-assessment and submitted an application with a score of 991 marks. A Union government- appointed independent agency will now assess the ground reality and submit a report to the government.Kunal Khemnar, additional municipal commissioner, said, “Actually, there are no septic tanks used by housing societies as we have a drainage network across the city. However, there are chances of a septic tank mechanism in the newly merged villages. Corporation has prepared a plan for these merged villages.”Safai Mitra Suraksha challengeThe Safai Mitra Suraksha challenge focuses extensively on creating awareness along with infrastructure for mechanised cleaning and building of the workforce. Results of the actual on-ground assessment of participating cities will be declared on August 15, 2021. Cities will be judges in three sub-categories depending on population – one million and more, 0.3-1 million, and up to 0.3 million. Total prize money of ₹52 crore is there to be won across all categories.What is PEMSRA act?Tt is an offence to directly or indirectly employ or engage any person for hazardous cleaning. Violation of the aforementioned safety precautions is an offence under the Prohibition of Employment as Manual Scavengers and their Rehabilitation Act-2013 (PEMSRA) Act, even in cases when hazardous cleaning does not result in death or serious injuries. If an officer of a local authority is found to be engaging workers for manual cleaning of a sewer without the written permission of the corporation, the lack of such permission could provide evidence of the offence being committed.Similarly a photograph or video of a worker cleaning a septic tank without prescribed safety equipment can constitute evidence of an offence by the person engaging or employing such a worker.Suhas Patwardhan, chairman, Pune District Co-operative Federation, said, “There are around 11,000 housing societies in Pune city. Most of the societies have interconnected their drainage systems to the PMC network. However, some old societies have septic tanks. It is a good move by the PMC to make it compulsory for the mechanised system. But, the PMC should co-with operate societies and provide facilities in time.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-urges-mechanised-cleaning-of-septic-tanks-violators-to-face-action-101623953724716.html
18-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi L-G forms three-member panel to probe DTC bus procurement process||Lieutenant Governor (L-G) Anil Baijal has formed a three-member panel to look into the procurement process of 1,000 air-conditioned low-floor buses through the state-run Delhi Transport Corporation.The AAP-led Delhi government on June 11 put the procurement process on hold, three months after the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led Opposition complained to the city’s anti-corruption branch (ACB) and L-G about the allegedly high cost of the annual maintenance contract (AMC) of these buses.According to an order dated June 16, 2021, by Delhi government’s special secretary (vigilance) HPS Sran, the L-G appointed committee will be headed by former bureaucrat OP Aggarwal.The committee will examine the complete tendering process and check for irregularities and also “examine if the instant procurement can be structured along a better and more efficient model”. The committee will submit its report to the L-G within two weeks.The BJP hit out at the Delhi government and demanded the resignation of transport minister Kailash Gahlot.However, the Delhi government denied the allegations saying putting the bus procurement plan on hold was solely to comply and cooperate with any form of investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lg-forms-three-member-panel-to-probe-dtc-bus-procurement-process-101623952460394.html
18-06-2021||Delhi||Expenses up by 80% in second wave, but tax receipts down, says Manish Sisodia||The Delhi government on Thursday issued an order to rationalise spending, citing low revenue collection this year and high expenditure owing to the second wave of Covid-19 (fourth in the city). Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, who is also Delhi’s finance minister, said the Capital’s expenditure increased by around 80% in the first two months of the financial year (April and May), compared to last year.“The revenue receipts of Delhi have been ₹5,273.26 crore during the first two months of the financial year 2021-22 (April-May), while its expenditure has reached ₹8,511.09 crore. Delhi has incurred ₹3,237.83 crore more than its receipts which were met from last year’s savings,” Sisodia said.Records showed that during the first two months of the financial year 2019-20 and 2020-21, the expenditure of the Delhi government was ₹4,705.14 crore and ₹4,965.58 crore respectively.April-May this year were the months when Delhi saw its worst surge in Covid-19 cases, with the seven-day average of new cases soaring to 25,294 a day at it peak. This wave, the fourth in Delhi, claimed over 11,000 lives – as many as the previous three waves put together.The Delhi government had to ramp up beds in hospitals and makeshift centres, procure supporting medical infrastructure, including medical oxygen, and manpower. It also forced the Delhi government to impose a strict lockdown from April 19 which continued for at least seven weeks.“The tax collection has declined due to second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown. But, the expenditure has increased in comparison to the previous years because of implementation of various measures to check the spread of Covid-19 in Delhi,” Sisodia said.During the first wave of the pandemic last year, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had directed all government departments to stop incurring all expenses other than the salary of employees.“Any expense other than those related to relief work pertaining to the coronavirus lockdown will need special permission from the finance department. The government needs to cut down expenses,” Kejriwal had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/expenses-up-by-80-in-2nd-wave-but-tax-receipts-down-says-sisodia-101623952338979.html
18-06-2021||Delhi||Monsoon will take another five days to reach Delhi: IMD||Residents of Delhi will have to wait for at least another five days before the monsoon hits the national capital, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Thursday, attributing the delay to “large-scale atmospheric conditions unfavourable to the further advancement of monsoon” to Delhi, Haryana and parts of Punjab and Rajasthan.Cloudy skies covered most parts of the city even as light showers were witnessed in some areas on Thursday. Scientists said such patchy, intermittent pre-monsoon showers are likely to continue in Delhi-NCR in the coming days, though it will not reduce the temperature, which will hover around 37-38°C, much.Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said that throughout the day, parts of Delhi saw light rainfall activity which wasn’t strong enough to be caught by the radar. “This activity will reduce tomorrow (Friday), but will intensify again on June 19 and June 20,” said Srivastava.He said rainfall and thunder will impact almost the entire city during the weekend.IMD forecasts about the monsoon have been consistently wrong this season.Last week, IMD predicted that the monsoon, which had advanced into northwest India, would hit Delhi by June 15. However, in a later forecast, IMD said that its arrival was delayed by 10-12 days.In a fresh forecast issued on Thursday, IMD said, “Large-scale atmospheric conditions are not favourable for further advance of monsoon into Rajasthan, remaining parts of Punjab, Haryana and Delhi. However, there could be slow progress into some more parts of Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh in the next two or three days.”On Thursday, the maximum temperature at the Safdarjung observatory was 35°C, four degrees below normal. The minimum temperature was 26.2°C, two degrees below what is considered normal for this time of year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/monsoon-will-take-another-five-days-to-reach-delhiimd-101623952219574.html
18-06-2021||Delhi||Interchange station on Green, Pink lines soon||The Delhi Metro on Thursday announced the construction of an additional interchange facility, connecting the Metro’s Green Line (Inderlok/Kirti Nagar-Brigadier Hoshiar Singh Bahadurgarh) and Pink Line (Majlis Park-Shiv Vihar) at the Punjabi Bagh West Metro station and said for the construction of this facility, the timings of the first and the last train on the Green Line will be altered slightly from June 18 to September 30.In a statement issued on Thursday, DMRC said, “This is the first time that such a special ‘halt platform’ is being planned to connect two already operational Metro corridors. This halt platform will provide interconnectivity between the Green and Pink lines at Punjabi Bagh West Metro station of Pink Line.”“...The passengers after coming down the staircases or lifts from the platform will again have to take the stairs, two escalators or a lift to finally reach the concourse area,” the DMRC statement said. The DMRC also said the ‘halt platforms’ will be 155m in length.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/timings-of-first-and-last-trains-on-green-line-altered-to-facilitate-work-on-interchange-station-101623952098973.html
18-06-2021||Delhi||Banquet and tent house owners want Delhi govt to allow weddings, functions||Banquet, hotel and tent house associations on Thursday said they have written to the Delhi government requesting that weddings and social functions be allowed in the city, as a majority of other businesses have been allowed to reopen.Ramesh Dang, president of Community Welfare Banquet Association Delhi, said, “A majority of sectors have been allowed to resume business. We were hoping that social gatherings would be allowed too, but that did not happen. We have requested chief minister Arvind Kejriwal to allow social functions, as our industry has been badly hit by the pandemic.”The Delhi government banned social functions and weddings when the lockdown was announced in April to curb the spread of the second and most deadly wave of the Covid-19 pandemic in the country.“As the government is making efforts to ensure that the economy regains normalcy, it is requested that banquets and hotels also be opened along with the opening of other sectors such as markets, factories etc. at the earliest,” the association wrote to the chief minister.Members say the weddings and banquets industry has suffered a lot of losses owing to the restrictions imposed to control the pandemic in April.Industry members said the auspicious period (sayas) for weddings will end by July 20, post which they would not have much business till October.Pankaj Shokeen, secretary of Delhi Tent house association, said, “We had asked our workers to return, as we thought that businesses would resume as Covid cases are on the ebb. If functions are not allowed now, we will have no business till October. We just have a month more of the wedding season left.”Dang further said, “We assure the government that we will follow all Covid protocols and ensure social distancing if we are allowed to hold functions.”Delhi government spokespersons did not respond to requests for comment on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/banquet-and-tent-house-owners-want-govt-to-allow-weddings-social-functions-101623951978888.html
18-06-2021||Kolkata||Mamata Banerjee moves Calcutta high court against Suvendu Adhikari's Nandigram win, hearing today||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee moved the Calcutta high court on Thursday challenging her narrow loss in the Nandigram seat to her protégé-turned-adversary Suvendu Adhikari. This was Banerjee’s first electoral loss in 32 years.According to Trinamool Congress (TMC) leaders aware of the development, Banerjee’s petition alleged that the votes were not counted properly.Adhikari, who switched to the Bharatiya Janata Party last year, won the seat by 1,956 votes and went on to become the Leader of Opposition in the Bengal assembly.The case is listed to be mentioned before Justice Kausik Chanda at 11 am on Friday.The development came on a day West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankar met Union home minister Amit Shah, President Ram Nath Kovind and Congress Lok Sabha leader Adhir Ranjan Choudhury in Delhi.Dhankhar and Shah met for an hour, days after the governor clashed with Banerjee over post-poll violence in Bengal.On Thursday, the CM said allegations of post-poll clashes were a political gimmick and added that she had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi three times to recall the governor.Controversy about the Nandigram election had broken out on the day it went to the polls, April 1.On the day of voting, Banerjee, who was wheelchair bound at the time because of an ankle injury, levelled charges of booth rigging and refused to leave a polling station for two hours.When the election results were declared on May 2, the Trinamool Congress sought a recount when the results were announced but the Election Commission didn’t allow it.Days later, Banerjee claimed that the returning officer who turned down the request for a recount was threatened, a charge the BJP promptly dismissed, insisting that the chief minister wasn’t able to “accept the reality”.The defeat in Nandigram was a blow to Banerjee, who led her party to a landslide victory in West Bengal assembly elections with 213 of the 292 seats — her party’s third straight win.Banerjee, who represented Bhawanipore in the last assembly, announced her decision to contest from Nandigram a month before the eight phase elections began.The high-profile seat, where a land agitation in 2007 propelled TMC to power in the state, elected Adhikari in 2016 when he was with the TMC.TMC Rajya Sabha member Sukhendu Sekhar Roy said there was “no way she (Mamata) could lose” from Nandigram.Adhikari did not comment on the development.Amit Malviya, national head of the BJP’s IT cell, said: How do you lose an election twice? First, at the hustings and then, like a sore loser, challenging people’s verdict in the court,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/mamata-banerjee-moves-calcutta-high-court-against-suvendu-adhikari-s-nandigram-win-101623950779402.html
18-06-2021||Pune||PMC vax drive: Only 17% population covered yet||Pune: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has vaccinated only 17 per cent population within its limits as of June 15. The corresponding figure in Pune district and Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) is 11 per cent, according to the district health department data. In PMC, only two per cent beneficiaries between the age group of 18 and 44 years have received the second jab. Whereas, the second dose beneficiaries between the age group of 45 and 59 years are only 10 per cent. On Thursday, 26,976 beneficiaries were inoculated in Pune district. Of this 7,583 beneficiaries were inoculated in Pune rural, 15,900 in PMC and 3,493 in PCMC. The vaccine was administered at 261 centres on Thursday. Of this, 213 were administering Covishield and 48 Covaxin.Ayush Prasad, chief executive officer (CEO) of zilla parishad, said that the vaccine coverage depends on multiple factors. “If we have ample stock, we can reach the target of one lakh each day in Pune district. We have enough centres not just in Pune city, but also in rural parts of the district. We just need enough vaccine stock in time for both first and second doses,” said Prasad. He pointed out that the software glitches in Co-WIN application was not showing beneficiaries. “The error has been rectified and now we are entering these numbers. However, the count is marginal,” said Prasad. Private hospitals inoculating beneficiaries in urban areas helped in increasing the overall coverage. “Now that the government and private supply ratio is fixed for vaccines, we have more stock and intend to reach the 1 lakh mark soon,” said Prasad. The first dose coverage in PMC limit is good. Frontline workers (FLW) and healthcare workers (HCW) have 100 per cent vaccination with the first dose. The coverage for beneficiaries between 18-44 years, 45-59 years is also good for the first dose with even 79 per cent senior citizens have got their first jab. Similarly, in PCMC as well, the FLW and HCW have a good first dose coverage. However, 18 to 44 years of age beneficiaries have only five per cent coverage with the first dose. In rural parts of the district as well, only four per cent 18- 44 years beneficiaries have received the first dose. Dr Sanjay Deshmukh, assistant director (health) of Pune circle, said that the vaccine coverage in Pune district will improve as the frequency of vaccine for Pune has increased. “On Thursday, Pune received around 76,000 doses of Covaxin for second dose beneficiaries. Three days back as well Covishied was given to the district. Every three days, vaccine sock is recharged so we are able to inoculate more people this month than in May,” said Dr Deshmukh. He said in June 15, Pune district has received 60,000 Covaxin and 180,000 doses of Covishield. “If we continue to get more stock, we can inoculate more first and second dose beneficiaries,” said Dr Deshmukh. In January, Covishield doses were to be administered with a gap of four-six weeks. Later, the Centre revised it to four-eight weeks. At present, Covishield doses are to be administered 12-16 weeks apart, following a recommendation by a government panel. However, the gap between inoculations of Covaxin remained unchanged. It has to be administered in 45 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-vax-drive-only-17-population-covered-yet-101623940097786.html
18-06-2021||Pune||Covid relaxation demand takes high pitch as positivity rate drops in Pune rural||Pune: Though the third round of relaxations was declared in Pune Municipal Corporations (PMC) limits, the rural parts of the district remained under the cover of Level 4 restrictions. While the weekly average positivity rate of rural areas, including the limits of municipal councils, from June 10 and June 16 was 8.58%, business operators and shop owners are seeking more Covid relaxations. The positivity rate in PMC limits for the duration mentioned above was recorded at 4.82%. Under the Level 4 restrictions, non-essential shops are not allowed to operate. Also, restaurants and food courts are not permitted dine-in facility. “Rajgurunagar is a huge marketplace. After a six-month lockdown, the present restrictions of three months have badly hit the business community. We demand permission to reopen shops. If different rules are applied to Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad, why not the tehsils? They should only place those tehsils under lockdown where the positivity rate is high. Around 10,000 workers depend on their jobs in Rajgurunagar market. The figure is not less than an industrial unit,” said Manik Hore, representative of Rajgurunagar traders’ association. Hoteliers from the rural parts are also demanding relief from the curbs. “I have a restaurant at Koregaon-Bhima in Shirur tehsil. We have written to the local administration many times to let us reopen. While Covid cases have dropped, yet shop owners and business operators are facing financial issues because of the lockdown. As those reopening shops without permit are booked by the police, better relax restrictions and allow us to run businesses where cases have dropped,” said Jayesh Shinde, resident of Koregaon- Bhima. Pune guardian minister Ajit Pawar at the Covid review meet last week had said that the positivity rate in rural areas will be monitored for another week before taking a decision on lockdown curbs. “We approached the tehsils officers and they said that a decision on Covid will be taken soon,” said Hore. Pune district collector Rajesh Deshmukh said that a final decision will be taken after a review. “Since last week, we have seen a fall in positivity in rural parts. The daily positivity is around 7%-8%. We will consider all the aspects. We will take a call on Covid curbs after a review,” said Deshmukh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/covid-relaxation-demand-takes-high-pitch-as-positivity-rate-drops-in-pune-rural-101623934697134.html
18-06-2021||Chandigarh||Two women killed in landslide in Shimla||Two women were killed after being hit by a boulder at Satkaldi nullah on Nerva-Bajathal road in Chopal subdivision of Shimla district on Thursday. The incident occurred 10km from Nerva town. The deceased have been identified as 40-year-old Kamla Devi and Shukri Devi, 70.They were on their way to mourn a death in the adjoining village. Shimla SP Mohit Chawla said Kamla died on the spot, while the other woman succumbed to her injuries at the Nerva Civil Hospital. The kin of the deceased have been given an immediate relief of ₹ 10,000. 35 people rescued in Lahaul-SpitiThirty-five people stranded on the highway due to landslides near Gramphu in Lahaul-Spiti district were rescued early on Thursday. It took a joint rescue team, comprising the Border Roads Organisation (BRO), Himachal Pradesh Police and volunteers, more than six hours to bring back 35 people to safety past midnight. A police official at Kullu said an alert was received from the police post at Koksar around 6pm on Wednesday that three motorcycles and 11 cars were stranded 8km ahead of Gramphu due to landslides. These vehicles were coming from Losar with 30 passengers, including five children. “The BRO machinery cleared three landslides, while a tipper (truck) along with five Gypsies and a Bolero Camper along with police personnel and civilian volunteers reached the site. The rescue ended at 12.30am,” said the police official. Some of the passengers went to Manali, while the rest were put up at the PWD Rest House and nearby hotels. Man held for killing servantShimla police have arrested a man for thrashing his Nepalese servant to death in Theog subdivision of the district.The SP said that on June 14, a local resident filed a complaint that he saw Shyam Lal beating up his servant with an iron rod and later came to know that the servant had died and his body has been burnt in a forest.The police started an investigation and collected forensic evidence. The accused was also questioned as the body was charred beyond recognition.A case under sections 302 (murder) and 201 (causing disappearance of evidence) of the IPC has been registered against Shyam Singh, who has been arrested.The victim has been identified as Bheem.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/landslides-after-rain-in-himachal-35-people-rescued-in-lahaulspiti-101623927256901.html
18-06-2021||Mumbai||Will fight 2024 assembly elections with NCP: Shiv Sena||The Shiv Sena on Thursday said the party will contest the 2024 Maharashtra assembly elections in alliance with the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) “in the interest of the state”, days after Maharashtra Congress president Nana Patole announced that his party will go solo in the polls.“It is good that the BJP and Congress are preparing towards that (going solo). That leaves two parties, Shiv Sena and Nationalist Congress Party, in the state. If everybody else is going solo, then these two prominent parties will have to come together in the interest of the state.“Statements to this effect have been made by Uddhav Thackeray and Sharad Pawar,” an editorial in the party’s mouthpiece Saamana read.Earlier this week, Patole had said that his party would fight all the forthcoming elections alone and added that the Congress would be the single-largest party in the 2024 assembly polls. Subsequently, senior BJP leader Raosaheb Danve, in a statement, said that his party would also contest the next elections on its own.“In the future, if the two leading parties of Maharashtra, NCP and Sena, come together to contest the elections, then it can lead to miracles in the state… Both the parties will think about it (pre-poll alliance) in future,” the editorial said.In an apparent jibe at Patole for his statement, the editorial said the party needed to reach the majority mark of 145 to form the government in the 288-member assembly.The Congress looked to downplay the editorial, with senior leader and Maharashtra minister Balasaheb Thorat stating: “Every party intends to come to power on their strength. Therefore, there is nothing wrong in it. Our stand is that keeping the BJP away from power is in the national interest. Therefore, we will take appropriate decisions at the right time,”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/will-fight-2024-assembly-elections-with-ncp-shiv-sena-101623924256672.html
18-06-2021||World||Delta drives Moscow surge; Kremlin blames vaccine hesitancy, nihilism||The Kremlin on Friday blamed a surge in Covid-19 cases on reluctance to have vaccinations and "nihilism" after a record 9,056 new infections in Moscow, mostly with the new Delta variant, fanned fears of a third wave.Moscow Mayor Sergei Sobyanin extended restrictions he had imposed this month, which include a ban on events with more than 1,000 people, an 11 pm closing time for restaurants, and the closure of fan zones set up for the European soccer championship.He had said earlier this week that the situation in the capital, home to 13 million people, was deteriorating rapidly."According to the latest data, 89.3% of Muscovites (recently) diagnosed with Covid-19 have the mutated, so-called Delta or Indian variant," the news agency TASS quoted Sobyanin as saying on state television.Moscow accounted for more than half the 17,262 reported across Russia.Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said President Vladimir Putin was monitoring the situation closely.Asked to explain the surge, Peskov blamed the virus's "cunning nature" - a reference to its mutations - as well as "total nihilism, and the low vaccination level".At a briefing, he rejected suggestions that Russians were reluctant to have vaccinations because they distrusted the authorities.Russian Deputy Prime Minister Tatiana Golikova, a member of the coronavirus task force, said in televised comments that 16.1 million Russians have been inoculated with both components of Covid-19 vaccines as of June 18.She said that 19.7 million have got at least the first dose of the vaccines: at one-seventh of the population, that is far less than in most Western countries.Golikova urged Russians to get re-vaccinated after 6 months from the previous vaccination.She also said that the Russian government has decided "it was expedient" to resume flights to Turkey from June 22 amid the improved Covid-19 situation and oversight there, after restrictions had been introduced in May.Flights to some other countries, including the United States and Belgium would also be resumed later this month, she added.Central Election Commission head Ella Pamfilova said voting in this autumn's parliamentary election would be extended, largely because of the pandemic, to run over three days, from Sept. 17-19, rather than one, the Interfax news agency reported.Moscow authorities this week said anyone working in a public-facing role must have a vaccination, and on Friday they said anyone who had not been vaccinated would be refused non-emergency hospital treatment.Sobyanin said it was now even vital to start administering further boosters - in effect, a third dose. He said he himself had just received a top-up, after being fully vaccinated a year ago.The third doses being offered are a repeat of the first dose of the two-shot Sputnik V vaccine, he said.Several Russian officials and members of the business elite, as well as some members of the public, have already been securing third and fourth doses of Sputnik V, Reuters reported in April.The question of how long a vaccine offers protection against Covid-19 will be vital as countries gauge when or whether revaccination will be needed, and Russia's findings will be closely watched.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/delta-drives-moscow-surge-kremlin-blames-vaccine-hesitancy-nihilism-101624038102873.html
18-06-2021||World||Palestinians call off 1 million dose vaccine exchange with Israel||The Palestinian Authority called off an agreement whereby Israel would transfer 1 million doses of coronavirus vaccines to it in exchange for a similar number later this year, hours after the deal was announced on Friday.The Palestinians said the doses, which Israel began shipping to the occupied West Bank, are too close to expiring and do not meet their standards. In announcing the agreement, Israel had said the vaccines “will expire soon” without specifying the date.Palestinian officials had come under heavy criticism on social media after the agreement was announced, with many accusing them of accepting subpar vaccines and suggesting they might not be effective.Israel said Friday it will transfer around 1 million doses of soon-to-expire coronavirus vaccines to the Palestinian Authority in exchange for a similar number of doses the Palestinians expect to receive later this year.Israel, which has fully reopened after vaccinating some 85% of its adult population, has faced criticism for not sharing its vaccines with the 4.5 million Palestinians in the occupied West Bank and Gaza.The disparity has played out across the globe as the bulk of vaccines went to wealthy countries. As those countries have made progress containing their own outbreaks, they have recently begun pledging supplies for poorer countries that were left behind for months.The new Israeli government, which was sworn in on Sunday, said it would transfer Pfizer vaccines that will expire soon, and that the Palestinian Authority would reimburse it with a similar number of vaccines when it receives them from the pharmaceutical company in September or October. Up to 1.4 million doses could be exchanged, the government said in a statement.“We will continue to find effective ways to cooperate for the benefit of people in the region,” Foreign Minister Yair Lapid tweeted after the deal was announced.COGAT, the Israeli military body that coordinates civilian affairs in the occupied territories, said it had coordinated the delivery of the first 100,000 doses to the West Bank on Friday.The Palestinians portrayed the agreement differently, saying Pfizer had suggested the transfer as a way of speeding up its delivery of 4 million doses that the PA had already paid for in an agreement reached directly with the drug company.“This is not an agreement with Israel, but with the Pfizer company," Palestinian Health Minister Mai Alkaila said earlier Friday, before the deal was called off, according to the official Wafa news agency.At a press conference Friday evening, she said Alkaila said that health officials who inspected the vaccines found they “did not meet standards and so we decided to return them.”Government spokesman Ibrahim Milhim said that Prime Minister Mohammad Shtayyeh has ordered the cancelation of the agreement and return the vaccines to Israel. He said the Palestinians would not accept “about-to-expire” vaccines from Israel.Israel has carried out one of the most successful vaccination programs in the world, allowing it to fully reopen businesses and schools. This week, authorities lifted the requirement to wear masks in public, one of the last remaining restrictions.Rights groups have said that Israel, as an occupying power, is obliged to provide vaccines to the Palestinians. Israel denies having such an obligation, pointing to interim peace agreements reached with the Palestinians in the 1990s.Those agreements say the PA, which has limited autonomy in parts of the occupied West Bank, is responsible for health care but that the two sides should cooperate to combat pandemics. Israel has offered vaccines to the more than 100,000 Palestinians from the occupied West Bank who work inside Israel, as well as Palestinians in east Jerusalem.Gaza is ruled by the Islamic militant group Hamas, which is considered a terrorist organization by Israel and Western countries. Israeli officials have suggested linking any supply of vaccines to Gaza to the return of two Israeli captives and the remains of two soldiers held by Hamas.The PA has said it is acquiring its own supplies through agreements with private companies and a World Health Organization program designed to aid needy countries.To date, around 380,000 Palestinians in the West Bank and around 50,000 in Gaza have been vaccinated. More than 300,000 infections have been recorded in the two territories, including 3,545 deaths.Israel captured the West Bank, Gaza and east Jerusalem in the 1967 Mideast war. The Palestinians want a state in all three territories. There have been no substantive peace talks in more than a decade.___Associated Press writer Areej Hazboun in Jerusalem contributed to this report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/palestinians-call-off-1-million-dose-vaccine-exchange-with-israel-101624037475891.html
18-06-2021||World||AstraZeneca, EU bitter battle over vaccine supply ends, victory declared||The European Union fell short of its court demands to receive millions more doses of AstraZeneca Plc’s Covid-19 vaccine after a Brussels court ruled in a dispute over supply shortfalls.AstraZeneca must supply 80.2 million doses of the shot by Sept. 27, only about 10 million more doses than Astra said it has already sent the EU. The European Commission had asked for 120 million vaccine doses cumulatively by the end of June and a total of 300 million doses by the end of September, the company said.Astra and the EU have been locked in a bitter fight over vaccine supplies this year after the company failed to meet its contracted targets due to issues including problems scaling-up manufacturing at a site in Belgium.At a court hearing last month, the EU said Astra should pay 10 euros ($12) a day for each overdue vaccine. The EU had asked the court to order Astra to supply 20 million more doses than it planned to deliver by the end of June. If the court backed the EU, the company could have faced as much as 200 million euros a day in penalties for those shots.“In fewer than twelve months, AstraZeneca has worked extremely hard to develop an effective vaccine at no profit and is the second-largest supplier to the EU’s 27 member states,” the company said in a statement.The court also ruled that the European Commission had no exclusivity or right of priority over other contracting parties. Friday’s interim order will be followed by a full ruling on the merit of the claim at a later date.DamagingFriday’s ruling did criticize Astra’s handling of the vaccine rollout in the EU. The judges ruled that the company “intentionally chose to not use all means at its disposal to produce and deliver the contested vaccines.”“The choice to monopolize the Oxford Biomedica site in the UK and deprive the EU of a manufacturing site that was clearly foreseen seems all the more damaging,” the court ruled.Meanwhile, the EU trumpeted the decision as proof AstraZeneca under-delivered on its promises.“AstraZeneca is clearly not freed from its contractual obligations,” a lawyer for the commission said at a briefing for journalists after the verdict was made public.The company “already said during the proceedings that it intended to deliver the 300 million doses at the latest by the end of the year, but AstraZeneca remains bound to make its best contractual efforts to do it as soon as possible,” the lawyer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/astrazeneca-eu-bitter-battle-over-vaccine-supply-ends-victory-declared-101624027058441.html
18-06-2021||World||California launches digital Covid-19 vaccine pass. Here's how it works||California officials on Friday unveiled a website to access or download a digital copy of Covid-19 immunization records, though they stressed the state would not make it mandatory to carry the vaccine credentials.Businesses will be able to verify the authenticity of digital "vaccine cards" by scanning a QR code on them using an app that a nonprofit group is expected to launch this month. The nearly 20 million immunized Californians can access their data at myvaccinerecord.cdph.ca.gov."It's an optional tool to use," said State Epidemiologist Dr. Erica Pan.California opened up from Covid-19 restrictions on Tuesday, with masks, social distancing and capacity limits no longer required at most venues for those who are vaccinated. But businesses are largely operating on the honor system and not "carding" people.Still, state officials said the e-pass could help in some circumstances, such as for travel.Other states have barred shops and offices from requiring proof of vaccination, deriding "vaccine passports" as an intrusion on civil liberties.California's technology department developed its new website using technology known as Smart Health Cards, which originated at Boston Children’s Hospital. Walmart Inc this week also adopted Smart to support people who were vaccinated at its stores.The approach contrasts with New York state, which paid IBM to develop a records app called Excelsior Pass, as well as a companion app for verification. Over a million people downloaded their records onto New York's app, but few businesses have required them.California's Los Angeles County has offered digital Covid-19 vaccine records for months through startup Healthvana. Millions of users have taken advantage, said Healthvana Chief Executive Ramin Bastani.Users may experience glitches with California's new system, because their entered names, birthdates and contact information must match immunization records. Rick Klau, the state's chief tech innovation officer, said only about 90% of records include contact information and some of it may be outdated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/california-launches-digital-covid-19-vaccine-pass-here-s-how-it-works-101624036237675.html
18-06-2021||World||Juneteenth holiday gets cheer from Black Americans, say more work ahead||Black Americans rejoiced after President Joe Biden made Juneteenth a federal holiday, but some said that, while they appreciated the recognition at a time of racial reckoning in America, more is needed to change policies that disadvantage too many of their brethren.“It’s great, but it’s not enough,” said Gwen Grant, president and CEO of the Urban League of Kansas City. Grant said she was delighted by the quick vote this week by Congress to make Juneteenth a national holiday because “it's been a long time coming.”But she added that “we need Congress to protect voting rights, and that needs to happen right now so we don't regress any further. That is the most important thing Congress can be addressed at this time.”At a jubilant White House bill-signing ceremony on Thursday, Biden agreed that more than a commemoration of the events of June 19, 1865, is needed. That’s when Union soldiers brought the news of freedom to enslaved Black people in Galveston, Texas — some 2 1/2 years after President Abraham Lincoln’s Emancipation Proclamation had freed slaves in Southern states.“This day doesn’t just celebrate the past. It calls for action today,” Biden said before he established Juneteenth National Independence Day. His audience included scores of members of Congress and Opal Lee, a 94-year-old Texas woman who campaigned for the holiday.Biden singled out voting rights as an area for action.Republican-led states have enacted or are considering legislation that activists argue would curtail the right to vote, particularly for people of color. Legislation to address voting rights issues, and institute policing reforms demanded after the killing of George Floyd and other unarmed Black men, remains stalled in the Congress that acted swiftly on the Juneteenth bill.Other people want the federal government to make reparations or financial payments to the descendants of slaves in an attempt to compensate for those wrongs. Meanwhile, efforts are afoot across the country to limit what school districts teach about the history of slavery in America.Community organizer Kimberly Holmes-Ross, who helped make her hometown of Evanston, Illinois, the first US city to pay reparations, said she was happy about the new federal holiday because it will lead more people to learn about Juneteenth.But she would have liked Congress to act on anti-lynching legislation or voter protections first.“I am not super stoked only because all of the other things that are still going on,” said Holmes-Ross, 57. “You haven’t addressed what we really need to talk about.”Peniel Joseph, an expert on race at the University of Texas at Austin, said the US has never had a holiday or a national commemoration of the end of slavery. Many Black Americans had long celebrated Juneteenth.“Juneteenth is important symbolically, and we need the substance to follow, but Black people historically have always tried to do multiple things at the same time," Joseph said.Most federal workers will observe the holiday Friday. Several states and the District of Columbia announced that government offices would be closed Friday.Juneteenth is the 12th federal holiday, including Inauguration Day once every four years. It's also the first federal holiday since the Martin Luther King Jr. holiday was added in 1983.Before June 19 became a federal holiday, it was observed in the vast majority of states and the District of Columbia. Texas was first to make Juneteenth a holiday in 1980.Most white Americans had not heard of Juneteenth before the summer of 2020 and the protests that stirred the nation's conscience over race after Floyd's killing by a Minneapolis police officer, said Matthew Delmont, who teaches history at Dartmouth College.He said the new federal holiday “hopefully provides a moment on the calendar every year when all Americans can spend time thinking seriously about the history of our country.”The Senate passed the bill earlier this week by unanimous agreement. But in the House, 14 Republicans voted against it, including Rep. Chip Roy of Texas. Roy said Juneteenth deserves to be commemorated, but he objected to the use of “independence” in the holiday's name.“This name needlessly divides our nation on a matter that should instead bring us together by creating a separate Independence Day based on the color of one's skin,” he said in a statement.Added Rep. Paul Gosar, R-Ariz., who also voted against the bill: “We have one Independence Day, and it applies equally to all people of all races.”The sentiment was different in Texas, the first state to make Juneteenth a holiday.“I'm happy as pink,” said Doug Matthews, 70, and a former city manager of Galveston who has helped coordinate the community's Juneteenth celebrations since Texas made it a holiday.He credited the work of state and local leaders with paving the way for this week's step by Congress.“I'm also proud that everything started in Galveston,” Matthews said.Pete Henley, 71, was setting up tables Thursday for a Juneteenth celebration at the Old Central Cultural Center, a Galveston building that once was a segregated Black school. He said the Juneteenth holiday will help promote understanding and unity.“All holidays have significance, no matter what the occasion or what it’s about, but by it being a federal holiday, it speaks volumes to what the country thinks about that specific day,” said Henley, who studied at the school before it was integrated and is president of the cultural center.He said his family traces its roots back to enslaved men and women in the Texas city who were among the last to receive word of the Emancipation Proclamation.“As a country, we really need to be striving toward togetherness more than anything,” Henley said. “If we just learn to love each other, it would be so great.”Holmes-Ross recalled first learning about Juneteenth in church in Evanston, a Lake Michigan suburb just outside Chicago. Over the years, she said she made sure her three children commemorated the day with community events including food, dancing and spoken word performances.She said it was about more than a day off for her family and expressed hope that it would be for others, too.“We were intentional about seeking out Black leaders and things we could celebrate as African Americans,” Holmes-Ross said. “Hopefully, people do something productive with it. It is a day of service.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/juneteenth-holiday-gets-cheer-from-black-americans-say-more-work-ahead-101624027078416.html
18-06-2021||World||Covid-19: Kremlin blames vaccine hesitancy as Delta variant drives Moscow surge||The Kremlin on Friday blamed a surge in Covid-19 cases on reluctance to have vaccinations and "nihilism" after a record 9,056 new infections in Moscow, mostly with the new Delta variant, fanned fears of a third wave.Moscow Mayor Sergei Sobyanin extended restrictions he had imposed this month, which include a ban on events with more than 1,000 people, an 11 p.m. closing time for restaurants, and the closure of fan zones set up for the European soccer championship.He had said earlier this week that the situation in the capital, home to 13 million people, was deteriorating rapidly."According to the latest data, 89.3% of Muscovites (recently) diagnosed with Covid-19 have the mutated, so-called Delta or Indian variant," the news agency TASS quoted Sobyanin as saying on state television.Moscow accounted for more than half the 17,262 reported across Russia.Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said President Vladimir Putin was monitoring the situation closely.Asked to explain the surge, Peskov blamed the virus's "cunning nature" - a reference to its mutations - as well as "total nihilism, and the low vaccination level".At a briefing, he rejected suggestions that Russians were reluctant to have vaccinations because they distrusted the authorities.As of June 2, the most recent tally available, only 18 million Russians had received at least one dose of vaccine: at one-eighth of the population, that is far less than in most Western countries.Central Election Commission head Ella Pamfilova said voting in this autumn's parliamentary election would be extended, largely because of the pandemic, to run over three days, from Sept. 17-19, rather than one, the Interfax news agency reported.Moscow authorities this week said anyone working in a public-facing role must have a vaccination, and on Friday they said anyone who had not been vaccinated would be refused non-emergency hospital treatment.Sobyanin said it was now even vital to start administering further boosters - in effect, a third dose. He said he himself had just received a top-up, after being fully vaccinated a year ago.The third doses being offered are a repeat of the first dose of the two-shot Sputnik V vaccine, he said.Several Russian officials and members of the business elite, as well as some members of the public, have already been securing third and fourth doses of Sputnik V, Reuters reported in April.The question of how long a vaccine offers protection against Covid-19 will be vital as countries gauge when or whether revaccination will be needed, and Russia's findings will be closely watched.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-kremlin-blames-vaccine-hesitancy-as-delta-variant-drives-moscow-surge-101624026179813.html
18-06-2021||World||UK PM Johnson faces embarrassing defeat as party loses out at election||British Prime Minister Boris Johnson suffered an embarrassing defeat in a election on the outskirts of London on Friday, when his governing Conservative Party lost a previously safe parliamentary seat to the Liberal Democrats.The Conservatives had comfortably held the leafy, affluent Chesham and Amersham constituency in southern England since its creation in 1974, capturing more than 50% of the vote on every occasion. At the last poll in 2019, Conservative Cheryl Gillan, who died this year, won by a majority of 16,223 votes.Since a divisive referendum in 2016, Brexit has helped reshape Britain's political landscape, with people switching party loyalties in a way not seen for generations. Support for the Conservatives has surged in northern England.On Wednesday, Sarah Green, the candidate for the Liberal Democrats - a centrist, pro-European Union party - won a majority of 8,028 votes over the Conservative candidate. The main opposition Labour Party came fourth, with 1.6% of the vote, its worst showing in decades.Johnson said it was a "disappointing result", suggesting there were "particular circumstances" in the area and "it was a bit bizarre" to suggest his party were on the back foot."We are a great one-nation party and we will continue with our mission to unite and level up because that is the best way to deliver jobs, prosperity across the whole country," he told reporters.But Lib Dem leader Ed Davey said it was a sign of things to come, with his party ousting the Conservatives from traditional strongholds in England's affluent south."Across the south, the Tory Blue Wall is beginning to crumble," he said in a statement. "Here and in great swathes of the country, only the Liberal Democrats can beat the Conservatives and breach their Blue Wall."NEW NORTH/SOUTH DIVIDE?The result may cause some nervousness in the Conservative Party, which has targeted traditional Labour-supporting voters in northern England but, according to some of its lawmakers, has increasingly ignored its strongholds in the south.Johnson's parliamentary seat is just 10 miles away, in West London.While governing parties often lose out at so-called by-elections, the Lib Dems focused their campaign on local issues, such as the new High Speed 2 rail link between London and northern England which cuts through the area.The Conservatives have also been criticised about changes to planning laws, which some fear could mean more building of homes over green fields, something Johnson said was a misunderstanding as the government wanted construction on brownfield sites."I think there's some misunderstanding about the planning reforms, perhaps even some wilful misunderstanding," he said."What we want is sensible plans to allow development on brownfield sites ... but I do think young p||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-pm-johnson-faces-embarrassing-defeat-as-party-loses-out-at-election-101624025659445.html
18-06-2021||World||Delta Covid variant becoming globally dominant, says WHO official||The Delta variant of Covid-19, first identified in India, is becoming the globally dominant variant of the disease, the World Health Organization's chief scientist said on Friday.Soumya Swaminathan also voiced disappointment in the failure of CureVac's vaccine candidate in a trial to meet the WHO's efficacy standard, in particular as highly transmissible variants boost the need for new, effective shots.Britain has reported a steep rise in infections with the Delta variant, while Germany's top public health official predicted it would rapidly become the dominant variant there despite rising vaccination rates.The Kremlin blamed a surge in COVID-19 cases on reluctance to have vaccinations and "nihilism" after record new infections in Moscow, mostly with the new Delta variant, fanned fears of a third wave."The Delta variant is well on its way to becoming the dominant variant globally because of its increased transmissibility," Swaminathan told a news conference.Coronavirus variants were cited by CureVac when the German company this week reported its vaccine proved only 47% effective at preventing disease, shy of the WHO's 50% benchmark.The company said it documented at least 13 variants circulating within its study population.Given that similar mRNA vaccines from Pfizer and BioNTech and Moderna posted efficacy rates topping 90%, Swaminathan said the world had been expecting more from CureVac's candidate."Just because it's another mRNA vaccine, we cannot presume all mRNA vaccines are the same, because each one has a slightly different technology," Swaminathan said, adding the surprise failure underscored the value of robust clinical trials to test new products.WHO officials said Africa remains an area of concern, even though it accounts for only around 5% of new global infections and 2% of deaths.New cases in Namibia, Sierra Leone, Liberia and Rwanda have doubled in the last week, WHO emergencies programme head Mike Ryan said, while vaccine access remains miniscule."It's a trajectory that is very, very concerning," Ryan said. "The brutal reality is that in an era of multiple variants, with increased transmissibility, we have left vast swathes of the population, the vulnerable population of Africa, unprotected by vaccines."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/delta-covid-variant-becoming-globally-dominant-says-who-official-101624026164258.html
18-06-2021||World||Sri Lanka seeks India's help after lion tests Covid-19 positive||Sri Lanka's zoological gardens authorities have sought assistance from India after a lion tested positive for the coronavirus at a zoo here.The head of the National Zoological Gardens here said that they are in touch with India's Central Zoo Authority to treat an 11-year-old lion named 'Thor' who has tested positive."We are in regular touch with the Central Zoo Authority of India and following their instructions on taking preventive measures to prevent the staff and other animals in the zoo being infected. We continue to treat the lion while keeping him in isolation," Director General Ishini Wickremesinghe said in a statement.The lion was sent to the Colombo zoo from the Seoul city zoo in South Korea in 2013.The lion had been experiencing respiratory difficulties, but an initial antigen test result was negative. After several other PCR tests, the lion was confirmed to be Covid-19 infected, she added.In India, a 12-year-old Asiatic lion who was treated for Covid-19 succumbed on Wednesday in the safari area of the Arignar Anna Zoological Park near Vandalur in Chennai. This was the second tragedy that struck the zoo as it lost a nine-year-old lioness due to coronavirus on June 3 and in total, seven lions of the 14, were infected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/sri-lanka-seeks-india-s-help-after-lion-tests-covid-19-positive-101624024650399.html
18-06-2021||World||Shark bites Florida man swimming near fishing line||A shark bit a Florida man who was swimming near a fishing line 40 yards from the shore.The South Walton Fire District said in a news release posted on Facebook that the man had visible wounds to the upper body and chest area and was taken to a local hospital, where he is expected to recover.Firefighters said the shark was apparently heading for the fishing line Thursday off Santa Rosa Beach, and possibly mistook the man for bait.The fire district flew double red flags to warn other swimmers in the area. The shark is believed to be of 7 to 8 feet (2 meters) in length.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/shark-bites-florida-man-swimming-near-fishing-line-101624024398597.html
18-06-2021||World||Antonio Guterres re-elected as UN Secretary General for second term||The UN General Assembly elected Antonio Guterres to a second term as secretary-general on Friday, giving him another five years at the helm of the 193-member world organization.Ambassadors in the assembly chamber burst into applause as Assembly President Volkan Bozkir announced Guterres’ re-election by acclamation.Just before the announcement, Estonia’s UN Ambassador Sven Jurgenson, the current Security Council president, read a resolution adopted by the 15-member council recommending Guterres for a second term.Under the UN Charter, the General Assembly elects the secretary-general on the recommendation of the Security Council.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/antonio-guterres-re-elected-as-un-secretary-general-for-second-term-101624023914784.html
18-06-2021||World||Over 100 varieties of food available to 3 Chinese astronauts||More than 100 varieties of food are available to the three Chinese astronauts during their three-month stay inside under-construction space station’s core module, Tianhe, which they entered on Thursday.Launched on Shenzhou-12, the three astronauts, Nie Haisheng, Liu Boming, and Tang Hongbo entered Tianhe after a six-and-half hour journey, marking the first time Chinese nationals will have their own space in earth’s lower orbit.With a diameter of 4.2m, Tianhe is more spacious than a train or subway carriage, providing astronauts with six zones for work, sleep, sanitation, dining, healthcare and exercise, Chinese state media said.Much scientific thought went behind the diet of the astronauts, which kept in mind not only their health but also their taste and dietary preferences.The dry food rations were delivered to the core module last month in the cargo spacecraft, Tianzhou-2, which carried 160 parcels weighing 6.8 tonnes.The cargo spacecraft even carried a “super refrigerator” to ensure that the food packages remained fresh for months.Included in the dry food packages for the astronauts were 100 varieties of dishes, both staple and non-staple foods besides meat and vegetable combinations.“Space food, including many classic Chinese cuisines, has been delivered by the cargo freighter Tianzhou-2. From staple foods to non-staples, from meat to vegetables, the menu design is of high quality and appetising for astronauts. Famous stir-fried Chinese dishes like shredded pork with garlic sauce and Kung Pao chicken are both on the menu,” the news agency Xinhua said.“There are even Sichuan dishes, fish-flavoured pork shreds…(and) ice cream and desserts,” the paper.cn said in a report.The three will also have the option to choose from instant food, beverages, condiments, and functional foods.The food available in the “space canteen” has been developed and produced in strict accordance with the aerospace food standards, the report said.Not only is balanced nutrition critical in what the astronauts eat, what is also equally important is to make eating convenient.The food available to them can be eaten in one bite: The items are small, solid, bone-less, and entirely edible without residues to reduce meal waste as much as possible.What’s more, lest the astronauts get bored with eating the same dishes every day, the meals have been designed in such a way to ensure that the same dish is not repeated in days.Required appliances are in place as well.“The dining area is equipped with a food heating device, refrigerator, water dispenser and folding table. In the exercise area, the treadmill and spin bike provide them options to maintain physical health,” the Xinhua report said.“The waste and human excrement will be stored in Tianzhou-2, which will eventually depart from orbit and burn up on re-entry into the earth’s atmosphere”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/over-100-varieties-of-food-available-to-3-chinese-astronauts-101624015584938.html
18-06-2021||World||Israel to give Palestinians 1 million Covid vaccine doses in exchange deal||Israel will give at least 1 million Covid-19 vaccine doses to the Palestinian Authority (PA) under a deal to share shots, officials said on Friday, in a boost for the Palestinians' vaccination campaign in the occupied West Bank and Gaza.Under the terms of the deal, announced by Israeli Prime Minister Naftali Bennett's office, the PA agreed to give Israel a reciprocal number of doses from one of its own shipments due to arrive later this year."Israel will transfer to the Palestinian Authority 1-1.4 million doses of the Pfizer vaccine," a joint statement from Bennett's office and the health and defence ministries said.The Pfizer-BioNTech doses earmarked for transfer "will expire soon", the statement said, and they were "approved in light of the fact that Israel's vaccine stock meets its needs today."A source in the PA health ministry confirmed the deal and said the Palestinians expect to receive a shipment of Pfizer doses in August or September. The Israeli statement said Israel would receive reciprocal doses from the PA in September or October.Neither side said when the initial Israeli transfer to the PA would be made.Israel, which led the world with its swift vaccine roll-out, had faced criticism for not doing more to ensure Palestinian access to doses. Around 55% of eligible Israelis are fully vaccinated.Some 30% of eligible Palestinians have received at least one vaccine dose, according to Palestinian officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/israel-to-give-palestinians-1-million-covid-vaccine-doses-in-exchange-deal-101624010130236.html
18-06-2021||World||Two Hong Kong newspaper executives charged under security law, say police||Hong Kong police charged two executives from the pro-democracy Apple Daily newspaper on Friday using a powerful new security law, a day after the company's newsroom was raided over articles it had published.Police said a 47-year-old and a 59-year-old were charged with "collusion with a foreign country or with external elements to endanger national security".Apple Daily said the two charged executives were chief editor Ryan Law and CEO Cheung Kim-hung.Some 500 officers descended on the paper's newsroom on Thursday, bundling computers and notepads into evidence bags.Authorities said the operation was sparked by articles that allegedly appealed for sanctions against China.It was the first time articles published in Hong Kong have sparked arrests under the new law that cracks down on dissent in the international business and media hub.Five Apple Daily executives were arrested in the operation.Police said the remaining three were still in custody and being questioned. The two charged executives would appear in court on Saturday morning.Over 100 people have been arrested under the new security law which China imposed on Hong Kong nearly a year ago to stamp out dissent in the wake of huge pro-democracy protests.More than 60 have been charged and the vast majority have been denied bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/two-hong-kong-newspaper-executives-charged-under-security-law-say-police-101624005552756.html
18-06-2021||World||Covid-19: Half of Germany's population vaccinated with first dose||Germany has reached a milestone in its effort to overcome the coronavirus pandemic with more than half of the population at least partially inoculated.As of Friday, 50.1% of German residents have had at least one dose and 29.6% are fully immunized against Covid-19, Health Minister Jens Spahn said at a press briefing in Berlin.After initially prioritizing the elderly and people at greater risk, Germany opened up immunization to all adults as well as children as young as 12 earlier this month. The step was facilitated by more deliveries of vaccines, especially from Mainz-based BioNTech SE.Following struggles to control a third wave of the pandemic, Germany has been easing lockdown measures amid declining infections. The country on Friday reported 10.3 cases per 100,000 people over the previous seven days. The figure had peaked at almost 170 in late April.The Economy Ministry said Monday that progress in vaccinations and the accompanying decline in infections will help spur Germany’s revival in coming months after a 1.8% contraction in gross domestic product in the first quarter.“Signs of recovery are increasing,” the ministry said, citing an improving climate in both manufacturing and services. “The German economy is gradually overcoming the third wave and there is a spirit of optimism,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-half-of-germany-s-population-vaccinated-with-first-dose-101624004949565.html
18-06-2021||World||Canada: mRNA Covid-19 vaccines preferred choice for both jabs||Canadian health authorities have announced fresh guidelines stating that mRNA Covid-19 vaccines are now the “preferred” jabs for both the first and second dose even if the first was administered using AstraZeneca (AZ), which is manufactured in India under the Covishield brand name.These were among the updated recommendations issued by the National Advisory Committee on Immunisation (NACI).In its recommendations, NACI said the mRNA vaccines should be preferred unless “is inaccessible or there is a contraindication, for example, an allergy to an mRNA vaccine or its components”. Only in the latter circumstances should a viral vector vaccine, like AZ, be offered.It also endorsed vaccine interchangeability, basically that doses can now be mixed with those receiving the first dose of AZ now being given the second dose as an mRNA vaccine such as those from Pfizer-BioNTech or Moderna.NACI said that “emerging evidence” from studies in Germany have suggested a “potentially better immune response, including against variants of concern, when a first dose of the AstraZeneca vaccine is followed by a second dose of the Pfizer-BioNTech mRNA vaccine, compared to two doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine”. Similarly, it said, evidence suggested that such mixing “has a good safety profile”.However, those who received their first jab of AZ can still opt for the same to complete the vaccination series. “Getting two doses of the AstraZeneca/Covishield vaccine provide good protection against Covid-19 disease,” NACI said.“NACI is also recommending that for anyone who received a first dose of AstraZeneca/Covishield, an mRNA vaccine is now preferred for the second dose. Since NACI first looked at mixed vaccine schedules, new evidence is starting to emerge suggesting immune responses are better when a first dose of the AstraZeneca vaccine is followed by an mRNA vaccine as a second dose,” NACI chairperson Dr Shelley Deeks said.These announcements have followed continued concern over a rare side-effect of the AZ vaccine, vaccine-induced immune thrombotic thrombocytopenia or VITT, which can lead to blood clotting with low platelet counts, and can sometimes prove fatal if not treated in time.However, adverse reactions to mRNA vaccines are also being looked at as NACI said rare cases of myocarditis (inflammation of the heart muscle) and pericarditis (inflammation of the heart lining) following such vaccination “have been reported in Canada and internationally, including in Israel and the United States”.“No clear association between myocarditis/pericarditis and mRNA Covid-19 vaccines has been established in Canada. This may change as more evidence emerges and Canada administers more second doses of mRNA vaccines,” the NACI added, though it also said cases have so far been “mild and resolved with medical treatment”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/canada-mrna-covid-19-vaccines-preferred-choice-for-both-jabs-101624004964318.html
18-06-2021||World||Canada’s House of Commons censures defence minister||Canada’s defence minister Harjit Sajjan has been formally censured by the House of Commons, after a motion in this regard was voted upon late on Thursday.The censure motion was related to the ongoing controversy over an institutional crisis in the Canadian Armed Forces precipitated by a series of sexual misconduct scandals during Sajjan’s tenure, which began in November 2015.The motion was moved by Conservative Party MP James Bezan and received the support of the majority of MPs, including those from the New Democratic Party and Bloc Quebecois. It passed 169 votes in favour and 151 against, mainly from the ruling Liberal Party members, according to Global News.The motion said that “given that the Minister of National Defence has clearly lost the respect of members of the Canadian Armed Forces, including those at the highest ranks, for”, amongst other things, “engaging in a cover-up of sexual misconduct allegations in the Canadian Armed Forces”, the House “formally censures the Minister of National Defence to express the disappointment of the House of Commons in his conduct”. The CTV News reported that in his response, Sajjan accused the motion of being little more than an “attempt to wage personal and partisan attacks”.Earlier, leader of the opposition Erin O’Toole said, that Sajjan had “clearly lost the respect of members of the Canadian Armed Forces, and the moral authority to implement the changes needed to eliminate sexual misconduct in our military”.Speaking in the House of Commons this week, O’Toole said the military was “literally falling apart” under Sajjan’s watch and he should “do the honourable thing and resign” or, alternately Prime Minister Justin Trudeau should fire him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/canadas-house-of-commons-censures-defence-minister-101624003104327.html
18-06-2021||World||PM Modi has higher approval rating than other world leaders. How do others fare?||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has an approval rating of 66%, higher than some other world leaders like US President Joe Biden, German Chancellor Angela Merkel and South Korea’s President Moon Jae-in, according to a survey by Morning Consult, a data intelligence company.The company tracked the approval rating of 13 leaders from Australia, Brazil, Canada, France, Germany, India, Italy, Japan, Mexico, South Korea, Spain, the United Kingdom, and the United States based on online interviews from people in these countries.Here is a list of some world leaders and their approval ratings according to the data from the surveys conducted by Morning Consult:Also read | PM Modi's approval rating at 66%, ahead of US President Biden, Germany's MerkelNarendra Modi: The Indian Prime Minister’s approval rating as of June 15, stood at 66%, the website showed. At its peak, Modi’s ratings were at 84% last year on May 4, 2020, roughly a month-and-a-half of the Covid-19 lockdown in the country. Modi’s disapproval rating, currently at 28%, is also one of the lowest on the list.Mario Draghi: Only four months into his reign as the prime minister of Italy, Mario Draghi enjoys a 65% approval rating, only after PM Modi. Also, his disapproval rating is the same as his Indian counterpart at 28%. Data showed that since late April, Draghi’s approval climbed and the disapproval rate declined significantly.López Obrador: Mexico’s Obrador, the country’s President since 2018, has his approval rating at 63%, the third-highest among the 13 leaders in the survey. Meanwhile, his disapproval rating stood at 28%, which is also the lowest in the list.Scott Morrison: Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison saw his approval go up and his disapproval come down since late March 2020. Data shows that Morrison’s approval rating stands at 54% and his disapproval rating at 38% as of June 15.Angela Merkel: German chancellor Angela Merkel, similar to Australia’s Morrison, witnessed her approval rating improve and disapproval fall after late March 2020. After reaching 59%, its highest in February 2021, Merkel’s approval rating currently stands at 53%, the same as that of US President Joe Biden.Joe Biden: Inaugurated as the President of the United States in January 2021, Biden's approval rating stands at 53%, after almost five months of his presidency. However, his disapproval rating was also considerably high at 39%, the data showed.Yoshihide Suga: Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga, who assumed office in September 2020, had the lowest approval rating among the leaders at 29% and his disapproval rating was the highest at 60%, data showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pm-modi-has-higher-approval-rating-than-other-world-leaders-how-do-others-fare-101623998084824.html
18-06-2021||World||Biden gifts Putin pair of iconic American-made 'Top Gun' aviators||US President Joe Biden gifted his Russian counterpart Vladimir Putin a pair of custom aviator sunglasses made by an American company during their summit in Geneva this week, reports have said.The "Concorde" style aviator sunglasses, which were gifted by Biden, are made by Randolph Engineering Inc in the small town of Randolph in Massachusetts. The company, founded in 1973 and boasts of its "handcrafted in the USA" credentials, has provided them to the US military and its Nato partners. CNN cited an unnamed White House official as saying that Randolph joined forces with the US military in 1978 to produce the HGU-4/P Aviator, which was designed for fighter pilots. And the US armed forces buys some 25,000 pairs of aviator sunglasses every month.Also read | Kremlin pleased with Putin-Biden summit, hails pledge to never wage nuclear warPeter Waszkiewicz, head of Randolph Engineering, told AFP he felt "surprise" at seeing the sunglasses his company made become a diplomatic token at a meeting followed the world over. "It was a normal business day until about after 12:00, when the phones started ringing and the social media went abuzz, then we realized what was going on," Waszkiewicz told AFP, saying it was "pretty tense and exciting." "It's pretty amazing, isn't it? I mean how often does an opportunity like this happen?" he said.Also watch | 'Meeting with Biden constructive, agreed talks on cybersecurity': PutinRandolph Engineering also sells sunglasses to the general public in the United States and the aviator look was made famous by the 1980s Tom Cruise movie "Top Gun." Named after the 20th-century supersonic aircraft, a matte black polarized pair sells on the Randolph website for $279."President Biden, I'm sure, gave those glasses to President Putin as a symbol of our national heritage. And let's hope it's the symbol of peace," Waszkiewicz said.CNN reported citing the official that US President Biden also gifted Putin a crystal sculpture of an American bison, the national mammal of the US, made by Steuben Glass of New York.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-gifts-putin-pair-of-iconic-american-made-top-gun-aviators-101623995171506.html
18-06-2021||World||Canada PM Trudeau nominates first judge of color to sit on Supreme Court||Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau on Thursday made history by nominating the first judge of color to sit on the country's Supreme Court, which has only ever had white justices in its 146-year existence.Mahmud Jamal, who has been a judge on Ontario's court of appeal since 2019, trained as a lawyer and appeared before the Supreme Court in 35 appeals addressing a range of civil, constitutional, criminal and regulatory issues."He'll be a valuable asset to the Supreme Court - and that's why, today, I'm announcing his historic nomination to our country's highest court," Trudeau said on Twitter.Trudeau has frequently said there is a need to address systemic racism in Canada.Jamal, born in Nairobi in 1967, emigrated with his family to Britain in 1969 where he said he was "taunted and harassed because of my name, religion, or the color of my skin."In 1981 the family moved to Canada, where his "experiences exposed me to some of the challenges and aspirations of immigrants, religious minorities, and racialized persons," he said in a document submitted to support his candidacy.Canada is a multicultural country, with more than 22% of the population comprised of minorities and another 5% aboriginal, according to the latest census."We know people are facing systemic discrimination, unconscious bias and anti-black racism every single day," Trudeau said last year.Jamal will replace Justice Rosalie Abella, who is due to retire from the nine-person court on July 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/canada-pm-trudeau-nominates-first-judge-of-color-to-sit-on-supreme-court-101623991217326.html
18-06-2021||World||'Lambda' Covid-19 strain: WHO finds new 'variant of interest' in South America||The World Health Organization (WHO) announced earlier this week that 'Lambda', a new variant of interest of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), has been found in Peru. The new Covid-19 variant, which was first detected in August last year, accounts for around 81% of the cases reported since April in the country, according to WHO. Moreover, the Lambda Covid-19 variant is now prevalent in as many as 29 countries, most notably in South America where it is believed to have originated.According to a report by Xinhua news agency citing World Health Organization officials, the Lambda Covid-19 variant has been dubbed a global 'variant of interest' due to its elevated presence in South America.The variant was also reported in countries like Chile, where it accounts for 32% of all submitted sequences in the preceding 60 days. The Lambda variant was also reported in neighbouring countries in South America, such as Argentina and Ecuador. WHO suspects mutations present in the Lambda Covid-19 variant might show increased transmission and resistance to antibodies.Meanwhile, the Delta Covid-19 variant, first identified in India, was classified as a "variant of concern" by the United States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) earlier this week. Previously, the Delhi Covid-19 strain was only considered a "variant of interest" by the US CDC, but its status was changed to a "variant of concern" after assessing the Delta variant's high transmissibility, among other factors. Along with the Delta variant (B.1.617.2) of Covid-19, a few other variants circulating in the United States have also been classified as 'variants of concern', a CDC statement published on Tuesday read. These include the B.1.1.7 (Alpha), B.1.351 (Beta), P.1 (Gamma), B.1.427 (Epsilon), and B.1.429 (Epsilon) Covid-19 variants.The Delta variant, which was dubbed a 'variant of concern' by the World Health Organization (WHO) on May 10, accounts for around 9.9% of all Covid-19 cases in the United States, the CDC estimates. However, to date, no variants of high consequence have been identified in the country, the public health body explained in its statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/lambda-covid-19-strain-who-finds-new-variant-of-interest-in-south-america-101623989602402.html
18-06-2021||World||8 detained over fatal gas explosion in China's Hubei province: Report||Eight people have been detained in connection with the gas explosion that killed 25 in China's Hubei province, local media reported.The general manager of the gas company surnamed Huang is among the detained, according to a statement issued by the city government of Shiyan, Xinhua reported.The explosion which occurred on Sunday rocked a trade market building in a residential community in Zhangwan District of Shiyan.More than 100 people were injured, Xinhua news agency reported.According to the local authorities, a total of 150 people were pulled from the debris, and the injured are still receiving treatment at local hospitals.A preliminary investigation has found that the gas operator that provides natural gas and liquefied petroleum gas to residents and businesses, did not strictly perform gas pipeline patrols and checks as required and there were serious flaws in the operation of related facilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/8-detained-over-fatal-gas-explosion-in-china-s-hubei-province-report-101623988339261.html
18-06-2021||World||Iran votes for new president with an eye on nuclear deal, hardliner cleric tipped to win||Presidential polls in Iran began on Friday as citizens queued up for voting in an election that is seen to be overwhelmingly in favour of ultraconservative hardline cleric Ebrahim Raisi, a protege of Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei. The current president, Hassan Rouhani, is widely supported but is forbidden under the constitution from serving a third four-year term. That he might be succeeded by Khamenei's conservative ally fueling public apathy and sparking calls for a boycott in the Islamic Republic, reported the Associated Press.Also Read: Iran presidential election today, likely to be won by hardline judgeIran's supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, cast the first vote just after 7am (0230 GMT) at a specially installed ballot box at a mosque adjoining his offices in the capital, according to updates provided by the news agency AFP. He then urged Iran's nearly 60 million eligible voters to follow suit, saying: "The sooner you perform this task and duty, the better. Everything that the Iranian people do today until tonight, by going to the polls and voting, serves to build their future."Polls close at midnight (1930 GMT), and possibly two hours later, with results expected around noon Saturday.What a potential Raisi win means for IranKhamenei's ally, Ebrahim Raisi, is seen as the dominant front-runner in a field of just four candidates. If elected, he would be the first serving Iranian president sanctioned by the US government even before entering office over his involvement in the mass execution of political prisoners in 1988, as well as his time as the head of Iran’s internationally criticized judiciary — one of the world’s top executioners.It also would firmly put hard-liners in control across the Iranian government as negotiations in Vienna continue over trying to save Tehran’s tattered nuclear deal with world powers as it enriches uranium to the closest point yet to weapons-grade levels. Tensions remain high with both the U.S. and Israel, which is believed to have carried out a series of attacks targeting Iranian nuclear sites and assassinating the scientist who created its military atomic program decades earlier.Iran's nuclear deal and the ultraconservative campOutgoing president Hassan Rouhani's key achievement was the landmark 2015 deal with world powers under which Iran pledged to limit its nuclear programme and refrain from acquiring the atomic bomb in return for sanctions relief. But high hopes for greater prosperity and a reopening to the world were crushed in 2018 when then-US President Donald Trump withdrew from the accord and launched an economic and diplomatic "maximum pressure" campaign against Iran.As old and new US sanctions hit Iran, trade dried up and foreign companies bolted. The economy nosedived and spiralling prices fuelled repeated bouts of social unrest which were put down by security forces.Iran's ultraconservative camp -- which deeply distrusts the United States, labelled the "Great Satan" or the "Global Arrogance" in the Islamic republic -- attacked Rouhani over the failing deal. They swept parliament early last year and now look set to claim the presidency in the nationwide poll that will also elect municipal and other officials.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/iran-votes-for-new-president-with-an-eye-on-nuclear-deal-hardliner-cleric-tipped-to-win-101623985235967.html
18-06-2021||World||US embassy in Afghanistan goes into lockdown amid Covid-19 spike||The US Embassy in Afghanistan ordered a near-complete lockdown Thursday because of a massive spike in coronavirus cases among employees.Already on uncertain footing due to the imminent withdrawal of American forces from the country, the embassy in Kabul ordered remaining staffers into virtual isolation to prevent the spread of Covid-19, which has already killed at least one person, sent 114 into quarantine and forced several people to be medically evacuated.The embassy said in a notice to employees that almost all group activities, including work meetings and recreational gatherings, are banned because intensive care units at military medical facilities in Afghanistan are at full capacity and the number of cases has forced it to establish temporary Covid-19 wards to care for patients requiring oxygen.It said the restrictions would remain in place until the chain of transmission is broken. Violators will be removed from the country on the next available flight. The notice said 95% of the cases involved people who have not been vaccinated or fully vaccinated against the virus and urged all staff to take advantage of available vaccines at the embassy.“We must break the chain of transmission to protect one another and ensure the mission’s ability to carry out the nation’s business,” the acting U.S. ambassador, Ross Wilson, said in the notice. “Restrictions will continue until the chain of transmission is broken.”“We are all in this together and rely on your cooperation during this difficult time,” he said. “We can only return to normal operations with the cooperation of everyone.”The restrictions confine all personnel at the Kabul embassy to their living quarters except to get food alone or to exercise or relax outside by themselves. This requirement bans all sports and means personnel must stay at least 20 feet from others unless they are wearing a mask.The announcement was distributed to journalists and others by the American Foreign Service Association, the union that represents US diplomats.“At a time when the US military withdrawal is accelerating, attacks on Afghan and coalition forces are intensifying and the US is seeking to establish a stable and positive presence in Afghanistan after the withdrawal, the damage to our national security and national interests is potentially grave,” the association said of the outbreak.It also issued a call for the Biden administration to require all staffers at all US embassies and consulates abroad to be vaccinated against Covid-19 as a condition of their employment.The State Department acknowledged that Afghanistan is suffering an “intense third wave of Covid-19 cases” and that the embassy had “adjusted" operations to deal with an outbreak among employees for health and safety reason but declined to discuss specifics.Spokesman Ned Price told reporters that vaccines are available to all staffers and encouraged, but said there was no current requirement to be vaccinated.Staffing levels at the Kabul embassy have already been significantly reduced pending the completion of the withdrawal of US and NATO forces from Afghanistan, which President Joe Biden has ordered to be complete by the 20th anniversary of the terrorist attacks on the United States on Sept. 11, 2001.All personnel who had jobs that did not require their physical presence at the embassy had been sent to other locations to telework in April shortly after Biden's announcement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-embassy-in-afghanistan-goes-into-lockdown-amid-covid-19-spike-101623979314858.html
18-06-2021||World||Iran presidential election today, likely to be won by hardline judge||Iranians choose a president on Friday in a contest likely to be won by a judge fiercely loyal to the religious establishment, although large numbers of people are expected to ignore the vote due to discontent with economic hardship and hardline rule.With uncertainty surrounding Iran's efforts to revive its 2015 nuclear deal, and growing poverty at home after years of US sanctions, voter turnout is seen by Iranian analysts as a referendum on the leadership's handling of an array of crises.Hardliner Ebrahim Raisi, 60, a close ally of Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, is favourite to succeed the incumbent Hassan Rouhani, forbidden under the constitution from serving a third four-year term.A win for the Shi'ite cleric would confirm the political demise of pragmatist politicians like Rouhani, weakened by Washington’s decision to quit the nuclear deal and reimpose sanctions in a move that stifled rapprochement with the West.But it would not disrupt Iran's bid to revive the agreement and break free of tough oil and financial sanctions, Iranian officials say, with the country's ruling clerics aware their political fortunes rely on tackling worsening economic hardship."Raisi's main challenge will be the economy. Eruption of protests will be inevitable if he fails to heal the nation's economic pain," said a government official.Khamenei on Wednesday appealed for a large turnout, saying such a show of strength would reduce foreign pressure on the Islamic Republic.Official opinion polls suggest turnout could be as low as 41%, significantly lower than in past elections.ProtestsUnder pressure over rising inflation and joblessness, the clerical leadership needs a high vote count to boost its legitimacy, damaged after a series of protests against poverty and political restrictions across Iran since 2017.Raisi's main rival is a pragmatist technocrat, former central bank governor Abdolnaser Hemmati, who says a win for any hardliner will result in yet more sanctions imposed by outside powers. Iran could hold talks with longtime arch-foe the United States if Washington adhered to "positive coexistence" with Tehran, he said in the election campaign.Raisi has crucial backing from Iran's Revolutionary Guards Corps, a powerful institution which over the years has opposed reformist initiatives, overseen the suppression of protests, and used proxy forces to assert Iran's regional influence.The mid-ranking cleric says he backs Iran's talks with six major powers to revive the nuclear deal, under which Iran agreed to curbs on its nuclear program in return for the lifting of sanctions.But Raisi, who shares Khamenei's suspicion of detente with the West, says only a powerful government can implement any revival of the pact.Accused by critics of human rights abuses stretching back decades -- allegations his defenders deny -- Raisi was appointed by Khamenei to the high-profile job of judiciary chief in 2019.A few months later, the United States sanctioned him for human rights violations, including the executions of political prisoners in the 1980s and the suppression of unrest in 2009, events in which he played a part, according to human rights groups.Iran has never acknowledged the mass executions, and Raisi himself has never publicly addressed allegations about his role.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/iran-presidential-election-today-likely-to-be-won-by-hardline-judge-101623979060114.html
18-06-2021||World||Global deaths due to Covid-19 breach 4 million: Report||Coronavirus-related deaths worldwide passed a grim milestone of 4 million on Friday, according to a Reuters tally, as many countries struggle to procure enough vaccines to inoculate their populations.While the number of new cases and deaths have abated in countries like the United States and Britain, several nations have vaccine shortages as the Delta variant becomes the dominant strain around the world.It took over a year for the Covid-19 death toll to hit 2 million, while the next 2 million were recorded in just 166 days, according to a Reuters analysis.The top five countries by total number of deaths – the United States, Brazil, India, Russia and Mexico – represent about 50% of all deaths in the world, while Peru, Hungary, Bosnia, the Czech Republic and Gibraltar have the highest death rates when adjusted for population. Also Read| UK records over 10,000 daily coronavirus cases for first time in four monthsCountries in Latin America are facing their worst outbreak since March, with 43 of every 100 infections in the world being reported in the region, according to a Reuters analysis. The top nine countries reporting the most deaths per capita over the last week were all in Latin America.Hospitals in Bolivia, Chile and Uruguay are largely seeing Covid-19 patients between the ages of 25 and 40 as the trend toward younger patients continued. In Brazil's Sao Paulo, 80% of intensive care units (ICU) occupants are Covid-19 patients.Also Read| China disease expert demands next Covid origin probe in US after new NIH studySoaring deaths are straining the operating capacity of crematoriums in developing nations and gravediggers in several countries have been forced to expand cemeteries with row after row of new tombs.India and Brazil are the countries reporting the most deaths each day on a seven-day average and are still troubled with cremation woes and lack of burial space. India accounts for one in every three deaths reported worldwide each day, according to a Reuters analysis.Many health experts believe that official death toll to be undercounted globally, with the World Health Organization (WHO) last month estimating fatalities to be much higher.Also Read| Covid-19 Delta variant classified as 'variant of concern' by US CDCLast week, the Indian state of Bihar raised its Covid-19 death toll sharply higher after the discovery of thousands of unreported cases, lending weight to concerns that India's overall death tally is significantly more than the official figure.As poorer nations struggle to inoculate their populations due to vaccine shortages, wealthier countries have been urged to donate more to control the pandemic."The primary issue in the Americas is vaccine access, not vaccine acceptance," Pan American Health Organization Director Carissa Etienne said Wednesday, urging donor countries to send shots as soon as possible.The Group of Seven (G7) rich nations had pledged to provide 1 billion Covid-19 vaccinations to help poorer countries vaccinate their populations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/global-deaths-due-to-covid-19-breach-4-million-report-101623976218508.html
18-06-2021||World||Juneteenth, now a federal holiday, marks end of slavery in the US. Here's all you need to know||Juneteenth, a new federal holiday on June 19 that commemorates the emancipation of enslaved Black Americans in the United States, was authorised by US president Joe Biden and vice-president Kamala Harris on Thursday. "Juneteenth marks both a long hard night of slavery subjugation and a promise of a brighter morning to come," Biden said after signing the federal holiday bill into law, "The day is a reminder of the terrible toll that slavery took on the country and continues to take."Also Read: US Congress declares holiday for Juneteenth, marking end of slaveryJuneteenth will be the eleventh federally recognised holiday in the US, coming nearly four decades after the last one which honoured American civil rights activist Martin Luther King Jr, reported news agency Reuters. The bill to recognise June 19 as the Juneteenth federal holiday was backed by both the Democrats as well as several of the Republicans in the US Congress, the agency added. It received overwhelming support at the US House of Representatives on Wednesday, after clearing the Senate unanimously.Juneteenth on June 19: History and significanceSlavery in the United States carries a long and painful history. European colonists first forcibly brought enslaved Africans by ship to the British colonies that became the United States in the 1600s; millions of people were legally owned there until the 13th Amendment passed in 1865.June 19 was chosen for the Juneteenth federal holiday since it marks, in many ways, the freedom for enslaved Black Americans in one of the most remote slave states in the US following the American Civil War. On this day in 1865, Union Army general Gordon Granger informed a group of enslaved people in Texas that they had been freed two and a half years prior by the order of the then US President Abraham Lincoln.Lincoln's Emancipation Proclamation of 1862 during the Civil War had officially outlawed slavery in all the states which had rebelled against the Union, including Texas. However, the enforcement of the proclamation was slow and more often than not depended on the advancement of Union troops. News reached particularly late in the slave states, where the presence of Union troops was low, and Texas was one of the most of these states which had seen an expansion of slavery in the years prior. Thus, June 19, 1865, is seen as the day when the light of emancipation reached even the darkest of depths in the United States.Juneteenth: Reception in the US"Great nations don't ignore their most painful moments... they embrace them," US president Joe Biden told a room filled with about 80 members of Congress, moments after signing the bill into law that recognised Juneteenth as a federal holiday. Other community leaders and activists, including 94-year-old Opal Lee, who campaigned for decades to make Juneteenth a federal holiday, were also present in the room.Also Read: US President Joe Biden to honour the forgotten victims of Tulsa race massacreUS vice-president Kamala Harris acknowledged that the White House, the seat of power of the US government, is a "house built by enslaved people". She said that the holiday would be an occasion to "reaffirm and rededicate ourselves to action."In the Republican camp, there were several who backed the Juneteenth bill in Congress, while others opposed it and said that declaring a separate holiday for Juneteenth would "needly confuse or divide Americans".However, while celebrities and politicians commemorate the declaration of Juneteenth as a federally recognised holiday, there are some who express apprehension regarding the same. "It's important to commemorate emancipation and to encourage everyday Americans to reckon with the history of slavery... but there is always a danger with these sort of things so they can be performative," Reuters quoted Matthew Delmont, a professor of history at Dartmouth College who specializes in African-American history and civil rights. He said that Juneteenth might just, unfortunately, turn out to be a "failure" if its purpose remains limited only as a date in the calendar, without translating to any meaningful legal action on police brutality on Black Americans, voting rights, and the racial wealth gap in the US.(With inputs from Reuters)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/juneteenth-june-19-federal-holiday-joe-biden-united-states-america-slavery-all-you-need-to-know-101623973313572.html
18-06-2021||World||Trump says India devastated by Covid-19, China must pay for its spread||Donald Trump, the former US president, has said India has been devastated by the coronavirus pandemic and called for China to pay $10 trillion to the United States for allegedly being responsible for the spread of Covid-19 across the world. Trump has been blaming China for the coronavirus pandemic and said that Sars-Cov-2, which causes the coronavirus disease, leaked from a laboratory in Wuhan.“Look at what's going on in India now. You know, they used to say, look how well India was doing, because they were always looking for an excuse -- look how well India is doing. The fact that India has just been devastated now, and virtually, every country has been devastated,” Trump said, according to news agency PTI.Also Read | ‘Everyone, so-called enemy’ saying I was right about coronavirus’ origin in Wuhan: Donald TrumpIndia battled the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic in April overwhelming the health infrastructure in most states with hospitals reeling under a shortage of medical oxygen and beds. However, the number of Covid-19 infections and deaths have come down in the past few weeks in June.Trump said China should pay more as compensation to the world. “The number (compensation) is much higher than that. But there's only so much they can pay. And that's to us (United States). The number is bigger throughout the world. Look, countries have been destroyed over what they did, and whether by accident or not. And I would hope that it was an accident. I hope that it was through incompetence or an accident,” Trump said in response to a question.Also read | Covid-19 has no ‘credible natural ancestor’, created in Wuhan lab, new study claims“But, when you look, whether it was by an accident, whether it was -- whatever it is, this -- you look at these countries. They will never, ever be the same. Our country was hit so hard. But other countries were hit much harder,” he said as he went on to cite India, which is currently experiencing the worst ever public health crisis.“I think that's one of the reasons that I feel it's very important to find out where it came from, how it came. I think I know. I mean, I feel certain about it. But certainly, China should help. Right now, their economy and our economy are the two economies that are coming back the fastest,” he argued.The origin of the coronavirus pandemic has become a source of political tension between China and the US, with much of the recent focus on the Wuhan Institute of Virology (WIV) in Wuhan where the outbreak was first identified in late 2019. China has been criticised for its lack of transparency when it comes to disclosing data about early cases as well as the viruses studied at WIV.Also read | What the world wants China to disclose in Wuhan lab leak probeAccording to a joint study published in March by China-World Health Organization (WHO), Covid-19 most likely originated in the country's wildlife trade, with the virus passing into humans from bats via an intermediary species. But China has said that Covid-19 entered the country from overseas via contaminated frozen food, while a number of foreign politicians are also calling for more investigations into the possibility it leaked from a laboratory.The chief epidemiologist with the Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Zeng Guang, told state-owned tabloid the Global Times that attention should shift to the United States, which was slow to test people in the early stages of the outbreak, and is also the home of many biological laboratories. "All bio-weapons related subjects that the country has should be subject to scrutiny," he was quoted as saying by the Global Times.According to the Johns Hopkins University Covid-19 tracker on Thursday, the number of coronavirus disease cases globally stands at 177,136,569 and 3,835,123 people have died from it.(With PTi inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-says-india-devastated-by-covid-19-china-must-pay-for-its-spread-101623975069857.html
18-06-2021||World||UK records over 10,000 daily coronavirus cases for first time in four months||Britain on Thursday recorded 11,007 new daily coronavirus cases, with the emergence of the Delta variant pushing the figure above 10,000 for the first time since late February.The government on Monday announced it was delaying steps to lift restrictions due to concern over the spread of the new strain, first detected in India.The government said a four-week delay would give it time to fully vaccinate millions more.The death rate remains low, with 19 fatalities recorded on Thursday.The vaccines are believed to be highly effective against preventing serious illness from the variant.But there is concern whether rising case numbers will turn into death tolls similar to previous waves, which combined have seen 127,945 people lose their lives.A government report published on Thursday found that cases are "rising exponentially" across England, driven by mostly unvaccinated age groups.The data suggested cases were doubling every 11 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-records-over-10-000-daily-covid-19-cases-for-first-time-in-four-months-101623957236330.html
18-06-2021||India||House panel grills Twitter over IT rules||The parliamentary panel on information technology headed by Congress MP Shashi Tharoor grilled officials from social media company Twitter for almost two hours over its “lack of compliance with the new intermediary guidelines”, and asked about the application of the “manipulated media” tag, with reference to its use on posts by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders, people familiar with the matter said.Immediately after, officials from the ministry of electronics and information technology appeared before the panel and said that Twitter was not in compliance with the new rules, the people added on condition of anonymity. Twitter’s lack of compliance could potentially end the safe harbour provided to intermediaries in the Information Technology Act, although experts caveat that it will finally be up to the courts to decide whether or not the company is entitled to such protection. The panel’s meeting with Twitter came in the backdrop of the Uttar Pradesh Police summoning Twitter India’s managing director over the amplification of a video that the police claim was manipulated to portray the attack on an elderly Muslim man as a hate crime. “TMC MP Mahua Moitra asked Twitter why it was not following the rules that have been laid down by the government,” one of the people cited in the first instance said. BJP MP Nishikant Dubey questioned Twitter India’s locus standi as a company. “Permission being sought from its US-headquarters cannot always be used as a defence,” the person quoted Dubey as saying. “It cannot be that every time compliance is sought from the company, it says that it will revert in 36 hours as it has to consult its offices in the US,” Dubey said.Questions were also put to the company on the use of the manipulated media tag, with MPs pointing out that this shows Twitter acting as an editor and not an intermediary. The BJP’s Rajyavardhan Rathore also sought Twitter’s stance on pornographic content on the platform and its removal, a second person cited in the first instance said. Dubey slammed Twitter for using “biased fact checkers”. “There cannot be different yard sticks for how Twitter acts in other countries and in India,” the second person quoted him as saying. A third person added that Twitter told the panel that it follows its own policies even as it observes the law of the land. Twitter said in a statement issued after the meeting that it is prepared to work with the panel on the important work of safeguarding citizens’ rights online in line with its own principles of transparency, freedom of expression, and privacy. “We appreciate the opportunity to share our views before the Standing Committee on Information Technology,” a company spokesperson said. “We will also continue working alongside the Indian Government as part of our shared commitment to serve and protect the public conversation.”The parliamentary panel on information technology called officials from Twitter and the ministry of electronics and information technology on June 18 on “prevention of misuse of social media platforms”. The issue of the tag has been particularly contentious with Dubey hitting out at panel chairperson Tharoor for demanding an explanation from the ministry of electronics and information over the government’s decision to ask Twitter to remove the manipulated media tag from posts made by several BJP leaders. These posts shared what they claimed was a Congress toolkit (a playbook for a social media campaign) that was allegedly aimed at building a biased narrative over the Indian government’s handling of the second wave of Covid-19, and the Central Vista project. Many top BJP leaders, including its chief JP Nadda and Union ministers Smriti Irani, Ravi Shankar Prasad, Hardeep Puri, Anurag Thakur, Piyush Goyal, amplified party spokesperson Sambit Patra’s tweet on the toolkit, the first one to be tagged as manipulated media. The action prompted the government to write to Twitter twice, on May 21 and 25, asking it to remove the tag as the matter was under investigation by law enforcement agencies. This was followed by a visit from and notice to the social media firm by the Delhi Police’s special cell, which sought information from Twitter -- although the police were yet to register a case at the time. There have been several instances of confrontation between the United States-based company and the Government of India, particularly around government’s content takedown orders and Twitter’s actions against people linked to the BJP for violation of its terms of use. Against this backdrop, the new IT rules hardened the standoff last month, with Twitter first asking for three months to comply, raising concerns over the “core elements” of the guidelines, and flagging potential threats to the safety of its employees after the visit by the Delhi Police. The deadline for meeting the guidelines was May 25. On Tuesday, Twitter said it appointed an interim compliance officer. The new rules have been contested by WhatsApp as well as multiple digital news websites. WhatsApp has argued that the traceability provision mandated in the guidelines would violate end to end encryption.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/house-panel-grills-twitter-over-it-rules-101624040907261.html
18-06-2021||India||House panel grills Twitter on failure to comply with new rules, use of manipulated media tag||The parliamentary panel on information technology headed by Congress MP Shashi Tharoor grilled officials from social media company Twitter for almost two hours over its “lack of compliance with the new intermediary guidelines”, and asked about the application of the “manipulated media” tag, with reference to its use on posts by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders, people familiar with the matter said.Immediately after, officials from the ministry of electronics and information technology appeared before the panel and said that Twitter was not in compliance with the new rules, the people added on condition of anonymity.Twitter’s lack of compliance could potentially end the safe harbour provided to intermediaries in the Information Technology Act, although experts caveat that it will finally be up to the courts to decide whether or not the company is entitled to such protection.The panel’s meeting with Twitter came in the backdrop of the Uttar Pradesh Police summoning Twitter India’s managing director over the amplification of a video that the police claim was manipulated to portray the attack on an elderly Muslim man as a hate crime.“TMC MP Mahua Moitra asked Twitter why it was not following the rules that have been laid down by the government,” one of the people cited in the first instance said. BJP MP Nishikant Dubey questioned Twitter India’s locus standi as a company. “Permission being sought from its US-headquarters cannot always be used as a defence,” the person quoted Dubey as saying. “It cannot be that every time compliance is sought from the company, it says that it will revert in 36 hours as it has to consult its offices in the US,” Dubey said.Questions were also put to the company on the use of the manipulated media tag, with MPs pointing out that this shows Twitter acting as an editor and not an intermediary. The BJP’s Rajyavardhan Rathore also sought Twitter’s stance on pornographic content on the platform and its removal, a second person cited in the first instance said.Dubey slammed Twitter for using “biased fact checkers”. “There cannot be different yard sticks for how Twitter acts in other countries and in India,” the second person quoted him as saying.A third person added that Twitter told the panel that it follows its own policies even as it observes the law of the land. Twitter said in a statement issued after the meeting that it is prepared to work with the panel on the important work of safeguarding citizens’ rights online in line with its own principles of transparency, freedom of expression, and privacy. “We appreciate the opportunity to share our views before the Standing Committee on Information Technology,” a company spokesperson said. “We will also continue working alongside the Indian Government as part of our shared commitment to serve and protect the public conversation.”The parliamentary panel on information technology called officials from Twitter and the ministry of electronics and information technology on June 18 on “prevention of misuse of social media platforms”.The issue of the tag has been particularly contentious with Dubey hitting out at panel chairperson Tharoor for demanding an explanation from the ministry of electronics and information over the government’s decision to ask Twitter to remove the manipulated media tag from posts made by several BJP leaders. These posts shared what they claimed was a Congress toolkit (a playbook for a social media campaign) that was allegedly aimed at building a biased narrative over the Indian government’s handling of the second wave of Covid-19, and the Central Vista project. Many top BJP leaders, including its chief JP Nadda and Union ministers Smriti Irani, Ravi Shankar Prasad, Hardeep Puri, Anurag Thakur, Piyush Goyal, amplified party spokesperson Sambit Patra’s tweet on the toolkit, the first one to be tagged as manipulated media. The action prompted the government to write to Twitter twice, on May 21 and 25, asking it to remove the tag as the matter was under investigation by law enforcement agencies. This was followed by a visit from and notice to the social media firm by the Delhi Police’s special cell, which sought information from Twitter -- although the police were yet to register a case at the time.There have been several instances of confrontation between the United States-based company and the Government of India, particularly around government’s content takedown orders and Twitter’s actions against people linked to the BJP for violation of its terms of use.Against this backdrop, the new IT rules hardened the standoff last month, with Twitter first asking for three months to comply, raising concerns over the “core elements” of the guidelines, and flagging potential threats to the safety of its employees after the visit by the Delhi Police. The deadline for meeting the guidelines was May 25.On Tuesday, Twitter said it appointed an interim compliance officer. The new rules have been contested by WhatsApp as well as multiple digital news websites. WhatsApp has argued that the traceability provision mandated in the guidelines would violate end to end encryption.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/house-panel-grills-twitter-on-failure-to-comply-with-new-rules-use-of-manipulated-media-tag-101624039824516.html
18-06-2021||India||'Big conspiracy': JP Nadda addresses BJP workers, refers to 'calf serum' issue||Addressing BJP MPS and workers on Friday, BJP chief JP Nadda said there is a 'big conspiracy against the vaccination drive which every BJP leader has to derail. Referring to the recent controversy over the use of calf serum in Bharat Biotech's Covaxin production, Nadda said, "A big conspiracy was hatched against vaccination drive and war over pandemic. The opposition played politics. Why lockdown? Why no lockdown? Now the issue of calf serum in vaccine and suspicion on the vaccine."Congress's Gaurav Panndhi has recently stirred a social media storm after he posted an RTI document which said calf serum is used in the production of Covaxin in the initial stage of the Vero cell growth. The government clarified that it is not present in the finished product as it undergoes several steps in between. Bharat Biotech too clarified that this is a standard procedure of vaccine production.In Friday's meeting, the BJP chief put the onus of vaccine wastage on states and said giving vaccines is the Centre's task whereas to waste vaccines was the state's task. "On vaccination, Mamata Banerjee and Arvind Kejriwal said they want to buy vaccines themselves. PM Modi decentralised it. However, it was centralised again after the failure of states. People need to be told that we were serving people whereas opposition was derailing the process," said Nadda."Manish Tewari and Shashi Tharoor promoted hesitancy and said we aren't rats and guinea pigs. Society was made to fear the vaccination process," he said accusing the Congress. "State governments were unsuccessful in following what was told to them and advisories sent to them, they were not alert enough," he further added.The BJP chief, who addressed party leaders virtually, urged the party MPs to go amongst people and tell them how opposition played politics to ensure that the Covidvaccination drive isn't successful and that attempts to provide relief to people are thwarted, ANI reported. "When state governments were callous in their approach in tackling coronavirus, 17 advisories from the Centre were sent to every State. On March 17, PM Modi, at CM's conference, addressed and told them that containment zones should be made and test and trace should be promoted," he said"Listen to the Netas and their statements they misled people, Shashi Tharoor or Gyani Netas like Manish Tewari. People won't forgive them. These people were issuing statements on Twitter. Apart from Covaxin and Covishield now we will have SputnikV as well. Bharat biotech was asked to increase its capacity," he added(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/big-conspiracy-jp-nadda-addresses-bjp-workers-refers-to-calf-serum-issue-101624037144270.html
18-06-2021||India||Covid-19 vaccination coverage crosses 27 crore in India||The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered under the nationwide vaccination drive has exceeded 27 crores, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW) informed on Friday.On the 154th day of the Covid-19 vaccination drive, the Centre informed that 27,20,72,645 doses have been administered so far as per a provisional report issued at 7 pm today.Out of these, 22,16,11,881 people have received their first dose and 5,04,60,764 have taken their second jab.On Friday, as many as 29,84,172 vaccine doses were given. From these, 26,24,028 beneficiaries were vaccinated for the first dose and 3,60,144 beneficiaries received the second dose of vaccine as per the provisional report.In the age group 18-44 years, 19,43,765 vaccine doses were administered as first dose and 77,989 vaccine doses given as second dose on Friday.Cumulatively, 5,15,68,603 persons across 37 States/UTs have received their first dose and 11,40,679 have received their second dose since the start of Phase-3 of the vaccination drive.Assam, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Gujarat, Haryana, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Odisha, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal have administered more than 10 lakh beneficiaries of the age group 18-44 years for the first dose of Covid vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-vaccination-coverage-crosses-27-crore-in-india-101624037528702.html
18-06-2021||India||Pashupati Paras responds to Chirag Paswan's claims of 'illegal' party election||Pashupati Kumar Paras, the newly elected national president of the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP), on Friday, hit out at nephew Chirag Paswan refuting his claims that Paras's election to the top post was "illegal" and was against the party's constitution. Speaking a day after the election, Paras underlined that Chirag is "neither LJP's national president nor the leader of the parliamentary party now" and said, "Yesterday's election was completely valid under the party's constitution, of which he is not aware," ANI reported.On Thursday, LJP elected Paras unopposed as the new party chief in an election. Chirag Paswan, son of Ram Vilas Paswan, founder of LJP and veteran politician, claimed the election was done by suspended members of the party. "LJP's national president is elected by the party's national executive which has around 75 members. Only 9 members were present at the national executive meeting. Suspended members have elected my uncle as the president, which is illegal," he said. Chirag also said that he believes Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla is not aware of the party's constitution; hence he declared Paras as the leader of the parliamentary party.Paras is the younger brother of Paswan who passed away in October last year due to a heat-related illness.On Sunday, Paras along with five other Members of Parliament met Birla and handed over a letter to him seeking removal of Chirag Paswan as party chief and as the Lok Sabha Parliamentary party leader.Om Birla accepted Paras as the floor leader of the LJP in the lower house.Later on Monday, Paras' name was added to the revised list of floor leaders of parties, as the Lok Sabha LJP leader.On Wednesday, Chirag also wrote to Birla stating that the decision of announcing Pashupati as leader of LJP in the Lower House was contrary to the provisions of the party's Constitution. Chirag also requested the Lok Sabha Speaker to issue a new circular in his favour as leader of LJP in the House.Earlier in the day, speaking on the feud, Birla said that the decision (of accepting Paras as the parliamentary party of LJP) was appropriate as there were signatures of five MPs and the letter of the chief whip," ANI reported."Choosing a parliamentary party leader is an internal matter of political parties. If a party follows the due procedure to choose the parliamentary party leader and the chief whip submits a letter informing the same, then the decision is to be recorded," he also said, as per the ANI report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pashupati-paras-responds-to-chirag-paswan-s-claims-of-illegal-party-election-101624036728098.html
18-06-2021||India||North Karnataka at risk of floods due to last week’s rainfall in Maharashtra||Several districts in north Karnataka, including Bagalkot, have not faced rains in the current monsoon season. However, now, major parts of north Karnataka are under the threat of floods. Taluks like Mudhol, Banahatti are on the brink of experiencing floods emanating from the Ghataprabha river, which is a right bank tributary of the Krishna river, and whose basin stretches across Karnataka and Maharashtra.Last week’s large-scale rainfall in Maharashtra is what has led to this threat. According to Kannada daily Udayavani, due to the rains, the Hiranyakeshi river, which is a tributary of Ghataprabha, is dumping an average of 20,000 cusecs of water in its parent river at the Dakal reservoir. On Thursday, the reservoir received 17,114 cusecs of water from Hiranyakeshi while the corresponding figures for Tuesday and Wednesday were 23,000 and 21,000 cusecs respectively.The threat of floods has led to the Karnataka water resources department closely monitoring the situation at Dhoopadala and Dakal reservoirs, which are built across Hiranyakeshi and Ghataprabha respectively. In order to prevent possible flooding in low-lying areas, 1200 cusecs of water is being released into the Ghataprabha left bank canal (GLBC).Raitha Sangha (farmers’ association) has already started cultivating Kharif cultivation on both the banks of Ghataprabha. “Are hope is that the reservoirs will hold water till December,” Udayavani quoted Bharamappa Bilaga association secretary at Mudhol as saying.However, the district authorities have also sent the first warning to the villages on the southern bank of Ghataprabha. “We are intently observing the rains in Maharashtra, as well as those in Belagavi district in Karnataka. If the situation worsens, we will ask the villagers to vacate,” Sanjay Ingle, the Tahsildar of the Banahatti sub-division said.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast “heavy to very heavy” rainfall in central Maharashtra in the next 72 hours. The alignment of the drainage system in central Maharashtra towards Hiranyakeshi, Ghataprabha and their tributaries is extremely worrisome for north Karnataka.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/north-karnataka-at-risk-of-floods-due-to-last-week-s-rainfall-in-maharashtra-101624036338582.html
18-06-2021||India||Assam cancels Class 10, 12 boards; committees to be set up for evaluation||Ending weeks of confusion and speculation, the Assam government on Friday decided to cancel Class 10 and Class 12 board exams this year in view of the prevailing Covid-19 scenario in the state. Education minister Ranoj Pegu made the announcement after a meeting with various student organizations and stakeholders in Guwahati. Two committees have been formed to decide on the evaluation process to be followed for both classes. “Due to the present Covid-19 situation in the state and positivity rate still not being under control, we have after talks with stakeholders decided not to conduct the Class 10 and Class 12 board exams this year,” said Pegu while addressing a press conference after the meeting. “In order to decide on the norms to be followed to evaluate the students of both these classes, we will form two different committees on Saturday. They will have to submit a formula of evaluation within a week. Results of both the classes will be announced within July 31,” he added. Assam is one of the few states in the country that had not decided on whether to conduct the board exams even after the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) announcement on not holding the board exams this year. While the Class 10 board exams are conducted by the Board of Secondary Education, Assam (SEBA) Class 12 exams are conducted by the Assam State Higher Secondary Education Council (ASHEC). Earlier this month, chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma had announced that the board exams will be conducted in mid-July if the positivity rate of Covid-19 infections in the state dipped below 2% by July 1. On Wednesday, following the state health department’s advice that conducting exams at this stage might not be conducive, the state cabinet had recommended not to hold the exams this year. “We had been informed by the health department that in May and June around 14% of the total Covid-19 infections in Assam were of those in the below 18 years category,” said Pegu. “Though the overall Covid-19 scenario in the state has improved marginally and the positivity rate has come down to between 2% and 3%, there are still some districts where the situation is very worrying,” he added. Several students from the state had filed an intervention application in the Supreme Court this week seeking cancellation of the board exams. Nearly 700,000 students (of both classes) were to appear for their exams this year. On Thursday, Assam recorded 3,477 new Covid-19 cases and 41 deaths. The rate of positivity stood at 2.25%. At present there are around 38,000 active cases of Covid-19 in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-cancels-class-10-12-boards-committees-to-be-set-up-for-evaluation-101624036466123.html
18-06-2021||India||3-dose Zydus Cadila likely to seek emergency nod for ZyCoV-D in a week: Report||Zydus Cadila, the Ahmedabad-based vaccine maker, is likely to apply for emergency use authorisation to the Drug Controller General of India in a week, news agency ANI reported. In that case, it will be the second indigenous vaccine to apply for such authorisation and if it gets approval soon, then it will be the 4th vaccine after Covishiedl, Covaxin, Sputnik V to get approval in India. "Zydus Cadila has told the government that it could apply for emergency use authorisation for ZyCoV-D vaccine in the next seven-eight days," a government source said to ANI.Zydus Cadila has enrolled more than 28,000 volunteers for their phase three study and most part of their study has been complete.India may have 4 Covid-19 vaccines for children soon: All you need to knowThe zyCov-D vaccine will become a game-changer in many respects, it is believed. Here are the reasons:> ZyCoV-D is the world's first DNA vaccine against coronavirus. The vaccine consists of some genetic material which will instruct human cells to make SARS-CoV2 antigen.> The trial included children as well. So if the vaccine gets DCGI approval, it could be India's first vaccine for the below 18 population.> This is also the first vaccine that will have three doses. The second and the third doses are to be administered on day 28 and day 56."We are hoping that they will apply in near future. Most of their study is complete. They have enrolled more than 28,000 volunteers in their phase 3 study. We expect they will submit the results very soon. We are hopeful of this vaccine because it would be the world's first DNA vaccine. We are very proud of their work," Niti Aayog member (health) Dr VK Paul has said to ANI.What do we know about its safety?In the adaptice phase I and II clinical trials, the vaccine was found to be safe. The phase 2 study was conducted over 1,000 adult volunteers as part of the adaptive Phase I/II dose-escalation, multi-centric, randomised, double-blind placebo-controlled study.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3dose-zydus-cadila-likely-to-seek-emergency-nod-for-zycov-d-in-a-week-report-101624031196784.html
18-06-2021||India||'Covid-19 vaccination reduces chances of hospitalisation by 75-80%': Dr VK Paul||The Union government said on Friday that studies among healthcare workers (HCWs) have shown that getting vaccinated against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), reduces the chances of hospitalisation by 75-80% even if one contracts Covid-19.Also Read | Third wave of Covid-19 in India: What these 3 studies have predicted so farAddressing a press conference, Dr VK Paul, NITI Aayog member (health) said, "Vaccination saved lives of thousands of healthcare workers. Studies show that chances of hospitalisation reduce by 75-80% after vaccination if they contract Covid-19. The possibility of oxygen requirement is around 8%, while the risk of ICU admission is just 6%. The protection is 94%."These, Dr Paul said, are "reasonable" sample-sized studies, adding that these were conducted in age groups in which the risk of contracting Covid-19 is "maximum." Giving an example, he said that one particular study found one death out of 7000 cases and even then, the death took place as the deceased had comorbidities. Also Read | India’s third Covid-19 wave may arrive by October: Report"Similar studies in other countries have also shown the protection that the vaccines give. I urge people to please take the vaccine and not hesitate. They might get infected even after the vaccination but it will not turn severe, lives will not be lost and by vaccination thousands and thousands of lives can be saved," Dr Paul said.Healthcare workers and frontline workers were the first to receive Covid-19 vaccine shots as the nationwide vaccination drive against the viral disease commenced on January 16. A total of 268,960,399 vaccine doses have been administered across the country till now, including 3,259,003 in the last 24 hours, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) dashboard on Friday morning.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-vaccination-reduces-chances-of-hospitalisation-by-75-80-dr-vk-paul-101624029174336.html
18-06-2021||India||Baba ka Dhaba owner hospitalised, cops unsure on whether it was a suicide bid||Kanta Prasad, 81, the owner of Baba ka Dhaba, a nondescript roadside eatery in south Delhi’s Malviya Nagar, was admitted to the Safdarjung Hospital on Thursday after he consumed alcohol and anti-anxiety pills. According to the police, it is unclear if Prasad accidentally overdosed on the pills with alcohol or whether he tried to take his life. Prasad’s family said the octogenarian was in “depression” and “under pressure” because of some people and the recent turmoil in his life.Prasad was found unconscious at his dhaba by his family members, who rushed him to a nearby private hospital that referred him to Safdarjung Hospital, as his condition was serious. He is presently on ventilator support and his blood pressure as well as oxygen level is low, said Prasad’s son Karan.The story of Prasad, his wife Badami Devi and their dhaba had turned viral on social media in October last year after a city You Tuber, Gaurav Wasan, shared a video showing the octogenarian Prasad in tears, telling him how he struggled to make ends meet as business had dried up amid the pandemic. The viral video led to thousands of people making a beeline for the couple’s eatery for food, selfies and donating money. Prasad opened a new restaurant using the donation money in December. However, his new business venture failed within three months because after the initial frenzy, footfall at his new restaurant started dipping slowly and Prasad found that expenses outweighed his income. The octogenarian had also filed a case of cheating against Wasan after accusing him of allegedly siphoning off some donation money, a charge that Wasan refuted.Last week, the two had also posed for photographs at his dhaba and claimed that they were on good terms. Prasad’s son Karan alleged that his father was suffering from depression because some people, including a few You Tubers, had been “pressuring him to withdraw the cheating case and reach a compromise with Wasan”.“My father was being constantly asked to withdraw the case and patch up with Wasan. It was the main reason behind my father’s depression. He was not telling us anything about it, but we could see that he was under pressure,” said Karan, without taking names of the people who were harassing his father.Wasan refused to comment when he was contacted over the phone for his reaction to Karan’s allegation. “I don’t want to say anything,” said Wasan.According to Karan, his father had consumed alcohol with someone in the afternoon and later went to the toilet in a municipal office located adjacent to the dhaba. In the evening, Prasad fainted at the dhaba and was taken to a nearby hospital.“Doctors asked us to take my father to a bigger hospital as his condition was serious. We took him to Safdarjung Hospital. My father consumed alcohol and an overdose of Alprax tablets in an attempt to kill himself,” added Karan.Deputy Commissioner of Police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur said that on Thursday around 11.15 pm, information was received from the Safdarjung Hospital that Prasad was admitted there. Police reached the hospital and collected the MLC (medico-legal case), which states the intake of alcohol and sleeping pills as the cause of unconsciousness, he said.“The statement of Prasad’s son Karan was recorded. He said his father consumed alcohol with sleeping pills. Further inquiry is underway,” added DCP Thakur.Speaking to the media, Prasad’s wife, Badaami Devi, said. “I am clueless about what happened to him. I was at the ‘dhaba’. He fainted and we took him to the hospital around 4 pm (on Thursday). No one has told us anything about his condition,” she said.An official from Safdarjung Hospital, who asked not to be named, said, “He is on ventilator after an overdose of sleeping pills and alcohol. He is critical but stable.” If you need support or know someone who does, please reach out to your nearest mental health specialists. Helplines: Fortis Stress Helpline: 8376804102, Sumaitri: 01123389090, Snehi: 01165978181, Sanjeevani: 01124311918/01124318883).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/baba-ka-dhaba-owner-hospitalised-cops-unsure-on-whether-it-was-a-suicide-bid-101624030946139.html
18-06-2021||India||News updates from HT: AI flies India's 1st international flight with fully Covid vaccinated crew and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.This is India's 1st international flight with fully Covid vaccinated crewAir India Express, the budget wing of the Air India, on Friday operated the country's first international flight with the crew fully vaccinated against Covid-19. Read MoreAfghan situation fluid, uncertain amid Taliban’s ‘relentless pursuit of power’: ShringlaThe situation in Afghanistan is fluid and uncertain amid the drawdown of US forces and the Taliban’s “relentless pursuit of power through violence”, including targeted assassinations and capture of territory, foreign secretary Harsh Shringla said on Friday. Read MoreRule of land supreme, not your policy: Parliamentary panel to TwitterIndian representatives of microblogging platform Twitter appeared before the parliamentary panel chaired by Congress' Shashi Tharoor to discuss the issue of its guidelines and the misuse of its platform. Read MoreHere's how ICC will use reserve day in India vs New Zealand WTC final after rain washes out Day 1 in SouthamptonThe World Test Championship final between India and New Zealand hit a rain roadblock even before the toss could take place at the Ageas Bowl in Southampton on Friday. Read MoreNeena Gupta recalls choking with 'guilt and shame' after asking for work in Instagram postNeena Gupta in her recently released autobiography, Sach Kahun Toh, opened up about feeling 'shame' after she posted a message on Instagram, asking for work. Read MoreBattlegrounds Mobile India Royale Pass: How to claim free rewardsBattlegrounds Mobile India opened up for beta testers yesterday and if you managed to sign up for beta testing then you can head over to the Play Store and download it right away. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-air-india-express-operates-first-flight-with-fully-vaccinated-crew-and-all-the-latest-news-101624027963397.html
18-06-2021||India||Third wave of Covid-19 in India: What these 3 studies have predicted so far||With Covid-19 cases steadily declining and states embracing unlocking, a possible third wave has entered in scientific and public discourse. If a third wave of the pandemic hits India, its impact will largely depend on vaccination coverage, which scientists have emphasised in their finding. Several studies have come in the last few days.Here is a look at the recent projections of 3rd wave:1. Third wave may hit in OctoberReuters conducted an opinion survey of 40 healthcare specialists, doctors, scientists, virologists, epidemiologists and professors from around the world from which it gathered that the third wave may hit the country by October.Major takeaways of this study> The wave will be controlled better as many people will be vaccinated by then.> The number of cases will be much less than what India witnessed in the 2nd wave.2. Third wave may not affect children more than adultsA possible third wave may not affect children in any disproportionate way, the World Health Organization and the All India Institute of Medical Sciences have said. This finding has been based on a seroprevalence study done in five states on a sample size of 10,000. Covid-19 seroprevalence in the age group below 18 is 55.7 per cent and above 18 is 63.5 per cent.Major takeaways of this study> Children will not be disproportionately affected in the third wave, as it was projected, because they also have the same level of antibody.> Overall, a large number of people have developed resistance against Covid-19.3. Third wave may be more dangerous for MaharashtraMaharashtra government's task force has some different projections regarding the possible third wave, as it projects a more dangerous peak in the state. And the reason is the Delta Plus variant. The number of active Covid-19 cases could go up to 8 lakh in this peak, the projection said.Major takeaways of this study> 10 per cent of the active cases are likely to be children.> The timing can't be predicted as there is a gap of 100 to 120 days between two waves but some countries had a 14 to 15 weeks' gap.What the government saidThe issue of a possible third wave has been addressed by government experts who emphasised that the impact of it will depend on whether the virus and its variants are getting any scope to infect people. "There will be variants. But there is no new way to fight any new variant," Niti Aayog member (health) VK Paul said on Friday. The unlocking process should be measures, social distancing and other Covid appropriate behaviour should be followed, govt's experts have said adding that the timing of the possible third wave can't be predicted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/third-wave-of-covid-19-in-india-what-these-3-studies-have-revealed-so-far-101624029095939.html
18-06-2021||India||Afghan situation fluid, uncertain amid Taliban’s ‘relentless pursuit of power’: Shringla||The situation in Afghanistan is fluid and uncertain amid the drawdown of US forces and the Taliban’s “relentless pursuit of power through violence”, including targeted assassinations and capture of territory, foreign secretary Harsh Shringla said on Friday. Shringla’s comments came against the backdrop of the US having completed the withdrawal of more than 50% of its troops from Afghanistan well ahead of a September deadline, and the Taliban launching a wave of attacks across the country and targeting Afghan officials, activists and journalists in many cities. The violence by the Taliban has increased despite talks with the group at different forums, whereas India has always backed calls for a ceasefire and talks involving various stakeholders and all neighbouring countries to find a peaceful settlement in Afghanistan, Shringla said during a virtual dialogue organised by the Public Affairs Forum of India (PAFI). “Afghanistan today is in...a situation of uncertainty with the US withdrawal. On the one hand, [there is] the Taliban aggression, on the other, the Taliban has been steadily expanding its...operations in Afghanistan through targeted assassinations as well as territorial aggression,” he said. “I think the levels of violence and the fact that despite talks going on in Qatar and other places, their relentless pursuit of power through violence has made it an uncertain environment in any sense,” he added. Shringla further said: “Many of those talks are on but as I said the situation is fluid and uncertain and at this point of time, it’s very difficult to say how things would work out.” The foreign secretary was responding to questions on the withdrawal of US and foreign forces and the possibility of Indian firms investing in Afghanistan, especially in sectors such as mining. Though there have been some investments in Afghanistan’s mining sector, these have been affected by “uncertainties which are only increasing, not decreasing”, he said. “We hope the time will come when companies can go in and invest and realise their returns on investments appropriately and there is peace and stability in the country,” he added. India, Shringla said, has always stood for a peaceful solution in Afghanistan. “We have always called for a ceasefire, we have always advocated that there should be talks between the government and the Taliban and others that are involved in this process, involving all the neighbouring countries,” he said. As a friend of Afghanistan and its people, India continues to fervently hope there is peace and stability in the country, he said. “But as I said, the situation today is very fluid and obviously a large number of US and coalition forces that have maintained a certain amount of stability, when they pull out, it creates an environment of uncertainty and we have to watch and see,” Shringla added. India is currently the largest regional donor towards Afghanistan’s development and reconstruction, with pledges totalling $3 billion. In recent years, India has completed several major infrastructure projects such as the Salma Dam or the Friendship Dam and the new Parliament building. However, New Delhi has been keeping a wary eye on the deteriorating security situation in Afghanistan and its implications for the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/afghan-situation-fluid-uncertain-amid-taliban-s-relentless-pursuit-of-power-shringla-101624028845864.html
18-06-2021||India||Cops good at putting critics in their place, says Goa’s Pramod Sawant||PANAJI: Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant, who has been the target of sharp attacks from the opposition in recent weeks, on Friday asked his political rivals to target him, but not the government, which he said, can hurt the state’s image. “It is easy to criticise. Hurl all the abuses you want at me, but not at the department,” he said at an event to open a new police station in Colvale, a north Goa village 25km from Panaji. He next turned to the police personnel among his audience at the event, asking them to put their critics in their place and adding that “the police are very good at this”.“I have seen that among political parties everyone is randomly waking up and talking against the police. In the child kidnapping case, they were talking against the police. What do they think of themselves? We need the police to show them what it is,” Sawant said, a reference to the kidnapping of a month-old baby from the Goa Medical College and Hospital on June 12. The infant was traced to a north Goa village the following day; her abductor wanted to raise the child as her own.Sawant appeared to be particularly sore at criticism of his government on social media platforms such as Twitter, which he underlined, “tarnishes the image of the state”.“Such politicians should be taught a lesson by the people. For their own personal gain, they are tainting the state’s image by slamming the police, tourism and education,” Sawant said.“Do not criticise the state on social media, Twitter. My advice to them (opponents) is that the state belongs to everyone… For the sake of politics, do not damage the name of the state. Let our image in the country not be tarnished,” Sawant said.This is the second time in two days that Sawant has accused his political opponents of ruining the state’s image when they criticise his government, his comeback to his political rivals who are stepping up pressure on the chief minister ahead of next year’s assembly elections. The attacks on the chief minister were particularly bitter last month when disruption of oxygen had led to scores of death at Goa’s state-run hospital. Since then, the opposition has also been throwing barbs at the ruling party over what they say is rising crime in the state, attacks on activists and the kidnapping of the infant from hospital.To be sure, Sawant emphasised that he did not mind people targeting him.“You can criticise politicians, I do not worry about it. As a CM, I am used to abuses I do not mind. Do not slander my department. That is their job, our task is to do our job. Appreciate the good work done by doctors. Appreciate the work by the police department,” the chief minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cops-good-at-putting-critics-in-their-place-says-goa-s-pramod-sawant-101624027048204.html
18-06-2021||India||Tourism post-Covid-19: Ministry floats strategy to promote medical, wellness, rural, MICE tourism||In order to boost the tourism sector in the aftermath of the coronavirus pandemic, the Ministry of Tourism on Friday released three draft strategies with roadmaps to promote India as a rural and medical tourism destination and to position it as a place for conferences, meetings and exhibitions.The Draft National Strategy and Roadmap for Development of Rural Tourism in India seeks to develop and promote local products through tourism to generate income and jobs in rural areas and empower local communities.“This will help in reducing the migration from rural areas, poverty alleviation and sustainable development,” the draft said.The second proposal – Draft National Strategy and Roadmap for Medical and Wellness Tourism – seeks to promote India as an accessible and affordable destination for medical treatments and wellness courses.“The key drivers for growth of medical tourism and wellness tourism are mainly affordability and accessibility of good healthcare services, facilitation around hospitality services, minimal waiting time, availability of latest medical technologies and accreditations.“The Ministry of Tourism has recognised the immense potential of MVT and has been actively working on promotion and development of medical tourism," the draft plan said.“The government of India recognises medical value travel and wellness tourism as one of the important sectors having the potential of accelerating the country's development and attaining the objective of Aatmanirbhar Bharat. In order to provide impetus to the growth of medical value travel and wellness tourism in India and maintain India’s competitive advantage, a comprehensive strategy and roadmap has been prepared,” it added.The national strategy aims at providing an institutional framework strengthening the ecosystem for medical and wellness tourism, developing a brand and ensuring quality assurance, the plan said.The ministry has also proposed a draft to position India as a MICE destination. MICE, an acronym for Meetings, Incentives, Conferences and Exhibitions has been recognised as a significant market segment and an important contributor to national economies.“It not only gives a boost to the economy in the form of income generation, but creates huge employment opportunities in related hospitality service providing sectors like accommodation, food and beverage, convention services, transportation, tourism and entertainment,” the Draft National Strategy and Roadmap for MICE Industry said.The ministry has invited feedback and comments from the public on these drafts on or before June 30, 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tourism-post-covid-19-ministry-floats-strategy-to-promote-medical-wellness-rural-mice-tourism-101624026590433.html
18-06-2021||India||‘Ensure safety of healthcare workers’: Health ministry to states, Union territories||The Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) on Friday wrote to states and Union territories, urging them to take necessary steps to ensure safety of healthcare workers. The letter, written by Lav Agarwal, joint secretary in the health ministry, came on a day when Indian Medical Association (IMA) held nationwide protests against attacks on doctors in various parts of the country.“Healthcare workers are the most crucial resources who are undertaking the battle of Covid-19 management at all fronts. However, while the country at large has applauded the efforts of the health fraternity, they have also been stigmatised and even violence is resorted to against healthcare workers,” Agarwal wrote in his letter addressed to additional chief secretary/principal secretary/health secretary of all states and UTs.Highlighting various initiatives taken by the central government to ensure safety and protection of healthcare workers, Agarwal wrote that on April 22, 2020, the MoHFW issued an Ordinance duly amending the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, providing protection to healthcare personnel and their property against violence during epidemics. “The Ordinance was further notified as the Epidemic Diseases (Amendment) Act, 2020, on September 29,” he wrote.Agarwal also mentioned how the health ministry, on several occasions, highlighted the need to ensure safety and security of healthcare workers at their living, as well as working premises.“However, recently, there have been some reports of incidents of physical violence against doctors and other healthcare workers, particularly from Assam, West Bengal and Karnataka. Such incidents impact the morale of our healthcare workers who have shown exemplary commitment during Covid-19 management,” the letter stated further.Also Read: IMA president demands ‘stringent’ act after mob attack on doctor in AssamConsidering the importance of the issue, Agarwal wrote, all states may undertake a detailed review and ensure that prompt and necessary action is taken for the safety and wellbeing of healthcare workers. He also called for strict implementation of the amended Epidemic Diseases Act.Earlier this month, IMA wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah, urging them to approve an effective law to end attacks on healthcare workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ensure-safety-of-healthcare-workers-health-ministry-to-states-union-territories-101624026024795.html
18-06-2021||India||6th Pay Commission: Punjab govt employees to get increment from July 1||The Punjab government on Friday announced that it has decided to accept the majority of the recommendations of the 6th Pay Commission and implement them from July 1, with retrospective effect from January 1, 2016.The move is expected to benefit over 540,000 serving and retired state government employees. The minimum pay for a government employee in the state will now increase from ₹6,950 per month to ₹18,000 per month and the minimum pension will go up from ₹3,500 per month to ₹9,000 per month. The minimum family pension will also rise to ₹9,000 per month under the new structure, an official spokesperson said after a Cabinet meeting that approved the 6th Punjab Pay Commission (PPC) recommendations.Also read: Punjab school teachers continue stir, meet education ministerThe implementation will revise the salaries up to 2.59 times and pensions over the previous pay commission recommendations, with an annual increment rate of 3 per cent, leading to pay scales of existing employees continuing to be greater than in the neighbouring state of Haryana.Further, the new structure will make divorced or widowed daughters eligible for family pensions. The eligibility criteria of income for family pension has also increased from ₹3,500 +DA to ₹9,000+DA per month."It has been decided that the date of implementation of the new allowances/revised allowances would be from 01.07.2021. Percentage based allowances, like House Rent Allowance, NPA etc. have been rationalised under the new structure, while design allowance, special allowance to chowkidars and special allowance to drivers, has been doubled," an official statement from the state government said.The expected net arrears from January 1, 2016, to June 30, 2021, is estimated to be ₹13,800 crore and the Punjab government employees already receive 5 per cent interim enhancement since 2017. The state government said that the net arrears amount of employees and pensioners for 2016, estimated at ₹2,572 crore, will be paid in two equal installments in October 2021 and January 2022.Additional bonanza decisions for the state government employees include enhancement of Death-cum-Retirement Gratuity (DCRG) from ₹1 million to ₹2 million, and the current rates of Ex-Gratia Grant have also been doubled. Both the DCRG and Ex Gratia have been extended to the employees covered under the National Pension Scheme. The state government also accepted the restoration of Commutation of Pension to 40 per cent, effective July 1.The implementation of these major recommendations will create an annual additional burden of ₹8,637 crore to the state exchequer, with a prospective additional net annual burden expected per annum to be Rs. 4,700 crore, an official spokesperson said.Also read: Punjab ministers Sarkaria, Randhawa threaten to boycott meeting, CM’s aide Suresh Kumar stays awayThe 6th PPC report submitted the first part of its report to the Punjab government on April 30 this year. The report broadly comprised the recommendations on revision of pay scales, allowances and pension and retirement benefits.In a new development, the state government is also introducing a new allowance, called the higher education allowance, in form of a lump sum incentive to all employees who attain higher educational qualification during the employment and in the field directly relevant to the employee's job.However, new employees will be paid as per the central government pay scales that now apply to all new recruits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6th-pay-commission-punjab-govt-employees-to-get-increment-from-july-1-101624022843597.html
18-06-2021||India||Two Jharkhand labourers die as railway tunnel collapses in Bengal’s Kalimpong||Two migrant labourers from Jharkhand died and five others were injured when part of a tunnel being built for the Sevoke-Rangpo railway track caved in on Thursday night in Kalimpong district. Officials of Indian Railway Construction Company (IRCON), which is laying the 44.98 km railway track between West Bengal and Sikkim, said incessant rainfall over the last five days triggered mudslide. The larger part of the railway track is being built in Bengal. The section in Sikkim will be only 3.44 km long. The project will add Sikkim to the nation’s railway map. The deceased have been identified as Saiku Murmu and Naresh Soren. They were declared dead on arrival at the Kalimpong district hospital. The accident occurred at Bhalu Khola in the Malli police station area of Kalimpong district. The 5.5 km long tunnel No 10, a part of which collapsed, is being built between Bhalu Khola and Tar Khola. It is the longest of the 14 proposed tunnels in the hilly region. The foundation stone of the railway track, connecting Sevoke in Darjeeling district of Bengal to Rangpo in Sikkim, was laid by Mamata Banerjee in 2009 when she was the Union railway minister. R Vimala, district magistrate of Kalimpong, said “The injured people have been admitted in hospital. Their condition is stable.” Tshering Thendup Bhutia, general manager of IRCON said, “The mudslide in the tunnel was triggered by incessant rainfall.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-jharkhand-labourers-die-as-railway-tunnel-collapses-in-bengal-s-kalimpong-101624025545385.html
18-06-2021||India||Traces of coronavirus found in Sabarmati river, two lakes: IIT Study||A recent study by researchers at the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Gandhinagar has established the presence of coronavirus in water samples from the Sabarmati river and two lakes in Ahmedabad city of Gujarat. While the study, funded by the UNICEF, did not reveal if the genes of coronavirus found in the water samples were dead or alive, Professor Manish Kumar, who led the research, has emphasised the need for further probe on the subject to avert any future tragedy. Following the revelation, the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) has decided to send samples from these water bodies to the Gujarat Biotechnology Research Centre (GBRC). "The GBRC is the authorised agency of the AMC for water analysis. We have been sending samples to them since the last one year and they submit their report to the state government. We have no idea about the IIT's research. However, we will now send samples of these water bodies to the GBRC for a similar analysis," said Harpalsinh Zala, the AMC's city engineer for Water Resources. The study was conducted between September and December 2020 and water samples were collected from the Sabarmati river, Chandola and Kankaria lakes of the city. "Our aim was to detect the presence of N, S and ORF lab genes of SARS-CoV-2, also called as coronavirus, through RNA isolation. We found N-gene copies in the waters of the Sabarmati river, Chandola and Kankaria lakes. The ORF lab-gene was not found in Chandola, while S-gene copies were present in all the three water bodies," said Kumar, who teaches in the IIT's Earth Sciences department. "Although genes of coronavirus were detected, our methodology does not tell us if they were alive or dead. However, we can't just presume that they all were dead. Although virus transmission through water is not proven yet, institutions need to come together and conduct further research on this. Monitoring is needed," the professor said. He further claimed that if coronavirus genes reached the surface water through urine or excreta of Covid-19 patients, then the genes would have been dead. However, the genes might have been alive if they came from the mouth of a Covid-19 patient, such as through gargled water, he said. "We do not know if genes found by us were alive or not. Further research is needed to understand the implications of our findings. Governments should also focus on better solid waste management," said Kumar, adding that the report has been submitted to UNICEF.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/traces-of-coronavirus-found-in-sabarmati-river-two-lakes-iit-study-101624023315684.html
18-06-2021||India||UP govt to set up country's first leather park in Kanpur under Mega Leather Cluster Project||The Uttar Pradesh government is seeking to restore the industrial charm of Kanpur, also known as Manchester of the East. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath-led state government is developing a Mega Leather Park, the first leather park in the country, as part of the Mega Leather Cluster Project in Kanpur spread over an area of 235 acres. The park project is aimed at reestablishing Kanpur as the textile hub and leather city.Kanpur was called 'Manchester of the East' because of its textile industry and was also referred to as 'Leather City' due to the presence of a large number of leather factories. However, the state government claimed that the rise in pollution, technological changes in the textile industry and neglect of the previous governments made the city lose its sheen, turning into one of the most polluted cities of the country.Also read | Around 10K textile units in Noida,Kanpur face financial crisis: SIDBI-CRIF reportThe mega leather park project, which will be built in Ramaipur village in Kanpur, will help improve Kanpur's position among the ten largest leather-producing states of the country. Under the Mega Leather Cluster Project, 50,000 people will get direct employment at the park while 150,000 people will get indirect employment, the state government said.More than 150 tanneries will be operational at the leather park that is aimed to facilitate the manufacturing of world-class leather shoes, purses and jackets and their export to other countries."The Mega Leather Park, will, nevertheless, prove to be a game changer for Kanpur. The 235 acres of land has already been acquired and the work is progressing rapidly on this project. The leather park will be built in Ramaipur village of Kanpur," the government said adding that the ministry of commerce has already approved the establishment of the park.On the ease of doing business in the state, the UP government said that as per the officials of the Industrial Development Department, the policy changes made by the government have encouraged many leading entrepreneurs to set up their firms in Kanpur, including in the textile sector.In three years, the Yogi government has received 23 proposals for establishing industries in Kanpur city and rural, of the 23, 11 have already been approved and the industrial units are in a position to begin production soon, the government claimed.Also read: UP govt sets 300-million sapling plantation targetAround 7,000 people will get employment once these projects worth about ₹4,000 crore are off the ground, the state government said."RP Polypacks and Kanpur Plastics Limited have set up textile factories in Kanpur city and Kanpur (Rural) at the cost of ₹150 crore ₹200 crore respectively and have already started production. Similarly, Sparsh India Private Limited has invested ₹600 crore for the construction of a plastic factory in Kanpur (Rural). Furthermore, Rimjhim Steel Company is building a steel rolling mill in Kanpur (Rural) at the cost of ₹550 crore," a statement detailed about the status of the projects in Kanpur adding that the government is also working to set up non-polluting industries in multi-storeyed buildings in Kanpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-govt-to-set-up-country-s-first-leather-park-in-kanpur-under-mega-leather-cluster-project-101624016679354.html
18-06-2021||India||Ready for discussion on provisions of farm laws, says agriculture minister Tomar||Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said on Friday that the Centre is ready to resume talks with protesting farmer unions over provisions of the three contentious agricultural laws, though he ruled out a withdrawal of the reforms.Also Read : A year after being passed, farm laws continue to face protests“The Government of India is ready to have a discussion with any farmer union on provisions of the new agricultural laws. We welcome them for talks,” a rough translation of Tomar’s tweet, posted in Hindi, read.“Except repeal, if any farmer union is ready to discuss provisions of the acts even at midnight, I would welcome them,” Tomar says in a video clip he attached with his tweet. In the clip, the minister is responding to a reporter’s question.भारत सरकार नए कृषि कानूनों से संबंधित प्रावधानों पर किसी भी किसान संगठन से और कभी भी बात करने को तैयार है...हम उनका स्वागत करते हैं... pic.twitter.com/gv1FF9zU8iTalks between the central government and farmer unions have stalled since they last met on January 22; the two sides have held 11 meetings thus far. In the January 22 meeting, the unions rejected the government’s proposal to put the laws on hold for up to 18 months, instead reiterating their demand for a complete rollback. The proposal to put the laws on hold was suggested in the tenth round of talks on January 20. The Centre has repeatedly stated it won’t take back the reforms.Earlier, on January 11, the Supreme Court stayed the implementation of the three laws till further orders.Farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, have been protesting against the laws on the borders of Delhi since November last year. Besides a full withdrawal, the farmers also want a legal assurance on minimum support price (MSP).The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce Act, 2020; The Farmers’ Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; and The Essential Commodities Act, 2020, were passed in September last year, triggering widespread protests. Farmers allege these will end the mandi and MSP procurement system, thus leaving them at the mercy of big corporates. The government has called their apprehensions “misplaced.”On January 26, a tractor rally taken out by the farmers in Delhi on the occasion of Republic Day resulted in clashes between a section of protesters and the police.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ready-for-discussion-on-provisions-of-farm-laws-says-agriculture-minister-tomar-101624021025696.html
18-06-2021||India||Rule of land supreme, not your policy: Parliamentary panel to Twitter||Indian representatives of microblogging platform Twitter appeared before the parliamentary panel chaired by Congress' Shashi Tharoor to discuss the issue of its guidelines and the misuse of its platform. During the deposition, Twitter India's public policy manager Shagufta Kamran and legal counsel Ayushi Kapoor represented Twitter before the panel.During the meeting, the panel asked the company, if it follows the law or the land, to which a representative responded saying, "We follow our own policies," news agency ANI reported.The members then told Twitter that law of the land is "supreme" and asked the company to abide by them. They also asked Twitter to explain why it should not be fined for 'violating' rule of land, reported news agency PTI.“We appreciate opportunity to share our views before Standing Committee on IT. Twitter stands prepared to work with the Committee on important work of safeguarding citizens' rights online in line with our principles of transparency, freedom of expression, and privacy," Twitter spokesperson said after the meeting, as per ANI report."We will also continue working alongside the Indian Government as part of our shared commitment to serve and protect the public conversation," the spokesperson also said.The meeting comes as the Centre is at loggerheads with the microblogging site over the new Information and Technology (IT) rules. Last week, the Parliamentary standing committee on Information and Technology summoned Twitter India officials over issues related to misuse of the platform and protection of citizens' rights.On Wednesday, Twitter became the first US-based social media platform to lose legal protection in India, meaning that the company will now be held responsible for tweets, data hosted by it. It will not be considered as a platform hosting something that somebody has tweeted, but it will be editorially responsible for the posts.The Union government revoked the protection, saying that the social media giant failed to comply with the new IT guidelines despite being given multiple opportunities.Earlier this month, Twitter faced backlash by government officials after it briefly removed the 'blue tick' verification badge from the personal account of vice-president Venkaiah Naidu and of several senior Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) functionaries, including its chief Mohan Bhagwat.In May, a special cell of Delhi police sent a notice to Twitter, seeking an explanation of how it described an alleged "Congress toolkit" tweet against the Central government as "manipulated media".Delhi Police is investigating a case of an alleged toolkit created by Congress to defame Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The notice was sent after Twitter tagged Bharatiya Janata Party' national spokesperson Sambit Patra's tweet on the alleged toolkit as "manipulated media".The police reportedly had also questioned Twitter India MD Manish Maheshwari on May 31 and visited the Twitter India offices in Delhi and Gurgaon on May 24 over the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-tussle-with-centre-twitter-officials-appear-before-shashi-tharoor-led-parliamentary-panel-101624019933056.html
18-06-2021||India||This is India's 1st international flight with fully Covid vaccinated crew||Air India Express, the budget wing of the Air India, on Friday operated the country's first international flight with the crew fully vaccinated against Covid-19. The flight, IX 191, operated from Delhi to Dubai. As the vaccination drive in the country is gathering pace and activities are resuming, more and more airlines are ensuring their crew are vaccinated. Vistara has recently operated a domestic flight between Delhi and Mumbai with a fully vaccinated cabin crew. But no other flight has operated internationally yet with a fully vaccinated crew. "Air India Express, India's leading budget carrier, operated the first international flight from the country with fully vaccinated crew on June 18 on Delhi- Dubai sector. The pilots and the cabin crew of IX 191, which took off from Delhi at 10:40 am, had received both doses of their Covid-19 vaccine," said an official release by the airline.#FlyWithIX : A big moment!IX 191-India's 1st International Flight with Fully-Vaccinated Crew Takes Off from Delhi. The pilots & cabin crew of IX 191/196 Delhi-Dubai-Jaipur-Delhi flight have received both doses of their COVID-19 vaccine.Ensuring all onboard a safe environment! pic.twitter.com/blLlQcWH1cCaptain DR Gupta and Captain Alok Kumar Nayak were the pilots of the flight, while the crew included Venkat Kella, Praveen Chandra, Pravin Chougle and Manisha Kamble. The same team operated the return flight as well. The airline said that they have vaccinated almost all eligible crew members and frontline staff.Normal flight operations came to a halt in March last year after a nationwide lockdown was imposed. Flight movements resumed in the form of rescue operation as the Centre started Vande Bharat Mission to evacuate Indians stranded in other countries. Air India Express has been a part of the mission and operated 7,005 flights carrying a total of 1.63 million passengers till last month."As we operate the country's first international flight with fully-vaccinated crew, it may be recalled that it was Air India Express that operated India's first-ever Vande Bharat Mission (VBM) flight which touched down Indian soil on May 7 carrying passengers from Abu Dhabi. We are happy that now our teams are shielded with the protection of the vaccines" the airline said.While the Vande Bharat Mission is still going on, international flights were being operated in bubbles, though some countries suspended flights from India in the wake of the second wave of the pandemic. (With Agency Inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/this-is-india-s-1st-international-flight-with-fully-covid-vaccinated-crew-101624018644513.html
18-06-2021||India||BJP cites PM Modi’s Punjab outreach to laud spirit of ‘cooperative federalism’||Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Friday held a press conference to showcase Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s outreach to poll-bound Punjab “in the true spirit of cooperative federalism” and to farmers. He said Modi on Thursday sanctioned 41 oxygen plants for Punjab under the PM Cares Fund. He added the Centre earlier allocated 13 oxygen plants for the state and added some of them would be operational by the end of this month and the rest by August 15.Puri said PM Modi has done a lot for Punjab and Sikhs over the seven years he has been the Prime Minister. He cited exemption of community kitchens of gurdwaras from GST, the opening of the Kartarpur Sahib corridor for visa-free travel to Guru Nanak’s final resting place as measures of goodwill towards Punjab and the Sikhs in particular.Also Watch | Amid 3rd wave worry, PM Modi launches ‘crash course’ for 100,000 Covid warriorsPuri hit out at critics who have accused the Centre of denying the state its fair share of Covid-19 drugs. He said Punjab received 632 remdesivir doses per 100,000 people while Uttar Pradesh, which has a much larger population, 364. “This might not be an indicator as many states also procure the drugs themselves. But for anyone to suggest that they have been short-changed or denied the legitimate share is a falsification.”He said Modi and the government have made it repeatedly clear that they were ready to sit and talk to the farmers, who have been protesting against three farm laws passed in September. “And I reiterate that. There are several commentators on this issue. I call them up individually and ask them to clear all residual doubts. We are open to all suggestions. But the template has to be to benefit farmers. The hard-working farmer is the primary beneficiary and has to be rewarded. Anything else can be discussed.”Puri underlined it has been a year since the farm laws, which first triggered protests in Punjab, were promulgated as ordinances and none of their expected repercussions has come true.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/minister-puri-highlights-pm-modi-s-outreach-to-punjab-101624019365236.html
18-06-2021||India||IMD predicts heavy to very heavy rainfall during next few days in these states. Check list here||The southwest monsoon has further advanced into some more parts of states like Gujarat, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Friday.For most parts of northwest India, the Met department said there will be no significant change in temperatures during the next two days, but a gradual rise of 4-5 degrees can be seen thereafter.Also read: Monsoon progress likely to pick up between June 27 and June 30States that are likely to receive heavy to very heavy rainfall during next few days are:Under the influence of a low-pressure area over southwest Bihar and adjoining southeast Uttar Pradesh and a mid-level cyclonic circulation over South Bangladesh, widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall is very likely over Bihar, Jharkhand, West Bengal and Sikkim, east Uttar Pradesh, northeast Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh during next three to four days, the IMD forecasted.The department also said isolated extremely heavy rainfall is likely over east Uttar Pradesh on Friday and Saturday and over east Madhya Pradesh on Friday.Heavy to very heavy rainfall is very likely over Konkan and Goa, coastal and south interior Karnataka, Gujarat and Madhya Maharashtra during the next 2-3 days. The IMD said an offshore trough runs from Maharashtra to the Kerala coast.Isolated extremely heavy rainfall has been projected over the Gujarat region and coastal Karanataka on Friday. Many districts of Karanataka have been issued red alerts, while some other districts have been given orange alert warnings.Uttarakhand and West Uttar Pradesh might also see fairly widespread to widespread rainfall during the next 3-4 days owing to a western disturbance, which runs from north Jammu and Kashmir to the northeast Arabian Sea. Uttarakhand is forecasted to witness heavy to very heavy rainfall with isolated extremely heavy falls on Friday. Isolated heavy to very heavy falls over Uttarakhand and west Uttar Pradesh are predicted for Friday and Saturday.Further, the department said moderate to severe thunderstorms with frequent cloud to ground lightning are very likely over Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Bihar and Jharkhand from Friday to Saturday. The department wanted that this may cause injuries leading to casualties to people and animals outdoors.Delhi might have to wait for a bit more for the monsoon to arrive. The wind system is expected to reach the national capital around its usual at of June 27, ANI quoted an official as saying.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imd-predicts-heavy-to-very-heavy-rainfall-during-next-few-days-in-these-states-check-list-here-101624011891247.html
18-06-2021||India||Centre taking 'pro-active' steps to help woman for son’s medical treatment in Australia: Delhi High Court||The Delhi High Court Friday noted that the Centre was taking pro-active steps in providing all possible help to a mother who has sought direction to provide medical assistance and supervise the treatment of her son suffering from a life threatening health condition in Australia.The court was informed by the Centre that visa and travel exemption approval form, required due to the COVID-19 global pandemic, has been granted by the Australian embassy to the mother.“In view of the above, I find the government is taking pro-active steps in the matter. The writ petition is disposed of with liberty to the petitioner to file a fresh petition in case the need arises,” Justice Navin Chawla said.Centre government standing counsel Ajay Digpaul informed the court that though visa and travel exemption has been granted to the woman, they have now received a fresh application from the family seeking to arrange for repatriation of the son to India.He said the government is looking into the issue and extending all possible help to the family.Advocate Gurinder Pal Singh, representing the woman, said repatriation of the son is an alternate prayer considering that there are no flights to Australia and even after visa clearance, the mother will be unable to go there.The Centre had earlier also told the court that the Indian Consulate was looking in the matter and three officers have been dedicated for it to provide best possible help and that an Indian origin’s doctor has also been asked to visit the patient in the hospital in Australia.The woman, a widow, has sought direction to the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) to provide all medical assistance and supervise the treatment of her son who is hospitalised in Melbourne with end-stage renal failure requiring dialysis and is in a critical situation.The woman, Inderjeet Kaur, said her son Arshdeep Singh had gone to Australia in 2018 to pursue higher studies on a student visa and on June 9, 2021, she came to know that he has been admitted to a hospital there.She submitted that she along with a relative has already applied for an urgent visa and sought direction to the MEA to extend help and facilitate them in getting tourist visa from the Australian High Commission, so that she can reach there as soon as possible to look after her son.The plea said they have also submitted their travel exemption approval form required due to the COVID-19 global pandemic.It said despite there being extreme urgency, the petitioners have not heard anything on their visa applications nor there has been any response either from the Australian High Commission in India or from the MEA. PTI SKV SKV RKS RKS||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-taking-pro-active-steps-to-help-woman-for-son-s-medical-treatment-in-australia-delhi-high-court-101624016420482.html
18-06-2021||India||When should schools reopen in India? Govt answers||As national and state-level board exams are being cancelled amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the Centre on Friday said it will think of reopening schools only when the majority of teachers are vaccinated and more scientific knowledge regarding the impact of the infection among children emerges. "The time should come soon. But we must also consider how schools were reopened in foreign countries and they had to close after the outbreak. We do not want to put our students and teachers in such a situation," Niti Aayog (health) member VK Paul said during the official press meet of the Union health ministry."Unless we have the confidence that the pandemic can't harm us, we should not do this. It is a larger discourse," Dr Paul said.Dr Paul's remarks came in the context of the recent survey of the World Health Organization and AIIMS which revealed that children below the age of 18 years have also developed antibody against Covid-19 and so they may not be impacted by the third wave of the country if any such wave comes.But that does not mean that schools can open and children do not need to maintain social distancing, Dr Paul said adding that this finding regarding the seropositivity rate of children is just one component of the question — when should schools reopen?"There are many things which we still do not know. Reopening schools is a different topic altogether as it is not only about the students, but it involves teachers, non-teaching staff etc. Herd immunity is just a conjecture. There are many things to consider like if the virus changes its form, today it is mild among children, but what if it becomes severe tomorrow," Dr Paul said.According to the WHO-AIIMS survey, Covid-19 seroprevalence in the age group below 18 is 55.7 per cent and above 18 is 63.5 per cent. Based on the finding, it is now being estimated that a considerable percentage of children have already got infected without knowing and some got cured after treatment. It is unlikely that a large number of children will get infected or that they will become severely ill even if they contract the disease.Some states resumed physical classes after the first wave starting from September 21 last year. But in the wake of the second wave, classes switched to the online mode. Considering the pandemic situation, states have cancelled annual examinations. National- and state-level board exams have also been cancelled in the country. With declining Covid-19 cases in the country, as the second wave is receding, the government once again reiterated that the pandemic is not over yet. Children may not be at a greater risk of contracting Covid-19, but the preparedness is optimal, the government said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/when-should-schools-reopen-in-india-govt-answers-101624014615604.html
18-06-2021||India||37 CSIR labs to partner with TataMD to expand CRISPR-based RT PCR||The Council for Industrial and Scientific Research (CSIR) labs will partner with TataMD, the healthcare venture of Tata Group, to expand Covid-19 testing to Tier II and III cities. The labs will conduct the CRISPR-based RT PCR test for detecting Covid-19 at 37 locations. The CRISPR-based test, initially named Feluda after the fictional detective, was developed by the CSIR lab, Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology-New Delhi (CSIR-IGIB), and was commercialised and named TataMD CHECK. Thirteen CSIR labs already conduct RT-PCR tests and were involved in an effort to scale up the more accurate testing technique in India after the pandemic broke out last year. Using the gene-editing technology CRISPR, the test simplifies the RT PCR machine, eliminating the need for high-tech q-RT PCR machines and uses readily available thermo-cyclers. It also reduces the time for conducting the test to around 45 minutes after RNA extraction. The traditional RT PCR tests take around five hours for RNA extraction and completing the test. Also Read | Delhi records 165 new Covid-19 cases and 14 deaths; positivity rate at 0.22%“Apart from vaccination, rapid testing and isolation of SARS-CoV-2 positive persons has emerged as the best strategy in combatting Covid-19. This initiative in partnership with Tata MD to deploy the RT-PCR CRISPR test at multiple CSIR labs spread across the country is an important step. This will augment the national capacity to test for COVID and detect it locally,” said Dr Shekhar C Mande, director general, CSIR. The 37 labs that will start using the technology under the partnership with TataMD include Indian Institute Of Integrative Medicine in Jammu, National Institute for Interdisciplinary Science and Technology in Thiruvananthpuram, Central Salt and Marine Chemicals Research Institute in Bhavnagar, North East Institute of Science & Technology in Jorhat. “By partnering with CSIR’s network of labs and deploying fully equipped mobile laboratories, we are confident that we can quickly augment testing capacity using faster and scalable methods. This will significantly enhance the ability of state and district administrations to ensure wider availability and easier access to testing on an on-going basis,” said Girish Krishnamurthy, CEO and MD of TataMD.The first lab to start using the technology will be Indian Institute of Petroleum-Dehradun (IIP). “The current testing capacity will be 800 daily tests that can be scaled up using the TataMD CHECK automation solution if demand rises significantly,” said Dr Anjan Ray, director, IIP. TataMD also offers automated readout of the test results that can used to be scale up testing. The paper strip test encodes the Cas-9 protein that can attach with specific parts of the genetic material of Sar-CoV-2 to form lines on the strip that can be read to be positive or negative, just like sophisticated form of the home-based pregnancy kits. The scientists from CSIR-IGIB, who developed Feluda, have also developed a test named after the author of the detective series, Ray, that has been modified to identify the variants of concern using Cas-9 protein coded to detect specific mutations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/37-csir-labs-to-partner-with-tatamd-to-expand-crispr-based-rt-pcr-101624016605034.html
18-06-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: India’s 3rd Covid wave may arrive by October, says report and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.India’s third Covid-19 wave may arrive by October: ReportA group of medical experts surveyed by news agency Reuters has projected that India’s next Covid-19 wave, the country’s third, would arrive here by October, adding that though this third wave would be handled better than the second wave, the Covid-19 pandemic would remain a public health concern for at least one more year. Read moreMumbai vaccine scam: After housing society, production houses duped; 4 arrestedThe Mumbai Police on Friday arrested four people in connection with the vaccine scam in Mumbai which is believed to have spread its net from one housing society to production houses, which are now allowed to organise vaccination at their premises. Read more'Remain cautious,' warns health minister Harsh Vardhan as states relax Covid-19 restrictionsUnion health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan on Friday urged people to remain mindful of Covid-19 appropriate behaviour as several states are in the middle of the unlocking process. Read moreSupreme Court refuses to stay HC order granting bail to 3 students in Delhi riots caseThe Supreme Court said on Friday the decision on the bail for Asif Iqbal Tanha, Natasha Narwal and Devangana Kalita, released on Thursday night after spending more than a year in jail over alleged links to the violence in northeast Delhi last year, has "pan-India ramifications." Read moreVirat Kohli giving tips to Ind opener for success in England ahead of WTC FinalThe World Test Championship (WTC) Final against New Zealand at Southampton is just the start of a gruelling tour for India as they will play a five-match Test series against England after this. Read moreThis aviary in Karnataka’s Mysuru holds world record for housing most bird species. WatchShuka Vana, located in Karnataka’s Mysuru, holds the world record for housing most bird species in an aviary. A video shared on Facebook by Guinness World Records (GWR), shows the incredible world of the sanctuary. Read moreAnushka Sharma’s millennial look in Balenciaga shirt, worth London flight ticketWe can’t help but obsess over Anushka Sharma’s sartorial elegance as the diva is blessed with pulling off not just red carpet looks but also street styles and maternity fashion with equal panache and as she gives a tour of Ageas Bowl in Southampton, with her husband Virat Kohli, the fashion police is in for a treat. Read moreSamsung Galaxy Tab S7 FE, Galaxy Tab A7 Lite launched in India: Check price, specsSamsung’s next-generation tablets, the Galaxy Tab S7 FE and the Galaxy Tab A7 Lite have been in the news for quite some time now. Reports in the past have detailed everything from features to date of availability of its next-generation tablets. Read moreWatch: Amid 3rd wave worry, PM Modi launches 'crash course' for 1 lakh Covid warriors||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-india-s-3rd-covid-wave-may-arrive-by-october-says-report-and-all-the-latest-news-101624014801109.html
18-06-2021||India||Mumbai vaccine scam: After housing society, production houses duped; 4 arrested||The Mumbai Police on Friday arrested four people in connection with the vaccine scam in Mumbai which is believed to have spread its net from one housing society to production houses, which are now allowed to organise vaccination at their premises. The overall scam came to the fore after several discrepancies were found out in the vaccination certificate, hospital name, vaccination date etc. But whether the original vaccine has been administered to these people is being investigated.Vaccine scam at Hiranandani Estate Society scamMumbai's Hiranandani Estate Society organised a vaccination camp on May 30 where about 390 people were given the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccination. As they started receiving their vaccine certificates (provisional), the residents found that the name of the hospital was not matching, the dates were wrong. And also, after they were administered the doses, they received calls asking for their Co-WIN OTP, which indicates they were not registered on Co-WIN before vaccination. The hospitals dragged into the controversy have denied any involvement. Vaccine scam at production housesFollowing the government's workplace vaccination policy, several production houses of Mumbai have got their employees vaccinated. But as the scam of the housing society came to light, a number of production houses, including Tips Industries Limited, have reportedly complained of a vaccination scam. According to reports, Tips Industries Limited head Ramesh Taurany has raised suspicion as none of his employees, who were vaccinated on May 30 and June 3, has received their vaccination certificates. Tips was told that their vaccination certificates will be issued by Kokilaben Dhirubhai Ambani Hospital.Another production house Matchbox Pictures took part in one of the vaccination drives arranged by Tips and it has also filed a complaint against the vaccine scam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-vaccine-scam-after-housing-society-production-houses-duped-4-arrested-101624013039907.html
18-06-2021||India||'Remain cautious,' warns health minister Harsh Vardhan as states relax Covid-19 restrictions||Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan on Friday urged people to remain mindful of Covid-19 appropriate behaviour as several states are in the middle of the unlocking process. "People started taking Covid appropriate behaviour lightly after the vaccine was rolled out. We have started the unlocking process but we still need to remain cautious and follow all Covid protocols properly," the health minister was quoted as saying by ANI.After nearly two months of the devastating second wave, Covid-19 cases in the country are receding with the daily number of infection now hovering below the 70,000-mark. On Friday, the country added 62,480 fresh cases of the infection, taking the overall tally to 29,762,793. While 1,587 people lost their lives and the death toll now stands at 383,490.The active cases have declined to 798,656 comprising 2.68 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has improved to 96.03 per cent, as per the data by the Union ministry of health and family welfare.Also Read | India’s third Covid-19 wave may arrive by October: ReportIn line with the health minister's statement, Dr Naveet Wig, head of the medicine department, All India Institute of Medical Science (AIIMS), also asked people to continue to follow Covid-19 protocol as the Covid-19 "has not been eradicated yet". "Virus has not been eradicated, it keeps on changing its colours. Wear a clean mask and do not use an unhygienic mask at all," Dr Wig said, as per the ANI report.Earlier in the day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched a customised crash course programme for Covid-19 workers, virtually. During the launch, PM Modi also announced that the central government is working towards preparing as many as one lakh frontline workers in the country.PM Modi also said that the course will be completed in three months so these trained professionals will be immediately available to be deployed ahead of the possible third wave in the country. "Skill, reskill, and upskill is the mantra," he also said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/remain-cautious-warns-health-minister-harsh-vardhan-as-states-relax-covid-19-restrictions-101624012230083.html
18-06-2021||India||India’s third Covid-19 wave may arrive by October: Report||A group of medical experts surveyed by news agency Reuters has projected that India’s next Covid-19 wave, the country’s third, would arrive here by October, adding that though this third wave would be handled better than the second wave, the Covid-19 pandemic would remain a public health concern for at least one more year.Also Read | 'Lambda' Covid-19 strain: WHO finds new 'variant of interest' in South America40 healthcare specialists, doctors, scientists, virologists, epidemiologists and professors from around the world were questioned by Reuters for this snap survey, which was conducted from June 3-17. Among those who predicted there would be a third wave, more than 85%, or 21 out of 24 respondents said it would hit by October, including three who projected it to arrive by August and 12 who gave a September timeline. The others predicted an arrival of the third wave between November and February next year.Also Read | Covid protocol breach will only hasten 3rd wave: Delhi HC on violation of normsHowever, 24 out of 34 or more than 70% experts were of the opinion that any possible third wave would be controlled better than the second one. The second Covid-19 wave was at its peak in India in April-May and, during this period, the country registered record daily cases and deaths due to the viral disease. A shortage of vaccines, oxygen, medicines and hospital beds was also reported during the second wave. Since then, however, the daily cases and deaths have seen a steady decline, partly due to restrictive measures imposed by state governments.“The third wave would be more controlled as more vaccinations would have been rolled out, leading to a lesser number of cases. Also, there would be some degree of natural immunity from this wave,” Dr Randeep Guleria, director of Delhi’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), said.Also Read | Third Covid wave may not hit kids disproportionately: WHO-AIIMS sero surveyThe experts, however, seemed divided over the impact of a potential third wave on children and those below the age of 18. While 26 out of 40 experts said children would be most at risk, the remaining 14 said this would not be the case.30 respondents projected that Covid-19 would continue to be a public health threat in India for at least another year.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-third-covid-19-wave-may-arrive-by-october-report-101624009841199.html
18-06-2021||India||Congress leadership in touch with Sachin Pilot, says Ajay Maken||Congress leader Ajay Maken on Friday said the party’s leadership was in touch with Sachin Pilot while dismissing reports that senior leaders have avoided meeting the former Rajasthan deputy chief minister as baseless talk. He called Pilot, who was removed as the deputy chief minister and the state party chief after he rebelled against chief minister Ashok Gehlot last year, an asset and a star campaigner.Maken said Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, who Pilot is in touch with, has been out of Delhi for the last 10 days. He added Pilot is also in constant talks with him and another top leader K C Venugopal. “It is not possible that he (Pilot) has sought time for meetings and did not get it.”Also Read | Man arrested for killing wife, son in Rajasthan’s JhalawarThe comments of Maken, who is Rajasthan’s Congress in charge, came amid calls from the Pilot camp for fulfilling promises made to the former deputy chief minister after he returned to the party’s fold following his rebellion.Priyanka Gandhi played an important role in resolving the political crisis when Pilot rebelled. There have been demands for cabinet expansion and political appointments for Pilot’s loyalists.Pilot last week expressed his displeasure over the lack of action even as a committee, which includes Maken, was formed last year to address the issues he raised against Gehlot. HT has reported the central leadership of the Congress was trying to work out a cabinet reshuffle in Rajasthan.Maken said the work is in on to fill the vacant nine cabinet berths and to make political appointments. “I am speaking to the chief minister, state party chief, and other leaders for the appointments.”He added they were talking to everyone. “...after the political crisis last year, our effort is that every section, seniority, future of Congress, caste and regional equations are considered,” he said when asked about the expansion and other appointments.Maken urged lawmakers against going public with their grievances. “Every lawmaker should understand the Congress was born out of sacrifice.” He added discipline will be considered whenever political appointments and cabinet expansion are done.Maken insisted all is well in Rajasthan Congress. “We fought the two waves of Covid-19 in the finest manner. The performance of the state was excellent in comparison to other states; be it the vaccination, infection or the death rate.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-leadership-in-touch-with-pilot-maken-101624007244446.html
18-06-2021||India||'Akshay Kumar was so impressed', say BSF officials a day after actor's visit||Bollywood actor Akshay Kumar spent Thursday with Indian Border Security Force jawans at Tulail camp in Jammu and Kashmir. The actor has already shared some snippets of his "memorable day" on his social media accounts and described the experience as "humbling". The actor has also donated ₹1 crore for a school building at Bandipora which will be named after his father Hari Om. According to BSF officials, the actor was impressed with the library that has been built there for the children of the jawans that he decided to donate the money for the construction of the school."It is a big achievement for us and the library will be used for hundreds of children in the coming years," a BSF official said. The library was started as a part of the welfare activities of the BSF Women's Welfare Association, presently headed by Anu Asthana. IPS Women Welfare Association granted the BSF ₹25,000 along with which BSF put some money and started the library, BSF sources said.The actor took a tour of the library and was visibly happy, officials said. He also left a message in the visitors' book which he signed as Akshay Hari OM Bhatia. "I am glad I got this beautiful opportunity. Thank you BSF for taking care of my country," Akshay Kumar wrote with "lots of love and prayers".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/akshay-kumar-was-so-impressed-says-bsf-officials-a-day-after-actor-s-visit-101624006783624.html
18-06-2021||India||Petrol costs over ₹100 per litre in these cities. Check list here||Petrol prices in India are reaching peaks despite the international oil prices going down. State-run companies increased fuel prices for the 26th time in 46 days raising petrol rates by 27 paise per litre and diesel by 28 paise on Friday.The hike in petrol prices since May 4 saw the auto fuel making records by breaching the ₹100 per litre mark in various cities across the country. States like Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Andhra Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka, Telangana and Ladakh saw several cities surpassing the ₹100-mark.Also read: Rahul Gandhi hits out at Centre for rising fuel pricesThe recent rise in petrol prices has made it costlier by ₹6.53 per litre and diesel by ₹6.96 per litre across the nation.These are some of the places where the petrol price has crossed the ₹100-mark:Petrol is the most expensive in Rajasthan’s Sri Ganganagar, where it is sold at ₹108.07 per litre. Diesel is also over ₹100 and costs ₹100.82 per litre.The latest revision in prices witnessed petrol surpassing the ₹100-mark for the first time in Bengaluru as it now costs ₹100.17 per litre in the metropolitan. It is also the second metro after Mumbai to have petrol prices above ₹100 per litre.In Mumbai, the new change in the rates hiked the price to ₹103.08 per litre. Diesel in Mumbai costs ₹95.14 per litre.Ladakh crossed the ₹100-mark on Monday as it was priced at ₹101.95 per litre. The latest price hike changed the rate to ₹102.44 per litre.Petrol in Bhopal costs ₹105.13 per litre.Hyderabad is also part of the list as petrol costs ₹100.74 per litre in the city as on Friday.Ratnagiri, Parbhani, Aurangabad, Jaisalmer, Banswara, Indore, Gwalior, Guntur, Kakinada, Chikmagalur, Shivamogga are some other cities where petrol costs over ₹100 for one litre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/petrol-costs-over-rs-100-per-litre-in-these-cities-check-list-here-101624003095231.html
18-06-2021||India||Pragya Thakur to host Yoga session on International Yoga Day||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Parliament member Pragya Singh Thakur will virtually host a Yoga session that Parliamentary Research and Training Institute for Democracies is organising on the International Yoga Day for lawmakers on Sunday.Also Read | Suvendu Adhikari seeks disqualification of Mukul Roy as Krishnanagar MLAIn a bulletin, Lok Sabha Secretariat informed the lawmakers about the practical sessions and lectures on Yoga. Yoga instructor Ami Desai will lead the first session as part of the programme. Sumedhanand Saraswati, the Parliament member from Rohtak, will hold a session titled “Yoga and Meditation for Holistic Well Being”. Thakur, the member of Parliament from Bhopal, will host the session “Yoga: A Way of Life”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pragya-thakur-to-host-yoga-session-on-international-yoga-day-101624005384318.html
18-06-2021||India||Tripura extends Covid curfew in 12 civic bodies till June 25||Tripura has extended Covid curfew in 12 civic bodies, including Agartala municipal corporation, till June 25. The positivity rate, the percentage of people who test positive out of all those tested, in these civic bodies has ranged between 3.72% and 5% or above percent in the past nine days.Curfew was first imposed in all these urban bodies on May 16 and has been extended in phases since.Also Read | Covid protocol breach will only hasten 3rd wave: Delhi HC on violation of normsThe other civic bodies where curfew has been extended include Kumarghat and Kailasahar municipal council in Unakoti district; Khowai; Belonia and Santirbazar in South district; Bishalgarh in Sepahijala district; Udaipur in Gomati district; Mohanpur and Ranirbazar in West district; and Panisagar in North district.As per the government notification, day curfew in other areas will be restricted to only busy areas on concerned district magistrates’ discretion, from 2pm to 6pm, and the night curfew will be from 6pm to 5am.Shops and markets would be allowed to open from 6am to 2pm in the curfew areas . All offices will function till 4pm with 50% of workforce. All shopping malls, swimming pools, cinema halls and parks will continue to remain close.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-extends-covid-curfew-in-12-civic-bodies-till-june-25-101624004004550.html
18-06-2021||India||Supreme Court refuses to stay HC order granting bail to 3 students in Delhi riots case||The Supreme Court said on Friday the decision on the bail for Asif Iqbal Tanha, Natasha Narwal and Devangana Kalita, released on Thursday night after spending more than a year in jail over alleged links to the violence in northeast Delhi last year, has "pan-India ramifications." "The issue is important. It has pan-India ramifications and so we would like to issue notice and decide the matter for the good of the country," the Supreme Court said.The top court also issued a notice on Delhi Police's appeal challenging the remarks made by the Delhi High Court while granting bail to activists Devangana Kalita, Natasha Narwal and Asif Iqbal Tanha.The Supreme Court held that the order will not be treated as a precedent and the same shall not be relied upon by any parties in the case before any proceedings in any Court. The top court clarified that it has not interfered with the bail granted to the three accused at this stage. The matter will be taken up after July 19.A Delhi HC bench comprising Justices Siddharth Mridul and AJ Bhambhani on Thursday passed the release orders for Natasha Narwal and Devangana Kalita, students of the Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) and Jamia Millia Islamia student Asif Iqbal Tanha. The three were granted bail previously on Tuesday by the Delhi HC regarding the northeast Delhi riots. In its bail order on Tuesday, the Delhi High Court said that the allegations against the three students do not prima facie disclose the commission of any offense under sections of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA). The court also rules that the additional restrictions on the grant of bail also does not apply. The court further said that the line between terrorist activity and the constitutionally guaranteed right to protest is getting "somewhat blurred" in the mind of the State, "in its anxiety to suppress dissent."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-refuses-to-stay-hc-order-granting-bail-to-3-students-in-delhi-riots-case-101624003593149.html
18-06-2021||India||Rani of Jhansi death anniversary today: Tributes pour in for the fearless queen||Leaders across the political spectrum on Friday paid tributes to Rani of Jhansi, Lakshmibai, on her death anniversary, calling her a "symbol of woman power". Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath said Maharani Lakshmibai played a leading role in the first freedom struggle.The Congress party described Maharani Laxmibai's "indomitable courage" while paying tribute. “Salute to the brave Rani Laxmibai, who sacrificed her life in the freedom struggle, on her death anniversary,” it wrote on Twitter.“Our heartfelt tribute to the fearless queen of Jhansi, #RaniLaxmiBai on her Death Anniversary. The impeccable valor and bravery with which she fought in the First War of Independence 1857 against Britishers made her an icon for the freedom struggle of our country,” the Union ministry of culture tweeted.Maharani Lakshmibai is regarded as one of the leading figures of India’s rebellion in 1857 against the British, which is also referred to as the first war of independence. She was also known to have fiercely guarded Jhansi against the British till her death in 1858.Born in 1828 into a Marathi Karhade Brahmin family in Varanasi, Maharani Lakshmibai was initially named Manikarnika Tambe. Her father, Moropant Tambe was the commander of the war of Kalyanpranth and worked for Peshwa Baji Rao II of Bithoor district. Her mother was Bhagirathi Sapre and she died when Manikarnika was only four years old. It was habitual for her to ride on horseback rather than sitting on a palanquin whenever she moved from her palace to a temple.Manikarnika was educated at home and was also taught shooting, fencing, mallakhamb and horsemanship. She was married to Gangadhar Rao Newalkar, the Maharaja of Jhansi, in 1842. She lost her first child Damodar Rao when he was only four months old. She then adopted Anand Rao, who was the son of Maharaja Gangadhar Rao Newalkar’s cousin. She renamed Anand Rao Damodar.Some of the famous quotes of Maharani Lakshmibai are:> “If defeated and killed on the field of battle, we shall surely earn eternal glory and salvation.”> “I shall not surrender my Jhansi.”> “We are preparing our forces. It is very important to fight the English.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rani-of-jhansi-death-anniversary-today-tributes-pour-in-for-the-fearless-queen-101624003054394.html
18-06-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi hits out at Centre for rising fuel prices||Noting the skyrocketing prices of petrol and diesel in the country, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday fired a fresh salvo against the central government as state-run oil companies raised fuel rates for the 26th time in 46 days. "The rare day GOI does not hike fuel prices is the exception which proves the rule that prices are increased every day," Rahul Gandhi tweeted.The rare day GOI does not hike fuel prices is the exception which proves the rule that prices are increased everyday. #FuelPriceHikeHe also took a dig at the Bharatiya Janata Party-led (BJP) government's slogan, "Sabka Sath, Sabka Vikas", stating that the situation is so bad that "vikas" or development is when the fuel prices are not increased on one day, which becomes a "bigger news". "Such is the condition of Modi government's vikas that if the price of petrol and diesel does not increase any day, then it becomes a bigger news!" Rahul Gandhi's tweet, in Hindi, read.Also read: Petrol price crosses ₹103 in Mumbai, ₹100 in BengaluruThe latest price revision has made petrol costlier by ₹6.53 per litre and diesel by ₹6.96 per litre across the country since May 4. After the revision, petrol crossed the ₹103 a litre mark for the first time in Mumbai and ₹100 in Bengaluru even as international oil prices moved downward. Petrol prices in Delhi on Friday stood at ₹96.93 per litre, while diesel is priced at ₹87.69 per litre.Meanwhile, truck operators' body All India Motor Transport Congress (AIMTC) on June 16 said that it will protest against the government's "apathy" to the plight of the transport fraternity. The organization said that it will stage a nationwide protest against the rising diesel prices on June 28. Last week, the Congress party held demonstrations at petrol pumps in Delhi and across the country protesting against the incessant rise in fuel prices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-hits-out-at-centre-for-rising-fuel-prices-101623999833247.html
18-06-2021||India||Pak foreign minister clears Taliban of violence, accuses India of terror acts||Pakistan foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi has sought to absolve the Taliban for the high levels of violence in Afghanistan and accused India of “carrying out terrorist activities” from Afghan soil, drawing sharp criticism from Pakistani and Afghan leaders on Friday. Qureshi made the remarks in an interview with Afghanistan’s Tolo News, excerpts of which were posted on the channel’s Twitter feed. He also sought to question the need for India to have a large presence in Afghanistan simply on the ground that the two countries do not share a border. Asked about the high levels of violence in Afghanistan amid popular perceptions that the Taliban are responsible for a series of bombings and targeted assassinations of government officials, Qureshi replied: “Who’s responsible for that? Again, if you try and create this impression that the violence is high because of Taliban...again, that would be an exaggeration. Why do I say that? Aren’t there other elements over there who are playing the role of a spoiler.”Also Read | ‘Remove shortcomings’: India tells Pakistan on bill permitting Jadhav to appealResponding to a question on the forces responsible for the violence, he said: “Daesh, like forces within Afghanistan...who gain from the war economy, who want to perpetuate their power, who are not seeing beyond their nose and just want to hang on to power.” Talking about India’s presence in Afghanistan, Qureshi sought to perpetuate the myth pushed by the Pakistani security establishment that there are more than four Indian consulates on Afghan soil. He also contended that India’s presence in Afghanistan is “larger than it ought to be” and that India is “carrying out terrorist activities” from Afghan soil. Asked how many Indian consulates there are in Afghanistan, he replied: “Well, on paper, perhaps four.” Responding to a question on whether he doubted this figure, he said, “No, I’m saying we feel that, at times, you don’t share a border with India. Obviously, you have sovereign relations and you have bilateral relations, and you have every right to have sovereign and bilateral relations with India. You have trade with India, they come and carry out development work there, that’s completely fine with us.” He added, “But at times we feel that their presence is perhaps larger than it ought to be because they...don’t share a border with you.” Qureshi said it would bother him if India uses “your [Afghan] soil against us. Asked if and how India is using Afghan soil for anti-Pakistan activities, he said: “Yes, they are...By carrying out terrorist activities.” There was no immediate response from Indian officials to Qureshi’s comments. In the past, New Delhi has rubbished Islamabad’s claims that Afghan soil is being used for anti-Pakistan activities, saying its focus in Afghanistan is on development and reconstruction activities. India is currently the largest regional donor in Afghanistan with pledges of about $3 billion. Pakistan’s security establishment has also sought to perpetuate the myth that India has dozens of consulates in Afghanistan. India has only four consulates in Herat, Jalalabad, Kandahar and Mazar-e-Sharif. The consulates in Herat and Jalaabad were closed last year because of the Covid-19 pandemic and the security situation and are yet to be reopened. Qureshi’s comments drew criticism from former Pakistani parliamentarian and prominent Pashtun activist Afrasiab Khattak, who said the Taliban wouldn’t need a foreign minister “when they already have one” in Qureshi, and Afghan National Security Adviser Hamdullah Mohib, who contended that Pakistan’s foreign minister was “uninformed, ignorant or [an] accomplice” of the Taliban. “Why would Taliban need another foreign minister when they already have one? Pakistan’s ‘neutrality’ in Afghanistan was never credible but it has finally thrown away even that pretension. On its way to fully internalising the Afghan conflict, is Pak sure it can chew what it’s biting?” Khattak tweeted. Mohib referred to Qureshi’s remarks absolving the Taliban for the increased violence and said in a tweet: “This comes as Taliban launches violent offensives against Afghan people across the country, we know how & why they continue to be enabled to do this. Quraishi is either uninformed, ignorant or accomplice. Maybe he also rejects that Osama [bin Laden] was found next to Pakistani Military HQ.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pak-foreign-minister-clears-taliban-of-violence-accuses-india-of-terror-acts-101624002684326.html
18-06-2021||India||News updates from HT: Sachin Pilot met Priyanka Gandhi, in talks with others, says Ajay Maken and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Sachin Pilot met Priyanka Gandhi, in talks with other top brass: Ajay MakenSachin Pilot is a senior leader of the Congress party and there is no way that he will not be given an appointment with party leadership if he seeks an audience, said Ajay Maken, general secretary of the All India Congress Committee (AICC), to news agency ANI on Friday. Read moreTiger carcass with bullet wound found in Assam’s KazirangaThe carcass of a male tiger was found with a bullet wound on Friday morning on the outskirts of Kaziranga National Park and Tiger Reserve (KNPTR) in Assam. Read moreWorking towards preparing 1 lakh Covid frontline workers: PM Modi launches customized crash course programmePrime Minister Narendra Modi said on Friday during the ongoing second wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic in the country, the virus changed rapidly which posed new challenges. Read moreUP police send legal notice to Twitter India MD over Loni incidentThe Uttar Pradesh Police have summoned Twitter India managing director Manish Maheshwari for questioning within seven days in connection with the posting and promotion on the microblogging site of an allegedly manipulated video of the assault of an elderly Muslim man in Ghaziabad. Read moreIndia vs New Zealand, WTC Final, Southampton weather today: Overcast skies, rain promise to threaten play at Rose BowlThe final of the first ever World Test Championship is finally here and cricket fans across the world couldn't be more excited. But with some excitement, there is some tension-filled news as well, which is currently going by the term 'Southampton weather'. Read moreSatish Kaushik says pregnant Neena Gupta ‘was in tears’ when he offered to marry her: ‘I simply stood by her’Actor Neena Gupta, in her recently released autobiography, Sach Kahun Toh, shared an anecdote on how her good friend, actor Satish Kaushik offered to marry her when she was pregnant with her daughter, fashion designer Masaba Gupta. Read moreMadhuri Dixit suggests strengthening the digestive organs with Yoga’s MudrasanaAs International Yoga Day is just around the corner and will be observed on June 21, fitness enthusiasts across the world as pulling up their socks to raise awareness of the many benefits of Yoga and Bollywood actor Madhuri Dixit too jumped the bandwagon as she performed Mudrasana during her morning exercise session this Friday. Read moreDell launches Inspiron 13, Inspiron 14, and Inspiron 15 laptops in India, check out price and specsDell has launched a range of new laptops in India under its Inspiron range. The new range includes the Dell Inspiron 13, the Dell Inspiron 14 2-in-1, and the Dell Inspiron 15 with Intel and AMD configurations. Read moreHyundai Alcazar launched at ₹16.30 lakh, takes on Tata Safari, Hector PlusHyundai Alcazar was officially launched in the Indian market at a starting price of ₹16.30 lakh, going up to ₹19.99 lakh (ex showroom and introductory prices). Read moreTwo-year-old asks grandpa if she could help him in ‘yawdwowk’. Viral video is too sweet to handleIn today’s edition of sweet videos which may make you say “Aww” multiple times, here’s a clip of a little one asking her grandfather if she could help him with his “yawdwowk.” Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-sachin-pilot-met-priyanka-gandhi-in-talks-with-other-top-brass-says-ajay-maken-and-all-the-latest-news-101623998754556.html
18-06-2021||India||SC stays cases against Taarak Mehta Ka Ooltah Chashmah actor Munmun Dutta||The Supreme Court on Friday stayed First Information Reports (FIRs) registered in five states against actor Munmun Dutta, who is a part of popular TV show Taarak Mehta Ka Ooltah Chashmah, for allegedly using a casteist slur in a video posted on Twitter last month even as it pulled her up for the comment.“What you said may amount to bringing the entire community into disrepute. You say you are a woman but tell us if women have any better rights than men or they also have equal rights?” the bench of justices Hemant Gupta and V Ramasubramanian asked.Also Watch | Natasha Narwal, Devangana Kalita, Asif Iqbal Tanha released from jailDutta’s lawyer, Puneet Bali, acknowledged the actor made a mistake and deleted her Twitter post within two hours of posting the video. The Supreme Court has in several cases clubbed FIRs arising out of the same incident, Bali added. Bali pleaded that all cases against her be shifted to Mumbai.The court stayed the criminal cases against Dutta in Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, and Madhya Pradesh. It also issued a notice to Dalit rights activist and lawyer Rajat Kalsan, who got the first FIR registered against the actor in Haryana’s Hisar on May 13. The FIR was filed under the Scheduled Castes and Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act for allegedly humiliating the community.Kalsan has been asked to respond to Dutta’s plea for quashing the FIR within six weeks.Dutta shared the video of her interaction with her fans, and she made the comment while talking about her make-up and provoked outrage. She later trimmed her video and issued an apology on social media. “... one word used by me has been misinterpreted. It was never said with the intent of insult, intimidate, humiliate or hurt anyone’s feelings. Because of my language barrier, I was genuinely misinformed about the meaning of the word. Once I was made aware of it meaning I immediately took the part down.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-stays-cases-against-taarak-mehta-ka-ooltah-chashmah-actor-munmun-dutta-101624000704474.html
18-06-2021||India||TN CM Stalin meets Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi in Delhi||Tamil Nadu chief minister MK Stalin met Congress leaders Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi in New Delhi on Friday as he concluded his first two-day visit to the national capital after the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam-led coalition returned to power in Tamil Nadu last month. Congress is a part of the government in the state.Rahul Gandhi tweeted a photo of their meeting saying, “We will keep working with the DMK to build a strong and prosperous state for the Tamil people.” Stalin presented a copy of the book “Journey of a Civilization: Indus to Vaigai” to Sonia Gandhi. Also Read | MK Stalin calls on PM Modi with 25 demandsA DMK leader said it was a courtesy call.On Thursday, Stalin met Prime Minister Narendra Modi and submitted a memorandum of 25 demands, including the scrapping of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and the three farm laws passed in September last year. Stalin said that he was happy and satisfied with his meeting with Modi and that the Prime Minister assured him of support. He also raised issues such as inadequate vaccine supply, GST dues, abolition of National Eligibility cum Entrance Test, and sought more rights for Sri Lankan Tamils.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tncm-stalin-meets-sonia-gandhi-rahul-gandhi-in-delhi-101624000164400.html
18-06-2021||India||Electrification of 19 Siachen villages to help Ladakh achieve carbon-neutrality target, says officials||As many as 19 villages in Siachen has been electrified with supply from the Chamshen micro-hydel project (MHP), a development that will help Ladakh inch closer towards achieving the carbon-neutrality target, officials said on Friday.The Union Ministry of New and Renewable Energy funded the Chamshen project under the Ladakh Renewable Energy Initiative (LREI) scheme, the officials said. The electrified villages are Chamshen, Kuri, Charasa, Burma, Pinchimik, Hasara, Kyagar, Sumooor, Lakjung, Tirith, Tyaksha, Panamik, Tirisha, Hargyam, Fukpochey, Kobet, Ayee, Aranu and Sasoma.The electrification of these villages would result in the phasing out of 3 DG sets, including 160 kVA Panamik DG set, 160 kVA Chamshen DG set and 250 kVA Kyagar DG set, Secretary Power, Ravinder Kumar said.The electrification of the villages was the result of the joint effort of the Power Development Department and Ladakh Renewable Energy Development Agency (LREDA), he said, adding the surplus power could be supplied to the Army in the border areas.The villages were electrified through a 11 KV line under SDP with the 450 KW Chamshen Micro-Hydel Project (MHP).Meanwhile, Ladakh Lt Governor's advisor Umang Narula convened a meeting here regarding the preparation of action plans by individual departments for achieving a carbon-neutral status for Ladakh.Addressing the meeting, Narula said the idea of a Carbon-Neutral Ladakh was envisioned by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and it aims at planning future developmental activities to minimize carbon emissions."It is an intrinsic part of Vision 2050 for development of Ladakh and carbon neutrality has to be embedded in every department's vision and action plan,” he said.TERI has been nominated by Niti Aayog to prepare an action plan document and certain recommendations were made on how to achieve carbon neutrality in various sectors, he noted.The Advisor reviewed the implementation status of the action plans prepared by the departments for achieving carbon neutrality based on the broader suggested interventions by TERI.He said the advisor directed that all households in Ladakh should be encouraged to install solar cooking devices and further steps be taken to promote the construction of solar passive residential, official and commercial buildings in the urban areas.The advisor also directed that all buildings should be accessible through a ramp or lift as per accessibility norms.Similarly, the Tourism department was asked to promote homestay tourism which is sustainable and has a lower carbon footprint and in particular incentivise construction of passive solar homestay accommodation.He said the transport department was asked to plan the introduction of electric vehicles on a pilot basis for public and private transport and establish solar powered charging stations.The UT administration is in the process of procuring e-cars, e-buses and introducing e-rickshaws.The Advisor exhorted upon utilizing existing water resources optimally to bring more area under cultivation and pastureland which can sequester carbon emissions.He also asked the agriculture and horticulture departments and the deputy commissioners to focus on drip irrigation and other efficient methods of micro-irrigation such as ponds to maximize the use of existing water resources and also focus on adoption of organic manure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/electrification-of-19-siachen-villages-to-help-ladakh-achieve-carbon-neutrality-target-says-officials-101623998224394.html
18-06-2021||India||Coronavirus vaccines have no impact on male fertility, study confirms||Coronavirus vaccines do not have any effect on male fertility, the results of a first-of-its-kind study published on Friday show, after finding that the levels of sperm in volunteers remained at healthy levels after they got two doses of mRNA vaccines.The study by researchers at University of Miami covered 45 men who were assessed before and after they received their vaccines. Its results reinforce the theoretical understanding that these vaccines do not impact fertility, addressing a false belief among many vaccine sceptics.“Of the 45 men, 21 (46.7%) received BNT162b2 (Pfizer-BioNtech) and 24 (53.3%) received mRNA-1273 (Moderna vaccine). Baseline sperm concentration and TMSC (total mobile sperm count) were 26 million/mL and 36 million, respectively. After the second vaccine dose, the median sperm concentration significantly increased to 30 million/mL and the median TMSC to 44 million. Semen volume and sperm motility also significantly increased,” the report, published in the peer-reviewed Journal of American Medical Association (Jama), said.The authors explain the increase as being within routine variation and could be a result of increased abstinence duration prior to the second sampling.Also Read | ‘Lambda’ Covid-19 strain: WHO finds new ‘variant of interest’ in South America“In this study of sperm parameters before and after two doses of a Covid-19 mRNA vaccine, there were no significant decreases in any sperm parameter among this small cohort of healthy men. Because the vaccines contain mRNA and not the live virus, it is unlikely that the vaccine would affect sperm parameters,” the authors write.None of Covid-19 vaccines use a live virus. Even in the case of adenovirus vector doses, such as those made by OxfordAstraZeneca (sold as Covishield in India) and Russia’s Gamaleya Institute (sold as Sputnik), the adenovirus is modified to not replicate and cannot cause an actual infection – it merely acts as a conduit for the code of the Spike protein of the Sars-CoV-2.In November, 2020, scientists found evidence that people may be at a higher risk of infertility if they get infected with Covid-19. The study by researchers from China found that in samples taken from six male Covid-19 patients who died from the disease showed high levels of cells and proteins that indicated inflammation and cell death in the testes and epidymis.In the men recovering from Covid-19, 39% of them had low sperm counts and 61% had an increased number of white blood cells in their semen, which suggested compromised sperm function.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-vaccines-have-no-impact-on-male-fertility-study-confirms-101623998424477.html
18-06-2021||India||Working towards preparing 1 lakh Covid frontline workers: PM Modi launches customized crash course programme||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Friday India needs to be prepared to combat new challenges posed by the rapidly mutating coronavirus as the country is witnessing a waning second wave of the pandemic. “Covid-19 is still there and there is a strong possibility of the virus being mutated. Therefore, the country’s preparations have to be ramped up in order to combat new challenges. We are working towards preparing 1 lakh frontline workers in the country,” PM Modi said.The Prime Minister was speaking at the launch of the customized crash course programme for Covid-19 frontline workers. PM Modi said the crash course will be completed within two to three months. The frontline workers will be immediately available and will act as a ‘trained sahayak’ to assist in the present arrangements and reduce the burden, he added.“The crash course has been designed by the country’s top experts upon the requirement of states,” PM Modi said during the virtual address and pointed out the programme will also bring new employment opportunities for the country’s youth.The customized crash course programme is designed as a special programme under the Central Component of Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana 3.0, with a financial outlay of ₹276 crore, a statement from the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) said. The programme will commence in 111 training centres spread over 26 states. Frontline workers will be trained in six customised job roles - home care support, basic care support, advanced care support, emergency care support, sample collection support, and medical equipment support, the PMO statement added.The programme also aims towards creating skilled non-medical healthcare workers to fill the present and future requirements of the workforce in India’s health sector.Towards the end of his address, PM Modi said that from June 21 vaccine doses will be administered free of cost to those above the age of 18. “The Centre is committed to vaccinating every citizen of this country for free. We have to follow all Covid protocols. Wearing masks and maintaining social distancing is extremely important,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-launches-customized-crash-course-programme-for-covid-frontline-workers-101623993322415.html
18-06-2021||India||Indian Railways to restore services of special trains. Check complete list here||Indian Railways will be resuming several special trains from June 21, services which were earlier disrupted due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. Union railway minister Piyush Goyal announced earlier this week from his official Twitter handle that train services are being started once again by the Indian Railways in the upcoming days. Along with the resumption of the earlier special train services, a new summer special train is also being started from June 25, which will run from Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh to Bandra Terminus in Maharashtra.आगामी कुछ समय में भारतीय रेल द्वारा अनेक रेल सेवाओं का संचालन शुरु किया जा रहा है। इन ट्रेनों से संबंधित अधिक जानकारी के लिये देखेंः https://t.co/i36wQ5A7t3 इसके साथ ही, 25 जून से गोरखपुर से बांद्रा टर्मिनस तक एक ग्रीष्मकालीन विशेष ट्रेन भी आरंभ की जा रही है। pic.twitter.com/5iHgty4Vk9Here are all special train services which are being resumed by Indian Railways, starting June 21:Train Number 02011 New Delhi-Kalka Shatabdi Express from 21 JuneTrain Number 02012 Kalka-New Delhi Shatabdi Express from 21 JuneTrain Number 02017 New Delhi-Dehradun Shatabdi Express from 21 JuneTrain Number 02018 Dehradun-New Delhi Shatabdi Express from 21 JuneTrain Number 02013 New Delhi-Amritsar Junction Shatabdi Express from 1 JulyTrain Number 02014 Amritsar Junction-New Delhi Shatabdi Express from 2 JulyTrain Number 02005 New Delhi-Kalka Shatabdi Express from 21 JuneTrain Number 02006 Kalka-New Delhi Shatabdi Express from 22 JuneTrain Number 04048 Delhi Junction-Kotdwara Shatabdi Express from 21 JuneTrain Number 04047 Kotdwara-Delhi Junction Shatabdi Express from 21 JuneTrain Number 02046 Chandigarh-New Delhi Shatabdi Express from 21 JuneTrain Number 02045 New Delhi-Chandigarh Shatabdi Express from 21 JuneTrain Number 02029 New Delhi-Amritsar Shatabdi Express from 2 JulyTrain Number 02030 Amritsar-New Delhi Shatabdi Express from 2 JulyTrain Number 02265 Delhi Sarai Rohilla-Jammu Tawi Duronto from 2 JulyTrain Number 02266 Jammu Tawi-Delhi Sarai Rohilla Duronto from 3 JulyTrain Number 02462 Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Katra-New Delhi Sri Shakti from 1 JulyTrain Number 02461 New Delhi-Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Katra Sri Shakti from 2 JulyTrain Number 04527 Kalka-Shimla Express from 21 JuneTrain Number 04528 Shimla-Kalka Express from 21 JuneTrain Number 04517 Kalka-Shimla Express from 21 JuneTrain Number 04518 Shimla-Kalka Express from 21 JuneTrain Number 04505 Kalka-Shimla Express from 21 JuneTrain Number 04506 Shimla-Kalka Express from 21 JuneTrain Number 04051 New Delhi-Daurai Express from 21 JuneTrain Number 04052 Daurai-New Delhi Express from 21 JuneTrain Number 04640 Firozpur Cantt-Sahibzada Ajeet Singh Nagar Express from 21 JuneTrain Number 04639 Sahibzada Ajeet Singh Nagar-Firozpur Cantt Express from 21 JuneTrain Number 02441 Bilaspur Junction-New Delhi Express from 24 JuneTrain Number 02442 New Delhi-Bilaspur Junction Express from 22 JuneTrain Number 04606 Jammu Tawi-Yognagari Rishikesh Express from 4 JulyTrain Number 04605 Yognagari Rishikesh-Jammu Tawi Express from 5 JulyTrain Number 04041 Delhi Junction-Dehradun Express from 21 JuneTrain Number 04042 Dehradun-Delhi Junction Express from 22 JuneTrain Number 04515 Kalka-Shimla Express Special from 21 JuneTrain Number 04516 Shimla-Kalka Express Special from 22 JuneTrain Number 04210 Lucknow-Prayagraj Sangam Express from 21 JuneTrain Number 04209 Prayagraj Sangam-Lucknow Express from 22 JuneTrain Number 04233 Prayagraj Sangam-Mankapur Junction from 21 JuneTrain Number 04234 Mankapur Junction-Prayagraj Sangam Express from 22 JuneTrain number 04231 Prayagraj Sangam-Basti Manwar Sangam Express from 21 JuneTrain Number 04232 Basti-Prayagraj Sangam Manwar Sangam Express from 21 JuneTrain Number 05053 Chhapra-Lucknow Junction Express from 1 JulyTrain Number 05054 Lucknow Junction-Chhapra Express from 28 JuneTrain Number 05083 Chhapra-Farrukhabad Express from 29 JuneTrain Number 05084 Farrukhabad-Chhapra Express from 30 JuneTrain Number 05114 Chhapra Kachehari-Gomti Nagar Express from 1 JulyTrain Number 05113 Gomti Nagar-Chhapra Kachehari Express from 2 JulyTrain Number 02595 Gorakhpur-Anand Vihar (T) Express from 17 JuneTrain Number 02596 Anand Vihar (T)-Gorakhpur Express from 18 June||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-railways-to-restore-services-of-special-trains-check-complete-list-here-101623992063246.html
18-06-2021||India||UP police send legal notice to Twitter India MD over Loni incident||The Uttar Pradesh Police have summoned Twitter India managing director Manish Maheshwari for questioning within seven days in connection with the posting and promotion on the microblogging site of an allegedly manipulated video of the assault of an elderly Muslim man in Ghaziabad.Also Read: Could Twitter, WhatsApp face ban in India? Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad repliesThe summon was issued two days after Twitter, news website wire.in, journalists and Congress leaders were booked for “promoting enmity between religions” for posting and promoting the video amid conflicting narratives of the attack. The video purportedly showed the man being beaten up and his attackers cutting his beard.The 72-year-old man’s family and friends have said the man’s attackers forced him to chant “Jai Shri Ram” and chopped off his beard. The Uttar Pradesh Police have claimed there was no communal angle to the attack even as a Samajwadi Party leader said that the police deliberately left out the alleged communal slogan chanting from the First Information Report filed in the case.Also Read | ‘Dilutes your credibility’: Government’s notice to Twitter in toolkit caseAkhilesh Kumar Mishra, the investigating officer in the case, said the notice was issued to Maheshwari late on Thursday evening under the regular provisions of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) and he has been asked to appear within seven days and record his statement. “The notice is served so that he appears to record statements under the CrPC’s Section 161.”The section empowers an investigating officer to seek the appearance of any person who appears to be acquainted with the facts and circumstances of a case.HT has reached out to Twitter for a comment. The copy will be updated once the company responds.Officers aware of the matter said Twitter has been named in the case as it did not prevent the video from going viral and allegedly helped in its promotion and circulation.Twitter was booked amid disagreements between the government and the company over the new guidelines that require digital companies to change how they regulate content, appoint nodal officers for compliance and grievance redressal, and adopt features such as traceability of messages and voluntary user verification. They have also faced off over the government’s orders to Twitter to take down posts. Twitter has also raised concerns regarding the safety of its employees in the country and police intimidation.Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Wednesday blamed Twitter for deliberately choosing not to comply with the guidelines even as officials in his ministry said that this could have the social media company lose the protection it enjoys as an intermediary. The guidelines came into effect on May 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-police-sends-legal-notice-to-twitter-india-md-over-loni-incident-101623989363370.html
18-06-2021||India||India reports 62,480 new Covid-19 cases, active cases go below 800,000||India on Friday registered 62,480 cases and 1,587 deaths due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), taking the caseload and death toll to 29,762,793 and 383,490 respectively, according to the Union health ministry. Nearly 89,000 people recovered in the last 24 hours and the cumulative figures of recoveries have climbed to 28,580,647 while the active cases have come down to 798,656 and constitute 2.78 per cent of the caseload.Friday’s case count is 4,728 less than that of Thursday’s when 67,208 people tested positive for the viral disease. Since Wednesday, the country had been witnessing a marginal increase in its daily tally when 62,224 cases were reported. While on Tuesday, 60,471 people were detected Covid-19 positive, the lowest single-day rise in more than 70 days.Meanwhile, the toll on Friday has been the lowest since April 18 this year, when 1,501 people succumbed to Covid-19.Also Read| Kids, adults have similar antibodies: AIIMS Sero SurveyA total of 387,167,696 samples have been tested for Covid-19 so far of which 1,929,476 were tested in the last 24 hours, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said on Friday.Even though India has managed to gain slight control over the second wave of the pandemic after it had witnessed its worst health crisis in April this year, the possibility of a third and more deadly wave is still lurking. It has been often pointed out that children will be more prone to the viral disease in the third wave in India due to which states and Union Territories (UTs) have started ramping up their health infrastructure.COVID-19 Testing Update. For more details visit: https://t.co/dI1pqvXAsZ @MoHFW_INDIA @DeptHealthRes @PIB_India @mygovindia @COVIDNewsByMIB #ICMRFIGHTSCOVID19 #IndiaFightsCOVID19 #CoronaUpdatesInIndia #COVID19 #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/RD4SMkwj1CHowever, a seroprevalence study carried out by the World Health Organization (WHO) and the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) has stated that the possible third wave of the pandemic is unlikely to disproportionately affect children than adults. The SARS-CoV-2 sero-positivity rate among children was high and was comparable to the adult population in the study, which was conducted in five selected sites including Delhi with a total sample size of 10,000.In Delhi, 74.7 per cent of the population, comprising both children and adults, were exposed to Covid-19, the WHO-AIIMS study found out. This is much greater seroprevalence than the Delhi government’s survey from January 1 where 56.1 per cent were found to have antibodies against the viral disease, Hindustan Times reported.Also Read| Banquet and tent house owners want Delhi govt to allow weddings, functionsThe national capital has started with the unlocking process and several Covid-19 related restrictions have been eased such as re-opening of restaurants, salons, shopping malls, metro etc. However, there is a strong possibility that infections might shoot up again as more and more relaxations are given by the government.Meanwhile, India has administered 268,960,399 doses of the vaccine against Covid-19 to eligible beneficiaries till now of which nearly 3.26 million were administered in the last 24 hours, the health ministry said. A total of 218,873,616 have been inoculated with the first dose while 50,086,783 have been inoculated with both doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-reports-62-480-new-covid-19-cases-active-cases-go-below-800000-101623987268000.html
18-06-2021||India||News updates from HT: China unit targets Indian telcos, firms in cyber espionage and all the latest news||China unit targets Indian telcos, firms in cyber espionageA suspected unit of Chinese cyber soldiers targeted Indian telecom companies, government agencies and several defence contractors, a cyber threats intelligence company said on Thursday. Read moreWTC final: Is Virat Kohli battling worrying form in Tests? Numbers suggest soJune 18, 2021 will officially mark the beginning of Virat Kohli's third tour of England. He has been to England to play Test cricket twice before - in 2014 and 2018, where he tasted contrasting fortunes with the bat. Read moreSherni director on Rajkummar Rao, Vidya Balan: 'More similarities than differences between the two'Sherni, starring Vidya Balan in the lead role, lands online on Friday, June 18. Director Amir Masurkar talked to Hindustan Times to share details about his vision behind the film, the struggles he faced while making it. Read more Bird lays eggs in nest built on wreath on a door, homeowner posts pics of babiesHow would you react if you found a bird’s nest outside your home? This Twitter user found one in a wreath he had on his door. His tweet about the bird situation has since gone viral. Read moreWatch: Natasha Narwal, Devangana Kalita, Asif Iqbal Tanha released from jailActivists Natasha Narwal, Devangana Kalita and Asif Iqbal Tanha released from jail. The student activists, arrested in may last year, were granted bail by Delhi HC on June 15. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-china-unit-targets-indian-telcos-firms-in-cyber-espionage-and-all-the-latest-news-101623986609242.html
18-06-2021||India||Maha hopes to keep 3rd Covid wave at bay with strict curbs, faster vaccination||Maharashtra is likely to witness the third wave of Covid-19 infections as early as mid-August, according to state Covid task force members, but they feel curbs, coupled with faster vaccination, could delay it and reduce its impact. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray convened a meeting on Wednesday over preparations for the possible third wave, where the health department had projected that the state could see double the cases then, while the active case count could go up to 800,000. Dr Rahul Pandit, task force member and head intensivist at Fortis Hospital, Mulund, said mathematical projections suggest the next wave could hit in eight to 12 weeks of the second wave ebbing and the state must prepare for it in the next four weeks. Also Read | Third Covid wave may not hit kids disproportionately: WHO-AIIMS sero survey“The third wave hit the UK sooner [than the 8-12 weeks’ period]. Therefore, we have to be prepared in the next four weeks, let the wave come whenever it comes. Our efforts should be towards preparing for it but also trying to prevent it altogether. It may not hit us for another eight to 12 weeks but we need to be prepared if it does,” he said, adding that no model can accurately predict the virus. Maharashtra added 9,830 fresh Covid-19 infections, taking the tally to 5,944,710. It reported 236 deaths in the last 24 hours, while 400 fatalities were added to the tally taking the death toll to 116,026. The state’s active case count stood at 139,960. Mumbai on Thursday added 660 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking its tally to 717,832. Mumbai saw 20 deaths in the past 24 hours, pushing the death toll to 15,247. The active cases in the city were 18,417 on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maha-hopes-to-keep-3rd-covid-wave-at-bay-with-strict-curbs-faster-vaccination-101623986483312.html
18-06-2021||India||Govt extends driving license validity till September 30: All you need to know||The Centre on Thursday announced the validity of documents such as driving licenses, vehicle registration certificates, fitness certificates and other permits has been extended till September 30, 2021. The extension only applies for those documents that expired after February 2020 and couldn’t be renewed due to Covid-19 restrictions, the government also said. “Taking into consideration the need to prevent the spread of COVID-19, MoRT&H has advised the Enforcement Authorities that the validity of Fitness, Permit (all types), License, Registration or any other concerned document(s) may be treated to be valid till 30th Sept, 2021,” the Union road transport ministry tweeted earlier on June 17.Here is everything you need to know about the latest directives by the central government regarding the extension of driving licenses and similar documents:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-extends-driving-license-validity-till-september-30-all-you-need-to-know-101623984678699.html
18-06-2021||India||Monsoon progress likely to pick up between June 27 and June 30||Monsoon progress is likely to pick up between June 27 and June 30 and advance to most parts of northwest India outside west Rajasthan, India Meteorological Department (IMD) said in its two-week forecast on Thursday.Subdued rainfall activity is likely to continue over northwest India till June 27 and due to a gradual establishment of easterly winds and straightening of monsoon pattern over the country, a fresh spell of rainfall is likely over the region during the period. During the week ending June 30, rainfall is likely to be normal over some pockets of northwest India except parts of western Himalayan region where it is likely to be normal to below normal.Due to a likely strengthening of westerly winds and off-shore trough along west coast towards end of month, widespread rainfall with isolated heavy falls is likely along the west coast. Rainfall is likely to be near normal in the remaining parts of the country outside northeastern states and extreme southern parts of southern Peninsular India, where it is likely to be below normal.Between June 1 and June 16, overall rainfall is 33% above normal over the country.Also Read | As rains approach, Delhi steps up measures to check dengueThe northern limit of monsoon (NLM) is passing through Diu, Surat, Nandurbar, Bhopal, Nowgong, Hamirpur, Barabanki, Bareilly, Saharanpur, Ambala and Amritsar.Large-scale atmospheric conditions are not favourable for further advance of monsoon into Rajasthan, remaining parts Punjab, Haryana and Delhi till June 27. However, there could be slow progress into some more parts of Gujarat state and Uttar Pradesh during the next 2-3 days.A cyclonic circulation is lying over Gangetic West Bengal and neighbourhood. Under its influence, widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy rain is likely over Bihar, Jharkhand, West Bengal, Sikkim and north Odisha during the next 2-3 days.A cyclonic circulation is also lying over east Uttar Pradesh & its neighbourhood. Under its influence, fairly widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy falls is very likely over east Uttar Pradesh during the next 2-3 days.An offshore trough (line of low pressure) is running from south Gujarat coast to north Kerala coast. Under its influence, widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy falls is very likely over Konka, Goa and Madhya Maharashtra during the next 2-3 days; and over Karnataka, Kerala & Mahe during the next two days. Isolated extremely heavy rain (over 20cm) is also very likely over Konkan, Goa and Madhya Maharashtra during the next 24 hours.A western disturbance is running from north Jammu & Kashmir to northeast Arabian Sea. Under its influence, fairly widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy falls with isolated extremely heavy rain is very likely over Uttarakhand during the next 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-progress-likely-to-pick-up-between-june-27-and-june-30-101623985163088.html
18-06-2021||India||Third Covid wave may not hit kids disproportionately: WHO-AIIMS sero survey||A serological surveillance (sero survey) under the World Health Organization (WHO), conducted by the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), has allayed apprehension regarding a potential third wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic in India disproportionately affecting children. The interim findings of the ongoing sero survey point out that the SARS-CoV-2 seropositivity rate in children aged two years and above is comparable to that in adults and thus there is no statistical evidence to suggest that the 2-17 age group is especially vulnerable to a potential third wave.Also Read: Kids, adults have similar antibodies: AIIMS Sero SurveyThe findings of the ongoing sero survey have been published on medRxiv, a pre-print server, and are based on a mid-term analysis of the data of the 4,509 participants -- 700 children in the 2-17 years age group and 3,809 aged 18 years and above. The five selected sites are as follows -- Delhi Urban Resettlement Colony, Delhi Rural (villages in Faridabad district of Haryana under Delhi-NCR), Bhubaneswar Rural, Gorakhpur rural, and Agartala rural. Data was collected between March 15 and June 10 from these selected sites.Here are the key interim findings from the ongoing sero survey conducted by WHO and AIIMS:1 . The seroprevalence, presence of virus-fighting total serum antibodies against the Sars-CoV-2 virus, was assessed qualitatively by using a standard ELISA kit in five states with a proposed total sample size of 10,000. Among children aged 2-17 years, the seroprevalence was found to be 55.7% across the five selected study sites, in comparison to 63.5% among adults. The difference was judged to be statistically insignificant.2 . Regardless of the age group, rural sites reported a lower seropositivity rate on average as compared to urban sites in Delhi. Even within rural sites, children reported a lower seropositivity rate as compared to adults. However, this difference was not observed in the urban sites.3 . The interim findings show that female children show a slightly higher seropositivity rate than males, which is in contrast to the meta-analysis which initially showed a higher seroprevalence in men. The findings may continue to change as more data become available, the study said.4 . Higher mobility and independence may be a reason behind the higher seropositivity rate in children aged 10-17 years, when compared to that in younger children.5 . In Delhi, which was one of the five sites for the study, the researchers found that 74.7% of the population – both children and adults – had been exposed to the infection. This is a much higher seroprevalence than the state government’s survey from January where 56.1% were found to have antibodies against the virus. The samples for the AIIMS study were collected between April and May, and would not have detected antibodies of those who got the infection during the second wave.6 . A large proportion of children (50.9%) had asymptomatic Covid-19 infection. Even before the second wave, children below the age of 18 in South Delhi had as much seroprevalence (73.9%) as the below 18 years (74.8%).7. As compared to the 74.7% in urban settlements of South Delhi, the prevalence was 59.3% in the villages of Delhi and Ballabhgarh. “Results show that a large majority of the population had already been infected by the time we conducted the study at Delhi urban site which belongs to lower and middle socioeconomic strata population and very congested neighbourhood,” the study said.8. With all locations other than Delhi being rural, the average seroprevalence in rural areas stood at 58.8% as per the study. The highest seroprevalence was found in Gorakhpur, Uttar Pradesh where 87.9% of the people had been exposed to the infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/third-covid-wave-may-not-hit-kids-disproportionately-who-aiims-sero-survey-101623981104188.html
18-06-2021||India||Indians' funds in Swiss banks rise to over ₹20,000 crore, customer deposits down for second year||Funds parked by Indian individuals and firms in Swiss banks, including through India-based branches and other financial institutions, jumped to 2.55 billion Swiss francs (over ₹20,700 crore) in 2020 on a sharp surge in holdings via securities and similar instruments, though customer deposits fell, annual data from Switzerland's central bank showed on Thursday.The increase in aggregate funds of Indian clients with Swiss banks, from 899 million Swiss francs ( ₹6,625 crore) at the end of 2019, reverses a two-year declining trend and has taken the figure to the highest level in 13 years.It stood at a record high of nearly 6.5 billion Swiss francs in 2006, after which it has been mostly on a downward path, except for a few years including in 2011, 2013 and 2017, as per the Swiss National Bank (SNB) data.The total amount of CHF 2,554.7 million ( ₹20,706 crore), described by the SNB as 'total liabilities' of Swiss banks or 'amounts due to' their Indian clients at the end of 2020, included CHF 503.9 million (over ₹4,000 crore) in customer deposits, CHF 383 million (over ₹3,100 crore) held via other banks, CHF 2 million ( ₹16.5 crore) through fiduciaries or trusts and the highest component of CHF 1,664.8 million (nearly ₹13,500 crore) as 'other amounts due to customers' in form of bonds, securities and various other financial instruments.While the funds classified as 'customer account deposits' have actually declined from CHF 550 million at the end of 2019 and those through fiduciaries also more than halved from CHF 7.4 million, the money held via other banks rose sharply from CHF 88 million in this period.However, the biggest difference has been a surge in 'other amounts due to customers' from India, which rose over six times from CHF 253 million at 2019-end.All four components had declined during 2019.These are official figures reported by banks to the SNB and do not indicate the quantum of the much-debated alleged black money held by Indians in Switzerland.These figures also do not include the money that Indians, NRIs or others might have in Swiss banks in names of third-country entities.According to the SNB, its data for 'total liabilities' of Swiss banks towards Indian clients takes into account all types of funds of Indian customers at Swiss banks, including deposits from individuals, banks and enterprises. This includes data for branches of Swiss banks in India, as also non-deposit liabilities.On the other hand, the 'locational banking statistics' of the Bank for International Settlement (BIS), which have been described in the past by Indian and Swiss authorities as a more reliable measure for deposits by Indian individuals in Swiss banks, show an increase of nearly 39 per cent during 2020 in such funds to USD 125.9 million ( ₹932 crore).This figure takes into account deposits as well as loans of Indian non-bank clients of Swiss-domiciled banks and had shown an increase of 7 per cent in 2019, after declining by 11 per cent in 2018 and by 44 per cent in 2017.It peaked at over USD 2.3 billion (over ₹9,000 crore) at the end of 2007.Swiss authorities have always maintained that assets held by Indian residents in Switzerland cannot be considered as 'black money' and they actively support India in its fight against tax fraud and evasion.An automatic exchange of information in tax matters between Switzerland and India has been in force since 2018. Under this framework, detailed financial information on all Indian residents having accounts with Swiss financial institutions since 2018 was provided for the first time to Indian tax authorities in September 2019 and this is to be followed every year.In addition to this, Switzerland has been actively sharing details about accounts of Indians suspected to have indulged in financial wrongdoings after submission of prima facie evidence. Such exchange of information has taken place in hundreds of cases so far.Overall, customer deposits in all Swiss banks rose in 2020 to nearly CHF 2 trillion, which included over CHF 600 billion of foreign customer deposits.While the UK topped the charts for foreign clients' money in Swiss banks at CHF 377 billion, it was followed by the US (CHF 152 billion) at the second spot -- the only two countries with 100-billion-plus client funds.Others in the top 10 were West Indies, France, Hong Kong, Germany, Singapore, Luxembourg, Cayman Islands and Bahamas.India was placed at 51st place, ahead of countries like New Zealand, Norway, Sweden, Denmark, Hungary, Mauritius, Pakistan, Bangladesh and Sri Lanka.Among BRICS nations, India stood below China and Russia, but above South Africa and Brazil.Others placed above India included Netherlands, UAE, Japan, Australia, Italy, Saudi Arabia, Israel, Ireland, Turkey, Mexico, Austria, Greece, Egypt, Canada, Qatar, Belgium, Bermuda, Kuwait, South Korea, Portugal, Jordan, Thailand, Seychelles, Argentina, Indonesia, Malaysia and Gibraltar.The countries for which Swiss banks reported a decline in amounts due to clients included the US and UK, while the money parked by individuals and enterprises from Bangladesh also declined during 2020.However, the amount almost doubled in the case of Pakistan to over CHF 642 million.Just like India, the issue of alleged black money in Swiss banks has been a political hot potato in the two neighbouring countries as well.As per the SNB, there were 243 banks in Switzerland at the end of 2020. PTI BJ ABM ABM||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indians-funds-in-swiss-banks-rise-to-over-rs-20-000-crore-customer-deposits-down-for-second-year-101623980863992.html
18-06-2021||NA||Breaking news: India, 3 EU nations begin 2-day naval drill in Gulf of Aden||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks. Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Get latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.Follow all the updates here:BJP to contest UP Assembly polls under leadership of AdityanathThe next Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls will be contested under the leadership of chief minister Yogi Adityanath, state BJP president Swatantra Dev Singh confirmed on Friday. This comes amid speculation that the Union government maybe looking at replacing Adityanath over Covid-19 management. Pakistan opposition stages a walkout in National AssemblyPakistan opposition on Friday staged a walkout from the National Assembly over federal budget. According to the local media, Bilawal Bhutto said that the country has seen an unprecedented increase in inflation, poverty and unemployment during the PTI's rule. He also questioned the authenticity of the government's claims of economic growth.Govt defaming farmers' protest, alleges SKMThe Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) on Friday alleged that the central government is "defaming" the farmers' protest against the three contentious farm laws. The umbrella body of the farmers' union also said that the agitation would not dissipate as being "hoped" by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). "Every opportunity is being desperately seized upon to slander the protestors. However, their failed strategy is bound to fail again," PTI quoted the union as saying.India, 3 EU nations begin 2-day naval drill in Gulf of AdenIndia and three European nation began a two-day high-voltage naval wargame in the Gulf of Aden with the aim of improving operational interoperability and promote, peace, security and stability in the key waterways, PTI quoted an official as saying.No motor vehicle allowed on main Chandni Chowk road from 9am to 9pm: Delhi Traffice PoliceDelhi Traffic Police on Friday prohibited movement of any motor vehicle on the main Chandni Chowk road from Red Fort to Fatehpuri Mosque from 9am to 9pm. The police said no motor vehicle is allowed to ply on the route during the time on all days.No MP objected when request made to Centre: Om Birla on Central VistaLok Sabha speaker Om Birla on Friday said not even a single Member of Parliament (MP) in either Lok Sabha or Rajya Sabha objected to the construction of the new parliament building when the request for it was made by both houses to the Centre.Development, welfare of J-K top priorities of Modi govt: MHAUnion Home Minister Amit Shah in a high-level meeting on Friday reviewed developmental works in Jammu and Kashmir. The home ministry said that all-round development and welfare of J-K are top priorities of the Modi government. During the meeting, Shah congratulated Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha for completing 76 per cent vaccination targets in J-K and 100% in four districts.Bengal finance minister urges Union minister for steel to stop dismantling raw materials division of SAILWest Bengal Finance Minister Amit Mitra writes to Union Minister for Steel, Dharmendra Pradhan, urging him to "stop dismantling of Raw Materials Division of SAIL, headquartered in Kolkata" pic.twitter.com/pVDGZNPI2BNo change in leadership, BS Yediyurappa will continue as CM: Karnataka ministerKarnataka revenue minister R Ashoka on Friday said that there is no change in the leadership and BS Yediyurappa will continue as the chief minister."There is no change in the leadership. BS Yediyurappa will continue as the chief minister. No MLA is talking about this. There are only one or two of them & we will take strict action within few days," ANI quoted him as saying.5-member delegation of LJP meets EC on FridayA 5-member delegation of Lok Janshakti Party met Election Commission on Friday. "In 2019, I was elected as LJP president for 5 years. EC has assured us that if somebody tries to prove claim in name of LJP, we will be given chance to provide evidence," ANI quoted Chirag Paswan as saying about the meeting. Assam govt cancels HSLC, HS examsAssam education minister Ranoj Pegu on Friday said that the government has decided to cancel High School Leaving Certificate (HSLC) and Higher Secondary (HS) examinations.NSA Ajit Doval, IB, R&AW chief, other directors arrive at MHA for high-level meetNational security advisor Ajit Doval, home secretary Ajay Bhalla, Intelligence Bureau director Arvind Kumar, R&AW chief Samant Kumar Goel, CRPF director General Kuldiep Singh and Jammu and Kashmir DGP Dilbagh Singh arrived at Union home ministry on Friday to attend a high-level meeting chaired by Union home minister Amit Shah.Parliamentary Standing Committee meeting on IT begins; Twitter reps also presentMeeting of Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information & Technology has begun and representatives from Twitter India are also present in the meeting. The representatives from the microblogging site deposed before the parliamentary panel over issues of social media platform misuse and protection of citizen rights.Sharp decline of 81% in weekly Covid positivity rate: Health ministryA sharp decline of 81% in weekly positivity observed, since the highest reported positivity of 21.6% between April 30-May 6, 2021At the same time, no. of districts having a positivity rate of less than 5% is on the rise - presently there are 513 such districts: JS, @MoHFW_INDIA pic.twitter.com/ScsJrMiv1sElection completely valid under party's constitution: New LJP chief ParasNewly elected Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) chief Pashupati Kumar Paras said according to the party's constitution, Chirag Paswan is neither LJP's national president nor the leader of the parliamentary party. "Yesterday’s election was completely valid under party's constitution, of which he is not aware," ANI quoted Paras as saying for the constitutionality of his appointment as party president.Delhi’s daily Covid-19 cases rise marginally to 165; toll reaches 24,900 with 14 additional deaths🏥Delhi Health Bulletin - 18th June 2021🏥 #DelhiFightsCorona pic.twitter.com/8zhAiTwF0QVirus not eradicated yet, keeps changing colours: AIIMS doctorDr Naveet Wig, head of the medicine department, All India Institute of Medical Science (AIIMS) on Friday cautioned about the looming threat of coronavirus disease (Covid-19). "Virus has not been eradicated, it keeps on changing its colours. Wear a clean mask and do not use an unhygienic mask at all," ANI quoted Dr Wig as saying.Israel to give 1 million Covid-19 vaccine doses to Palestinians#BREAKING Israel to provide million Covid vaccine doses to Palestinians pic.twitter.com/TcepJOcgPKAgustaWestland case: Delhi court rejects bail petition of Christian MichelA special court of Delhi on Friday dismissed bail petition of Christian Michel, who is an alleged middleman in the AgustaWestland case. The court rejected the bail in both CBI and ED cases, reported ANI.Agriculture minister Narendra Tomar says govt ready to discuss issues regarding provision of 3 farm laws, rules out repealभारत सरकार नए कृषि कानूनों से संबंधित प्रावधानों पर किसी भी किसान संगठन से और कभी भी बात करने को तैयार है...हम उनका स्वागत करते हैं... pic.twitter.com/gv1FF9zU8iNeed to remain cautious: Harsh Vardhan on negligence of Covid appropriate behaviorUnion minister for health and family welfare Dr Harsh Vardhan on Friday urged the citizens to remain cautious and follow all Covid protocol. "People started taking Covid appropriate behaviour lightly after vaccine was rolled out. We have started the unlocking process but we still need to remain cautious and follow all Covid protocols properly," ANI quoted the minister as saying.Red alert issued in parts of Karnataka for June 18,19: IMDIMD Karnataka said red alert for heavy to very heavy rainfall has been issued in Dakshin Kannada, Udupi and Uttara Kannada districts for Friday and Saturday. Kodagu, Hassan, Chikkamagaluru and Shivamogga districts have been given orange alert warning for the same period, reported ANI.Southwest monsoon advances into parts of Gujarat, Rajasthan, MP, UP: IMDThe India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Friday said that the southwest monsoon has advanced into some parts of north Arabian Sea, most parts of Gujarat region, some parts of Saurashtra, southeast Rajasthan and some more parts of Madhya Pradesh and Uttar PradeshCalcutta HC directs NHRC to probe complaints on persons displaced in post-poll violenceCalcutta High Court orders National Human Rights Commission to examine complaints about displacement of people in West Bengal due to post poll violence.BJP's Suvendu Adhikari submits petition to WB Speaker for disqualification of TMC MLA Mukul RoyLeader of Opposition in West Bengal Legislative Assembly Suvendu Adhikari has given a petition to the assembly Speaker for disqualification of TMC leader Mukul Roy, MLA from 83-Krishnanagar Uttar Assembly constituency, reports ANI.Rahul Gandhi takes a dig at Centre over fuel pricesCongress leader Rahul Gandhi criticised the Union government over fuel prices in the country. "The rare day GOI does not hike fuel prices is the exception which proves the rule that prices are increased everyday," he tweeted.Delhi HC issues notice to Centre, Delhi govts over Covid-19 protocol violation in marketplacesDelhi High Court takes suo motu cognizance on various images of marketplaces circulated on WhatsApp where people were not wearing masks and not following Covid-19 protocols. The Court issues notice to Centre and Delhi government asking them to file status report, reports ANI. Assam Congress MLA Rupjyoti Kurmi resigns one and half months after winAssam Congress MLA Rupjyoti Kurmi tenders his resignation as a Member of the State Legislative Assembly, to Speaker Biswajit Daimary, reports ANI.Over 387 million samples tested for Covid-19 in India: ICMRWith 1,929,476 samples tested for Covid-19 on June 17, cumulative testing in India reached 387,167,696, the Indian Council of Medical Research said.India records 62,480 new Covid-19 cases, 1,587 more deathsIndia reports 62,480 new Covid-19 cases and 1,587 more fatalities according to data from the Union health ministry. Active cases below 800,000-mark at 798,656.PM Modi to launch crash course for Covid-19 frontline workers today at 11amPrime Minister Narendra Modi would launch 'Customized Crash Course programme for Covid 19 Frontline workers' at 11am via video conferencing. The programme aims to upskill more than 100,000 Covid-19 warriors across the country, his office said. Following the launch, the programme would commence in 111 training centres across 26 states.Petrol price today: ₹103 in Mumbai, ₹100 in BengaluruPetrol now costs more than ₹100 a litre in seven states and Union territories namely Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Karnataka and Ladakh.Click here to know the price in different citiesGhaziabad Police send notice to Twitter India head over video provoking 'communal unrest'The Ghaziabad Police had sent a legal notice to the Managing Director of Twitter India over a video of an elderly man in Loni being assaulted with the intent of "provoking communal unrest."The MD has been asked to come to the police station in Lone Border for recording their statement within seven days, reports ANI.Global Covid-19 deaths go past 4-million mark, finds ReportThe Covid-19 pandemic has caused more than 4 million deaths worldwide, according to the tally by agency Reuters, as many countries struggle to procure vaccines to inoculate their populations.Click here to read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-june-18-2021-101623980099320.html
18-06-2021||India||PM Modi's approval rating at 66%, ahead of US President Biden, Germany's Merkel||Prime Minister Narendra Modi's approval ratings stand at 66 per cent and continue to be ahead of other global heads, according to a survey conducted by an American data intelligence firm. The Morning Consult shows PM Modi is ahead of other world leaders of 13 countries including the US, the UK, Russia, Australia, Canada, Brazil, France and Germany."MorningConsult, which tracks national ratings of the elected leaders of 13 countries, shows a 20-point slide over the past year in the proportion of Indians who approve of Mr Modi. Yet at 66% in early June, he still outperforms all the rest," the firm tweeted.The Morning Consult Global Leader Approval Rating Tracker, which was updated on Thursday and has a sample size of 2,126 adults in India, showed 66 per cent approval for PM Modi and shows that 28 per cent of those surveyed disapproved of him.Morning Consult, which collects data through its Political Intelligence unit, a “proprietary platform that provides real-time polling data on political elections”, shows that in August 2019, when the Modi government abrogated Article 370, which gave special status to Jammu and Kashmir, his approval ratings stood at 82 per cent, while disapproval ratings were at just 11 per cent.Also read | Why the second wave may not hurt Narendra Modi politicallyThe second position, according to Morning Consult, was bagged by Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi (65%), followed by Mexican President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador (63%), Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison (54%), German Chancellor Angela Merkel (53%), US President Joe Biden (53%), Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau (48%), UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson (44%), South Korean President Moon Jae-In (37%), Spanish Spain Pedro Sánchez (36%), Brazilian President Jaire Bolsonaro (35%), French President Emmanuel Macron (35%) and Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga (29%).Global Leader Approval: Among All Adults https://t.co/dQsNxouZWb Modi: 66%Draghi: 65%López Obrador: 63% Morrison: 54%Merkel: 53%Biden: 53% Trudeau: 48%Johnson: 44% Moon: 37%Sánchez: 36%Bolsonaro: 35% Macron: 35% Suga: 29%*Updated 6/17/21 pic.twitter.com/FvCSODtIxaThe Morning Consult said that the daily global survey data is based on a "seven-day moving average of all adults in a particular country with a margin of error of between +/- 1-3 per cent." "All interviews are conducted online, among nationally representative samples of adults. (In India, the sample is representative of the literate population)," it said on its website.Also read | The political variables that will shape the 2024 verdictThe Morning Consult said the surveys are weighted in each country by age, gender, region, and education breakdowns in certain countries based on official government sources. "In the United States, surveys are also weighted by race and ethnicity. Respondents complete these surveys in languages appropriate for their countries," it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-s-approval-rating-at-66-ahead-of-us-president-biden-germany-s-merkel-101623979979763.html
18-06-2021||India||Centre sets target to reduce 50% road accident deaths by 2024: Nitin Gadkari||Minister for road transport and highways and micro, small and medium enterprises, Nitin Gadkari on Thursday said that the Centre's target is to reduce road accident deaths by 50 per cent by the year 2024.Addressing a virtual session on 'Role of Corporates in Arresting Road Fatalities' organised by the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI), Gadkari congratulated the corporate body on the announcement of Road Safety consortium 'Safar', based on the safe system approach and release of a white paper on road safety for the corporate world.The minister also emphasised the need for identification of 'black spot' in every state, district and city, and said that the World Bank and ADB have already sanctioned a scheme by which the Centre is allocating ₹14,000 crores for states, National Highways Authority of India and other stakeholders to remove black spots.The minister said that his ministry is striving hard to reduce road accident deaths by restructuring and strengthening four 'E's of road safety--Engineering (including road and automobile engineering), Economy, Enforcement and Education."The corporate world should carry out the independent surveys to identify the reasons behind the accidents and a report may be submitted to the NHAI," he suggested.The minister further pointed out that 50 per cent of the road accidents are due to road engineering problems and now the government has taken special initiatives to improve the black spot."This will greatly contribute towards the vision of 'zero road accident' in India. The cooperation of NGOs, social organisations, universities is needed for education and awareness," he said and announced that an independent road safety council, headed by a retired IAS officer would come into force within 15 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-sets-target-to-reduce-50-road-accident-deaths-by-2024-nitin-gadkari-101623978805522.html
18-06-2021||India||Three low-intensity earthquakes jolt Assam, Manipur, Meghalaya||Three states in the northeastern part of India - Assam, Manipur and Meghalaya - were hit by earthquakes early on Friday, according to the National Center for Seismology (NCS). NCS said Assam’s Sonitpur district recorded an earthquake of magnitude of 4.1 and Manipur’s Chandel and West Khasi Hills in Meghalaya recorded magnitude 3.0 and 2.6 quakes respectively.“Earthquake of Magnitude:4.1, Occurred on 18-06-2021, 02:04:40 IST, Lat: 26.73 & Long: 92.44, Depth: 22 Km ,Location: 36km WNW of Tezpur, Assam,” the NCS tweeted and said the earthquake was "strong".This is the second earthquake to hit Sonitpur district’s Tezpur town in three days. On Tuesday night, Tezpur recorded an earthquake of magnitude 3.0. It occurred around 10.53pm at a depth of 10 kilometres and the epicentre was located 60 kilometers west of Tezpur.The earthquake reported in Manipur’s Chandel area has been classified as ‘Rather Strong’ with a depth of 10km. “Earthquake of Magnitude:3.0, Occurred on 18-06-2021, 01:06:08 IST, Lat: 24.30 & Long: 94.10, Depth: 10 Km ,Location: 39km ESE of Moirang, Manipur,” NCS wrote on the microblogging site.Previously, the state was hit by an earthquake of magnitude 4.3 on May 23 in Ukhrul with a depth of 109 kilometers.Meanwhile, the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) on Friday issued guidelines on ho to stay safe during an earthquake. If indoors, people should stay away from furniture, windows and lamps. People should stay away from buildings, walls and power polls if they are outside. However, if they are in an open space, they should stay there till the shaking stops and move away from buildings, exterior walls and heavy objects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-earthquakes-jolt-3-states-northeastern-states-101623977820822.html
18-06-2021||India||Two men rescue woman from rapist, assault her later: Police||Two men, who rescued a 35-year-old woman from a rapist in Uttarakhand’s Udham Singh Nagar district, raped her later, police said on Thursday.According to the complaint filed by the survivor on Wednesday, the first incident took place on May 30 , when a man she met in her residential colony in Jaspur entered her house and raped her.After the woman raised an alarm, the other two accused, who are residents of the same colony, rescued her.They beat up man, but let him go on the promise that he would not repeat the mistake in the future, said JS Deopa, in-charge of Jaspur police stationAs per the complainant, on June 2 , the two men, who earlier saved her, barged into her house and raped her, said Deopa. The accused also recorded the incident and continued to harass her by threatening to leak the video, he added.All three have been booked under sections 452(house trespass) and 376(rape) of the Indian Penal Code, he said. “We have registered an FIR on the complaint of the woman against the accused and started a probe. Accused will be arrested soon,” said Deopa.The woman’s husband works abroad and she lives in Jaspur with her two children, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-men-rescue-woman-from-rapist-assault-her-later-police-101623974394893.html
18-06-2021||India||Serum Institute of India likely to start Covovax trials on kids by July||The Serum Institute of India (SII) is likely to begin clinical trials of its second Covid-19 vaccine, Covovax, on children, said people familiar with the matter. This will make it the third vaccine to be tested on children in the country after Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin and Zydus Cadilla’s ZyCov-D.The trials could start by July, one of the people added on the condition of anonymity.US biotechnology company Novavax’s protein-based Covid-19 vaccine, NVX-CoV2373, will be locally manufactured by SII under the brand name Covovax. SII’s chief executive officer (CEO) Adar Poonawalla had earlier said that the vaccine could be launched in India by September, subject to the grant of necessary regulatory clearances.In an interview to CNBC-TV18 last month, Poonawalla said the company planned to make and stockpile doses of the vaccine even though manufacturing was impacted somewhat because of the curbs that the US placed on the export of raw materials.Those curbs have since been eased. “…we are starting to stockpile and manufacture Covovax this month itself… Right now, we could have been making twice as much if we had the raw materials; having said that, in the next four to five months, we would have made adequate arrangements from other suppliers outside of the US which is good news, so this is only a temporary problem. We just need it for these three months; after that we will be completely self-reliant,” Poonawalla added.Novavax on Monday announced that NVX-CoV2373 demonstrated 100% protection against moderate and severe disease, and 90.4% overall efficacy, in its Phase 3 trial. “These clinical results reinforce that NVX-CoV2373 is extremely effective and offers complete protection against both moderate and severe Covid-19 infection,” Stanley C. Erck, president and chief executive officer, Novavax, said in a press statement on Monday||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/serum-institute-of-india-likely-to-start-covovax-trials-on-kids-by-july-101623973997503.html
18-06-2021||India||No dispute in party, says Tripura BJP chief||Agartala: There is no “dispute” in the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Tripura and if there were any, they have been sorted out, the BJP Tripura chief Manik Saha said after a marathon meeting led by the party’s general secretary organisation BL Santhosh and Northeast zonal secretary Ajay Jamwal.“There is no dispute among the BJP leaders. We are in a family and in family, sometimes such things may happen. And if there is any, it has been hundred percent sorted out”, Saha told reporters after Thursday’s meeting.The factional feud in the BJP’s Tripura unit resurfaced recently when legislators led by Sudip Roy Barman, who has made his chief ministerial ambitions known, again started building pressure to change chief minister Biplab Deb.The friction between the two groups has exacerbated after Mukul Roy rejoined the Trinamool Congress in Bengal. Roy was instrumental in Barman shifting to the BJP from the Trinamool Congress and there have been swirling rumours in Tripura that an effort to get the MLAs to cross over had started.Tripura BJP spokesperson Subrata Chakraborty insisted that no one was going to join the Trinamool Congress from the BJP.BL Santhosh’s meetings, he said, were focused on strengthening the party organization where the central leaders have stressed on constructive works from the booth level. “They have held meetings with every person in the party, from office bearers to ministers. They have given us direction to make our party organization strong . It was a very good and fruitful meeting”, Chakraborty told the reporters this evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-dispute-in-party-says-tripura-bjp-chief-101623956662414.html
18-06-2021||India||Man accused in rape, murder of 2 minor girls in Assam shot at while trying to flee||One of the seven accused in the rape and murder case of two minor girls from the same family in Kokrajhar district of Assam, was injured when police fired at him while he was trying to escape from custody, officials said on Thursday. Farizul Rehman, 22, is one of the three accused in the case charged with raping and murdering the two victims, aged 14 and 16. The other four accused are charged with conspiracy, concealment of evidence etc. According to police, the incident happened late on Wednesday night when Farizul was taken by a police team to search for a mobile phone which he had allegedly disposed following the crime. Police say on reaching the spot, instead of a mobile supposed to be buried there, the accused took possession of a sharp weapon hidden at the spot and attacked policemen and tried to escape by cutting the rope he was tied with. The police claim they fired two shots in retaliation and one of them hit Farizul’s leg. One policeman also sustained injuries in the incident. “One of the accused tried to escape during a search operation near Bedlangmari, Salbari and police had to fire to prevent him from escaping. He is grievously injured and hospitalized,” Special DGP GP Singh tweeted on Thursday. According to the police, the accused is currently admitted at the Fakhruddin Ali Ahmed Medical College and Hospital in Barpeta district. His condition is stated to be stable. The incident made headlines after bodies of the two victims were found hanging from a tree near their house in Kokrajhar district of Bodoland Territorial Region (BTR) on Friday evening, hours after they went missing. The accused were arrested within three days of the incident. The incident, which was made to look like a case of suicide, had attracted a lot of attention with chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, who holds the home portfolio, personally monitoring investigations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-accused-in-rape-murder-of-2-minor-girls-in-assam-shot-at-while-trying-to-flee-101623956420886.html
18-06-2021||India||Karnataka HC grants default bail to 115 people in DJ Halli violence case||Bengaluru: The Karnataka High Court on Wednesday granted default bail to 115 people arrested over the East Bengaluru riots last year, while keeping on hold a trial court’s order extending the time to complete the investigation by another 90 days, saying it was legally unsustainable. Justice S Vishwanath Shetty passed the order while allowing a batch of petitions filed by accused Muzammil Pasha and others, who were arrested on August 12, 2020. The National Investigation Agency (NIA), after it could not complete the probe within the stipulated 90 days, had filed an application in the trial court for an extension for completion of investigation under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA), 1967. The trail court had extended the time for completion of the investigation by 90 days in November last year and the applications filed by petitioners for default bail were rejected in January this year. Subsequently, Pasha and other accused moved the high court in January, this year. The HC on Wednesday noted that the application filed by the prosecution requesting an extension of time for completion of the investigation, without notifying the accused, would frustrate their indefeasible right for statutory bail. The riots were triggered by a Facebook post by Naveen P, nephew of Congress MLA from Pulakeshinagar constituency R Akhanda Srinivas Murthy, in DJ Halli and KG Halli areas. On August 11 last year, a mob gathered in those areas reacted after police sought time to take action over a complaint filed against Naveen’s post, which was termed derogatory to Muslims, as per the police complaint filed on August 11. Pasha, an accused in the case, had approached the DJ Halli police station with this complaint against Naveen at 7.45 pm on August 11. The attacks began at 9.30 pm and ended in the early hours of August 12 after MLAs and other senior leaders gathered at the spot, according to the FIR. Four people were killed in the riots, according to police. Police filed 68 FIRs in this case. In two FIRs, they invoked sections 15 and 16 (punishment for terrorist activity), section 18 (conspiracy to commit a terrorist act) and section 20 (being members of a terrorist organisation) of the UAPA. This was the largest number of people ever charged under the UAPA for a single incident of violence in Karnataka. The Bengaluru Police slapped the stringiest charges against the accused just days after a fact-finding committee, led by Bharatiya Janata Party leader Aravind Lambavalli, demanded an investigation by NIA. The central agency then took over the investigation into the case on September 11, 2020. The case had caught the attention of the human rights groups since it was the only riot case in which the government slapped UAPA charges, even though the state had reported witnessed 971 cases of riots in the past five years. Meanwhile, families in DJ Halli affected by the mass arrests claimed they have been wronged. A woman, whose husband was arrested in the case, told HT that she had CCTV footage to prove that her husband was not at the site of the riot. “There is CCTV footage showing him getting into the apartment from the only entry and exit to their building. He doesn’t come out there for the entire duration of the violence,” she claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-hc-grants-default-bail-to-115-people-in-dj-halli-violence-case-101623955579518.html
18-06-2021||India||Off-duty Kashmir cop shot dead near his house, 3rd cop to be killed in a week||Srinagar: An off-duty Jammu and Kashmir policeman was shot dead near his house in the old city of Srinagar on Thursday, police said.Javaid Ahmad was shot at by suspected militants near his home at Saidapora in Srinagar. He sustained a gunshot injury in his neck and was rushed to Sheri Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences, Soura.“There was firing on the policeman and he was taken to SKIMS but he has succumbed to his injuries,” an official manning police control room Srinagar said.Local reports said that the cop was on the protective detail of a judicial officer and was returning home when the attack happened.On Saturday, two policemen and as many civilians were killed and at least three others injured when suspected Lashkar operatives opened fire to target security forces in Sopore town of Baramulla district.The attack, which targeted a Sopore police station team on Covid-19 duty, was carried out by the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), according to J&K director general of police (DGP) Dilbag Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/offduty-kashmir-cop-shot-dead-near-his-house-3rd-cop-to-be-killed-in-a-week-101623954920957.html
18-06-2021||India||‘Remove shortcomings’: India tells Pakistan on bill permitting Jadhav to appeal||India on Thursday asked Pakistan to remove shortcomings in a bill passed by the country’s Parliament to allow Indian national Kulbhushan Jadhav, sentenced to death for alleged involvement in spying, to appeal against his conviction. The International Court of Justice (Review and Re-consideration) Bill of 2020 was passed by Pakistan’s National Assembly or lower house of Parliament on June 10. The bill, which is yet to clear the Senate or upper house, is aimed at ensuring consular access to Jadhav in line with an International Court of Justice (ICJ) verdict staying his death sentence and calling for a review of his conviction. External affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi told a weekly news briefing that Pakistan needs to take “appropriate steps to address the shortcomings in the bill and to comply with the judgement of the ICJ in letter and spirit”. On Tuesday, the Islamabad high court adjourned till October 5 the hearing of the Pakistan government’s petition regarding the appointing of a counsel for Jadhav following a request from attorney general Khalid Javed Khan. Bagchi said the bill passed by Pakistan’s National Assembly “codifies into law” an earlier ordinance “with all its shortcomings”. He added, “It does not create a machinery to facilitate effective review and reconsideration of Jadhav’s case, as mandated by the judgement of the ICJ.” He pointed out the ICJ had “ruled that Pakistan was in breach of its international obligations because of the failure to provide consular access to Jadhav”. “The ordinance, and now the bill, invites the municipal courts in Pakistan to decide whether or not any prejudice has been caused to Jadhav on account of the failure to provide consular access. This is clearly a breach of the basic tenet that municipal courts cannot be the arbiter of whether a state has fulfilled its obligations in international law,” Bagchi said. “Not only this, it further invites the municipal court to sit in appeal, as it were, over the judgement of the ICJ,” he added. Jadhav, a former Indian Navy officer, was arrested in March 2016 in Pakistan’s Balochistan province on charges of spying and sentenced to death the following year. India has rejected the charges levelled against him and said he was kidnapped by Pakistani operatives from the Iranian port of Chabahar, where he was running a business. The ICJ stayed Jadhav’s execution in 2018 and ruled the following year that Pakistan must undertake an “effective review and reconsideration” of his conviction and sentencing. Responding to another question on Pakistan foreign minister foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi writing a letter to the president of the UN Security Council and the UN secretary-general on reports that India may be contemplating further changes in Jammu and Kashmir, Bagchi made it clear that the region is an “integral part” of India and Islamabad should instead focus on tackling cross-border terrorism. “The union territory of Jammu and Kashmir is an integral part of India. No amount of questioning can change this reality. Also, cross-border terrorism is unacceptable and no amount of justification can make it acceptable,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/remove-shortcomings-india-tells-pakistan-on-bill-permitting-jadhav-to-appeal-101623954681005.html
18-06-2021||India||HS Doreswamy: A Gandhian who fought for people’s rights till the end||At the age of 103, he believed that doctors should not waste a bed on him. While Bengaluru was praying that the centenarian recovers from Covid-19 at the earliest, freedom fighter HS Doreswamy was telling hospital staff that he had lived his life and his bed should be given to someone younger.The doctors, out of respect for what he had done in life, refused to listen to him. He recovered from Covid-19. Doreswamy, who was hospitalised on May 6 after he tested positive for Covid-19, was discharged on May 12 as his condition improved.But 14 days later, he died due to a cardiac arrest.“The primary cause of his death was his heart condition, but the precipitating cause was Covid-19,” said CN Manjunath, director of Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research.For doctors such as Manjunath, letting a man like Doreswamy die on their watch was difficult.“He kept telling us that he had lived a full life and insisted that his bed be given to a young person. He questioned why he should get such good treatment. I tried to convince him and tell him we have no shortage of beds,” he said.Doreswamy has never held any political position and was the driving force behind several people’s movements in the state of Karnataka, often leading from the front, even at 102. He spoke for the people, regardless of the party in power.At the age of 23, he was first drawn towards the radical movement against the British government. With help of a friend, he began to plant bombs in government offices and postal boxes. “Our aim was not to harm anyone, but we wanted to disrupt the government machinery,” he told HT during an interview on February 18.His life took a turn in 1936 when he met Mahatma Gandhi in Bengaluru, and became his follower. “During the Quit India Movement, I helped organise a strike by all major cloth mills in the city, especially since they were stitching parachute cloth, used by the British in the Air Force during the war,” he recounts in his memoir Nenapina Suruli Teredaga, which translates as memories unravelled.He was jailed for 17 months between December 1942 and May 1944 for this, but Doreswamy described his time in the jail as being in university. “I learnt Hindi and Tamil. I even became good at volleyball during that time. We used to get lectures on politics from great leaders,” he said.From Vinoba Bhave’s Bhoodan movement in the 1950s to Jayaprakash Narayan’s Sampoorna Kranti movement in the 1970s, to India Against Corruption movement in the 2010s, Doreswamy was part of the several movements that followed. He was even jailed during the Emergency for writing a letter against then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi.“After the Emergency was announced, I wrote a letter to Indira Gandhi, saying she was a dictator. In the letter, I threatened to go from village to village and mobilise the people against her dictatorship. Soon after that, I held the first meeting in Gandhi Bazar (in Bengaluru). I was arrested. But I was in jail only for four months,” he recounted during the interview.“During the trial, the prosecution said that I had criticised the prime minister and that I was an enemy of the state. But that judge who was hearing my case said that I had every right to criticise the government and there is no proof to say that I am an enemy of the state. The judge then told the prosecution to ask the government under what charge should I be booked and released me,” he said.A vocal critic of the current Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government, he hit the streets to protest the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and the new farm laws, and was convinced that things would change.“Nothing is permanent,” he said when asked about the policies of the current government. “There will be ups and downs. During the freedom struggle there was Gandhi, during the emergency there was JP (Jayaprakash Narayan) and then Anna Hazare also came, even though he was misguided later. If not a leader, there will be a movement that takes on what is wrong in our country.”The centenarian was also a big believer in the young. When asked about the future of the movements he was part of, he had said: “Today’s young people are smart and wise. The young people of the country have always fought for the right causes. They know what should be done and no one can stop them.”It was almost as if he was passing on the baton.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hs-doreswamy-a-gandhian-who-fought-for-people-s-rights-till-the-end-101623954260831.html
18-06-2021||India||Jammu and Kashmir cop killed by suspected terrorists||Suspected terrorists shot dead a policeman in Saidapora area of Srinagar on Thursday, an official familiar with the matter said.Local reports suggested that Javaid Ahmad, who was serving as a guard to a judicial officer, was returning after duty when the attack took place near his residence.Police said the officer sustained injuries to his neck and was rushed to the Sheri Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences in Soura, where he was declared dead. “They fired at the policeman. He was taken to SKIMS but succumbed to injuries,” said the official, who was handling the police control room in Srinagar.Following the incident, security personnel were rushed to the area to trace the culprits.On Saturday, two policemen and as many civilians were killed, and at least three others were injured after suspected terrorists opened fire, targeting a police team on Covid-19 duty in Sopore town of Baramulla district.J&K director general of police (DGP) Dilbag Singh said the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) was behind the attack.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jk-cop-killed-by-suspected-terrorists-101623954260183.html
18-06-2021||India||Biological E’s vaccine efficacy same as Novavax: Government panel chief||Biological E’s made- in-India Covid-19 vaccine has shown very promising results in the initial trials and could have similar efficacy as that of US’ Novavax vaccine because of having a similar platform, Dr N K Arora, chief of the Centre’s Covid working group, said on Thursday.On Monday, Novavax announced that NVX-CoV2373, its recombinant nanoparticle protein-based Covid-19 vaccine that Serum Institute of India is locally manufacturing as Covovax, has demonstrated 100% protection against moderate and severe disease, and an overall efficacy of 90.4%.“Biological E’s vaccine is being developed on a similar platform and that is why we are hopeful that it will also have around 90% or above efficacy. If trials go as planned, we should have the vaccine out for use by October this year,” Arora said.The cost of the vaccine could be as low as ₹250 per two doses.“That is the estimated price that is being talked about but the final price could be different,” he said.Earlier this month, the Union health ministry announced that it had finalised arrangements with the Hyderabad-based vaccine manufacturer to reserve 300 million doses, even though the results of the phase I/II trials are yet to be made public and phase III trial is still underway.“These vaccine doses will be manufactured and stockpiled by M/s Biological-E from August-December 2021... ,” the ministry had said in a statement||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/biological-e-s-vaccine-efficacy-same-as-novavax-govt-panel-chief-101623954021243.html
18-06-2021||India||CBSE Class 12 formula out, results by July 31||The Supreme Court accepted on Thursday the formula to evaluate Class 12 students of the country’s two largest education boards – CBSE and CISCE – after the school-leaving examinations were cancelled this year due to the Covid-19 outbreak.The approved mechanism for CBSE (Central Board of Secondary Education) includes a 30:30:40 formula, which takes into account a student’s performance in the last three examinations (the 12th pre-board, the 11th finals, and the 10th board) to settle at a score for the theory component of the examination that could not be held.The theory portion accounts for 70% or 80% of a subject score, with the remainder coming from internal practical tests that most schools managed to complete prior to the outbreak of the second wave of Covid-19.In the case of Council for Indian School Certificate Examination (CISCE), the formula will take into consideration the students’ Class 10 ICSE Board exam results, project and practical work in subjects, and best marks obtained in school exams in classes 11 and 12.Both boards will also follow a score moderation policy in which individual scores will be tweaked to be in tune with a school’s past performance. CBSE will consider this on the basis of a reference year to reflect the school’s best performance in the last three years, while in the case of CISCE, it will be the school’s best performance over the last six years. CBSE and CISCE will declare results by July 31, they submitted to the bench of justices AM Khanwilkar and Dinesh Maheshwari, who asked the boards to incorporate a dispute resolution mechanism.School administrators said the mechanisms to evaluate the students represent the best way forward during an unprecedented time.“There were very few options available for the evaluation of Class 12 students without actually taking their exams. It was also not justifiable to evaluate students only based on Class 12 internal exams or pre-boards. Besides, if some people think that the inclusion of Class 11 marks will put students in a disadvantageous position, they should also consider that the best of three marks in Class 10 will compensate for that. Overall, the formula is student-friendly,” said Ashok Pandey, director of Ahlcon Schools in Delhi.Some students and parents expressed concerns about the policy to consider scores from Class 11, saying that many schools have tough marking criteria in the year in order to prepare students for the board exams the next year.Aprajita Gautam, president of Delhi Parents Association and mother of a Class 12 student, said schools must keep these factors in mind while marking students. “Class 11 students take some time to settle in with their new subjects and curriculum. Schools also do strict marking in Class 11 to prepare them for boards. Class 12 pre-boards were also conducted amid the chaos of the pandemic. These factors call for a humanitarian approach while compiling results by schools.” “The question papers for classes 11 and 12 internals are always tough. Besides, students were appearing for various competitive examinations while preparing for their pre-boards. The current evaluation pattern will put students at a disadvantage because these marks will be used for our higher education prospects as well,” said Riya Chauhan, 17, a Class 12 student at Modern Public School in Shalimar Bagh. During Thursday’s hearing, the court said: “We make it clear that the concerned Boards may formulate the final scheme on the above lines and include the two suggestions given by the Court, which may then be notified.”Applying this rule, each school will form a five-member Results Committee with the principal, two senior-most teachers of Class 12 of that school, and two teachers of Class 12 from a neighbouring school. The CBSE scheme was devised by a 13-member expert panel, and the CISCE scheme was formulated by a nine-member committee.Both schemes provided for an option for students to appear in a physical exam. CBSE, which caters to 1.45 million Class 12 students, did not specify a date for holding the exam. Attorney general KK Venugopal told the court that it was hard to lay down a time limit. “The examination is to be conducted when conditions are conducive. That depends on Covid-19 vanishing from India,” he said.The bench said, “Most students will be happy with the scheme but some outer limit must be provided for students who want to take this examination. This can be subject to situation prevailing then.”The petitioner, Mamta Sharma, accepted the schemes of CBSE and CISCE, and supported the suggestions made by the court. The lone voice of dissent came from Uttar Pradesh Parents Association, which challenged the decision to cancel the examinations when conditions were conducive for holding it physically.Association counsel, senior advocate Vikas Singh, cited the example of Common Law Aptitude Test (CLAT) being conducted physically.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbse-class-12-formula-out-results-by-july-31-101623953665295.html
18-06-2021||India||Centre formalises mechanism for TV channels’ regulation||The government has amended the Cable Television Networks Rules, 1994, to mandate that the ad-hoc structure of self-regulation now be brought under a formal framework with a three-tier mechanism similar to what recently been announced for streaming content services as part of the new information technology rules.The Union government issued a gazette notification dated June 17, which says there must be self-regulation by broadcasters, self-regulation by the self-regulating bodies of the broadcasters, and an oversight mechanism by the government.A government official said the new guidelines will apply across entertainment channels, news channels and other cable channels. “There’s around 900 channels,” said an official from the ministry, who asked not to be named. “They are already part of a system, there is already a self-regulation, just putting a legal term,” the official said.Broadcasters also have to issue an acknowledgment of a complaint received within 24 hours of it being filed.The complainant, if not satisfied with the response that has to be filed within 15 days, can further escalate the complaint to the self-regulatory body. The self-regulatory body has sixty days to address the complaint, failing which the complainant can escalate the matter to oversight mechanism, which will be an inter-ministerial government body.“Additional Secretary in the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, and consisting of representatives from the Ministry of Women and Child Development, Ministry of Home Affairs, Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, Ministry of External Affairs, Ministry of Defence, and representatives of such other Ministries and Organisations, including experts, as the Central Government may decide,” the government said in its notification.NDTV editorial director Sonia Singh, who is on the News Broadcasters Association board, said that the government’s directives were being studied and a response could be expected in a few days.Former minister for information and broadcasting Manish Tewari said similar guidelines have been under government consideration for quite some time. “The government has decided to embed a statutory framework for what was earlier an ad-hoc mechanism,” he said, adding: “Ever since the television space was liberalised in the 1990s this has been under consideration. A better assessment can be offered once we read the fine print of the government’s new guidelines.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-formalises-mechanism-for-tv-channels-regulation-101623953539909.html
18-06-2021||India||MK Stalin calls on PM Modi with 25 demands||MK Stalin, the chief minister of Tamil Nadu, called on Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday to discuss issues related to the state and also raised the demand for repealing the citizenship amendment act and the three new farm laws. This was Stalin’s first visit to Delhi, and his first meeting with the PM after assuming office in May. Stalin’s Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam won the elections in the state in alliance with the Congress, defeating the AIADMK-BJP grouping.Speaking to reporters following the meeting, Stalin said he was happy and satisfied with the interaction. “He assured me that he will support Tamil Nadu in all its development work,” the TN CM, who submitted a list of 25 demands to the PM, said.Among the issues raised by Stalin were: the release of pending GST dues to the state; declaring Tamil as the official language in the Madras high court; and granting citizenship to Sri Lankan refugees in Tamil Nadu.Stalin also sought the scrapping of NEET, the common medical test, and revoking the new education policy. Both the DMK and the AIADMK have argued that it goes against the principles of social justice, and disadvantages underprivileged students.“He (Stalin) told me the meeting was cordial,” said a DMK MP not wishing to be named.“We have placed several issues with the Prime Minister and there may be problems in a few (demands) as they are BJP’s core issues. Let us see how many he considers.”Left leaders Sitaram Yechury and D Raja met Stalin in Tamil Nadu house late on Thursday. On Friday, Stalin is likely to meet Congress leaders Sonia and Rahul Gandhi before he flies back to Chennai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stalin-calls-on-pm-with-25-demands-101623953359901.html
18-06-2021||India||India concerned over lack of uniform vaccination requirements across world||India on Thursday called for a “constructive solution” to problems faced by students whose plans to travel to the US to join classes in the autumn have been hit by the absence of uniform vaccination requirements.The US embassy began scheduling visa interviews for Indian students this week and American officials have said applicants won’t require proof of Covid-19 vaccination to enter the US. Students will only require a negative Covid-19 test conducted three days prior to their departure.While thousands of students have secured visa appointments for July and August, some American educational institutions are calling for applicants who got the Covaxin or Sputnik V shots to be re-vaccinated as these jabs are not recognised by US authorities.Asked about these issues at a weekly news briefing, external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said: “There is no uniformity in the requirements. The US government has clarified that vaccination is not a mandatory requirement for our students to travel.”He said “multiple conversations” were on between India students and the US universities. “We would obviously support out students. I think everyone concerned is interested in ensuring that the students are able to reach the universities and undertake regular classes and we hope that a constructive solution is found,” he added.Covaxin and Covishield are the two main jabs being used in India’s vaccination programme. Covishield, which is the AstraZeneca vaccine made in India, has been granted an emergency use listing by the World Health Organization (WHO), and is accepted under the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s (CDC) guidelines for entry of foreign travellers.While ruling out the possibility of India issuing any “vaccine passport” at the present time, Bagchi said global discussions on this issue should be conducted in the context of vaccines being more widely available around the world.“There is an ongoing global debate on this issue of so-called vaccine passports. We feel this has to be linked to the larger issue of vaccine equity, given that many developing countries have not yet been able to vaccinate a large percentage of their population,” he said.“We would favour discussions on the subject of vaccine passports with greater focus on vaccine equity. I don’t have any information about India issuing any vaccine passport,” he said.In response to another question on the sharing of the US administration’s plans to share 80 million surplus doses of vaccines with countries around the world, Bagchi said India is still awaiting details regarding the timeline and quantity of shots that will be shared with various countries.Bagchi also said India is hopeful the process of the WHO granting emergency use authorisation for the Covaxin shot developed by Bharat Biotech will be expeditiously completed. “We are keeping a close watch on this issue. Our expectation would be that this process would be completed speedily,” he said.Bharat Biotech submitted an expression of interest for emergency use authorisation to WHO on April 19. The UN’s health agency sought more information from Bharat Biotech following the submission.WHO’s latest update on emergency use listing of Covid-19 vaccines, issued on June 16, shows that a pre-submission meeting is planned for June 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-concerned-over-lack-of-uniform-vaccination-requirements-across-world-101623953240693.html
18-06-2021||India||Centre, forces refine theaterisation plans before seeking CCS approval||The defence ministry and the armed forces are refining the military’s theaterisation plans through internal consultations and detailed discussions with other ministries involved before seeking the approval of the Cabinet Committee on Security (CCS) to implement the long-awaited military reform to optimally utilise the resources of the armed forces, senior officials familiar with the developments said on condition of anonymity on Thursday.Different aspects related to theaterisation were discussed and examined in detail by top government officials who reviewed a draft cabinet note on new joint structures at a meeting held in South Block earlier this month, said an official.The key points discussed included the executing authority for theatre commands, the geographies they will control, command and control structures, budgeting, extending the service of senior three-star officers who will take over as theatre commanders and placing some paramilitary forces under the commands, said a second official. Some of these issues involve the finance and home ministries.Theaterisation refers to placing specific units of the army, the navy and the air force under a theatre commander. Such commands are to be led by an officer from any of the services, depending on the roles assigned.HT reported in February that India was set to begin a formal roll-out of its long-awaited theaterisation plan, with the Air Defence Command and the Maritime Theatre Command likely to be launched by May. Deliberations on the proposal may take more time as all stakeholders have to be brought on board. “Processes have to be followed before the proposal is sent to the CCS for approval. We have to have more discussions to iron out the details... But there will be no inordinate delay,” said the first official.Apart from the Air Defence and Maritime Theatre Commands, India is expected to have three other integrated commands to secure its western, northern and eastern fronts. In addition, a logistics command is in the works to avoid duplication of efforts and resources. “Some paramilitary forces, which come under the home ministry, may be subsumed into the theatre commands. The coast guard will also come under the Maritime Theatre Command...,” said the second official.Experts said building consensus among stakeholders was crucial to take the theaterisation plan forward. “A final decision will be taken after due deliberations to streamline all aspects related to theatre commands. I hope theaterisation is accorded top priority,” said former director general of military operations Lieutenant General Vinod Bhatia (retd).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-forces-refine-theaterisation-plans-before-seeking-ccs-approval-101623953239081.html
18-06-2021||India||Paras faction names him LJP chief, Chirag Paswan moves EC over party’s symbol||The bitter power struggle for control of Bihar’s Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) escalated on Thursday as rebel MP Pashupati Kumar Paras was unanimously elected as the new national president by his faction, even as the group headed by his nephew and MP Chirag Paswan approached the Election Commission in New Delhi to stop Paras from using the party’s symbol and flag in its meeting.Chirag Paswan also declared that he has convened a meeting of the party’s national executive committee on Sunday, rejecting his uncle’s election as the party president.Paswan, according to news agency PTI, insisted that the meeting held in Patna was “unconstitutional” and lacked a quorum.The Paras faction of the party “removed” Chirag Paswan from the president’s post on Tuesday, and appointed a loyalist, Suraj Bhan Singh as working president.On Thursday, Singh announced that 68-year-old Paras was the party’s new president.“I will try to take the party forward by taking all sections of the society together,” Paras told reporters in Patna soon after his faction named him the new party chief.The crisis in the LJP began on Sunday, when five LJP Lok Sabha members replaced Chirag Paswan with Paras.On Monday, the Lok Sabha secretariat issued a notification recognising Paras as the parliamentary party chief.Paras blamed his nephew for the family feud.“When a nephew becomes dictator, what will the uncle do,” he said, rubbishing Paswan’s insistence earlier that he could not be removed as the party chief.Paras said nobody can be the party president for life in a democratic system.“The president has to be elected after a period. According to the constitution of our party, the president has to be elected every 2-3 years,” he said.Chirag Paswan’s last-minute move to convene a meeting of the national executive is seen as a show of strength to counter the perception that he, after losing control of the parliamentary party, had lost the support of the executive as well. A LJP leader said Paswan could also use the proceedings of the proposed meeting on Sunday to back up its case before the Election Commission.LJP’s secretary general Abdul Khaliq said a physical meeting of its national executive will be held in the national capital on Sunday to reiterate Paswan’s earlier election as its national president.Patna high court lawyer Amit Shrivastava said as and when the dispute formally reaches the Election Commission, the panel would be guided by the LJP constitution.“The provisions and clauses in the LJP’s party constitution will be the determining factor in deciding whether any decision regarding appointment or termination of membership taken by the party top leaders is right or wrong, if any of the parties move court. The LJP is a recognised party by the Election Commission and is guided by the party constitution,” said Shrivastava.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/paras-faction-names-him-ljp-chief-chirag-moves-ec-over-party-s-symbol-101623953119028.html
18-06-2021||India||Kids, adults have similar antibodies: AIIMS Sero Survey||The exposure of children to Covid-19 has been similar to adults’, a serological surveillance study spearheaded by the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) has found, addressing fears that a third wave of Covid-19 could disproportionately affect children.The seroprevalence, presence of virus-fighting antibodies against Sars-CoV-2, among children was 55.7% across five study sites, in comparison to 63.5% among adults -- the difference was judged to be statistically insignificant.In Delhi, which was one of the five sites for the study, the researchers found that 74.7% of the population – both children and adults – had been exposed to the infection. This is much higher seroprevalence that the state government’s survey from January where 56.1% were found to have antibodies against the virus. The samples for the AIIMS study were collected between April and May, and would not have detected antibodies of those who got the infection during the second wave.There was also an urban-rural divide in prevalence in Delhi-NCR.As compared to the 74.7% in urban settlements of South Delhi, the prevalence was 59.3% in villages of Delhi and Ballabhgarh. “Results show that a large majority of the population had already been infected by the time we conducted the study at Delhi urban site which belongs to lower and middle socioeconomic strata population and very congested neighbourhood,” the study said. With all locations other than Delhi being rural, the average seroprevalence in rural areas stood at 58.8% as per the study.The highest seroprevalence was found in Gorakhpur, Uttar Pradesh where 87.9% of the people had been exposed to the infection.More importantly, the seroprevalence among children and adults in the same regions were similar.“Wherever the prevalence of antibodies was high among the adults, it was high among the children, busting the myth that so far children have been less affected. The thing is, the binding of the virus to the human cell receptors is not very good in children and hence they mostly develop either asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic infection,” said Dr Sanjay Rai, one of the authors of the study and the head of the department of community medicine at the AIIMS.He added, “People have been saying that after the young, the third wave will impact children more. The fact is most of them have been already exposed to the infection along with their families. And, numerous studies have now shown that natural infection can provide better and longer protection against a second infection.”The data for 4,509 study participants was collected between March and June of this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kids-adults-have-similar-antibodies-sero-survey-101623953000262.html
18-06-2021||India||Uttarakhand CM, ex-CM trade barbs on fake Covid tests during Kumbh Mela||Uttarakhand chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat and former chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat clashed on Thursday over allegations of fake Covid tests during the Kumbh Mela in Haridwar as police lodged the first FIR in the case against a local agency accused of fabricating thousands of rapid tests.The state health department lodged an FIR against Max Corporate Services, Delhi-based Lalchandani Labs and Hisar-based Nalwa Labs on the basis of a complaint by Haridwar chief medical officer Shambhu Kumar Jha. The three labs were booked for negligence, spreading disease, cheating and criminal conspiracy, and under sections of the 2005 disaster management act and the 1897 epidemic diseases act.The controversy also turned political on Thursday as former CM Rawat called for an impartial investigation. “This (the testing allegations) is a serious crime, not negligence. Stringent action should be taken and an impartial investigation should be conducted,” Rawat said.Later in the day, CM Rawat defended himself. “I came in March and this is an old issue. When we got information about this, we immediately instituted an inquiry... Strict action will be taken against the guilty,” he said.Tirath Singh Rawat replaced Trivendra Singh Rawat in March this year, weeks before the mega holy event was to kick off in Haridwar. One of the CM’s first decisions was to approve a full-scale Kumbh mela despite experts warning that social distancing and adequate testing will be impossible at a time infections were climbing across the country. Eventually, 9.1 million pilgrims took the holy dip in the Ganga from January 14 to April 27. The bulk of this — at least six million people — congregated in April, coinciding with the worst surge in the second wave.Allegations of fake testing surfaced last week after a Faridkot resident complained to the authorities that he received a message for collecting his Covid report despite never having been tested. The complaint triggered a probe that unearthed roughly 100,000 fake rapid antigen tests.Real-time data checking through the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) portal revealed fake entries on basis of mobile numbers and addresses of people who were never tested. Many people said they had not even visited Haridwar in April.In Haridwar, station house officer of city police station, Rajesh Shah, said Max Corporate Services brought in Nalva Lab and Lalchandani Lab by signing a pact. These labs conducted tests at five places in Haridwar.Max Corporate Services (a private firm unrelated to the Max healthcare group) didn’t respond to requests for a comment. Nalva Labs denied the allegations and said while the lab signed an MoU with Max, there was no financial transactions and the agreement was called off in April last week.Lalchandani Labs also denied the allegations and said they only conducted 10,000 rapid tests. “We conducted the tests in the first 20 days.... we were asked to conduct RT-PCR tests, which was not logistically possible so we stopped,” said Arjan Lalchandani, managing director.The Kumbh Mela Health administration has opened a separate probe and will reach out to every person whose name and mobile number was found in the Covid-19 testing data. “A four-member panel is probing this matter,” said Mela Health officer Dr Arjun Singh Sengar.During the Kumbh from April 1 to 30, 600,831 Covid-19 tests were conducted of which only 17,317 were positive. This translated to a positivity rate of 2.88% at a time the whole state was reporting 14% infection rate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ukhand-cm-ex-cm-trade-barbs-on-fake-covid-tests-101623952879067.html
18-06-2021||India||Ahead of monsoon session, at least 403 Lok Sabha MPs have taken both jabs||At least 403 members of the Lok Sabha, nearly three-fourth of its current strength of 540, have received both doses of Covid-19 vaccines ahead of the monsoon session of Parliament, said a top functionary of Indian Parliament, raising hopes that next month’s session will not need to be curtailed.Some members of Parliament (MP) have not been able to take their second jab yet as they contracted Covid-19 after the first dose, the functionary said on condition of anonymity. To be sure, research has shown that people who have had an infection and one dose of the vaccine have very high protection against the virus.“Another 30 MPs have not sent us any communication. We are trying to contact them to know their vaccination status,” the functionary added.The pandemic has affected Parliament sessions since March 2020, forcing early closure of last year’s budget and monsoon sessions and this year’s budget session. The 2020 winter session was skipped altogether due to the public health crisis.The high rate of vaccination among the lawmakers and parliament staff improves chances of a longer parliament session and higher productivity. More than 40 bills and five ordinances are pending before Parliament in a session that comes after the end of a bruising second wave of the pandemic that hit India hard in April and May.So far, at least 50 lawmakers have been affected by the Covid-19 and at least three MPs, including minister of state for railways Suresh Angadi, died of Covid-19 or Covid- related complications.The number of Rajya Sabha lawmakers who have received both doses wasn’t immediately available. Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla opened a Covid-19 vaccination centre in the Parliament complex in March to cater to the lawmakers, their family and parliamentary officials. The exclusive centre helped in quick vaccination of MPs and the officials to create a safer health environment ahead of the session.There is still a possibility that people can get the infection despite the jab but the symptoms will be much milder. The vaccines have shown very high efficacy in protecting people from hospitalisation, even when the infection is caused by the new delta strain of the virus.Top parliament officials said that RT-PCR tests and social distancing norms will remain part of the protocol in Parliament as parts of India continue to report new cases.“But vaccination will not be mandatory for MPs to attend Parliament. We are encouraging them to take the vaccines and providing them with all facilities,” said the top functionary.The count of vaccinated MPs include those who got the shots in Parliament as well as other vaccination sitesIndia has administered 265 million doses of vaccines to 215.6 million people, one of the world’s largest vaccination drives. Apart from the Covishield and Covaxin vaccines that are manufactured in the country, India has also procured stocks of Russian Sputnik V which will be produced in India from the second half of the year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-monsoon-session-at-least-403-lok-sabha-mps-have-taken-both-jabs-101623952040288.html
18-06-2021||India||Supreme Court asks Haryana to evict residents of Aravalli slums||The Supreme Court on Thursday directed the Haryana government to evict thousands of slum-dwellers encroaching on Aravalli forest land in Faridabad district and clear all encroachments by July 19.A plea was moved jointly by four people living in Khori Gaon in Faridabad, requesting the court to restrain the authorities from carrying out demolition and give them some more time to produce documents to prove their claims for rehabilitation. But the bench of justices A M Khanwilkar and Dinesh Maheshwari referred to its June 7 order on another petition in which it had refused to stay the demolition drive and directed the municipal corporation of Faridabad to finish clearing the hutments within six weeks.“We want our forest land to be cleared. We have given enough time to the occupants and said repeatedly that they will have to vacate. But if they happen to be still there, it is at their own risk. It is forest land, not some other land. It has to be cleared,” the bench said.Advocate Aparna Bhat, appearing for the dwellers in the fresh petition, submitted that there were around 10,000 families on the site, including women and children, who had nowhere to go once their hutments were pulled down.But the bench was unmoved. “Don’t give us numbers. For how long have they been occupying this forestland? When it came to our notice, we also passed an order in April last year, giving you ample time to produce relevant documents so that you could be rehabilitated. But you did nothing. The forestland has to be cleared now...what has been happening is extraordinary. This is not the rule of law. There cannot be petitions after petitions,” the bench said.Bhat pleaded for a stay by saying that the demolition drive was being carried out without verifying the documents the people could produce in place of the title deeds. But the court, unconvinced, said the petitioners “missed the bus” by doing nothing to produce the documents in the year since the demolition drive was notified by the corporation in February 2020.“You have missed the bus. You accepted the order last year and never wanted any modification. You cannot come up with new excuses every time. We can only reiterate in our order that they will follow the law and will adhere to the rehabilitation scheme,” the court said.On her part, Bhat again emphasised that most of the dwellers were poor migrants and destitute, but the court said: “That is for the state to consider how damage can be minimised. We are only concerned about eviction of the forest area. We gave you more than a year to do the needful. You cannot keep on occupying the forest areas.”Appearing for the Haryana government, additional advocate general Ruchi Kohli complained of stone pelting by occupants during the demolition drive. The bench, however, retorted: “You know what to do. We don’t have to say anything. We want our orders to be complied with.”The court said it cannot “indulge” the petitioner and added that the “corporation and state authorities may proceed on the basis of the commitment given to this court” that demolition will follow the due process and rehabilitation will be examined as per the state’s scheme.The bench has fixed July 27 as the next date of hearing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sc-asks-haryana-to-evict-residents-of-aravalli-slums-101623952038935.html
18-06-2021||India||China unit targets Indian telcos, firms in cyber espionage||A suspected unit of Chinese cyber soldiers targeted Indian telecom companies, government agencies and several defence contractors, a cyber threats intelligence company said on Thursday, disclosing what it said was technical evidence of these operations and links to a specific People’s Liberation Army (PLA) unit.The findings were published by the United States-headquartered Recorded Future, which earlier this year reported evidence of sustained Chinese cyber operations targeting India’s critical infrastructure in the power and ports sectors. The unit exposed in March was called RedEcho, while the new group has been identified as RedFoxtrot.“Recorded Future’s Insikt Group identified the suspected Chinese state-sponsored group we track as RedFoxtrot targeting multiple Indian organisations throughout 2020 and 2021.“Within India specifically, we identified the group successfully targeting two telecommunications organisations, three defense contractors, and several additional government and private sector organisations in the past 6 months,” said a person from Recorded Future’s Insikt Group, the division that tracks advanced cyber threats.A person in India’s cybersecurity establishment did not respond to requests for a comment on the report.“Notably, this activity took place at a time of heightened tensions between India and China,” the Insikt represenative added in a discussion over email with HT. The affected organisations have been notified.In a separate blog post, Recorded Future said the findings were were based on analysis of network traffic, footprint of the malware used by the attackers, domain registration records and data transmitting from the possible targets.While the campaign reported earlier this year appeared to be focussed on breaching critical infrastructure in India -- the targets purportedly included National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) plants -- the new campaign seems “more aligned with traditional PLA-linked activity in gathering military intelligence”.“We believe RedFoxtrot conducts cyber espionage operations to gather intelligence on military and defense matters based on the consistent targeting of organisations within this field,” the person quoted above said, while explaining that targeting of telecommunications companies could include “strategic intelligence gathering through monitoring of downstream targets (telecommunications customers), bulk collection of communication data, as well as the ability to track and monitor individual targets”.State-on-state cyber operations typically fall in two categories: sabotage and espionage, with the latter being more common – although both are equally hard to detect and attribute.In March 2021, the Indian Computer Emergency Response Team (Cert-IN) said it found signs of China-linked cyber actors conducting an espionage campaign against the Indian transportation sector.China and China-linked cyber operations have been seen as a persistent threat in India. “In relation to other ‘Big Four’ adversaries, China, and the PLA, is one of the world’s biggest cyber powers, both in terms of sophistication and the scale of operations. The recent US ODNI (Office of the Director of National Intelligence) annual threat assessment stated China is ‘a prolific and effective cyber-espionage threat, possesses substantial cyber-attack capabilities, and presents a growing influence threat’,” the Recorded Future representative said.Recorded Future’s analysis found RedFoxtrot was linked to PLA unit 69010, and identified a location in Urumqi, Xinjiang, as the possible headquarters. “Due to lax operational security measures employed by a suspected RedFoxtrot operator, Insikt Group linked the threat group to the physical address of Unit 69010’s headquarters,” it said.“RedFoxtrot has primarily targeted aerospace and defense, government, telecommunications, mining, and research organisations in Afghanistan, India, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Pakistan, Tajikistan, and Uzbekistan. These targets suggest the group is likely interested in gathering intelligence on military technology and defence,” the report said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-unit-targets-indian-telcos-firms-in-cyber-espionage-101623951378842.html
18-06-2021||India||Encounter specialist cop Pradeep Sharma arrested over Antilia bomb scare||In a major breakthrough in the Antilia explosives scare and the Mansukh Hiran murder case, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Thursday arrested former Mumbai Police officer Pradeep Sharma after an early morning raid at his residence on Thursday.NIA officials said Sharma had a role to play in the “larger conspiracy” in which 20 loose gelatin sticks were planted in a Scorpio parked outside billionaire Mukesh Ambani’s South Mumbai residence on February 25, following which the body of a Thane industrialist to whom the car belonged, turned up in a creek on the outskirts of Mumbai on March 5.The federal agency on Thursday also arrested two more men in connection with Hiran’s death -- Satish Mothukari (also known as Tanni or Vicky Baba) and Manish Soni -- and produced the three before a special court seeking their custody.The agency told the court that Mothukari and Soni along with Santosh Shelar and Anand Jadhav – the NIA had arrested the latter two last week -- had smothered Hiran in a red Tavera car on Ghodbunder Road in Thane and dumped his body in creek near Mumbra, at the behest of Sharma and former Mumbai cop Sachin Vaze. The special court remanded the trio to NIA custody till June 28.The NIA arrested Vaze on March 13 and claimed that he was the mastermind behind the explosives scare and the murder. Vaze, currently in custody, has denied the charges in the court.During the Thursday raid, NIA officials seized a printer, a computer and a laptop from Sharma’s Andheri residence. They also recovered an unlicensed firearm and ammunition.“The NIA conducted a raid at his residence located in JB Nagar in Mumbai’s Andheri (West) around 6am and the operation continued for several hours. The officials recovered some incriminating documents from his house,” news agency PTI quoted an NIA official as saying.An NIA team had picked up Sharma from Amby Valley near the hill station of Lonavla on Wednesday night and brought him to its office in south Mumbai for questioning, an official said. Sharma is the fifth policeman to be arrested by the NIA, which has so far held 10 persons in connection with this case.Prosecutor Sunil Gonsalves told the court that Soni drove the car while the Shelar, Jadhav and Mothukari smothered Hiran in the car and then dumped his body in creek. Gonsalves said that they informed Vaze and Sharma after the murder and received a large sum for murdering Hiran. Some of that award has been recovered, the NIA prosecutor said.“Everything was done at the instance of Vaze and Sharma,” Gonsalves said and added that the NIA has everything to prove their case. He said that Mothukari and Soni confessed to the murder, while Shelar showed NIA officers the spot where Hiran was murdered. The agency has seized the Tavera and found some blood stains in the vehicle. The DNA has been collected and sent for forensic examination.“Sharma is an ex-cop but he roams with a revolver which is unlicensed. Why was he contacted by the murderers?” said Gonsalves. Meanwhile, Sharma said he had been framed. “If I was really involved, would I be sleeping in my house? I am a retired police officer,” he said.Advocate Sudeep Pasbola who represented Sharma opposed the remand plea and said that Sharma was called by NIA twice and interrogated for about 10 hours. There was no material to support the claims made by the federal agency, he said. Sharma said the revolver was purchased by him in 1997 and was licenced, but the license was not renewed.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/antiliahiran-murder-case-nia-arrests-ex-encounter-cop-101623951139465.html
18-06-2021||India||Army brass reviews situation along LAC, LoC||The army brass on Thursday kicked off a two-day conference in the Capital to discuss important organisational and operational matters, including the situation along the country’s borders with China and Pakistan, officials familiar with the development said.The biennial Army Commanders’ Conference is chaired by the army chief.“The operational situation on the northern and western borders was reviewed on the opening day of the conference, chaired by army chief General MM Naravane,” said one of the officials cited above.The review is significant against the backdrop of the ongoing negotiations for disengagement of Indian and Chinese soldiers from friction points along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh, and the ceasefire between Indian and Pakistani armies holding at the Line of Control (LoC), the official added.The conference is taking place at a time when India and China have only had limited success in hammering out an agreement for disengagement of their soldiers deployed at friction points on the LAC.The Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) have held 11 rounds of talks between corps commander-rank officers since June 6, 2020, to reduce tensions along the disputed border.The only significant outcome of the military dialogue has been the disengagement of front-line troops and weaponry in the Pangong Tso sector in mid-February after the ninth round of talks.Talks have not made any headway in resolving the problems at Hot Springs, Gogra and Depsang.Things have, however, been quiet on the LoC after the Indian and Pakistani militaries announced on February 25 that they had begun observing a ceasefire along the LoC from midnight of February 24. India and Pakistan had agreed to a ceasefire on the LoC in November 2003, but it was frequently violated.Last month, the army chief said that the restoration of ceasefire between the two armies was holding, had led to a significant drop in infiltration by terrorists from Pakistan and contributed to the overall sense of peace and well-being in border areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-brass-reviews-situation-along-lac-loc-101623951138856.html
18-06-2021||India||Received one dose of Covid-19 vaccine? Know how protected you are||With the vaccination drive against Covid-19 expanding every day, the number of people in India who are fully vaccinated stands at over 5 crore, while over 21 crore people have received the first dose of the vaccine. Since all the currently available vaccines comprise two doses, the Centre is urging everyone, especially frontline workers, to complete the course by getting both doses. Having said that, the Centre has also said that the first dose too offers some protection. But it is not desirable to take only one shot, it has been reiterated.First dose versus 2nd doseAccording to a PGI Chandigarh study, vaccine effectiveness is 75 per cent for all those who received the first dose and both doses. The government's Covid-19 expert group chairman Dr NK Arora has said that the study proves that at least in the short run, effectiveness is similar notwithstanding whether one has received one dose or both doses. "If you received only one dose, still you are protected," Dr Arora said.Another study on Covishield reveals that the protection of one dose is around 61 per cent, and for two doses it's 65 per cent.Explained: Why there are demands to cut the gap between two Covishield doses“A few days back, another very important study by CMC Vellore, Tamil Nadu which covers most of the current epidemic wave India experienced in April and May 2021 shows that if somebody is partially immunized, vaccine effectiveness of Covishield is 61% and with two doses, the effectiveness is 65% - and there is very little difference, especially since there is some degree of uncertainty involved in these calculations," the Centre has said.Chances of reinfection after the first dose and 2nd doseChances of reinfection after vaccination is not negligible as incidents of infection between the doses have also been reported. The Centre said two organisations in Delhi are studying vaccine efficiency. “And both these studies show that breakthrough infection with one dose is around 4%, and around 5% with two doses, basically hardly any difference. And the other study shows that 1.5% - 2% breakthrough infections," the government said.Why is the efficiency of the 1st dose in question?The government has extended the gap between the first dose and the second dose of the Covishield vaccine to three months. Hence, it is being studied how long the first dose protects. For Covaxin, the gap between the doses remains 28 days but the efficiency of one dose is also being studied.What do international studies say?Public Health England has recently said that the protection of the first shot of the Oxford vaccine (Covishield in India) is not as much as it was thought earlier. Hence, a few countries are again narrowing the gap between the doses of Oxford vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/received-one-dose-of-covid-19-vaccine-know-how-protected-you-are-101623947209502.html
18-06-2021||India||‘Dilutes your credibility’: Government’s notice to Twitter in toolkit case||In two letters sent to social media company Twitter on May 21 and May 25, the government cited the “percepts of natural justice” to persuade the firm to remove the “manipulated media tag” on the tweets by several senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders.The letters are significant milestones in events of the past few months that have seen relationship between Twitter and the government deteriorate even as the company dragged its feet and missed a May 25 deadline for complying with new guidelines for IT intermediaries.“It’s baffling that at this critical juncture, Twitter has chosen unilaterally to go ahead and designate certain tweets as ‘Manipulated’,” designated officer Pronab Mohanty, who heads an inter-ministerial committee that looks after take-down orders issued by the government, said in his letter to Twitter on May 21. “This dilutes the credibility of Twitter as a neutral and unbiased platform facilitating exchange of views by investigation by the law enforcement agency, also puts a question mark on the status of Twitter as an intermediary.“On May 18, Twitter tagged a post by BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra and other senior BJP leaders, including Rajya Sabha MP Vinay Sahasrabuddhe and party’s national social media in-charge Priti Gandhi, as “manipulated media”. The tweets alleged that the Congress had circulated a document (a toolkit) that outlined ways to defame Prime Minister Narendra Modi and build a biased narrative over the Indian government’s handling of the second wave of Covid-19, and the Central Vista Project. The matter is also being investigated by the special cell of Delhi Police.The letter accused Twitter of “overreach” for applying the tag. “In this light, such unilateral designation of the ‘toolkit’ as manipulated seeks to influence and overreach the fair investigation process, which is totally unwarranted,” Mohanty said in the letter. In its response dated May 22, Twitter told the government that it did not aim to influence any legal proceedings. “In doing so (tagging the content), we certainly did not intend to impact any inquiry that a governmental entity or a law enforcement agency in India might be conducting in connection with those Tweets,” it said. The government, however, said in its second letter on May 25 that the “views of Twitter will likely percolate into the fabric of the ongoing investigation and impact its outcome in a manner that will put its impartiality and objectivity in question”.Twitter’s response also sought to explain the placing of the tag: “With respect to the Tweets that are the focus of your letter, we determined that those tweets violated our synthetic and manipulated media policies as described above. As a result, and consistent with those policies and our status as a private platform, we applied the appropriate label to those violative tweets.”Twitter has, however in the past, asserted that it follows policies that are clearly outlined on its website when it comes to tagging any media as manipulated or fabricated. These internal rules have been invoked to label prominent persons like former US President Donald Trump in the past.The exchange between the government and Twitter was made available to digital rights advocacy group Internet Freedom Foundation in response to a right to information request. HT has seen and reviewed the exchange, which has not been reported before. Separately, because of its tardiness in complying with the new guidelines for social media intermediaries, Twitter runs the risk of losing the protection against liability that such companies enjoy for content posted on their platform, although experts said this is something the courts, not the IT ministry will have to decide.The IT ministry pressed the issue, seeking the logic behind the tagging in its second letter on May 25. This letter said that the company should be transparent in applying the criteria “specified in its Platform Policies and afford a chance for users whose Tweets have been tagged as manipulated”. “Till this opportunity is given, the tagging should remain in abeyance.”A government official familiar with the matter said that “Twitter cannot act as judge, jury and executioner,” the official said. “If they have arrived at the conclusion that the document is fake, then why are they reticent about sharing it with the government.”This is pretty much what Mohanty wrote in the first letter. “The matter is still under investigation and the enforcement agencies are yet to arrive at any definite conclusion.” He added: “Such tagging by Twitter appears pre-judged, prejudiced and a deliberate attempt to colour the investigation by local law enforcement agency.”Apar Gupta, Internet Freedom Foundation trustee said, “The present letter rather than addressing the problem of transparency increases the spread of manipulated media instead.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/-dilutes-your-credibility-government-s-notice-to-twitter-in-toolkit-case-101623945978380.html
18-06-2021||India||Covid-19: Goa will open for tourists but only after this happens||Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant on Thursday said the state will open its tourism sector only after it provides Covid-19 vaccines to 100 per cent of its population, at least the first dose. Until then, the tourist spot will remain out of bounds.Sawant said the state government's target is to accomplish this goal of vaccinating everyone in the state with the first dose by July 31 and it will consider reopening only after achieving that target.Also read: Ajanta and Ellora Caves to reopen for tourists from today"Until we administer the first dose of vaccine (across the state), tourism will not be reopened here. Our target is to accomplish this goal by July 31. We will consider reopening only after achieving that goal," ANI quoted Sawant as saying.The state government launched 'Tika Utsav 3.0' on Sunday to achieve 100 per cent vaccination coverage of the first shot.Earlier this week, the chief minister met with the stakeholders of the tourism industry, who also advised him to take any decision pertaining to reopening Goa after July 31 and also called for strict enforcement of protocol for entry to the state.The coronavirus-induced curbs in Goa were extended on Sunday till June 21, as the positivity rate in the state stood at 14 per cent. The restrictions were imposed on May 9 and have been extended several times since then.Also read: NSUI urges Goa govt to hold online exams of final year polytechnic studentsFollowing the lockdown-like restrictions, casinos, bars, restaurants, shops, river cruises, schools, colleges, educational institutions are closed. Social, sports, cultural and academic functions are prohibited. Marriage functions are allowed only after permission from the district magistrate or sub-divisional magistrate and with an attendance cap of 50."The inter-state movement of persons is allowed for those carrying Covid-19 negative report for a test done a maximum of 72 hours prior to entering Goa. Those entering Goa for medical emergencies are allowed after producing proof of the same," PTI quoted the official as detailing the entry protocol to the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-goa-will-open-for-tourists-but-only-after-this-happens-101623927920872.html
18-06-2021||India||No penalty for driving with expired licences, other documents until Sept 30||The Union government has extended till September 30 the validity of driving licenses, vehicle registration certificates, fitness certificates, and all kinds of permits that expired after February 2020 and could not be renewed because of the restrictions imposed to check the Covid-19 pandemic.In an advisory, the road transport and highways ministry on Thursday directed transport departments against prosecuting motorists using documents that expired since February last year.Driving without a valid license attracts a penalty of ₹5,000, while the penalties for other invalid documents are ₹5,000 (registration certificate), ₹10,000 (permit for commercial vehicles), ₹2,000-5,000 (fitness certificate for goods vehicles).Officials clarified that an extension has not been granted for expired Pollution Under Control (PUC) certificates.Through another notification, the ministry has also created a new uniform PUC certificate format and mandated all states to link their PUC database with the national register. The “One nation, One PUC” does away with the rule to get new PUC certificates when moving to another state and all new certificates will have a QR code with details of the vehicle, its emission level and its owner. For the first time, a rejection slip will also be issued if the emission is more than the prescribed level, so the vehicle can be serviced or used at other centres in case pollution-checking devices are not working.“...it is advised that the validity of all the referred documents, whose extension of validity could not or was not likely granted due to lockdown and which had expired since the 1st of Feb, 2020, or would expire by 30th September, 2021, the same may be treated to be valid till 30th September, 2021,” said the advisory. “All the states and Union Territories are requested to implement this advisory in letter and spirit so that the citizens, transporters and various other organisations, which are operating under this difficult time, may not get harassed and face difficulties,” it added.The Delhi transport department is expected to issue a specific order following the Centre’s note, officials said. This is the sixth such extension after earlier advisories in this regard.A transport department official requested people against queuing up at Regional Transport Offices (RTOs) in Delhi unless they wanted a learner or permanent license for the first time. “The ministry has extended the validity of fitness, permits, licenses, registration or other documents under Motor Vehicles Act, 1988, and Central Motor Vehicle Rules, 1989, till September 30,” said the official, who asked not to be named.The state transport department said it was burdened with a deluge of queries about driving licenses, fitness certificates, and permit renewals. The process of getting driving licences involves a wait of up to two months. The RTO at New Delhi’s Sarai Kale Khan is one of the busiest transport offices in the city, conducting up to 250 driving tests on its semi-automatic driving test tracks every day before the pandemic. Around 80 tests are conducted every day these days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-penalty-for-driving-with-expired-licences-other-documents-until-sept-30-101623913455808.html
18-06-2021||Today's||Indian cities need river-sensitive master plans||Last week, the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) released the draft Master Plan for Delhi (MPD) 2041 for public review. The plan generated a lot of excitement in the media and among the citizens due to two reasons. First, MPD is the Capital’s master plan, and it can work as a template for other cities; and second, it highlights the importance and significance of urban planning in shaping the development trajectory of cities.A master plan sets out the long-term vision for a city, along with objectives and strategies required to achieve it. Due to the ever-increasing threat of the climate crisis and sustainability concerns, modern master plans have started making the environment an integral part of the planning process. The draft MPD is also an example of this positive trend.Rivers are one of the critical natural assets of cities. It is essential to understand this and integrate rivers in long-term development plans to ensure the harmonious co-existence of the two.A few years ago, the National Mission for Clean Ganga (NMCG) realised that river-sensitive urban planning is important for revitalising and restoring rivers, and also as a means to complement its ongoing infrastructure-oriented activities. It embarked on a joint project with the National Institute of Urban Affairs (NIUA) to create an enabling environment for enhancing the river-city interaction more sustainably.Early into the project, a couple of interesting facets became evident.Also Read | Paradiplomacy: The possibilities, and challenges, of Assam-Bangladesh relationsFirst, managing an “urban stretch” of a river has its unique challenges. This is because while a river needs to be managed as an entire system, a city can only manage what falls within its administrative boundaries. What does it do when the water entering the city is polluted? Or what does it do when there is inadequate flow in the river because of allocation decisions taken by an upstream authority?To address such challenges, NMCG-NIUA developed a strategic framework (Urban River Management Plan) that requires cities to take actions on a common 10-point agenda. Since all cities are required to follow the same agenda, beneficial actions taken by upstream cities will have a cascading effect on the downstream cities. This way, cities act as interconnected units to achieve a shared vision for the river.The URMP framework was launched last year, and Kanpur will be the first city to adopt this framework for making a city-specific URMP.Second, while a master plan is an ideal platform for integrating the river with the city’s development landscape, there are hardly any available master plans that have taken a sustainable approach. To address this, NMCG-NIUA developed a document (Making River-Sensitive Master Plans).Also Read | Can India leverage data to conquer cancer?The document, which aims to help city planners integrate river thinking into master plans, provides seven avenues for planners to tackle different river-related issues in a city. Some of these are conventional challenges related to land use assignment, development control regulations, and norms and standards for activities allowed in flood-plains.Others have a strategic focus such as localising river-related directions stipulated in national/state policies; and developing sector-specific strategies for specific aspects of river management, such as enhancing the river’s economic potential.In the last few years, there has been a marked increase in environmental awareness, with more and more citizens adopting environmentally friendly practices. Given that a master plan is a people’s document, the stage is now set for cities to prepare their river-sensitive master plans.Rajiv Ranjan Mishra is director-general, National Mission for Clean Ganga. Victor R Shinde is senior water management specialist, National Institute of Urban AffairsThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/indian-cities-need-river-sensitive-master-plans-101624021105180.html
18-06-2021||Today's||Paradiplomacy: The possibilities, and challenges, of Assam-Bangladesh relations||Foreign policy is conventionally seem as the exclusive domain of the sovereign State, while paradiplomacy is the common term used when referring to regional or sub-national governments conducting international engagements.In the Indian context, such opportunities for state governments were limited since Article 246 of the Constitution addresses only the Union government when it comes to foreign policy.Yet, the nature of coalition governments consisting of regional parties at the Centre, the impulse for economic reform and trade interests of various states along with the growing need to involve key regional stakeholders in foreign policy discourse have seen substantial international engagements by states in recent times.Some examples of paradiplomacy gaining include the role of Tamil Nadu’s political parties in India-Sri Lanka relations, Gujarat’s economic outreach to the international community, the increasing push from the Northeastern states to be involved in India’s Act East policy and the establishment of a states division in the ministry of external affairs (MEA).Also Read | On China, Modi returns to the Indira eraThe Covid-19 pandemic across the globe in the past one year has accelerated the need for paradiplomacy. States such as Assam procured PPE kits from China and started the process of dialogue with the Royal Bhutanese Government for an oxygen plant via MEA during the crisis. Here, a case for paradiplomacy involving Assam and Bangladesh is of significance.This is the golden jubilee year of India-Bangladesh relations. Bangladesh is India’s most important trade partner in the South Asian region. Its Gross Domestic Product (GDP) per capita and ranking in Sustainable Development Goals have surpassed those of India’s. Under Prime Minister (PM) Sheikh Hasina, Bangladesh has initiated action against Indian insurgents taking shelter in the country and settled the boundary issue via the Land Boundary Agreement (LBA) signed in 2015.In the post-2001 period, when Assam had began the process of recovery after the tenure of the Asom Gana Parishad (AGP), which had witnessed gruesome violence during the insurgency and counterinsurgency operations, it was the surrender of a major faction of the United Liberation Front of Asom (ULFA) led by Arabinda Rajkhowa, after Sheikh Hasina became PM, which brought relative peace back to the state.Then chief minister (CM) Tarun Gogoi and Dr Manmohan Singh went to Bangladesh when India had signed the protocol for the LBA in 2011. There was severe opposition to the agreement in Assam but both the governments of Dr Singh and PM Narendra Modi involved the Assam government in a proactive way while finalising the deal.Recently, PM Sheikh Hasina wrote a letter after the swearing-in ceremony of the new Assam CM, Himanta Biswa Sarma, stating the commitment of her government to improving connectivity in the Northeastern region with an invitation to Assam to benefit from Bangladesh’s socio-economic development and growth trajectory.Chief Minister Sarma, in his response, emphasised the need to explore areas of cooperation with Bangladesh. Over the past few years, Assam has enhanced economic cooperation with Bangladesh at the insistence of the Union government. Bangladesh Assistant High Commission has been opened in Guwahati and Bangladesh has opened Chattogram and Mangla port for shipment of goods from the Northeast.Also Read | When Indian-Americans shape Washington policy and politicsIn the future, with coordination between MEA and the Assam government, the state can push for greater connectivity with Bangladesh via rail, road and air along with a focus on organic food, silk, crude oil, fisheries, tourism and work-permits for skilled youth.A collaborative outreach to Bangladesh by all Northeastern states collectively could produce better outcomes in terms of transportation of goods via inland river waterways.Along with Bhutan and Myanmar, Bangladesh forms a key triangle around Assam. The Union government must encourage and help Assam take advantage of its geographical proximity with these three countries. Assam needs to prepare a vision document for its paradiplomacy endeavours, engage regularly with the Bangladeshi authorities, other Northeastern states and MEA to transform itself from a landlocked region to a land-linked one with the help of Bangladesh.However, the obstacle here is Assam’s struggle to protect its identity and culture against so-called “illegal immigrants from Bangladesh”. The politics of identity and exclusion has animated the social paradigms of the state from before Independence, and more so after the Assam Movement (1979-1985). The Bangladesh government was highly uncomfortable with both the National Register of Citizens (NRC) and the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA). The new Assam government has reiterated its commitment to the re-verification of NRC in the state. The politics in Assam cannot be divorced from the key question of the rights of the indigenous people. Cooperation with Bangladesh is dependent on how this can be addressed. A flexible political solution, based on the principles of social justice and human rights, should be the way forward.Subhrangshu Pratim Sarmah is an M.Phil research scholar at the Centre for International Politics, Organisation and Disarmament, Jawaharlal Nehru University The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/paradiplomacy-the-possibilities-and-challenges-of-assam-bangladesh-relations-101624019605196.html
18-06-2021||Today's||The G7 deal on minimum corporate tax is flawed||The global minimum corporate tax rate has been variously described as ‘historic’, ‘landmark,’ and a ‘gamechanger’. According to the United States (US) and G7 countries, subjecting companies to a minimum tax rate on a country-by-country basis will end the “race to the bottom” on corporate tax rates, and disincentivise base erosion and profit-shifting (BEPS) practices. But, the proposal is not as straightforward as it seems.G7 finance ministers do not set the global tax agenda. Much of the recent international tax reform has taken place under the aegis of the G20 nations, which include, among others, the US, India and Brazil. The 15-point action plan on BEPS was spearheaded by G20. All major post-BEPS changes have been carried out under the BEPS Inclusive Framework, which includes 139 member-countries and 14 observer nations, including over 70% of non-Organisation of Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) and non-G20 countries and jurisdictions. So, to call the G7 agreement on minimum corporate tax a “global agreement’’ is both misleading and naïve.The BEPS Inclusive Framework has been discussing global minimum tax since 2018 as part of a package deal. The package, bifurcated into Pillar 1 and Pillar 2, aimed at tackling the direct tax challenges posed by the digital economy.Also Read | Where the G7 summit failedThe Pillar 1 approach – on allocation of taxing rights – faced serious objections from developing countries which felt that their taxing rights were not being adequately protected. The Pillar 2 approach – on a global minimum corporate tax rate – will have no teeth of its own in the absence of fair and equitable reallocation of taxing rights in the context of the digital economy.Countries, including India, lose billions of dollars every year to corporate tax avoidance. Large multinational corporations use sophisticated and creative means to avoid paying corporate tax in countries in which they undertake business activities. This is mainly done by way of transfer-pricing, debt-financing and restructuring of intellectual property rights. Profits are taken out of high tax jurisdictions and shifted to those with low or no corporate income tax rate. When seen in this context, the global minimum corporate tax will discourage businesses from adopting preferential tax rate structures and arrangements to some extent.The question that we must ask ourselves is who will the proposal benefit the most? A short answer to that would be the US itself. This is because any “top-up” tax collected from businesses which have paid less than the minimum tax rate in overseas jurisdictions will be go back to the US since most large businesses who benefit from preferential tax rate structures are tax residents in the US. The proposal has also come at a time when the US is seeking to increase its domestic tax rate from 21% to 28% (i.e., higher than the rate in many countries) to finance its $2.3 trillion public works plan. No wonder then that the US has suddenly become the champion of global tax reform.Also Read | When Indian-Americans shape Washington policy and politicsWe need to see how countries respond to the G7 proposal. The rate of tax – mooted to be 15% – is likely to be a bone of contention. Earlier, the US had proposed a 21% rate, while the OECD insisted upon a rate of 12.5%, apparently to keep Ireland’s interests in mind. The rate of at least 15% may set the ball rolling, but it is too low and will kickstart a new “race to the minimum.”Countries like India have a corporate tax rate of more than 15%, but companies pay much less in tax, thanks to a range of tax incentives and schemes. The idea of a global minimum tax proposal will die sooner than we had thought if countries continue to provide tax incentives.In the past decade, the average corporate tax rate has gone down significantly. One explanation for this is that countries have now come to realise that optimal corporate tax rates attract foreign investment, which will contribute to a nation’s overall growth. The global minimum tax proposal unfairly targets smaller countries that have no option other than low corporate tax rates to attract investments and retain their competitiveness.India must strongly oppose a US- and G7-centric proposal disguised as international tax reform. This is particularly important when India is reeling under economic distress due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The tax system should be certain and fair, but also flexible. And that includes making changes in tax rates from time to time to suit the immediate and long-term needs and interests of our exchequer.Ashish Goel and Shilpa Goel are Supreme Court lawyers The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-g7-deal-on-minimum-corporate-tax-is-flawed-101624018525191.html
18-06-2021||Today's||Can India leverage data to conquer cancer?||A recent announcement by the Joe Biden administration to boost science funding has been widely noticed, including in India. The National Institutes of Health (NIH), the largest biomedical funder globally, is one of the biggest beneficiaries of the announcement with a planned budget of a whopping $51 billion that dwarfs the scale of any biomedical science-related funding elsewhere.The announcement, welcomed by the scientific community, includes the formation of a quasi-independent entity called the Advanced Research Projects Agency-Health (ARPA-H) with a planned $6.5 billion investment. The idea is to make innovation in treating deadly diseases such as cancer by funding out-of-the-box transformational ideas with little or no administrative processes and peer review.What consequences does it have for India, and can India compete?I am going to argue that India can, and will. While doing this, I acknowledge that much of India’s promise lies on paper, and we need to act fast to realise our true potential. Let us start with the basics.Comparing science funding between the United States (US) and India is a non-starter. India’s gross expenditure on research and development (R&D) is roughly ₹1.25 lakh crore or less than $20 billion, and accounts for 0.65% of its Gross Domestic Product. This covers all the fields and is less than 40% of the proposed budget of the US NIH that looks at health alone.Out of the total R&D expenditure in India, nearly 70% is in the private sector, and space and defence. To be more specific, the total budget of the government’s three flagship departments (science and technology, biotechnology, and scientific and industrial research) is around ₹14,700 crore or approximately $2 billion for 2021-22. Altogether, it is 25 times less than what NIH plans to spend in the coming year.Going by the numbers alone, it does not look good for India. However, numbers only tell part of the story, as I shall describe with one example, in developing innovative solutions to conquer cancer.Also Read | US Covid deaths at 600,000 equal to 2019 cancer toll in AmericaCancer is primarily a genetic disease, and the vast majority of the cases in India are preventable as these are linked to a single risk factor — tobacco. Therefore, grassroots awareness drives and educational programmes, along with aggressive regulation on selling and distributing tobacco products, will bring the cases down significantly. However, implementing any solution in a democratic, large, and heterogeneous county like India is complex. Even after rigorous implementation, thousands of cases will need better diagnosis, prognosis, and treatment.Let us suppose India can turn cancer from a medical problem to a data problem at the discovery stage. In that case, it can leverage the power of information and data science to conquer cancer. This is not to suggest lessening the efforts on the clinical management and treatment of the disease, but to leverage data by pushing a large chunk of India’s public exchequer’s funding towards detecting cancer early rather than treating patients with late-stage disease.How can India achieve this? We can do that by sequencing 15,000 to 20,000 tumour tissues representing the top five cancers in India. Large cancer genomics projects are designed to understand the genetic make-up of individual patient’s cancer tissues by cataloguing all genetic changes and, therefore, help us identify the disease early by using those as markers.Once the genome sequence information is available, it will push the challenge from the experimental clinical labs to data science labs. The petabytes of data generated from such large genome sequencing experiments, along with well-annotated clinical information and longitudinal follow-up data, will make India compete in the space of genomic data science more effectively. India’s information technology and data science strength will help crunch this data to identify markers for early diagnosis and treatment follow-up. This will aid precision medicine at district-level hospitals for the early detection of cancer.A couple of years ago, no one could think of using RT-PCR instruments in hospitals in small towns and at the district level. Covid-19 changed that. Similarly, suppose we can push the burden of early detection to district-level hospitals. The burden on specialised tertiary cancer hospitals can then be reduced and they can focus on cases requiring expert advice from clinical cancer specialists.Also Read | Google CEO Sundar Pichai announces ₹113 crore Covid grant for IndiaLarge genome-sequencing projects in developed economies, like the US, have been expensive. The largest share of the money in these projects is spent on expensive chemicals, instruments and salaries for expert scientific manpower. India needs to do what it did with mobile telephones by leapfrogging from 2G to 4G and bypassing, largely, the 3G network. Similarly, developing inexpensive sequencing instruments and producing reagents indigenously will push the pricing of whole-genome sequencing from nearly a lakh per sample pair to ₹5,000-10,000.Add this to India’s strength of a large number of well-characterised and annotated cancer tissue samples, and exceptional clinical and scientific professionals hungry to solve pressing issues. India can not only compete, but also surpass developing economies in detecting and curing diseases such as cancer. In the game of skills and scale, India will win, but we need to start today for that to happen.Binay Panda is a genome scientist and professor, Biotechnology and Systems Medicine, Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi. The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/can-india-leverage-data-to-conquer-cancer-101624017865056.html
18-06-2021||Today's||The Taste with Vir Sanghvi: Avoiding the Third Wave||On Friday, the Delhi High Court (HC) warned that we were speeding towards a third wave of Covid-19 because of the irresponsibility demonstrated by many of us after most lockdown restrictions were lifted.The HC was perturbed after seeing large crowds at Delhi markets, with no thought to social distancing and either a complete disregard for masking protocols (you are not supposed to wear the mask below your nose as so many of us do) or the gleeful abandonment of masks, altogether.No sensible person can disagree with the HC. And while it would be foolish to deny that government negligence and incompetence contributed to the second wave, if a third wave does arrive in the autumn/winter, as some experts are predicting, this will be largely our own fault.What people don’t seem to understand is that it is not just their own lives at risk. If somebody wanted to kill himself by not wearing a mask, you could have once argued that it was his business. Except that in a pandemic, it does not work that way. Everyone who is infected will spread the infection to other people. So, you can’t take an individualistic approach to any epidemic or pandemic. All our lives are at stake. And we are in this together.Nor should we take comfort in the fact that the second wave seems to be ending. (The positivity rate in Delhi is down to 0.20%). We made that mistake after the first wave, forgetting that all viruses mutate. When the Delta variant appeared, nobody was prepared for it. Even government health authorities took far too long to admit that a dangerous, more transmissible new variant was causing a second round of inflections.So there is no telling if a third variant will emerge and cut a swathe through our country just as the Delta variant has. Until at least 70% of us are vaccinated (and that is going to take a very, very long time) we cannot afford to let our guards down even slightly.On the plus side, there is good news on the vaccine front. More vaccines are on their way and the current drive has picked up. The increased supply may lead the government to shorten the gap between the two doses of Covishield. Research abroad suggests that the first jab provides only around 33% protection against serious illness caused by the Delta variant. And while everyone is broadly agreed that a long gap between the two doses gives you more protection (though it is not clear how much more), this is no good if you are already dead. Every one of us knows people who have got Covid in the gap between the two doses. And some people have had serious illness, which we were once told was impossible, in that gap period.Moreover, how do you define “serious illness”? We don’t know enough about the long-term effects of Covid and the research that is coming out now suggests that even a so-called mild case can cause lasting damage to your body, including your brain.Presumably, once it has enough vaccines, the government will abandon the long gap between the two doses, citing ‘new research’.The government also needs to do something about Covaxin, the so-called atmanirbhar vaccine. It seems clear to us in India that it works, but the rest of the world is not so sure. Very few countries accept that it is efficacious (compared to say, Pfizer or AstraZeneca).This will cause problems for Indians as we travel abroad. Many countries will insist on vaccine certificates. And they will not treat one issued on the basis of Covaxin shots as valid.The government keeps telling us that Covaxin will soon be accepted all the world. But it does not tell us when.Meanwhile, two other causes for concern. The first and most serious one is the tendency of people to physically assault doctors and medical staff. We read about these cases but the impact it has on medical students and doctors was driven home to me when Ritisha Sarkar, the daughter of a former colleague, wrote to me: “I am a medical student and am scared for my future as a doctor in this country. I am scared for my seniors who are interns and for each and every member of our medical community.”Ritisha asked if I would write about it, “for the sake of every doctor who has ever treated you or your family. Doctors are getting brutally beaten and even killed.”In my opinion, anyone who assaults a frontline medical worker is a true enemy of the community. We should take the strongest possible action against such people. Every attack on a doctor or a medical worker during a pandemic shames us as a nation.One other concern. The guidelines issued by such state governments as the one in Delhi make little sense to me. I could understand why a state government would want to open up markets; shop keepers are an important constituency.But why not open up parks? All research now says that as long as you take basic precautions, the chances of getting Covid in a park are negligible. So how does it make sense to allow you to take your child to Pizza Hut but not to a garden?Is it because trees and bushes can’t vote?Also, the restriction against serving liquor at restaurants is crazy. I can understand the objection to crowded bars. But how does a glass of beer with lunch increase your chances of getting Covid? If you are going to let people eat at restaurants anyway, then why stop them from drinking?I hope that next week’s guidelines will remove these restrictions.But governments move in mysterious ways. And as long as they don’t kill us, this time around, I guess we should just be grateful.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-taste-with-vir-sanghvi-avoiding-the-third-wave-101624013174756.html
18-06-2021||Today's||When Indian-Americans shape Washington policy and politics||Former United States (US) president, Barack Obama, was often called the first Indian-American president, given the large number of Indian-Americans in his administration, 2009 to 2017. That mantle, of an Indian-American president is ready to be passed on, with some distinguishing embellishment.President Joe Biden’s administration has more Indian-Americans in the White House and in Senate-confirmed positions across federal agencies than any administration in the past — 70 appointed or nominated officials, according to Indiaspora, a leading advocacy group for the community. But, in addition, members of the community also now speak of access to the centre of US power and influence that they have never had under any other president, of either of the two major parties in US politics.Also Read | UNSG Antonio Guterres is set for a second term. This time, it will be different“The community’s access to the White House and the various parts of the administration is unprecedented,” said MR Rangaswami, founder of Indiaspora who participated alongside US Vice-President Kamala Harris in a recent event hosted by the State Department to raise aid for Covid-19 relief in India.Harris, an Indian-American, had made a personal pitch speaking of her relatives still in India. This would have been unimaginable a year ago with vice president Mike Pence, or five years ago with even vice president Biden.Today, it’s different. Shekar Narasimhan, a leading Democratic strategist and donor who has focused on a wider canvas of Asian-Americans, recounted a recent conversation with a reporter. The reporter had called Narasimhan for a story about the perception that the Biden administration was not responding to the devastating public health crisis visited upon India by the second wave of Covid-19 epidemic in the initial weeks. Images of crowded cremation grounds and patients dying in hospitals due to the lack of essential equipment such as oxygen cylinders, had been heartbreaking, and disturbing. And WhatsApp — where the diaspora connects with their childhood friends, mamas and chachas and chittis — brought the tragedy up close.“What are you talking about inaction?” Narasimhan remembers asking the reporter. “When is the last time a problem occurred in India; three days later, we alert them (the White House) about it; three days later, they have a National Security Council (meeting) exclusively on this; one day later, they are acting; and two days later, planes are flying. Have you seen that before? Really, I said yeah it would take one week, well, start to finish.”Relief was indeed on its way soon. An estimated $500 million worth of personal protective equipment, therapeutics, oxygen cylinders and converters have been sent by the US government ($100 million) and the private sector and individual contributors ($400 million).Conversations between the community — around four million, including non-resident Indians — and the Biden White House and federal agencies have been far more intense than ever before. Most of it takes place off camera, off-page one. The Indian government pays professional lobbyists millions of dollars for this kind of access and influence. There is a new organic connection, which is both a reflection and rise of the Indian-American community in the corridors of power in Washington DC.The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/when-indian-americans-shape-washington-policy-and-politics-101624013544779.html
18-06-2021||Today's||On China, Modi returns to the Indira era||China is a greater power than India. New Delhi’s perennial concern is managing this fact. India has typically taken two routes to manage the power gap — the Jawaharlal Nehru approach and the Indira Gandhi approach.Beijing’s dominant perception of India is that, as the stronger party, China does not need to make any real concessions. Delhi feels that, as the weaker power, India cannot concede to China, since that would amount to surrender. After Galwan, India concluded that reducing the power gap with China is the only effective way to deal with its northern neighbour. This represents a return to Indira Gandhi and Lal Bahadur Shastri’s approach after the 1962 war.India has three choices in managing Chinese power — bandwagoning; negotiating; and balancing. Bandwagoning means accepting Beijing’s view of the border and its leadership in an Asian sphere of influence. Negotiating implies engaging in discussions to resolve conflict. Balancing entails reducing the power gap to a point of rough equality, either by one own means (internal balancing) or by forging an alliance (external balancing) or both.Also Read | Trump says India devastated by Covid-19, China must pay for its spreadBandwagoning with China is unacceptable to India. Over 70 years, India’s strategy has been to either negotiate or to balance. Though India’s China policy has always been a blend of these two, negotiation has dominated in two eras and balancing in another two eras.Under Nehru, India chose negotiation. It engaged in discussions over the border and Tibet. It attempted to foster a broader relationship, encompassing contacts and commerce. Nehru also wanted the two countries to cooperate in Asia and beyond for peace and stability. The interactions between Indian and Chinese society and cooperation in the international sphere were important in themselves but, in Nehru’s view, they would soften the border conflict and render the power imbalance irrelevant as well.After India lost the war in 1962, Shastri and then Indira Gandhi, turned to power balancing. Delhi refused to normalise relations with Beijing until the two sides reached a border settlement. The Indian military underwent a dramatic expansion. In 1967, at the Nathu La and Cho La battles with the Chinese forces, it gave a much better account of itself.India now drifted into an alliance-like relationship with the erstwhile Soviet Union. The nuclear test of 1974 bolstered India’s emerging military strength. Delhi also attempted to build a closed, self-reliant economy to promote socialism and guard against “neo-imperialist” exploitation. Self-reliance aimed to transform the country into a modern industrial power and influential player on the global stage.India’s China policy shifted back towards a Nehruvian stance under Rajiv Gandhi. His 1988 trip to Beijing signalled that Delhi would no longer hold normalisation hostage to a border settlement. Diplomatic normalisation and border negotiations would go hand-in-hand, with the hope that progress on one would positively impact the other.Another key change was the unshackling of the Indian economy. The pivotal 1991 reforms responded to the financial crisis of the time but had a larger strategic purpose too. China had surged past India economically, and liberalising the Indian economy was also a response to the gap with China.Rajiv Gandhi’s approach became the basis of India’s China policy. With some adjustments, it lasted until 2014, when Narendra Modi became prime minister.Modi’s approach to China is a throwback to Indira Gandhi’s. Rajiv Gandhi’s Nehruvianism came under pressure from at least two sources — little progress in the border negotiations; and rising Chinese border incursions from 2008. Between 2013 and 2017, the two militaries have squared off in Depsang (2013), Chumar (2014), Burtse (2015), Doklam (2017), and then Ladakh (2020).By the time Modi and Xi Jinping met in 2014, as Indian and Chinese troops glowered at each other in Chumar, the Rajiv Gandhi approach in China policy was fast eroding. The border or Line of Actual Control (LAC) was clearly nowhere close to being settled, and India faced the possibility of serious military clashes with China. Galwan climaxed thinking on a new approach.Delhi’s China policy now shifted to power balancing. Parallel to its stance from 1962 to 1988, India under Modi has insisted that diplomatic normalisation and a return to border talks are dependent on Chinese troop withdrawals.In terms of internal balancing, the key has been to emphasise self-reliance in civilian manufacturing but also in arms production. Modi has signalled a move towards self-reliance in the economy, reminiscent of the Indira era. Unlike the Indira period, though, India is still relatively open to trade and foreign investment (even if tariffs have been raised and investment curbs enacted in select areas). Its economic openness is evident even in arms production, where India has raised the Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) limit in defence manufacturing projects to 74%.India’s China policy has also sought to quicken the pace of external balancing by partnering with Australia, France, Japan, the United Kingdom, and above all, the United States (US). This soft military-diplomatic coalition aimed against China is equivalent to India’s alignment with the Soviet Union during the Cold War. The four foundational defence agreements with the US, the 2 +2 ministerial dialogue, India’s deepening involvement in the Indo-Pacific, and its membership of Quad form the core of its anti-China coalition building. External balancing is also undergirded by a steady stream of arms imports.How successful atmanirbharta (self-reliance) will prove to be and how well Quad hangs together is uncertain. What is certain is that after Galwan 2020, India was forced into a policy of greater self-reliance and coalition-building against China to counter the growing power gap.The challenge is that self-reliance and internal balancing take time. Coalition-building and external balancing are quick fixes. But they are also more provocative to China, given its rivalry with India’s putative partners. The power balancing game, therefore, requires India to hold its nerve.Kanti Bajpai is the author of India Versus China: Why They Are Not Friends The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/on-china-modi-returns-to-the-indira-era-101624012584972.html
