19-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Man steals cash, ornaments worth ₹57 lakh from wife, held||Shahu Nagar police arrested a 55-year-old man from Jhansi in Uttar Pradesh for allegedly stealing his wife’s cash and gold ornaments worth ₹57 lakh.Senior inspector Deepak Palav of Shahu Nagar police station said they questioned several people after receiving the complaint. “After getting the mobile location of the accused, Idrish Shaikh, to his native place, a team was dispatched there. With the help of local police, Shaikh was arrested. They have recovered stolen booty worth ₹55.33 lakh from him,” said Palav.According to police, the victim, Mariyam Shaikh, 47, lives in Matunga Labour Camp, which falls under the jurisdiction of Shahu Nagar police station. As she wanted to start a business in Dharavi, she recently sold her shop in Kalyan for ₹52 lakh and kept the cash at home. Shaikh was convincing her to come to her native place in Jhansi, Uttar Pradesh, but she did not agree, said a police officer.Shaikh, in his statement, claimed he got fed up of his wife’s refusal to settle at his native place and fled with ₹52 lakh and gold ornaments worth ₹4 lakh to his native place without informing her. The incident occurred on June 11 when she went to attend a marriage in Dharavi, added Palav.When the complainant returned, she found cash and gold ornaments were missing and tried to contact her husband but his number was switched off. She then approached the police and registered a case for breach of trust against her husband. “We questioned several people who were known to Shaikh and found his new SIM card number. His location was traced in the native place from where he was arrested,” said Palav.He was produced in the court and remanded in police custody till June 21 for further investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-man-steals-cash-ornaments-worth-57-lakh-from-wife-held-101624125689892.html
19-06-2021||Mumbai||MMRDA to extend length of Sewri jetty for MTHL work||The Maharashtra Coastal Zone Management Authority (MCZMA) has allowed the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) to augment existing infrastructure at Sewri jetty, to aid in the ongoing construction of the Mumbai Trans Harbour Link from Sewri to Nhava-Sheva in Navi Mumbai. The matter is now awaiting approval of the State Environment Impact Assessment Authority (SEIAA) before the proposed expansion works can start.As per a proposal submitted by the MMRDA to the regulatory authority, the existing ‘kerosene wharf’ at Sewri is proposed to be widened to help transport the orthotropic steel decks (OSD) that will make up the MTHL bridge sections. The existing jetty will be extended by 230 metres at its mouth, and a temporary jetty will also be established on piles toward its left, to create space for a self-propelled modular transporter - a large, industrial vehicle that is used to transport objects too heavy for trucks.The MCZMA had earlier considered the proposal in February this year but decided at the time to seek a report on the matter from the forest department’s mangrove cell. In a subsequent report (dated March 25), the mangrove cell clarified that the area is not a reserved forest. As such, the MMRDA does not require clearance under the Forest Conservation Act (1980). However, the mangrove cell noted that “the proposed site falls within 50ms of notified mangrove forest” and that the “presence of true mangrove trees of avicennia officinalis is observed within the alignment.”“The project proponent (MMRDA)... assured that mangroves will not be affected due to proposed construction activities,” the MCMZA observed during its latest meeting on June 10, the minutes of which have been reviewed by Hindustan Times. The MCZMA has recommended the expansion works for CRZ clearance with the imposed condition that the MMRDA seek out the Bombay high court’s permission before proceeding, with the area.As per earlier directives of the HC, no construction work can take place on or within 50 metres of mangroves forests without its explicit permission. An engineer with the MMRDA who is involved with the project, but declined to be quoted, clarified that the authority will aim to file a writ petition before the HC before the next meeting of the SEIAA.The Sewri jetty is owned by the Mumbai Port Trust and is part of a larger 27-hectare land parcel that was handed over to the MMRDA in 2016. About 12 hectares of land will be taken over by the sea link, while about 15 hectares around Sewri jetty is already being utilised as a casting yard, for the manufacture of concrete structures like bridge sections, beams and girders that will be used to assemble the MTHL bridge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mmrda-to-extend-length-of-sewri-jetty-for-mthl-work-101624125629801.html
19-06-2021||Mumbai||Wadhwan port: NGT seeks CPCB report, halts work||The National Green Tribunal (NGT), Pune has ordered the Central Board Pollution Control Board (CPCB) to form a panel to look into the work status of the ₹65,000-crore Wadhwan port project in Dahanu and suspend the work till the panel submits the report to NGT.The NGT bench comprising justices Adarsh Kumar Goel, Sudhir Agarwal, M Sathyanarayan, Brijesh Seth and member Dr Nagin Nanda, on June 15, directed for the formation a five-member panel of environmental experts, following the Supreme Court guidelines in the 1996 Bittu Sehgal case. The tribunal directed the committee to visit the Wadhwan port site and study its impact on the environment. The order will hamper the Central government’s efforts to develop an international standard port at Dahanu.CPCB had last year issued guidelines to create a revised industrial pollution category. Accordingly, the Central government’s department of environment and forests, by order dated June 8, 2020, excluded ports, jetties and dredging from red category to non-industries category. According to CPCB list, ports fall into the red category, making it a major legal hurdle to build a growth port in the area.Wadhwan Bandar Virodhi Sangharsh Samiti, National Fishworkers Forum and other fishermen’s bodies noticed these changes and were apprehensive that it was done with the objective of creating Wadhwan port, and accordingly petitioned to NGT.Vishwanath Gharat, manager at Jawaharlal Nehru Port (JNPT) which is involved in the Wadhwan port project, refused to comment and directed HT’s queries to JNPT chairman Sanjay Sethi, who did not respond to repeated queries.Meanwhile, Aniket Patil, member of the anti-Wadhwan port project, said the panel should include local Palghar-based environmentalists or marine experts who understand the topography of Wadhwan. He added that they will send a petition to NGT in this regard.In 1991, the Central government had declared Dahanu taluka as environmentally sensitive, by Dahanu Taluka Environmental Protection Committee (DTEPA) formed by the SC, stopping construction of any new industry in the area. In 1997, Australian firm P&O had tried to build an international port at Wadhwan, but DTEPA had ruled that Wadhwan port would prove to be harmful to the environment of Dahanu taluka, following which the company withdrew its bid. Narayan Patil, convenor of Wadhwan Bandar Virodhi Sangharsh Samiti, said the government found Wadhwan port suitable due to topographical condition even though the Central government is yet to give its nod. “The government wants to send all polluting ships like coal, oil-leaking and other ships to Dahanu. We will be the victims of pollution,” said Patil, adding, “Our livelihood like fishing and dye making is already lost due to pollution at high seas, and now this is a new threat.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/wadhwan-port-ngt-seeks-cpcb-report-halts-work-101624125569745.html
19-06-2021||Bangalore||Curbs in Karnataka to be further eased in 19 dists from Monday||The Karnataka government on Saturday announced further easing of lockdown restrictions in 19 of the 31 districts from June 21 in view of the positivity rate falling below five per cent and a decline in others. "For the past one week, the Covid-19 positivity rate is less than five per cent in 16 districts, between five per cent and 10 per cent in 13 districts and above 10 per cent in Mysuru district. We have taken certain decisions on easing restrictions, based on the advice of the Technical Advisory Committee on COovid-19 and after discussions with my cabinet colleagues," Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa told reporters. The 16 districts with less than five per cent positivity rate are Belagavi, Mandya, Koppal, Chikkaballapura, Tumakuru, Kolar,Bengaluru Urban (including BBMP limits), Gadag, Raichur, Bagalkote, Kalaburagi, Haveri, Ramanagar, Yadgir and Bidar, Yediyurappa said. In these districts, all shops will remain open till 5 pm. Hotels, clubs and restaurants without air conditioners will be allowed to operate with 50 per cent occupancy. Outdoor shooting, bus and metro rail services with 50 per cent occupancy and outdoor sports without spectators will be allowed, he said. The Chief Minister added that the government offices will be permitted to operate with 50 per cent occupancy. Lodges, resorts and gymnasiums without ACs have also been given the nod to run their business with 50 per cent occupancy. The restrictions as ordered on June 11 will continue in 13 districts with positivity rate between five per cent to 10 per cent. Karnataka Chief Secretary P Ravikumar, in a Government Order, said all production units, industrial establishments and industries are permitted to function with 50 per cent staff, strictly adhering to Covid appropriate behaviour. However, establishments engaged in garment manufacturing are permitted to function with 30 per cent staff strength. The order said all shops without any distinction between essential and nonessential goods/services will be allowed to function outside containment zones from 6 AM to 5 PM. "However, air-conditioned shops, air-conditioned shopping complexes, malls, will not be permitted to operate. Home delivery of all items shall be encouraged 24x7 to minimise movement of individuals outside their homes. Operations shall be subject to adhering to National Directives for Covid-19 management," the order read. Parks will remain open from 5 AM to 10 AM, taxis and auto rickshaws will ply with a maximum of two passengers, and government offices can function with 50 per cent staff. During night curfew buses, trains and air travel would be permitted, the order said. The restrictions as ordered on June 11 will continue in 13 districts with positivity rate between five per cent to 10 per cent. These are Hassan, Udupi, Dakshina Kannada, Shivamogga, Chamarajanagar, Chikkamagaluru, Bengaluru Rural, Davangere, Kodagu, Dharwad, Ballari, Chitradurga and Vijayapura. The June 11 order said the restrictions will be eased from 6 AM to 2 PM, where the sale of essential commodities and delivery through e-commerce companies will continue. The stringent restrictions in Mysuru will continue, the Chief Minister added. However, state-wide night curfew from 7 PM to 5 AM every day would continue and weekend curfew from 7 PM on Friday to 5 PM on Monday will remain in effect till July 5. The Chief Minister made it clear that easing the curbs should not be taken to mean that there has been a drastic reduction in infections. "Easing restrictions should not be perceived as Covid-19 infections have reduced drastically. The relaxation has been given because people are in distress, business activities have stopped, and livelihoods have become difficult," Yediyurappa said. He urged people to ensure this relaxation was a success by wearing masks, maintaining social distancing and hand hygiene. Meanwhile, Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Limited said it would operate trains from 7 AM to 11 AM and 3 PM to 6 PM at an interval of every five minutes. There would be no serviceds on Saturdays and Sundays due to weekend curfew, it said. The Covid-19 restrictions were imposed from April 27 when the daily infections breached the 50,000 mark. When the cases did not come down, the government imposed a lockdown from May 10, allowing sale of essential goods from 6 AM to 10 AM. It eased restrictions on June 11, allowing shops selling essential commodities from 6 AM to 2 PM after the number of cases started declining. Due to the restrictions, daily infections have come down to 5,815, though active cases stood at 1,30,872 as of date, according to the health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/curbs-in-karnataka-to-be-further-eased-in-19-dists-from-monday-101624125040399.html
19-06-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra sends JNPT-Balavali multi-modal corridor project for CRZ clearance||The Maharashtra Coastal Zone Management Authority (MCZMA) has recommended Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation’s (MSRDC) proposal for a 18-km multimodal corridor, from Chirner village in Uran to Balavali on National Highway (NH)-17, for coastal regulatory zone (CRZ) clearance to the Union environment ministry. This is as per the minutes of the regulatory authority’s 155th meeting held on June 10 which also reflected that the project will involve uprooting 681 mangrove trees.A multimodal corridor is a single corridor designed to facilitate easy movement of multiple modes of transport, from private cars to public mass transit systems and even non-motorised transport, along with the flow of utilities such as gas, power and sewage. The proposal by MCZMA is planned as a connection between Mumbai trans harbour link (MTHL), Mumbai-Pune Expressway, NH-66 connecting Panvel to Kanyakumari and NH4B connecting Mumbai to Goa.The entire project will span across 220.39 hectares including forests, mangroves and agricultural land, and will pass 2.3 km east of Karnala Bird Sanctuary. As per an earlier alignment, the work would have required felling of 19.95 hectares of mangroves close to Patalganga river and Karanja creek in Raigad. While the alignment has been redrawn at MCZMA’s instruction, still at least 16 hectares of mangroves in Pen, Uran and Panvel talukas of Raigad will be affected by the project, with the majority of trees (241) falling in Uran’s Vindhane. The corridor will also pass through two CRZ-governed water bodies at Uran and Panvel.MCZMA has recommended the corridor for clearance to the Union environment ministry, whose expert appraisal committee is yet to give nod the project. While the project has been exempted from obtaining environment clearance (EC), MCZMA has imposed conditions on its assent which include compensatory afforestation in consultation with the mangrove cell and seeking for forest clearance under the Forest Conservation Act, 1980. MSRDC will also have to seek the Bombay high court’s (HC) permission in the matter.On September 17, 2018, the HC had said, “No development permission whatsoever shall be issued by any authority in Maharashtra in respect of any area under mangroves. Regardless of ownership of the land having mangroves and the area of the land, all constructions taking place within 50 metres on all sides of mangroves shall be forthwith stopped.” Neenu Somraj, deputy conservator of forests (mangrove cell), who led a site inspection to determine the project’s impact on mangroves, could not be reached for comment on Saturday despite attempts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-sends-jnpt-balavali-multi-modal-corridor-project-for-crz-clearance-101624125509877.html
19-06-2021||Mumbai||Karnataka to install RTDAS to monitor water dispersal system||In a major relief to Maharashtra, the Karnataka government is all set to set up Real-Time Data Acquisition System (RTDAS) at its Almatti and Narayanpur dams to monitor the water dispersion system and prevent floods in western Maharashtra, like the one that had happened in 2019.Maharashtra water resources minister Jayant Patil after a meeting with Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa at Bengaluru described the talks as positive. “The talks were very positive. Maharashtra already has a real-time data acquisition system. Once Karnataka installs it at Almatti and Narayanpur dams, then it will help to control the flow of water,” said Patil. “We will be able to jointly dynamically control the water flow. It will help to gauge how much water to disperse and the water levels to be maintained,” he added.The RTDAS installed seven years back provides precipitation real-time data which helps to gauge and control the water levels and plan better water release mechanism to prevent floods during the monsoon.In 2019, the backwater of the Almatti dam caused flooding in Kolhapur and Sangli districts, causing large scale devastation with 60 persons losing their lives. The dam did not release water at the right time, leading to the accumulation of water in its backwaters and the Krishna river that flooded parts of Kolhapur and other districts in western Maharashtra.The situation can be gauged from the fact that National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), State Disaster Response Force (SDRF), Navy, Army, Air Force, Coast Guard, and other agencies were tasked with the rescue operation. The flood also damaged agriculture and allied activities substantially.Maharashtra had alleged that it was Karnataka that was responsible for the floods due to its failure to release the water. The then chief minister Devendra Fadnavis had to face large scale criticism for his failure to tackle the situation as it was reported that Yediyurappa was not acceding to his requests to release the water. Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar had to intervene and talk to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. It was only after that Karnataka started releasing water giving some relief to Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/karnataka-to-install-rtdas-to-monitor-water-dispersal-system-101624125330558.html
19-06-2021||Mumbai||Not an opportune time to talk about going solo: Maharashtra Congress||While Maharashtra and Mumbai Congress has been talking about going solo in the forthcoming local bodies and Assembly polls, the state in charge and All India Congress Committee (AICC), HK Patil, on Saturday took a cautious stand saying that the decision about the alliance will be taken by the party leadership. He said that this is not the opportune time to talk about going solo and the decision will be taken ahead of the elections.Various leaders of the state Congress including Maharashtra Congress president Nana Patole have been publicly saying that the party would go solo in future elections and would aim to form the government in the state on its own. This has irked its ruling alliance partners, Shiv Sena and NCP with both parties saying that they would forge an alliance in coming elections and Congress can chart its independent path if it wants. Patil’s remarks on Saturday come as a snub to the party’s state leaders.“Party workers and leaders, out of their high morale and confidence, have been demanding permission to go solo in local bodies elections. The decision over it will be taken appropriate time. As far as the Assembly polls are concerned, this is not the opportune time as the elections are still three years away. It will be premature or too early to speak about it now. This government will complete its five-year term. We can discuss it and whether to go solo or have an alliance in 2023 or 2024 ahead of the elections. Currently, there is no such reference or proposal, and hence there is no need to discuss it,” he said.Patil said that the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government was doing well and the issues raised by Congress before chief minister Udhav Thackeray are expected to be resolved in the next few days.Party celebrated the 50th birthday of its leader Rahul Gandhi at their party headquarters in Dadar in Mumbai, on Saturday in the presence of Patil and senior leaders including former chief ministers Sushilkumar Shinde, Ashok Chavan, Prithviraj Chavan, Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole, Mumbai chief Ashok Jagtap and others.Mumbai Congress chief Ashok Jagtap once demanded with the party high command to allow them to fight the forthcoming Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation election alone. He said that the BJP, which was not even ready to take cognisance of Congress, have not set eyes on our movements. “I would request Soniaji and Rahulji to allow us to fight us alone, we will surely show the world Kisne Kitna Hai Dum,” he said.On the occasion of the 50th birthday of former party president Rahul Gandhi, senior Maharashtra leaders from the party said that many turncoats had left the parties to join BJP are desperate to come back to the fold. The former chief minister and public works department minister Ashok Chavan said that Congress should expedite the process of inducting the leaders who want to come back. “There are many senior leaders who had joined the BJP willingly or unwillingly for various reasons want to join back Congress. Some of them had joined BJP thinking that the party will come back to the party in the state. They are now been repenting there and want to come back and re-join Congress,” he said.Former chief minister Prithviraj Chavan said that the Gharvapsi has begun and the leaders who had left Congress to join the ruling party have now realised that they may have got the power, but the honour has been lost. He said that the Maharashtra Congress has resolved to become the single-largest party and come to the power under its chief minister.Patole said that senior party leaders have been chalking out the plan for the induction of the leaders from other parties. He said that the party will emerge as the single largest party in 2024-Assembly polls.Former minister Sunil Deshmukh and former MLA Dilip Bansode joined Congress on Saturday. Deshmukh, who had quit Congress in 2009 to join BJP after he was denied the candidature, said that he had joined BJP but was never happy there.HK Patil held series of meetings with state and Mumbai leaders and discusses various issues including issues related to the reservation to Marathas and OBC, the election of the speaker of legislative Assembly, forthcoming elections to local bodies among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/not-an-opportune-time-to-talk-about-going-solo-congress-101624125269790.html
19-06-2021||Lucknow||UP varsities declare schedule: MCQ, OMR based exams of shorter duration for final year students||Barring a few, most state universities of Uttar Pradesh have released the schedule for the final year exams as per the guidelines issued by the state government.They have sent the schedule to higher education department on Saturday.According to the information provided to the department, Lucknow University will conduct multiple choice question (MCQ) based exam between August 2 and 12. The questions and duration of the exam have been reduced to minimise the possibility of Covid-19 infection during the exam. While final year students have been mandated to take exams semester and other year students will be promoted on basis of their previous semester marks.The department has directed universities to ensure all Covid-19 protocols were followed during the exams.Jhansi-based Bundelkhand University will hold OMR (optical mark reader) based exam of 120 minute duration for final year students anytime after July 18. Kanpur University will hold its final year exam between July 16 and August 2. The exam will be multiple choice based and of 90 minute duration.Ram Manohar Awadh University, Ayodhya will conduct the exams between July 21 and August 18 but has not decided the pattern yet. The administration of Chaudhary Charan Singh Meerut University will conduct the exam from July 2 to August 27. The exam pattern is yet to be announced but the university has decided to hold exam for second year or second semester students who were exempted from exam due to Covid-19 pandemic last year.Dr Bhimrao Ambedkar University Agra will conduct its final year exam after July 15 till August 31. The university is yet to announce the pattern of exam. Purvanchal University in Jaunpur has not announced the pattern of the final year exam but will conduct the same between July 5 and August 8.Khwaja Moinuddin Chishti Language University will conduct multiple choice question based final year exam on June 27. The exam will be held in two shifts. Chandrashekhar University in Ballia has announced to conduct written exam of 90 minute duration for final year students. The university will hold final year exam for graduate level between July 13 and 31 and postgraduate level between August 1 and 5.In Sampurnanand Sanskrit University of Varanasi the final year exams will be conducted between July 29 and August 8. In Prof Rajendra Singh University of Prayagraj the final year exam will be conducted from July 10 to 31. Rohilkhand University, Bareilly has also announced to conduct written exam of 90 minute duration for final year student from July 15 to August 4. RML Law University is conducting online exams and has announced to collate results by end of this month.Deen Dayal Upadhyay Gorakhpur University, Siddharth University in Siddharthnagar district and Mahatma Gandhi Kashi Vidyapeeth, Varanasi are yet to announce the pattern and dates for the final year exams.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-varsities-declare-schedule-mcq-omr-based-exams-of-shorter-duration-for-final-year-students-101624125210315.html
19-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: 15 million passengers travel by BEST buses after services resume||Over 15 million passengers travelled by Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) buses after the services resumed for the general public.Bus services resumed for passengers from June 7.Under the Maharashtra government’s BreakTheChain order for unlocking in Mumbai, buses are allowed to operate with no standing passengers. Earlier, the employees of essential services could only commute by BEST buses.On average nearly 1.9 million passengers travel daily by BEST buses in the city. With more than 1.9 million passengers, the maximum number of passengers travelled by the BEST buses in the city on Friday.As the bus services began on June 7, nearly 1.8 million passengers travelled by the BEST buses in the city as opposed to 1.6 million passengers that travelled on June 4.“There has been a significant rise in the number of passengers. We introduce additional buses on routes where we notice an increase in passengers.” said a senior BEST official.Around 3,369 BEST buses are operational in the city. Additional buses are added by the organisation on routes where queues of passengers are witnessed.The conductors and the bus drivers along with BEST bus inspectors have been deployed to make sure there is no overcrowding inside buses.The organisation has also made it mandatory for citizens to travel in the buses by wearing face masks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-15-million-passengers-travel-by-best-buses-after-services-resume-101624125149777.html
19-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: No bail for grandmother booked in minor’s sexual abuse case||A special Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) court has refused to grant bail to a man booked in connection with sexual abuse of her 12-year-old granddaughter on the pretext of removing an evil spirit from her.The girl was allegedly sexually abused by a 42-year-old man, a Wadala resident, who is accused of performing black magic. The incident is alleged to have happened in front of her maternal grandmother.The case against the grandmother and the man was registered after a neighbour heard the girl screaming.The neighbour alleged that on October 17, 2019, she heard the victim screaming. Therefore, the neighbour climbed on her bed and peeped into the house of the grandmother. She allegedly saw the accused sexually abusing the girl, while the grandmother stood behind the curtains watching the accused.She later alerted her husband and other neighbours. However, by the time they reached the place, the accused had fled. The neighbour later approached the police and reported the incident. The police also recorded the statement of the victim who said that the accused used to visit her grandmother’s house for some activities under the pretext of black magic-related activities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-no-bail-for-grandmother-booked-in-minor-s-sexual-abuse-case-101624125089840.html
19-06-2021||Mumbai||Right to choose partner rests exclusively with individual: Bombay HC||The right to choose life partner rests exclusively with the individual, and neither the state nor society can interfere with it, the Bombay high court (HC) said on Tuesday while deciding a habeas corpus petition. “Intimacies of marriage, including the choices which individuals make on whether or not to marry and on whom to marry, lie outside the control of the state,” said the division bench of justice VK Jadhav and justice Shrikant Kulkarni. The petition was filed by Junned Khan, a teacher from Parbhani for a direction to Aurangabad police to bring back his daughter, Khaleda, who had eloped with her boyfriend against his wishes.Khan contended that his daughter was kidnapped from Aurangabad in October 2019, when she was minor, and an offence was registered by Chawani police station. He added that one Furkan Khan from Pusad in Yavatmal district was her kidnapper and complained that despite pointing out this fact to police, they did not take any action to trace his daughter. He had, therefore, moved HC seeking a direction to the police to trace and produce his daughter before the court.While the petition was pending, police traced Furkan at Hyderabad and on June 10 produced Khaleda before HC bench headed by justice Ravindra Ghuge. Khaleda informed the bench that she had left her relative’s place at Aurangabad on her own volition and went to Furkan.She further informed the HC that Furkan had sent a marriage proposal for her, but her parents rejected it though she wanted to marry him. She was allegedly beaten when she insisted on marrying Furkan, and eventually left her parents’ house. She said she had given birth to a baby boy in September 2020.HC had then sent Khaleda and her son to a women’s hostel.On Tuesday, when the matter came up for hearing again, Junned’s counsel urged HC to invoke parens patriae jurisdiction and pass appropriate orders in the interest of the girl, claiming that she was still a “vulnerable adult”.HC, however, rejected the plea saying it was not a case for exercising the jurisdiction. The court said while the petitioner might have acted in good faith to protect the interest of his daughter, his intentions cannot be given effect to at the cost of his daughter’s fundamental right to choose her life partner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/right-to-choose-partner-rests-exclusively-with-individual-bombay-hc-101624125030508.html
19-06-2021||Mumbai||Cox & Kings promoter files discharge plea in money laundering case||Ajay Ajit Peter Kerkar, the promoter of global tours and travel company Cox and Kings Group (CKG), booked for money laundering, has approached the special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court for discharge.Kerkar’s legal team submitted the discharge application last week and called the prosecution to bring the evidence against him before the court, said his lawyer Dharmesh Joshi and Parag Joshi of TD Joshi and Associates. They have sought discharge for him claiming no prima facie case have been made out against him for framing charge by the prosecution. Kerkar was arrested in November for his role in financial irregularities and money laundering linked to the Yes Bank.According to Enforcement Directorate (ED), its preliminary probe has revealed that Cox and Kings Group had defaulted ₹3,642-crore loans taken from Yes Bank. The loans were driven by Rana Kapoor, co-founder, and former managing director and CEO of Yes Bank, after bypassing the norms, the ED had alleged.The central agency had claimed that the loan amount was diverted to other companies in connivance with the travel company’s chief financial officer Anil Khandelwal and internal auditor Naresh Jain.The agency has also alleged that the balance sheet of the company was also manipulated to avail more loans from two more banks. Kerkar has so far claimed his innocence and stated that he has lodged a complaint against Khandelwal, Jain and others.However, ED has claimed that the complaint was lodged with an ulterior motive to camouflage his role in the case. Investigations have pointed out that Kerkar was the mastermind behind siphoning off the proceeds of crime and hence an additional Enforcement Case Information Report (ECIR) was registered on November 23, last year against him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cox-kings-promoter-files-discharge-plea-in-money-laundering-case-101624125029734.html
19-06-2021||Pune||Ajit Pawar has no moral right, says BJP leader after this video goes viral||A video of a massive crowd assembled for the inauguration of a new party office of the Nationalist Congress Party in Pune on Saturday went viral after news agency ANI shared it. Pune's guardian minister and Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar was reportedly present at the inauguration."If 8,000-10,000 people gather in an event then Ajit Pawar has no moral right to urge people to follow Covid guidelines. They filed FIR against other party leaders for flouting Covid norms. Action should be taken against them," BJP's Praveen Darekar, Leader of Opposition in Maharashtra Legislative Council, said to ANI.#WATCH | Maharashtra: Massive crowd was seen during the inauguration of the National Congress Party's office in Pune today. Deputy CM Ajit Pawar was also present at the event. pic.twitter.com/UbSlQUQ5eiPune was one of the worst-hit districts in India as far as Covid-19 active cases were concerned. Now, it is under level 2 of the state government's five-level unlocking plan. The weekend restriction is still continuing in Pune.Ajit Pawar on Saturday held a meeting with Pune officials to review the Covid-19 situation of the district. Then briefing reporters about the meeting, he said people should not lower their guard against Covid-19. He also said that officials expressed concern over people heading to Mahabaleshwar, Lonavala and other tourist places in large numbers over the weekends, PTI reported."I don't understand why people are doing this. There is a need to take Covid-19 infection seriously. A lot of people have started going to tourist places out of the state; some go for trekking. If this continues, there will be no option but to quarantine people going out of the district for 15 days. We may have to issue such orders," he warned.Pune is the home district of the NCP and the party’s president Sharad Pawar, but it did not have an office here. The new office is near the Pune Municipal Corporation headquarters, Congress Bhavan and the metro station near Dengle bridge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/ajit-pawar-has-no-moral-right-says-bjp-leader-after-this-video-goes-viral-101624123507773.html
19-06-2021||Noida||Noida: GIMS director’s fake email IDs created, FIR lodged||Noida: A case has been registered against unknown persons for allegedly making two fake email IDs of director of the Greater Noida Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) and demanding money from the staff. According to police, Dr Rakesh Gupta, GIMS director, had filed a complaint with the cyber cell in February which investigated the matter and then directed the Kasna police station to register a case on Thursday. Gupta said that in February some staff of GIMS received unscrupulous emails. “The suspects impersonated themselves as GIMS’s director and demanded money from the staff using two fake IDs – director4891@gmail.com, and director2090@gmail.com. Two staffers were cheated by the suspects as they transferred ₹20,000 each to the suspects’ bank account without realising the fraud,” he said. Later, some other staff called the director to discuss if he had sent the email. “This was the time we realised the fraud and filed a complaint with police,” Gupta said. Police officials said that the staff were allegedly cheated on pretext of offering them some gift vouchers.Sudhir Kumar, SHO of Kasna police station, said that the cyber cell investigated the matter and then a case was registered on Thursday against unknown persons under Section 66 of IT Act. “We will soon arrest the suspects involved in the crime,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-gims-director-s-fake-email-ids-created-fir-lodged-101624123770266.html
19-06-2021||Noida||Noida: Two persons arrested for running prostitution racket||Noida: The Gautam Budh Nagar police’s anti-human trafficking unit (AHTU) on Saturday arrested two persons for allegedly running a prostitution racket in the district. Two women, who appear to be victims of human trafficking, have been detained for questioning, said police. The suspects were identified as Buddhiman Lama, 35, a native of Nepal, and Monu, 30, a native of Bhatinda in Punjab. Police said that an accomplice of the suspects is at large and that they have launched a search for him. The two suspects were living in a rented accommodation in Delhi and they were running the prostitution racket through social media, said police.Vrinda Shukla, deputy commissioner of police (women safety), GB Nagar, said that police had received information about the gang which was contacting people on WhatsApp and supplying women to them. “The AHTU started investigating the matter. The police team made two decoy customers and fixed a meeting with the suspects on Saturday. Lama and Monu reached a guest house in Noida Sector 56 with two women in a car. The police team in plainclothes then arrested them,” she said. Police also seized a Hyundai i-10, three mobile phones and ₹24,930 in cash from their possession. The DCP said that the two women appear to be victims of trafficking and they are being questioned in connection with the racket. “One woman is from Nepal and another from West Bengal. The two suspects revealed that they ran the prostitution racket through WhatsApp and they had no office per se. They used to fix the deal with people and then book rooms in guest houses, or sent the women to the customer’s flats,” she said. The suspects used to charge their clients anything between ₹5,000 and ₹20,000 while they would pay ₹1,500 to a woman, said police. A case has been registered against them under Section 370-A (2) (trafficking of a person) of IPC and sections 3, 4, and 5 of Immoral Traffic (Prevention) Act, 1956. The two suspects were produced in court and sent to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-two-persons-arrested-for-running-prostitution-racket-101624123769697.html
19-06-2021||Noida||Man beaten up in Dadri road rage, four arrested||Greater Noida: In an incident of road rage, a 26-year-old man was allegedly beaten up by four persons in Dadri on Friday evening. The suspects were arrested on Saturday, police said. The victim, Videsh Kumar, is a native of Khurja in Bulandshahr district, police said. According to the victim, his mother had visited a relative’s place in Dadri last week. “On Friday evening, I had come from Bulandshahr to Dadri to receive my mother. On the way to Dadri, an SUV, a black Scorpio, was moving ahead of my scooty. The Scorpio driver suddenly applied a brake and my scooty collided with the vehicle,” said Kumar, who claimed to be a member of a right-wing organisation. Kumar alleged that there were four persons in the SUV who beat him up. The victim said that the suspects also damaged his mobile phone. He then approached police and filed a case. Police said that after the incident the victim visited a private hospital for the first aid. Pradeep Tripathi, SHO, Dadri police station, said that a case was registered against the four suspects under IPC sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (intentional insult to provoke breach of peace) and 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of ₹50).The suspects were identified as Lalu, 25, Mohan, 26, and Hariya, 24, residents of Dadri; and Vipin, 25, a resident of Surajpur. “The suspects had fled after the incident. A police team launched a search and arrested them near a petrol pump in Dadri on Saturday,” the SHO said, adding that police have seized the SUV.The suspects were produced in court and sent to judicial custody, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/man-beaten-up-in-dadri-road-rage-four-arrested-101624123709763.html
19-06-2021||Noida||Loni thrashing incident: Local politician arrested by Ghaziabad crime branch||Ghaziabad: The crime branch of Ghaziabad police on Saturday arrested Ummed Pehalwan Idrisi, a local politician, from Delhi. Police said he was on the run ever since they registered a suo motu FIR against him for allegedly promoting enmity between different groups following an incident wherein a 72-year-old Muslim man was thrashed and his beard was chopped off on June 5 in Ghaziabad’s Loni. Pehalwan will be produced before a Ghaziabad court on Monday, police said, adding that he is attached to the local wing of a political party..Pehalwan, along with the victim Abdul Samad, who is from Anupshahr in Bulandshahr district, had allegedly held a Facebook live session on June 7 in which he allegedly made comments which the police said were communal. The victim, during the session, alleged that he was forced to chant slogans of “Jai Siya Ram” by the suspects, who beat him up and cut off his beard. However, both these points were not mentioned in his FIR lodged on June 7 at the Loni Border police station.A video of the incident also went viral on social media in which Samad was purportedly seen getting thrashed by some men and his beard chopped off by them.However, police investigation has so far revealed that there was no communal angle to the case as the suspects and the victim were allegedly known to each other and the dispute was personal. They said Samad allegedly gave the suspects amulets for luck but the ornament did not bring any to the suspects, due to which the suspects were allegedly angry with him.The police registered an FIR against Pehalwan on June 16 at Loni Border police station while he conducted a second Facebook live session at Anupshahr along with Samad, members of his family and locals.“Ever since then, he has been on the run. Our teams nabbed him from near LNJP Hospital in Delhi. We have brought him to Ghaziabad and he will be produced before the court Monday. During questioning, we will try to find out the reason behind his speeches and also if he acted at the behest of someone. We will also try to investigate if he delivered speeches on the narrative told to him by the victim or the victim made comments on his insistence,” said Atul Kumar Sonkar, circle officer of Loni.Pehalwan faces an FIR under Indian Penal Code sections 153a (promoting enmity between different groups on ground of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, etc), 295a (deliberate and malicious acts intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) and 505 (statements creating or promoting enmity, hatred or ill will between classes), as well as provisions of the IT Act.“It is only after his speeches that the issue was diverted on communal lines, but this was not the case, as revealed during investigation. It has come to light that the victim went to the house of the prime suspect (Pravesh Gujjar) along with another suspect (Saddam alias Bauna) on a two-wheeler. Calls were exchanged between them. However, the victim claimed in his complaint that the suspects were unidentified and forcibly took him in an auto,” said an officer attached to the case investigation, requesting anonymity. The police said that during questioning, they will also try to find out people who gave shelter to Pehalwan and will also take legal action against them. “I just helped the victim as he is old and he, along with several people, came to me seeking my help. I just narrated in the first live session what was told to me by the victim. I have come to know that an FIR has been filed against me,” Pehalwan had told HT on the night of June 16. Two FIRs have been registered in the case. In the FIR lodged by the victim, as many eight suspects were arrested till Friday on different dates, all of whom got bail. Two of the suspects, however – Pravesh Gujjar and Himanshu Kumar – would stay in custody for now, the police had said Friday. While Gujjar will stay in remand till he is granted bail in another case of extortion, Himashu will be released on bail after his documentation is complete, HT had reported Friday.Besides Pravesh and Hmanshu, the other arrested suspects in Samad’s case were identified as Adil Khan, Kallu Gujjar, Saddam alias Pauwa, Mohammad Intezar, Anas, Babu and Shavez.The police on Saturday added that they arrested one more suspect, Umesh alias Polly, who was wanted in connection with the incident in which a different FIR was filed on June 7. “One more suspect is being traced and he will also be arrested soon. With these two arrests, we have arrested ten persons so far in connection with the thrashing incident while Pehalwan was the only suspect named in the other FIR. He is also arrested,” the circle officer added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/loni-thrashing-incident-local-politician-arrested-by-ghaziabad-crime-branch-101624123649746.html
19-06-2021||Other||PDP’s Sartaj Madni released from detention||Sartaj Madni, senior People’s Democratic Party (PDP) leader and maternal uncle of PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti, was released from detention on Saturday.His release comes a day after Mufti received invitation for an all parties meeting scheduled to be held next week and chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.Madni, who hails from South Kashmir, is a senior party leader.Officials said Madni, who was under preventive detention at MLA hostel, was released on Saturday afternoon. They said a team of the Anantnag police is on its way to Srinagar to take him home.“The police team will hand him over to his family in the South Kashmir district,” officials added.“Relieved that PDP’s Sartaj Madni has finally been released after six months of wrongful detention. It’s high time that the Government of India releases political prisoners and other detainees rotting in jails in and outside J&K. A raging pandemic should have been reason enough to free them,” tweeted Mufti.Soon after revocation of Article 370 in 2019 Sartaj Madni was detained from his house and moved to SKICC, Srinagar. Last year, Madni was shifted to a government house and released then again arrested on December 21 last year, a day ahead of the counting of votes of the District Development Council elections.Several leaders of the PDP and the National Conference, including Nayeem Akhtar, Peer Mansoor and Hilal Ahmad Lone, were detained that day. They were shifted to the MLA hostel, from where they were gradually released later.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pdps-sartaj-madni-released-from-detention-101624123650269.html
19-06-2021||Other||J&K’s active cases go below 10,000 mark after 66 days||Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday recorded four deaths and 521 Covid-19 cases, lowest figures in over two months, bringing down the active cases to below 10,000 in 66 days.The number of patients who were cured in the UT is 1,197, including 838 from Kashmir and 359 from Jammu. The active cases dropped to 9,414 from the highest ever active cases of 52,848 on May 13.Last time, the active cases in the UT were below 10,000 was on April 14. There were 346 cases and two deaths in Kashmir. The Jammu division saw 175 infections and two fatalities.Since the pandemic started, the overall cases in J&K have reached 3,11,209 and the death toll has hit 4,238.The overall number of people who recovered reached 2, 97,557 prompting the recovery rate to climb to 95.61%.Officials said that 47,616 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours in the UT with the overall number of tests crossing 9.45 million.Officials said with 117 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new cases. All other 19 districts had below 50 cases with single-digit cases in Shopian, Ramban and Reasi.Shopian deputy commissioner (DC) Sachin Kumar Vaishya said the recovery rate in district has crossed 97.5%.“Till date, 5,533 positive cases have been reported in district, of which 5,399 have recovered and only 75 are still active. The recovery rate has increased to 97.57% with 5,399 recoveries so far and 59 deaths,” he said.While Shopian has been among the least affected districts, Srinagar and Jammu districts have together contributed for about 1.21 lakh cases and 1,936 deaths of the total.Jammu has the highest number of 1,120 fatalities followed by Srinagar with 816 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jks-active-cases-go-below-10-000-mark-after-66-days-101624123590217.html
19-06-2021||Other||Palampur-based IHBT aiming to promote saffron production in HP||Palampur-based Institute of Himalayan Bioresource Technology (IHBT) is aiming to promote saffron farming and identify new fields for cultivation, beyond Kashmir, to make India self-reliant in the production of the world’s costliest spice, IHBT director Dr Sanjay Kumar said on Saturday. He said this during a virtual training session on saffron cultivation in non-traditional areas of Himachal. More than 15 agriculture officers from Chamba, Kinnaur, Mandi, Kullu, Kangra and Shimla participated in the session.Why saffron cultivation will be lucrative The IHBT director said saffron is currently grown in Pampore and Kishtwar regions of Jammu and Kashmir and annual saffron production in India stands around 6-7 tonnes. This, he said, is insufficient as the annual demand in the country stands somewhere around 100 tonnes. Hence, the spice is sold at a high rate of ₹2.5-3 lakh a kilo in the market. To meet the domestic demand, most of the saffron is being imported from Iran, he said. Dr Kumar said the IHBT is working on a project with the state agriculture department to promote saffron cultivation in Himachal. “Growing saffron in the state will make a big impact on the state’s economy, cut short its imports, and be a step towards accomplishing the dream of Atmanirbhar Bharat,” he said. Dr Rakesh Kumar, senior principal scientist-cum-principal investigator, said Bharmour, Tissa in Chamba, Sangla valley in Kinnaur, Nirmand in Kullu, Bara Banghal area in Kangra districts of Himachal have a suitable climate for saffron production and it will give farmers higher returns than the traditional crops.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/palampurbased-ihbt-aiming-to-promote-saffron-production-in-hp-101624123532837.html
19-06-2021||Other||Narco-terror module busted, 10 held with heroin worth ₹45 cr||The J&K Police on Saturday busted a narco-terror module with the arrest of 10 persons and seized arms, ammunition and drugs worth ₹45 crore from their possession.Police said, following a tip-off, a joint team of police, army and CRPF established a naka at Bandi Uri.“During checking a Maruti Swift coming from Lagama towards Baramulla was signalled to stop. However, the driver tried to flee. On this, the joint team swung into action and stopped the vehicle,” Baramulla SSP Mohammad Rayees Bhat said during a press conference.“The suspected persons in the car were questioned who revealed their identity as Sajid Ahmad Shah, of Lalpora Lolab in Kupwara, Sharafat Khan, of Keran in Kupwara, and Shahid Hussain, of Khaipora Tangmarg,” Bhat said.“Total 11 packets of heroin weighing around 9kg (worth ₹45 crore), 10 Chinese grenades, four Chinese pistols along with as many magazines and 20 rounds were recovered from their possession,” he said.“Besides this, ₹21.5 lakh, cheques of ₹1,00,000, a Eicher Canter truck, a Hyundai Verna, a Scooty and a Maruti Swift were recovered during the raids,” he added.“On further questioning, it came to fore that the said arms and ammunition, and contraband substance was received from across the LoC to provide aid to terrorist organisations. It was disclosed that some deliveries had been taken by some other parties. Upon their disclosure, special nakas were established,” he added.Among the 10 people, four were arrested from Jammu, and three of them were from Punjab, police said.He said that in a series of action, Reyaz Ahmad Hajam, of Yarikah Chadoora Budgam, Adil Bashir, of Chadoora Budgam, Angraz Singh, of Chadharpur Teh in Ajnala, Amritsar (Punjab) were also arrested.The SSP said a police party headed by additional SP Baramulla assisted by the Jammu Police also aided in arresting more accused from Jammu.The arrested persons were identified as Raman, of Housing Board Colony in Ferozepur (Punjab), Rohit and Krishan, of Bastia Border Road in Ferozepur (Punjab), and Fayaz Ahmad Khan, of Keran Kupwara.“ ₹16 lakh and a Eicher Canter truck were seized from their possession,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/narcoterror-module-busted-10-held-with-heroin-worth-rs-45-cr-101624123530139.html
19-06-2021||Other||Cong appoints observes, coordinators for upcoming bypolls in HP||Himachal Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) on Saturday appointed coordinators and observers for the two assembly segments and one Lok Sabha seat in the state that are set to have bypolls soon. A notification to this effect was issued by state party incharge Rajeev Shukla.As per the notification, responsibilities have been assigned with a view to forge better coordination and strengthen the preparation for the crucial polls. Co-incharge for party affairs in Himachal, Sanjay Dutt and former All Indian Congress Committee (AICC) secretary in-charge of the state Gurkirat Singh Kotli have been appointed the coordinators for byelection to Mandi Parliamentary constituency. The seat was vacated after former MP Ram Swaroop Sharma died by suicide in March this year.Leader of Opposition in Himachal Pradesh assembly Mukesh Agnihotri, AICC secretary Asha Kumari, former state Congress chief Sukhvinder Sinigh Sukhu and ex-MLA Gangu Ram Musafir will be the observers.Mandi parliamentary constituency holds importance for Bharatiya Janata Party for being the home turf of chief minister Jai Ram Thakur. The Congress is looking to wrest the seat, which once was its stronghold.Sanjay Dutt would also coordinate the election for Jubbal-Kotkhai assembly segment. The seat fell vacant due to demise of incumbent MLA Narinder Bragta who succumbed to post Covid complications. MLAs Ram Lal Thakur, Dhani Ram Shandil and Harsvardhan Chauhan and former legislators Harsh Mahajan will assist Dutt as observers. Kotli will coordinate election to Fatehpur assembly segment. The election was necessitated due to the demise of MLA Sujan Singh Pathania. Senior leaders GS Bali, Chander Kumar and MLA Rajinder Rana will be the observers. The ruling BJP has already appointed the incharge for the byelections. Jal Shakti minister Mehender Singh will oversee the election for Mandi parliamentary constituency. Industry minister Bikram Thakur has been made the in-charge of Fatehpur assembly segment and urban development minister Suresh Bhardwaj for Jubbal-Kotkhai assembly segment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cong-appoints-observes-coordinators-for-upcoming-bypolls-in-hp-101624123529628.html
19-06-2021||Noida||Monsoon still far but expect rain today in Noida, Ghaziabad, says IMD||Noida: The weather department has predicted further delay in the arrival of the south-west monsoon in Noida and its adjoining regions, even though most of western Uttar Pradesh is now under monsoon cover. However, light rain is expected over the region on Sunday.The weatherman also said that the delay in monsoon over the region may lead to dry weather and rise in mercury over the next two days, however, the National Capital Region may see patchy rains and heavy winds.“The south-west monsoon that was held up between east and west UP has slightly advanced and now covers about 85% of western UP, including cities like Meerut and Aligarh. But it’s getting delayed in advancing further to cover areas of Noida, Ghaziabad, Bulandshahr, Agra and the region between Meerut and Delhi. We cannot predict when it may advance and reach this region. The area will only get patchy rain or drizzle on Sunday,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, India Meteorological Department (IMD). The weather department had earlier predicted the arrival of monsoon in the NCR by June 15. Normally, the monsoon arrives by the last week of June in NCR.“The mercury is likely to soar and reach 39°C in the city from Monday onwards. The region is currently seeing strong easterly winds up to 20 kilometre per hour (kmph) but the weather may become dry after next one or two days,” he added.On Saturday, the IMD recorded a maximum and minimum temperature for Noida at 35°C and 25.9°C against 35.1°C and 25.5°C on Friday. At the Safdarjung monitoring station, considered average for the NCR, the maximum and minimum temperatures were recorded at 35.1°C and 25.3°C, respectively.Meanwhile, strong easterly winds and patchy rains improved the air quality of Noida, Greater Noida and Ghaziabad further.According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the air quality index (AQI) of Noida on Saturday, on a scale of 0 to 500, was 55 against 66 a day earlier. The AQI of Greater Noida was 58 against 62 a day earlier. Ghaziabad recorded an AQI of 85 against 96 a day earlier. An AQI level from zero to 50 is considered ‘good’, between 50 and 100 is considered ‘satisfactory’, between 101 and 200 is ‘moderate’, between 201 and 300 is ‘poor’, between 301 and 400 is ‘very poor’ and above 400 is considered ‘severe’.According to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), the air quality will remain in the ‘satisfactory’ levels.“Rainfall and aerosol washout are expected to improve the air quality. The AQI is likely to stay in the ‘satisfactory’ to ‘moderate’ category for the next three days due to partial washout effect,” said a SAFAR statement on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/monsoon-still-far-but-expect-rain-today-in-noida-ghaziabad-says-imd-101624123469676.html
19-06-2021||Noida||Decline in Covid cases leads to shortfall in testing||Ghaziabad: Amid the sharp decline in Covid-19 cases in the past three weeks, the district has fallen short of its testing target by almost 26% this month so far. District health department officials said that the decline in testing numbers is due to lesser footfall at the testing centres and fewer new cases. According to official figures, the health department had conducted 154,886 tests in April, which is 95.6% of the month’s target of 162,000. Similarly, it conducted 205,112 (97%) tests in May against the target of 211,400. However, in the first 18 days of June, only 108,868 people (74.2%) have tested, while the target for the period was 146700 tests. The overall target for June is 244,500 tests.“The testing numbers have reduced as the footfall has decreased at our centres and also due to the fact that new cases have considerably declined. In April and May, we were testing 25-30 contacts per positive case. But this month, the cases have declined which has led to fewer contacts being traced and tested. At present, we do not have any shortage of testing kits,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer. The district since May 16 is assigned a target of conducting 2,900 tests per day through RT-PCR method and 5,250 daily tests with the help of rapid antigen kits. Before that, the daily target was 1,700 RT-PCR and 3,700 rapid antigen tests, the officials said. In the second wave of the pandemic in Ghaziabad, the cases started to spike during mid of April and the sample positivity rate stood at 2.8% on April 15. The rate peaked to 19.3% on May 6 and thereafter started to show a declining trend. The sample positivity on June 18 was 0.33%, as per the official figures.Notably, the district recorded 12,859 positive cases in April and 14,132 in May, but the number drastically reduced to just 337 in first 18 days of June, as per the state’s health bulletin. The reduced footfall is also witnessed at the Sanjay Nagar Combined District Hospital. “During April and May, there were a number of people coming in with respiratory issues, fever, and indications of influenza-like illness (ILI) and severe acute respiratory illness (SARI). We used to get such cases tested and admitted those who tested positive. Now, the footfall of such people has considerably reduced,” said Dr Sanjay Teotia, chief medical superintendent of the hospital. The staff at the Ramlila Ground testing centre at Ghanta Ghar said that people were not coming out to get tested. “In May, when cases were rising, there were long queues. We used to conduct 500-600 tests per day then. Now, we hardly conduct 50 tests in a day. It is expected that cases of ILI/SARI will emerge during the monsoon season. So, the footfall may increase,” said Narsingh Kumar, a lab technician at the testing centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/decline-in-covid-cases-leads-to-shortfall-in-testing-101624123409670.html
19-06-2021||Other||Himachal logs 239 fresh Covid cases||Himachal Pradesh recorded 239 fresh Covid-19 cases on Saturday taking the state’s case tally to 2,00,282 while the death toll mounted to 3,423 after 10 more people succumbed to the contagion.Of the new cases, 47 were reported in Kangra, 38 in Mandi, 33 in Chamba, 31 in Kullu, 18 in Shimla, 16 in Una, 15 in Sirmaur, 12 in Solan, 11 in Kinnaur, seven in Hamirpur and three in Lahaul-Spiti.Two fatalities each were reported in Hamirpur, Kangra and Shimla, and one each in Chamba, Mandi, Solan and Una.In terms of caseload, Kangra remains the worst-hit district with 45,640 cases so far, followed by Mandi where 26,888 people have been tested positive till date and Shimla with 24,887 cases. Solan has 22,123 cases, Sirmaur 15,243, Hamirpur 14,233, Una 13,179, Bilaspur 12,518, Chamba 10,916, Kullu, 8,759, Kinnaur 3,203 and Lahaul-Spiti 2,693.TWO SUCCUMB TO BLACK FUNGUSMeanwhile, mucormycosis or black fungus infection has claimed two more lives at Indira Gandhi Medical College, Shimla taking state’s toll to seven.IGMC senior medical superintendent Dr Janak Raj said a man and a woman died of the deadly infection late on Friday.The woman belonged to Lakkar Bazar locality in Shimla while another patient was from Hamirpur.Both were admitted at IGMC on May 28. Till date, five patients have died due to mucormycosis at IGMC and two at RPGMC, Tanda.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/himachal-logs-239-fresh-covid-cases-101624123352999.html
19-06-2021||Noida||Six new community health centres to come up in Noida||NOIDA: To strengthen the health infrastructure in Gautam Budh Nagar ahead of an anticipated third wave of Covid-19, the district administration has proposed to set up six community health centres (CHCs) in urban areas of the district. The proposal of the district health committee will soon be sent to the state government for approval, officials said. The GB Nagar district magistrate, Suhas LY, who is also the ex-officio chairman of the district health committee, said that the committee has taken a serious note of an acute paucity of government health centres in the urban areas of the district. The committee, in its meeting held on Friday, unanimously decided to open six CHCs in the district, he said. “In the urban area, we’ve only one CHC in Bisrakh that was constructed when GB Nagar was a part of Ghaziabad district. Since then, Bisrakh has become a block and GB Nagar a district, but that area could not see any improvement in the health infrastructure. We’ll soon send our requisition for six new CHCs to the state government. I hope that the district will have new CHCs soon,” he said. At present, the district has six CHCs at Bisrakh, Dadri, Badalpur, Kasna Dadha, Jewar and Bhangel. “Besides the six CHCs, the district also has 21 primary health centres (PHCs). With the construction of six new CHCs, the GB Nagar residents will not need to travel far from their places. Once we get a nod from the government, we’ll decide about the locations of the new CHCs. But while deciding the venues, we’ll certainly keep in mind that the CHCs must be located at proportional distance from all the areas,” the DM said. Echoing similar views, Dr Deepak Ohri, district chief medical officer (CMO), said that the health department will soon start a survey of different areas for acquisition of land, on which the new CHCs will be constructed. “Doubling the number of existing CHCs will really be very helpful in providing health-care facilities to the residents, especially those who can’t afford the costly treatment in the private hospitals,” he said. Meanwhile, with eight new cases detected on Saturday, the total number of Covid-19 cases in GB Nagar district has reached 62,974. The number of active cases in the district has now gone up to 133, as per the state’s health bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/six-new-community-health-centres-to-come-up-in-noida-101624123109700.html
19-06-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad civic agency agrees to offer free land for govt hospital in trans-Hindon area||Ghaziabad: The long pending demand for a government hospital in the trans-Hindon area of Ghaziabad may see light of day as the municipal corporation on Saturday decided to offer 5,500 square metres (sqm) of its land in Makanpur (Indirapuram) to the health department for the same. Officials said that they will soon take the proposal to the civic corporation’s board and will send a proposal to the state government for a final nod. A team of officials from the health department and the municipal corporation visited Makanpur along with Sahibabad member of legislative assembly Sunil Sharma on Saturday. “The land is about 5,500-5,800 sqm and can be used for the construction of a multi-storey building for the combined hospital. Since it belongs to the land management committee (LMC), it can be offered free-of-cost for the hospital. The other piece of land – of the Uttar Pradesh Avas Vikas at Vasundhara – is costing about ₹140 crore. So, the land at Makanpur would be more viable for the hospital,” said Sunil Sharma, Sahibabad MLA. “The prospect of the second hospital is also being looked into as a major part of the trans-Hindon area comprises population belonging to the lower economic strata. Hence, for their benefit, we are also searching for land at Karhera (near the Hindon air base) where another, similar hospital can be constructed for them. We identified land there, but it is in private ownership in chunks. We have asked officials to talk to farmers to give up their land for the purpose and they can be allotted land elsewhere,” Sharma added.The trans-Hindon areas comprise localities such as Indirapuram, Kaushambi, Vaishali, Vasundhara, Prahlad Garhi, Jhandapur, Sahibabad, Rajendra Nagar, Lajpat Nagar and Shalimar Garden, among others.Residents have been demanding the construction of a government hospital in trans-Hindon for almost a decade, as the nearest medical facilities – the MMG District Hospital and the Sanjay Nagar Combined District Hospital – are about eight-10kms from trans-Hindon localities. According to the district health department, they were offered two land chunks – one measuring about 5,000 sqm in Vausndhara’s Sector 3, where a residential building for healthcare staff was proposed, while the other is about 7,500 sqm in Sector 6 where the main building of the hospital was proposed for 100 beds.They added that the estimated cost was about ₹140-150 crore, and it was not agreed upon by the state health department.“We have taken a look at the land available in Makanpur and it is suitable for the construction of the main hospital building. We plan to come up with a combined hospital of 100 beds in the trans-Hindon area. Since the land will be available free-of-cost, it is likely that state officials will give a nod soon,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer, Ghaziabad. The land at Makanpur, however, is being transferred, not bought from the civic agency.“Once the proposal gets cleared, we will send a detailed proposal to state officials. Upon approval, the land will be handed over to the health department for construction by way of resumption (transfer). It will not involve any cost as such. So, we have in-principal agreed to give the land for the construction of the hospital,” said MS Tanwar, municipal commissioner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-civic-agency-agrees-to-offer-free-land-for-govt-hospital-in-trans-hindon-area-101624123049692.html
19-06-2021||Other||Admn joins hands with firms to set up Oxygen plants in E Singhbhum||Jamshedpur (East Singhbhum) district administration and corporate firms have joined hands to set up Oxygen plants in rural hospitals and ensure round-the-clock oxygen availability across the district ahead of the probable third wave of Covid-19 pandemic, officials said on Saturday.Health minister Banna Gupta and Jamshedpur deputy commissioner (DC) Suraj Kumar also inspected sites in this regard at Sadar Hospital, while launching mobile vaccination service for people above the age of 45 years in rural areas“Thanks to the minister’s initiative, HDFC Bank has given 900 litre per minute oxygen generating plant for Jamshedpur sadar hospital (JSH). This will not just cater to patients in ICU and PICU, but will also ensure continuous oxygen supply to 120 beds at JSH,” the DC said.Besides, work was started on a 10,000 litre per hour capacity Oxygen plant at JSH and 600 litre per minute pressure swing absorption (PSA) Oxygen plant at MGMMCH, the DC informed the health minister. “This will provide oxygen supply to not just 200 beds at MGMMCH, but also to an additional 250 beds. Uranium Corporation of India Ltd (UCIL) and Hindustan Copper Ltd (HCL) have also started equipping rural hospitals with oxygen pipelines and manifolds. As many as 15 beds in each of the community health centres (CHCs) will be connected with piped oxygen supply. By first week of August, we will have 350 ICU beds ready, while the health minister has sanctioned funds for another 100 ICU beds,” Kumar said.Meanwhile, Tata Steel chief (corporate social responsibility) Saurav Roy said the steel giant will set up Oxygen plants in rural hospitals of Jharkhand and Odisha, particularly in East Singhbhum, West Singhbhum and Seraikela-Kharsawan districts under Kolhan division.“Tara Steel will set up these plants jointly with the state government under National Health Mission. Rural hospitals are being identified for the purpose. Plants will be set up first in those rural hospitals where sending oxygen was the most difficult during the second wave,” Roy said.Tata Steel Foundation also handed over 100 oxygen cylinders to the DC on Friday. The foundation has already given 3,000 cylinders to the state government. City boy and NRI Saket Gadia, former student of Rajendra Vidyalaya and IIT-Mumbai, also sent 24 Oxygen concentrators from California. Rotary Club of Jamshedpur-Femina president Shashi Gadia and Ravishankar handed the concentrators to the DC Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/admn-joins-hands-with-firms-to-set-up-oxygen-plants-in-e-singhbhum-101624120891202.html
19-06-2021||Other||Man with multiple wives held in Bengal for ‘abducting’ girl||A man having multiple wives was arrested on Friday from West Bengal’s Purulia district for allegedly abducting a 25-year-old woman from Parsudih police station area in Jamshedpur, police said on Saturday.Police said the arrested man in the past married other women and sexually exploited girls by promising marriage. His arrest came after the woman’s parents lodged an FIR for rape and abduction on June 7 against the arrested accused, officer in-charge (OC) Rajendra Das said.“The arrested accused and the abducted girl were brought here Saturday. The man was sent to jail, while the rescued 25-year-old girl was handed over to her parents. The woman’s statement will be recorded in the court on Monday, while her medical tests are being done,” the OC said.As per available information, the Jamshedpur woman went missing in the first week of June, about a couple days before her parents lodged the FIR. “He befriended the girl from Parsudih while living with his third wife and their two children . He fled the city with the 25-year-old woman, leaving his wife and two children in the lurch. He was moving from one place to another with the woman all this while,” Das said.The incident led to tension and angry demonstration in front of Parsudih police station, as the woman was from a different community.Police investigation found that the arrested accused was sent to jail for abducting a girl in Sahibganj district in 2012, the OC said. “This incident was at a time when he was already married to another woman from Malda in West Bengal. The accused confessed that after fleeing his village in Sahibganj’s Radhanagar, he went to Odisha, where he married another girl,” Das said.The man then came to Jamshedpur, where he was living with his third wife and their two children, police said, adding that all his wives were from different communities and know him by different names.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/man-with-multiple-wives-held-in-bengal-for-abducting-girl-101624120889603.html
19-06-2021||Ranchi||Post-Covid complication: 15 die of blood clotting in 20 days at RIMS||The second wave of Covid-19 pandemic has wreaked havoc on many patients who are still struggling with complications arising after infected, particularly in the form of Mucormycosis (black fungus) and thrombosis. In last 20 days, at least 15 people died at the state’s biggest tertiary hospital Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) due to thrombosis (clotting of blood in circulatory system), officials said on Saturday According to hospital officials, these Covid-19 patients died not long after they were discharged. Besides, the state has so far reported 26 deaths due to Mucormycosis, as per the state health department’s bulletin.Doctors at RIMS reported that around 40-50 patients daily visit the post-Covid out patient department (OPD). It has been noticed that around 20% of these patients are in serious condition, they said, adding that private hospitals too refer some critical patients.According to RIMS critical care head Dr Pradeep Bhattacharya, nearly 45-50 post-Covid-19 patients are currently admitted at the hospital, and majority of them are suffering from respiratory problems.“In post-Covid, moderate to severe category patients are at greater risk of thrombosis because they need more oxygen. We noticed that some patients suffer from hypercoagulation triggered by coronavirus. It has been seen that some recovered patients are now returning with complaints of pain in chest, stomach and limbs, mainly due to blood clotting,” Dr Bhattacharya said.He added, “Due to blood clotting, functioning of patient’s lungs compromised which ultimately affects the oxygen supply in the body. The inadequate supply of oxygen impair the functioning of vital organs leading to death in some cases.”He said, “Such patients are administered supportive therapy. Blood thinner medicines help in recovery.”According to Dr Bhattacharya, around 15 critical patients died in last 20 days due to post Covid-19 complications.Besides, Mucormycosis cases are separately dealt with at the hospital’s ENT department.According to the state health department’s bulletin, Jharkhand has so far reported 133 cases of mucormycosis--80 confirmed and 53 suspected cases. The state has registered 26 deaths from it thus far, while a total of 50 patients have been discharged.The state on Saturday did not discover any new patient of Mucormycosis. The disease has made its presence in 18 out of 24 districts in the state, with the maximum 46 cases concentrated in state capital Ranchi alone. It is closely followed by East Singhbhum district, with its headquarters in Jamshedpur, which reported a total of 21 cases. The two districts together make up over 50% of the state’s total cases.The rare life-threatening disease Mucormycosis, that is popping up across the state as a post Covid-19 complication, has posed multiple challenges for health mandarins.“This rare disease is occurring in some post Covid patients due to poor immunity, uncontrolled diabetes and most importantly for undergoing steroid therapy during treatment of coronavirus infection. The biggest challenge is the early detection and timely treatment for this mucormycosis infection. Delay in treatment would prove fatal. As soon as patient complains of pain in any of these areas including face, nose, eye, he/she should get a CT scan or MRI done,” said Dr Bhattacharya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/postcovid-complication-15-die-of-blood-clotting-in-20-days-at-rims-101624120830198.html
19-06-2021||Other||Man held for dowry demand, sexual abuse of minor daughter||A 30-year-old man was arrested late Friday evening following a complaint by his wife that he forced her into unnatural sex and sexually abused one of their two minor daughters while keeping them in captivity for past 15 days at their house in Jamshedpur, police said on Saturday.The man’s wife has also accused him of physical and mental torture over dowry demands, officer in-charge Naresh Prasad Sinha said. “The police have lodged an FIR under Section 8 of Pocso Act (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences ), Sections 376 (rape), 377 (unnatural intercourse), 344 (wrongful confinement) and 312 (forced miscarriage) of Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Sections 3/4 of Dowry (Prevention) Act,” Sinha said.As per available information, the couple had a love marriage, registered on September 21, 2013. However, the complainant alleged in her FIR, her husband’s family didn’t approve of their marriage and physically and mentally tortured her for dowry demands of ₹5 lakh and a motorcycle.She also accused her husband of having an extra-marital affair. “When I opposed, he beat me up and injured me with a sharp weapon. He also kicked me, resulting in a miscarriage. He kept me and my daughters captive in a room and forced me into unnatural sex, and sexually abused our elder daughter. He roams naked in the house and forces our daughter to sleep naked,” the woman alleged in her police complaint. The woman said she somehow managed to alert their neighbours regarding the abuse, who in turn informed her parents. “When my mother came to visit us, he (husband) didn’t allow her inside. Sniffing something foul, my mother rescued me with the help of social activists. Later, I lodged a police complaint on June 17, following which police rescued my two daughters,” the victim woman said.Earlier, in 2014, the woman had filed a complaint against her in-laws for demanding dowry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/man-held-for-dowry-demand-sexual-abuse-of-minor-daughter-101624120829575.html
19-06-2021||Bangalore||Lockdown relaxed in 16 Karnataka districts; hotels and restaurants can open||BENGALURU: The Karnataka government on Saturday announced new relaxations to the Covid lockdown in 16 districts where the infection positivity rate has dropped to less than 5%, allowing hotels and restaurants to open with 50% capacity and shops to stay open till 5pm. The 16 districts include Bengaluru city.A statement issued by Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa’s office said the chief minister took the decision to relax the lockdown norms on the recommendation of the Technical Advisory Committee (TAC).Night curfew between 7pm to 5am and the weekend curfew will continue throughout the state.The first set of relaxations announced are applicable to 16 districts - Bengaluru urban, Uttara Kannada, Belagavi, Mandya, Koppala, Chikkaballapur, Tumkur, Kolar, Gadag, Raichur, Bagalkote, Kalaburagi, Haveri, Ramnagara, Yadagiri and Bidar.In these districts, all shops can stay open till 5pm. People can also eat out at hotels, clubs, restaurants on the condition that they operate at 50% of their capacity. These establishments, however, cannot serve liquor or switch on the air-conditioners.Government and private offices are also permitted to work with 50% capacity.“Lodges and resorts can function only with 50% capacity. Gyms can operate with 50% capacity (without AC facility),” said a communication from the Karnataka CM’s office. On June 11, the government allowed districts with a positivity rate of more than 5% to keep essential services open till 2 pm. Besides, selected industries and offices were allowed to open. These districts are Hassan, Udupi, Dakshina Kannada, Shimoga, Chamrajngagar, Chikmagalur, Bangalore rural, Davanagere, Kodagu, Dharwad, Bellari, Chitradurga and Vijayapura. The lockdown will continue without any relaxations in Mysuru, Karnataka’s only district with a positivity rate of more than 10%.On Saturday, Karnataka reported 5,815 new Covid cases taking the number of active cases to 1,30,872. The state also reported 161 Covid related deaths. The total deaths due to Covid reached 33,763. Of these, Bengaluru reported 1,263 new cases and four deaths during the last 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/lockdown-relaxed-in-16-karnataka-districts-hotels-and-restaurants-can-open-101624120410214.html
19-06-2021||Patna||Antique idols stolen from temple in Patna||Four antique idols of different Hindu gods were stolen from a temple at Gwaltoli under the Agamkuan police station area in Patna City Friday night, triggering protest by some locals on Saturday. The idols were 300-400 years old, police said.The incident came to light on Saturday morning when some devotees reached the temple and found the idols missing. A group of residents later blocked Old Bypass and disrupted vehicular traffic demanding action against the police officers on night patrolling, whose alleged negligence led to the theft of the idols.One of the locals said all the stolen idols were estimated to be worth over ₹1 crore in the black market. Agamkaun police station SHO Abhijeet Kumar said the police swung into action after receiving information about the theft. “Efforts are on to identify the culprits,” he said. The police have registered a case against unidentified persons in this connection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/antique-idols-stolen-from-temple-in-patna-101624120351333.html
19-06-2021||Other||India will vaccinate all above 18 by Dec: Prasad||PATNAUnion law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Saturday said it was the first time India was vaccinating its people with countrymade vaccines along with the developed world and claimed the country would be in a position to vaccinate all its people above 18 years of age by this year-end. Talking to journalists at his residence in Patna, the minister also took a dig at Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi. “He shares a lot of wisdom on Twitter on Covid-19, but he should explain if he has taken the vaccine or not. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has ensured vaccination against Covid-19 moves at a good pace. Indian scientists have made India self-reliant in this field, as the country is not dependent on foreign-made vaccines anymore,” he said. Prasad said that Serum Institute of India was producing six crore doses a month, which has now gone up to 11 crore. “Similarly, Bharat Biotech’s production of Covaxin will also reach 7.50 crore per month in July and 10 crore from October, which is a big leap from just 1.7 crore doses at present. More companies have been roped in for production,” he said. The minister said that from June 21, further fillip would be given to vaccination drive to carry it forward in mission mode. “Sputnik-V also got approval in April and with seven companies producing it, it will also contribute to the vaccine kitty. By December, the country will have around 200 crore doses, while we need 180 crore doses to vaccinate all the people above 18 years of age. We have already vaccinated around 27 crore people,” he said. Prasad said India planned its vaccination in phases, prioritizing it keeping in mind the vulnerability factor. “First priority was doctors, healthcare staff and frontline workers. Then it was for people above 60 years, when Narendra Modi took vaccine to satisfy the Opposition, which was always asking why he was not taking it. Then it was for people above 45 years and now it is for those above 18 years,” he added. Maintaining that vaccination in India was moving at a faster rate compared to developed countries like the USA, England, Germany and Canada (with a combined population of barely 52-53 crore), the minister said the PM announced free vaccination to people across the country after the states wanted Centre to take control after first building a narrative for decentralization. “Despite rapid pace of infection spread during the second wave, India was able to control the situation fast due to war-scale efforts. Railways and Indian Air Force joined the efforts to deal with oxygen shortage. Now the focus is on vaccination and the PM wants that it carried out in mission mode. He is monitoring on a daily basis,” he said. On vaccination of children, the minister said it should be best left to the experts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/india-will-vaccinate-all-above-18-by-dec-prasad-101624120350797.html
19-06-2021||Patna||Woman given two shots of vaccine within minutes in Bihar||A 67-year-old woman, who was given a shot each of Covaxin and Covishied in a short interval of time at a vaccination camp in Bihar recently, was doing fine, said the health department on Saturday. Sunila Devi, wife of Ravindra Mahto, was administered shots of the two vaccines in a space of 5 minutes at the Utkramit Vidyalaya, a rural camp in Beldarichak village of Punpun block under Patna district on June 16. The camp, allegedly hosted in a room, had two session sites in it, one for the 18-45 years age group and another for those above 45 years of age. Hosting two-session sites in a room is against the vaccination norms to avoid mixing, said officials. “My grandmother first stood in the queue meant for her age group and was administered Covaxin. After taking the jab, the auxiliary nursing midwife (ANM) asked her to sit on a chair. After some time, another ANM, giving shots to the 18-45 years age group, under some confusion, administered her Covishield, in a space of 5 minutes of taking Covaxin. My grandmother did not know that the two shots of vaccine should not be taken the same day,” said Akash Kumar, the 18-year-old grandson of the woman. He said his grandmother was running a high fever till yesterday but was feeling weak on Saturday. Akash also claimed that the two queues for vaccinating the 18-45 years age group and those above 45 years of age were held in one room. “The doctors are enquiring only over the phone. We got medicines for the high fever my grandmother had till yesterday, but she’s feeling weak today,” he added. “We have issued show-cause notices to our officials and expect their response on Monday. We will definitely take action against the guilty because we had specifically instructed officials not to have two different vaccines at one session site to avoid mixing of vaccines,” said Manoj Kumar, executive director, State Health Society, Bihar. Dr Sanjay Kumar, medical officer-in-charge of the Punpun primary health centre (PHC), responsible for the camp, has been asked to explain under what circumstances the woman was given the two jabs, said Dr Vibha Kumari Singh, Patna’s civil surgeon. “The certificate generated through the CoWIN portal shows that only Covaxin has been administered to the woman. She, however, claims that two separate vaccines were administered to her within a few minutes. We are inquiring into the incident. I have issued show-cause notices to the two ANMs deputed at the camp and sought a response from them,” said Dr Kumar. The woman is doing fine right now. She is under the observation of a medical team, said the State Health Society, Bihar, in its tweet on Saturday evening. “Actions have been initiated against the responsible officials and the civil surgeon has been instructed to ensure that such things should not happen in future,” the tweet said. “We have asked the officials to explain how this happened, especially when all jabs have to be authenticated on the CoWIN portal on the basis of one’s Aadhaar,” said Patna’s civil surgeon. “In response to my show-cause notice to the medical officer of Punpun PHC, he has asked the two nurses deployed at the camp to explain the circumstances leading to the administration of the two vaccines to the woman,” she added. “We are keeping a close watch on the woman, who is at her residence. She had developed a fever, but is doing fine now. She has not complained of any other difficulty so far. I personally spoke to her over phone yesterday,” Dr Singh added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/woman-given-two-shots-of-vaccine-within-minutes-in-bihar-101624120349485.html
19-06-2021||Other||Several villages in East Champaran’s Sagauli inundated||Several villages in Sagauli block of East Champaran district were inundated Friday night when a turbulent Sikrahna river overflew an embankment at Lal Parsa village following incessant downpour in its catchment area in Nepal.“No loss of life was reported from six to seven villages affected,” said Shirshat Kapil Ashok, district magistrate, East Champaran.Around 400 people were affected by waterlogging in Areraj and Sagauli subdivisions on East Champaran, the DM said. Water also gushed into Sagauli police station and block office. “We have temporarily shifted the police station to a school,” said Vivek Jaiswal, station house officer (SHO), Sagauli. In neighbouring Gopalganj district, the threat of flood continued as Gandak river remained in spate on Saturday. “No breach in embankment has been reported, though there were reports of leakage at many places. They were sealed immediately,” said Dr Nawal Kishor Choudhary, district magistrate (DM), Gopalganj.Around 12,000 people have been affected in the district while 1,000 people have been evaluated from low-lying areas, he said. Meanwhile, vehicular traffic on Sattarghat bridge over river Gandak, which connects Gopalganj and East Champaran districts, remained suspended. All vehicles are now being diverted to Bangra ghat bridge route, which is located about eight kilometres downstream, to cross the river. The Gadak river continued to be in spate near Dumariaghat for second day on Saturday. “It is receding,” said the DM.In West Champaran, several villages remained inundated, though the situation improved following the low discharge of water from Valmikinagar barrage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/several-villages-in-east-champaran-s-sagauli-inundated-101624120350118.html
19-06-2021||Patna||Bihar records 149% surplus rain this month; yellow alert till June 21||Monsoon remained active over Bihar bringing heavy rain in southwest parts and moderate rain in the other parts of the state during the past 24 hours, said officials of Patna Meteorological Centre on Saturday.MeT centre said that the state has received 202 mm rain between June 1 and June 19, which was 149% excess than normal rain. As per the daily bulletin issued, Adhwara recorded 70 mm rain, Barh 60mm, Daudnagar 50mm, Bhagalpur, Sasaram and Hisua 40 mm each. Patna received 9.8 mm rain between 8.30 am to 5.30pm while Gaya recorded 19mm, Nawada 46.5mm and Jamui 21.5mm. Meanwhile, daylong spell of rain caused waterlogging in low-lying areas including Patliputra Colony, Station Road, Bazar Samiti, Kankarbagh, Ramkrishna Nagar, Mithapur bus stand and pockets of Bailey Road. Abhishek Kashyap, a resident of Patliputra Colony, said, “ Half dug roads have added to waterlogging woes. As drainage construction work is incomplete in my locality, construction materials are lying on road. There are many such spots in the colony risky for commuting.”Weatherman Zeeshan Ansari attributed the early arrival of monsoon in the state to surplus rain. He said, “Monsoon arrived south Bihar on June 12 associated with a cyclonic system that triggered intense rain in the first phase. The state received 37mm rain between June 1 to June 11. However, the state received 169 mm rain between June 12 to June 19. Overall, Bihar recorded 149% surplus rain this month so far.” As per the MeT centre forecast, widespread to fairly widespread rain is likely over the state till June 21. A yellow-colour warning has also been issued for the entire state for the next 48 hours. “Weather system is active over the Bay of Bengal while another trough line is crossing Rajasthan to the Bay of Bengal via Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand and neighbouring areas. Under the influence, the state will continue to receive moderate to heavy rain for next 48 hours,” said Ansari.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-records-149-surplus-rain-this-month-yellow-alert-till-june-21-101624120231537.html
19-06-2021||Other||Sitamarhi, Munger and Jehanabad get new DMs||PATNAIn a minor reshuffle, the Bihar government Saturday transferred five IAS officers, including three district magistrates (DMs) of Sitamarhi, Jehanabad and Munger.According to a notification issued by the general administration department (GAD), Sunil Kumar Yadav has been appointed new DM of Sitamarhi, replacing Abhilasha Kumari Sharma who has been shifted to finance department as joint secretary.Munger DM Rachna Patil has been transferred to GAD as additional secretary, replacing Himanshu Kumar Ray. Jehanabad DM Navin Kumar has replaced Patil at Munger while Ray has been posted as new DM of Jehanabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sitamarhi-munger-and-jehanabad-get-new-dms-101624120230824.html
19-06-2021||Patna||Bihar set to extend women’s quota to promotions and postings||The Bihar government has ordered to give adequate representation to women, on the lines of 35% quota in government jobs for them, in promotions and postings in various offices as well, sources familiar with the matter said.“The participation of 35% women should be ensured in postings at the regional level,” sources said, quoting from the letter they said was issued by the general administration department (GAD) late Friday evening.Sources in the police headquarters confirmed to have received the directive, though there was no official release from the government.The latest directive is in line with the Nitish Kumar government’s thrust on women empowerment and could mean more female subdivisional magistrates (SDM), block development officers (BDO), circle officers (CO) and station house officers (SHO).After he came to power in 2005, Kumar has taken a slew of initiatives for women empowerment, which began with a scheme to provide cycles for girls to improve their enrolment in secondary and higher secondary schools. The result was quite encouraging. For the first time in Bihar, more girls were enrolled than boys in class 9 last year, almost a five-fold increase since 2007-08, bringing gender parity in school education. Later, his government made education free for all girls up to the post-graduation level. Now, the government has also given 35% quota to women in the engineering and medical colleges and the upcoming sports university, a first in the country.The government’s emphasis on women empowerment is evident in the fact that Bihar has 11 lakh Jeevika groups in the state, the highest number of women’s self-help groups in the country.Kumar took it further with 50% quota for women in panchayats and teaching jobs and later 35% quota in government jobs for them. Now, the government wants to use this strong workforce in the decision-making process.“All this also reflected improved performance on social indices for women in the recent Niti Ayog’s ranking of states despite Bihar’s bottom ranking. This is what will help the state improve its overall ranking also,” said Prof Vijay Kumar of BRA Bihar University.Bihar’s revenue and land reforms minister Ram Surat Kumar said his department would consider reservation for women in the next transfer/posting of circle officers. According to a report published by the Bureau of Police Research and Development (BPR&D), as on January 1, 2020, women accounted for 25.3% of the police strength in Bihar. Of the total 91,862 police members in the state, 23,245 are women, the highest among all states. This is double the national average of 10.3% (up from 8.9% in 2019) and a significant improvement from 2015, when women accounted for just 3.3% of the force in Bihar.However, the number of women in officer-grade posts is just 32 among 1,220 police inspectors, 920 in 10,039 sub-inspectors and 185 in 6,675 assistant sub-inspectors. Apart from in-house tasks like maintaining registers and filing FIRs, the police women are generally involved in law-and-order duties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-set-to-extend-women-s-quota-to-promotions-and-postings-101624120229520.html
19-06-2021||Other||CM announces Milkha Singh chair at Sports University, Patiala||Chandigarh Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Saturday announced a Milkha Singh Chair at the Maharaj Bhupinder Singh Punjab Sports University, Patiala, in memory of the great athlete who died Saturday late night due to Covid complications. The CM, who visited the Flying Sikh’s Chandigarh residence, to pay his last respects to the legendary sportsperson, said his government will ensure that Milkha’s memory continued to inspire the younger generations. He also announced a state funeral for the Padma Shri awardee, and a state holiday as a mark of respect to the Olympian. “The legacy of the great Indian sprinter will continue to live on in the hearts of the people. Milkha’s death is a mammoth loss to the entire nation and a sad moment for all,” he added. Recalling the declaration of a national holiday by then Prime Minister, late Jawaharlal Nehru, when Milkha defeated Pakistan champion Abdul Khaliq in Lahore in 1960, the CM said he wished he could have also declared a national holiday today. “Punjab would mourn the legend with a state holiday, with flags flying at half mast,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cm-announces-milkha-singh-chair-at-sports-university-patiala-101624119090088.html
19-06-2021||Pune||Three booked for unscientific disposal of jaggery waste||The Pune rural police and the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) in a joint raid booked three persons attached to ferrying biowaste of jaggery units in Yawat and also slapped notices against nine owners on charges of allegedly burning biomedical waste in violation of the laid down rules and regulations. The accused have been identified as Mohammad Ahqam Guljar ( 23), a resident of Uttarakhand, Dnyaneshwar Eknath Sangale ( 27) and Akram Mushraf (30) and charged with unscientific disposal of biowaste of jaggery units. The MPCB received information that two tractors filled with biowaste were enroute for disposal in violation of the environmental norms. A team of rural police officials and MPCB staff led by police inspector Bhausaheb Patil on Wedneday apprehended the two vehicles near Khamgaon and took the accused along with material into custody and later arrested them. MPCB regional officer Nitin Shinde said that the department had received information about the violation of environmental rules by disposing the biowaste in an unscientific way. The MPCB has also issued directions seeking disconnection of water and electricity supply to the jaggery units in Bhor and Daun Tahsils for violating the laid down environmental norms for past several months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/three-booked-for-unscientific-disposal-of-jaggery-waste-101624118190623.html
19-06-2021||Other||Two killed after falling into biogas plant in Patiala village||Patiala Two residents of Daudhda village in Samana were killed after they inhaled poisonous gases of a biogas plant in the wee hours of Saturday. The victims, Darshan Singh, 55, and his neighbour Gurdhyan Singh, 28, had fallen into a biogas plant. Darshan had installed the biogas plant and accidentally fell into it, when he went to check a snag in its functioning. His neighbour Guddhyan, who was witness to his fall into the plant, tried to help him, but in doing so, he also fell into the plant. Hours later, villagers pulled out both the bodies from the plant by using a JCB machine. Samana station house officer (SHO) Ankurdeep Singh said the bodies had been handed back to the families after a post-mortem at the Samana Civil Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-killed-after-falling-into-biogas-plant-in-patiala-village-101624118190063.html
19-06-2021||Pune||Admission process for three management courses at SPPU begins||The admission process for the three different courses at the Department of Management Sciences (Pumba) of Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) has begun. It includes executive MBA, MBA in Pharma biotechnology and BBA in hospitality and facilities management. While admissions for the MBA courses will be carried out through the Maharashtra Common Entrance Test (CET) cell. The newly designed syllabus of these courses is as per the requirement in the industries and can satisfy the demand of job opportunities in various fields. Students are more interested to get admission in Pumba from across the state. The executive MBA course is famous among working class, working professionals from IT industry, manufacturing companies, small scale industries and senior officials from various fields take admission for this course. The eligibility for this two-year course is to have three years of work experience in the management sector. On the other hand, the Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) in hospitality and facilities management was newly started in the year 2018. Admission process for both these courses is held through the SPPU’s entrance exam test. On the other hand, for regular MBA course in finance, human resource and marketing, admission is done through the MHT CET test. There are 180 seats available for the course every academic year and soon the timetable for the CET exams will be declared by the state CET cell.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/admission-process-for-three-management-courses-at-sppu-begins-101624118069613.html
19-06-2021||Pune||Pune’s CIRT signs MoU with Nagpur IIM||Pune based Central Institute of Road Transport (CIRT) and Nagpur-based Indian Institute of Management (IIMN) have signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) to build competencies and generate industry-oriented knowledge in transport management in the presence of union minister for road transport, highways and micro, small and medium enterprises Nitin Gadkari on Thursday. On this occasion, Gadkari said, “Signing of MoU by IIM Nagpur and CIRT, Pune ushers a new beginning in the area of management and vehicle engineering. The collaboration of both these renowned industries will now help achieve the competency building of all the stakeholders from road transport and industry. More significantly the collaboration of these two institutes will help the young managers and engineers in the very early stage of their careers meet various challenges. “ National Highways Authority of India(NHAI) advisor Vaibhav Dange, Tech Mahindra chairman C P Gurnani, CIRT director Dr Rajendra Saner, IIM Nagpur director Dr Bhimaraya Metri were present in the ceremony. CIRT director Dr Patil said, “This is a golden opportunity for IIM, Nagpur and CIRT Pune in achieving their endeavours. IIM will conduct short term executive education programmes, long term education programmes, research collaboration, faculty development programmes to build competency and generate industry-oriented knowledge in vehicles and transport engineering and transport management. The collaboration will also assist in achieving the “vision zero goal in road safety.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/punes-cirt-signs-mou-with-nagpur-iim-101624117949422.html
19-06-2021||Pune||MSEDCL ordered to pay ₹35,000 to techie for extorting excess bills||The Pune district consumer redressal forum on Friday directed the MSEDCL, Pune authorities to pay ₹35,000 to a techie for extorting excess bills. The power utility has also been directed to refund the excess bill amount paid. A consumer complaint was filed under section 12 of consumer protection act, 1986, by Sumit Jolly an individual consumer alleging deficiency in service rendered to the complainant by the service provider. Jolly, a Haryana-based resident, who lived in Mundhwa, had moved the consumer forum in 2017 complaining that the MSEDCL neither rectified the bills nor refund any excess payment. The MSEDCL had cut the electricity connection to his flat nine times forcing him to pay the exorbitant bills. According to the complaint, Jolly’s 2BHK rented flat in a housing society has a three-phase connection. There is a single CFL in each room, four ceiling fans, one refrigerator, and one oven in the kitchen, one flat TV of 45” in the bedroom, one washing machine of 6.5 kgs andone geyser in the bathroom, 1.5-ton AC in the master bedroom. The complainant is residing with his wife and one child. He and his wife work as software engineers. They leave the flat at 8.30 am and come back at 8.30 pm. The complainant paid the electricity bills continuously from February 2011 till March 2012, thereafter for the month of April 2012 to September 2012; he did not receive the bills. Meanwhile, in October 2012, he received a bill of ₹49,060. According to the forum, until march 2012, there was a variation in the amount of bills such as in the month February 2012 the bill was ₹350 (62 units), in March 2012 the bill was ₹2,954.82 including ₹2,600 arrears. The complainant also produced record receipts of ₹35,000 dated November 6, 2012, ₹10,000 dated January 10, 2013, ₹10,000 dated October 24, 2013, ₹10,950 dated March 28, 2014 issued by MSEDCL. The bills issued in April, May, June, July, August, September of 2012 were issued exorbitantly without clarification of calculation and it amounts to deficiency in service. Even after receiving notice from the forum, MSEDCL did not file its version. The order stated that not only the opposite parties received notices of this commission, but opposite parties did not appear before this commission, hence this commission passed ex-parte order against opposite parties on July 24, 2018. Opposite parties received notices of interim order. Upon receipt of notice of interim order, Anand Katkar, additional executive engineer remains present before the commission, on Oct 16, 2018, on behalf of opposite parties, but opposite parties neither filed any say to interim application of complainants nor filed application for setting aside ex-parte order against them. The opposite parties also did not file revision petition before the state commission for setting aside ex-parte order against them even after having them the knowledge of expert order against them. From this conduct of opposite parties, adverse inference can be drawn that there is deficiency in service on the part of opposite parties and we have to rely on contentions raised in evidence affidavit of the complainant, the order stated. The forum president Umesh Jawalikar, members Sangeeta Deshmukh and Kshitija Kulkarni directed MSEDCL to scrutinize the meter, bills, electricity supply/flow in the flat, the usage and accordingly the rectification/alteration be made regarding electricity supply, electricity meter and bills. The order further states after rectification /alteration in regard to electricity supply/ electricity meter in the said flat, MSEDCL shall award average bills comparing bills issued in the month of Dec 10, 2012 to Dec 2, 2013 excluding exorbitant bills dated May 5, 2013 and Aug 2, 2013. If the complainant had made excess payment in regard to average bills, MSEDCL must refund the excess amount to the complainant. The forum then directed MSEDCL to pay ₹35,000 towards physical and economical agony.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/msedcl-ordered-to-pay-rs-35-000-to-techie-for-extorting-excess-bills-101624117829373.html
19-06-2021||Pune||NGT forms committee to ascertain status of compliance in Hinjewadi project||The NGT has constituted a committee to ascertain the status of compliance and the remedial action for the possible violation of environmental clearances for the construction project. The tribunal on June 7 passed an order to constitute a five-member expert committee to ascertain the status of compliance and the remedial action required for the possible violation of Environmental clearances by the company in developing high-rise residential project in Hinjewadi. The NGT bench headed by Justice AK Goel was hearing a plea by flat owners and represented through advocate Ashish Sonawane and advocate Ayodhya Patki of Nyaya Niti Strategic Legal Consultancy LLP. The tribunal in its order, referred to the allegations made in the application related to the non-compliance of the environmental norms as per the environmental clearance, consent to establish and operate granted for the residential project. The five-member expert committee constituted by the tribunal includes: the SEIAA, Maharashtra, the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board, the Central Pollution Control Board, the IIT Mumbai and the nominee of Ministry of Mines, Government of India. The CPCB and the state PCB will function as nodal agencies for coordination and compliance. The factual report is expected to be furnished to the Tribunal within three months along with recommended remedial action. The order stated ‘grievance in this application is against violation of environmental norms by the respondents. The order further stated that the applicants that the Environmental Clearance (EC) for the project was granted on November 26, 2012, consent to establish was granted on November 4, 2015 and consent to operate was granted on July 8, 2016. The same was renewed in 2018. No fresh consent to operate has been taken after expiry of the earlier one. Occupancy and completion certificates have been taken for the projects, after developing three towers and selling the apartments of the five towers proposed. Common amenity space - club house has not been constructed. The STP is not functional, green cover has not been established and plantation has not been done. Solar water heaters have not been installed and the rain water harvesting system has also not been provided. Thus, many conditions of EC have been violated. The applicant has come to know that there is underground live water - stream beneath the basement of the project. Ground water is extracted from the said stream by using an electric motor. This is adding to the flooding, the order stated. From the above averments, it prima facie appears that the project has not been duly evaluated before grant of EC, particularly the existence of underwater stream. Also, there are non-compliances in providing STP and other systems in terms of the EC conditions which are not being monitored. In these circumstances, we find it necessary to ascertain the status of compliance and the remedial action required. For this purpose, we constitute a five-member expert committee comprising the SEIAA, Maharashtra, the Maharashtra State PCB, the CPCB, the IIT Mumbai and nominees of the Ministry of Mines, Government of India. The CPCB and the state PCB will function as nodal agency for coordination and compliance. The expert committee may meet within one month to take stock of the situation and thereafter, conduct proceedings online except for site visit. The committee will be free to take the assistance of any other expert/organization and interact with the stakeholders, the order stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/ngt-forms-committee-to-ascertain-status-of-compliance-in-hinjewadi-project-101624117409397.html
19-06-2021||Pune||PMRDA submits university chowk flyover design to PMC||The Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA) prepared the design of a multilevel flyover at Savitribai Phule Pune University chowk on Ganeshkhind road and submitted it to the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). PMRDA demanded that PMC should share some cost of this flyover, though it is getting erected along with the metro line in between Hinjewadi to Shivajinagar. Meanwhile, opposition parties and some representatives from ruling BJP opposed to share the burden of multilevel flyover and asked to take the permission of general body for design and project cost. PMRDA metropolitan commissioner Suhas Divase and project officer Vivek Khardwadkar gave the proposed flyover’s presentation to mayor Muralidhar Mohol, standing committee chairman Hemant Rasne, municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar, BJP MLA Siddharth Shirole, opposition leader Deepali Dhumal and Aba Bagul. As the previous flyover was erroneously built, PMC and PMRDA gave a nod to demolish it and erect a new multi-level flyover along with the third metro line. While giving permission to demolish the flyover at this junction, it was decided that PMRDA would seek approval from the PMC for design and planning. Kharwadkar said, “We submitted the design to the PMC on Friday. Now, the PMC will discuss it along with the elected members and give approval for the flyover project.” Shirole said, “The design is compressive which is prepared by IIT and Tata Company who is erecting the metro line. Many components are considered in it. The total project cost is around ₹450 crore. It was discussed in the meeting that the PMRDA would bear the flyover cost and PMC would bear the underground passes cost but the final decision would be taken by the PMC’s general body.” Mohol said, “The PMRDA had given various proposals including some land acquisition for entry and exit points of metro station and flyover project. PMC would take a call on it.” Bagul said, “Earlier while demolishing the flyovers, it was decided that PMRDA would bear the cost. Now they are demanding money for a flyover which is wrong. PMRDA was asking for the party leader’s permission but we opposed it. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) is the general body of the PMC. We asked the mayor and commissioner that before giving any assurance, the project should get discussed in the general body meeting.” Sources from PMC said that the length of the flyover has been increased towards Baner, Aundh and Pashan. The two-way traffic would be allowed on Baner road and one way would be allowed on Aundh eoad. On one side, vehicles will use a flyover and on the other side they would need to use an underpass.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmrda-submits-university-chowk-flyover-design-to-pmc-101624117289419.html
19-06-2021||Pune||PMC plans to appoint single contractor for pay and park facilities across city||For the first time, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to appoint a single contractor to manage 30 pay and park facilities erected by the civic body across the city. Though some contractors opposed the appointment of a single contractor, the court gave a decision in favour of PMC to appoint a single contractor for pan city. There are many complaints over the pay and parking in the city. Many times, the contractors are charging more for citizens despite the civic body fixing the rates for each vehicle category. Even some parking facilities are getting misused. Many contractors have not paid dues in time to the civic body. Many a times there are fights between citizens and contractors over parking vehicles at the parking spots. Considering these challenges, the civic body in a first decided to float a single tender and appoint a single pan-city contractor. PMC additional city engineer Srinivas Bonala said, “We have floated the tender for 30 pay and parking facilities for the first time. We brought many changes in the tender. The contractor needs to install CCTV cameras in all parking facilities for the safety of citizens and vehicles, there should be uniform rates for parking, It is expected that PMC should get real time information for the parked vehicles in the facility.” Bonala said, “We even expected that either PMC or the contractor would develop the app for the parking facility. Once the real time entries would start, the citizens would be able to get information online whether parking is available in a particular parking site. It would help them to plan travel in advance.” Another PMC official said on anonymity, “There is opposition from some contractors for floating the single tender for all 30 main parking facilities. Even some of them approached the civil court but the court had given a decision in favour of the PMC.” Another officer from PMC said on anonymity, “Though this is a good proposal, it came in between Covid -19 pandemic. We are a little worried that whether the professional contractors would give respond to this proposal immediately or not but this proposal is good for citizens and the PMC.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-plans-to-appoint-single-contractor-for-pay-and-park-facilities-across-city-101624117229432.html
19-06-2021||Pune||PMC to appoint traffic planner to execute projects in the city||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to appoint a traffic planner for the city which will help in planning for various traffic related projects and constructing road infrastructure. The PMC will appoint a person on a contract basis and pay Rs1.5 lakh per month. The PMC is expecting that the traffic planner would need at least 10 years’ experience, and need to have experience of BRTS system and road infrastructure. PMC planning department Srinivas Bonala said, “Traffic planner’s appointment is will be done by the road department. We have a traffic department which is with me but there are many vacancies and the city is developing rapidly. Many new projects are either in the pipeline or coming up. For this it would be helpful to have a technical person.” Road department official said on anonymity, “As per the Central government’s instructions, the PMC is appointing a traffic planner for the city. It was normal to appoint the traffic planner. It is mainly for the High Capacity Mass Transit Route (HCMTR) proposal.” Road department officials said, “Earlier, the PMC floated the same advertisement for appointing the traffic planner and received a good response. There are many traffic related projects going on in the city like Metro, BRTS, and HCMTR. Many roads are getting developed. There is a need for more traffic related engineers as it will help the PMC to develop infrastructure accordingly. “||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-to-appoint-traffic-planner-to-execute-projects-in-the-city-101624117109417.html
19-06-2021||Pune||Foreign companies operating in India must abide by rules: RS Prasad||Minister of law and justice, electronics and information technology Ravi Shankar Prasad on Saturday said, “Foreign companies in India are expected to abide by the rules and regulations of the country and the same is applicable to Indian companies having offices abroad and there should not be any compromise on this.” Prasad was invited by Symbiosis Colleges to deliver an online lecture on “Criminal justice system reforms- An unfinished agenda.” Prasad said, “Right to privacy is fundamental right, we live in a digital age wherein this borderless world exposes one to both opportunities and challenges. Right to access the internet as a fundamental is non-negotiable in a democratic framework of India. The right to privacy as a fundamental right, however, innovation cannot be killed under the garb of privacy. Digital inclusion can be achieved through technology which is home grown, low cost and inclusive.” SB Mujumdar, chancellor, Symbiosis International University, Vidya Yeravadekar, pro-chancellor, Rajani Gupte, vice-chancellor also spoke during the program.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/foreign-companies-operating-in-india-must-abide-by-rules-rs-prasad-101624116989344.html
19-06-2021||Pune||Plastic surgeon in custody after hospital records 87 deaths||A doctor from Sangli was remanded to the custody of the local police in a case of culpable homicide not amounting to murder that was registered against him based on the complaint lodged by the Sangli-Miraj-Kupwad Municipal Corporation (SMKC) after the hospital single-handedly recorded 87 deaths in 43 days. Identified as Dr Mahesh Bhimsen Jadhav, the arrested man is a plastic surgeon and is the owner of Apexcare hospital, which is a Covid-19 dedicated hospital, according to officials of SKMC health department. A local court in Sangli has remanded him to seven days in police custody. The hospital had over 200 admissions between April 14 and May 27, and 87 of these admissions have died in that period, according to local officials including the police, district collector office, and SKMC. “When his anticipatory bail was rejected, we started looking for him in order to arrest him. We received information that he was on Pune highway, and we alerted the check-posts which were already in place for Covid-19 restrictions. As it turned out, his vehicle had been stopped at a check-post on the highway and fined for a violation under the Motor Vehicle Act (MVA). We found him in Kasegaon and arrested him there,” said Dixit Gedam, commissioner of Sangli police. “Initially, a case under Section 188 and others of Indian Penal Code and Sections of National Disaster Management Act was registered but after looking at the number of deaths, section for culpable homicide not amounting to murder was also invoked against him,” said Nitin Kapadnis, commissioner, SKMC. Upon investigation the police found that there were specialists like MD anaesthesia, MD medicine, MD lungs who were appointed to the hospital, but the treatment was being done by students of homeopathy who were instructed to provide opinion virtually and not in person, according to the police. The hospital was found to be underequipped to handle the kind of case load that they were accepting. A police submission to the court during the custody remand hearing of the doctor states that the hospital had one malfunctioning ventilator and 10 bipap machines. “A lot of patients started complaint that they did not have equipment even though the patients were told before admission that ventilators are available. There were complaints about inflated bills without explanation. The municipal corporation has sent him multiple notices and I had personally visited the hospital twice. But the complaints kept coming in even after all the warnings. The hospital was served with a notice for permit cancellation, and the permit was eventually cancelled,” said Kapadnis. “The main reason behind the hospital landing on our radar is that the administration refused to send all their bills for audit, as the hospital was required to. Then it was seen that final year students and homeopathy students were working there,” said Dr Sunil Ambole, head of SKMC health department. The police have recorded statements from the doctors working there, nursing staff, and at least 10 relatives of patients who have died, according to investigating office Police inspector Shashikant Chavan. A case under Sections 304, 420, 406, 425, 427, 465, 470, 471, 201, 380, 34 of Indian Penal Code along with Section 51(b) of the National Disaster Management Act has been registered at Mahatma Gandhi police station in Miraj.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/plastic-surgeon-in-custody-after-hospital-records-87-deaths-101624116809343.html
19-06-2021||Other||Cong targets Modi for failing to bring back black money deposited abroad||Lucknow: Senior Congress leaders Pramod Tiwari and Aradhana Mishra ‘Mona’ on Saturday targeted Prime Minister Narendra Modi for failing to bring back black money from foreign banks and said the latest data had revealed that the black money deposited abroad had doubled. In a press statement Tiwari and Mishra said during the 2014 Lok Sabha polls, Modi had said that every Indian would get ₹15 lakh if the black money deposited abroad was brought back to India. They said the people failed to get even ₹15 against the promise of ₹15 lakh. The BJP should now clarify how such a large sum reached abroad and who owned the black money, they said. UPCC DEMANDS INQUIRY Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee president Ajay Kumar Lallu has demanded a probe by a sitting high court judge into the ‘death audit committee’ report giving a ‘clean chit’ to the Agra hospital that allegedly conducted a mock drill of removing oxygen from Covid-19 patients. He said the owner of the hospital had admitted that a mock drill was conducted in the hospital and that allegedly resulted in the death of patients there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cong-targets-modi-for-failing-to-bring-back-black-money-deposited-abroad-101624115549391.html
19-06-2021||Other||Ambika Chaudhary quits BSP||VARANASI: Senior leader Ambika Chaudhary on Saturday quit the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) soon after the Samajwadi Party declared his son Anand Chaudhary as its candidate for Zila Panchayat president election in Ballia. Ambika disclosed his decision through a letter. Ambika Chaudhary joined the BSP just before the assembly election in 2017. Chaudhary sent his resignation to BSP chief Mayawati on June 19. Explaining the reason for quitting the BSP, he wrote, “After joining the BSP in 2017, I served the party as a dedicated worker. Whenever the party gave me any responsibility, I fulfilled it with full dedication.” “After Lok Sabha Election 2019, no responsibility, small or big, was assigned to me in any meeting of the party. Due to this I find myself neglected in the party. On June 19, my son Anand was declared the candidate for the post of district panchayat president by the SP. In such a situation, before any question arises on my loyalty, I have already sent my resignation to BSP national president Bahan Kumari Mayawati,” Ambika wrote. It is believed that Ambika Chaudhary will now join the SP. Ambika worked very closely with SP patriarch Mulayam Singh Yadav when the latter was chief minister. He also had been minister in the SP government. In the meantime, Samajwadi Party, Ballia district unit president Rajmangal Yadav said, “After approval by SP president Akhilesh Yadav and on the instruction of SP state unit president Naresh Uttam, member of district panchayat ward number 45, Anand Chaudhary has been declared as SP candidate for the post of district panchayat president (Ballia).” Anand contested the election as a BSP candidate for the post of ZP member from ward number 45 in Ballia and won. Before being declared candidate, Anand visited Lucknow and took formal membership of the SP in the presence of Naresh Uttam. He also took blessings of SP chief Akhilesh Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ambika-chaudhary-quits-bsp-101624115430785.html
19-06-2021||Other||Bid to save CM seat, immoral: Chugh on jobs to sons of MLAs||Chandigarh Bharartiya Janata Party (BJP) national general secretary Tarun Chugh said on Saturday that Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh had been giving jobs to kins of Congress MLAs to keep his flock together, in the face of fierce dissidence in his party.“It is highly immoral to give jobs to kin of the Congress MLAs in the name of militancy, after 35 years. This, at a time, when lakhs of young Punjabis are searching for jobs,” said Chugh, adding that Amarinder had failed to keep his election manifesto promise of providing jobs to each family in the state. “Instead, he is making sure that family members of each Congress MLA get a job, which is highly condemnable and immoral,” he added. “If the Congress government is really sincere towards helping militancy-affected families, then Amarinder should have given jobs to 34,000-odd families that lost their kith and kin in the blood-soaked years of militancy,” he claimed, adding, “The CM has no feeling or sentiment for those families which suffered during militancy. His only concern is to grant favours to Congress MLAs so that his seat as the CM remains secure.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bid-to-save-cm-seat-immoral-chugh-on-jobs-to-sons-of-mlas-101624115430172.html
19-06-2021||Other||BJP MLA writes to home dept for FIR against indicted sub-inspector||Lucknow Bharatiya Janata Party MLA Neeraj Bora has written a letter to the UP home department to register an FIR against a sub-inspector who was found guilty of creating fake evidence against a man to harass him, said senior home department officials here on Saturday. The MLA has said the Rae Bareli police officials were reluctant registering FIR against him. The MLA confirmed that he had written the letter to the additional chief secretary (ACS), Home, on Saturday in connection with the harassment of one Kunwar Mohit Singh of Rae Bareli. He said he had asked the officials concerned to take cognizance of the victim’s complaint and register a criminal case against sub-inspector Sanjay Kumar Singh for creating fake evidence after registering a fake criminal case against him. Sharing details, the complainant Kunwar Mohit Singh said the local officials of Rae Bareli district were reluctant in registering FIR against the sub-inspector even after he was found guilty in departmental enquiry conducted by an additional SP rank officer. He said the sub-inspector was recently transferred to Bareilly zone citing the same reason. He said the sub-inspector was a repeated offender as he was also a key accused in fake encounter of four youths in Badohi in which cops had claimed to gun down mafioso Dhananjay Singh on October 17, 1998 before he joined politics. He said the sub-inspector was even charge-sheeted in the matter and the case was pending in court. The complainant said the sub-inspector had registered the fake case of criminal breach of trust and fraud against him in December 2016 at the behest of a land mafia who wanted to grab his parental property. He said the sub-inspector had been harassing him for the past six years and helped the land mafia to get register several cases against him but every time he was given a clean chit on the basis of evidence. Rae Bareli superintendent of police (SP) Shlok Kumar said the sub-inspector had been relieved from Rae Bareli after he was transferred to Bareilly on June 4 on the same complaint of harassing the complainant by creating fake evidence against him in a case of criminal breach of trust and fraud. The SP said he was not aware whether or not the complainant had given any written complaint to register FIR against the sub-inspector. Another Rae Bareli police official confirmed receiving the complaint to register FIR against the sub-inspector and said senior officials had sought legal opinion in the matter. He said the senior officials were initially reluctant in registering an FIR against the sub-inspector citing his act as negligence and not a criminal offence. The sub-inspector could not be contacted despite multiple efforts. Sub-inspector Sanjay Kumar Singh, however, denied all allegations and said that his investigation was based entirely on land revenue records made available to him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bjp-mla-writes-to-home-dept-for-fir-against-indicted-subinspector-101624115249357.html
19-06-2021||Kolkata||BJP may also challenge poll results in some seats, says Bengal’s Dilip Ghosh||KOLKATA: The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) may file election petitions to challenge election results of seats lost by its candidates by a wafer-thin margin, the party’s state president Dilip Ghosh said on Saturday, days after West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee and four Trinamool Congress leaders filed similar petitions in the Calcutta high court.“Our legal cell is exploring all options and where the petition could be filed. We are also planning to file Election Petitions. We have identified the seats. Our lawyers are taking preparations,” said Dilip Ghosh.Mamata Banerjee, who lost the fiercely fought battle in Nandigram to the BJP’s Suvendu Adhikari in May, had announced her decision to file the petition minutes after the Election Commission rejected her request for a recount after declaring her defeat.Also Read: Judge hearing Nandigram poll verdict plea close to BJP: TMCShe filed her petition on Thursday. The following day, four more Trinamool Congress candidates filed their petitions against the results declared in Balarampur, Goghat, Moyna and Bongaon Dakshin constituencies, four of the 77 seats that had gone to the BJP.Ghosh first hinted at the BJP’s plan to challenge the election results on Friday when he underlined that the option exercised by the Trinamool Congress was open to the BJP also.“The chief minister lost from Nandigram. When counting was going on TMC agents were present and after every round they signed the results. But even after that the TMC moved court. They have the right. We would all have to abide by the court orders. In the same way we can also move court. There are certain seats which the BJP lost by a narrow margin. Let the court decide,” Ghosh told reporters on Friday.Bengal minister and senior TMC leader Firhad Hakim said the BJP was afraid that if elections were held again on the seats lost by the Trinamool candidates, their tally in the assembly would dip.“They had set a target of 200 seats and suffered a humiliating defeat (with 77 seats). There are apprehensions that they (BJP) may lose by a bigger margin (if elections are again held in those seats),” said Firhad Hakim.To be sure, the BJP’s performance, irrespective of its ambitious target of 200 seats, won just three seats and a 10.2% vote share in the previous 2016 assembly elections. In the 2021 elections, the BJP ended up with a 38% vote share, just 10 percentage points less than the Trinamool’s 48%.The BJP has, after the election results, kept up the pressure on the Mamata Banerjee government over the law and order situation in the state, particularly over violence that the opposition party insists was directed at its cadre.The alleged deterioration of the law and order in Bengal is a point that has been repeatedly articulated by Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar as well. On Saturday, Dhankhar, who is in Delhi, fired another round at the state government.“We cannot compromise with democracy, Constitution and rule-of-law. I am sure everyone will listen to my voice and rise to the occasion to try and wipe the tears of those families and people who had to leave their houses, whose near and dear ones have been killed, injured, whose houses have been subjected to arson and loot. We cannot live in a democracy if people, in order to live in their own house and run their own small business, have to pay an extortion fee,” Dhankhar said in Delhi.Dhankhar, who has been in Delhi since Wednesday, has met Union home minister Amit Shah at least twice apart from meetings with President Ram Nath Kovind, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla and other Union ministers.The Trinamool Congress, which has accused the governor of promoting the BJP’s agenda, called Dhankhar’s attack “wild allegations to malign the state”. “The BJP is not being able to digest the humiliating defeat in the assembly elections and has now resorted to some dirty tricks and conspiracy. The governor is a part of it. It is a mystery whether the governor is running from door-to-door in Delhi to save his own chair or to hatch the next step of the conspiracy,” said TMC spokesperson and Bengal general secretary Kunal Ghosh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bjp-may-also-challenge-poll-results-in-some-seats-says-bengal-s-dilip-ghosh-101624114109992.html
19-06-2021||Other||Moga panchayats told to foot bill for work done under Centre’s MGNREGA||Moga Punjab rural development and panchayat department is coercing sarpanches to clear purchase bills of interlocking tiles, sand and other material, estimated at ₹2.5 crore, for development works under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA), from panchayat funds. The department has given verbal direction to sarpanches to clear these bills after firms moved the Punjab and Haryana high court.Sarpanches, however, claim that department had carried out work in at least 65 villages under the MGNREGA, when its officials were administrators of villages from August 2018 to December 2018. Therefore, money should be paid from this head. The Centre funds all expenses under the MGNREGA.Sarpanches add that there were no panchayats in existence when the work was done, as the state government had appointed administrators after panchayats completed their term in August 2018. Moga deputy commissioner has asked rural department officials to scrutinise record after material procured for works did not figure in MGNREGA record.Amardeep Singh, husband of Tota Singh Wala village’s sarpanch, said, “The panchayat cannot pay ₹13 lakh. We did not sanction the work, then why should we pay to the firms?” Darshan Singh, sarpanch of Umeriana village, said, “Work was done under MGNREGA, but the administrator used ₹8 lakh from our panchayat funds. We met the block development and panchayat officer (BDPO) a few days ago. He verbally told us to pay the firm.” Harminder Singh, husband of Janer village’s sarpanch, said, “We have cleared the bills. The BDPO concerned told us that bills of material procurement had got tangled in red tape in Delhi. We were told that paying to firms from panchayat funds was the only option.” Resham Singh, husband of Amiwala village sarpanch, said, “We have made payments to firms that the BDPO asked us to.” Moga additional deputy commissioner (development) Subash Chander, said, “Work was carried out in villages and they have to clear the bill. How can we release payment when there is no record of work done under MGNREGA?“The administrators also worked on behalf of villages. We will clear bills, only if they give us proof that the work was done under MGNREGA,” the ADC added.Seema Jain, additional chief secretary of the department, did not respond to repeated calls and messages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/moga-panchayats-told-to-foot-bill-for-work-done-under-centre-s-mgnrega-101624112190124.html
19-06-2021||Lucknow||UP tests over 55 mn samples for Covid-19, active cases drops below 5,000-mark||Uttar Pradesh on Saturday surpassed a major milestone as it tested more than 55 million samples for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the highest in the country. In line with its T3 mantra of Trace, Test and Treat, Uttar Pradesh conducted as many as 273,426 tests in the last 24 hours out of which nearly 125,140 were done through RT PCR.As of Saturday evening, the total number of tests conducted in the country's most populous state has reached 55,000,515.Uttar Pradesh was among the worst-hit states of the country during the second wave of Covid-19. However, over the last few weeks, the state brought down the number of daily infections as well as the fatalities.On Saturday, the number of active cases dropped below 5,000, the health department said in a release. At present, the active cases have declined to 4,957 in the state. It is the first time since March 24, that the number has fallen below 5,000 in Uttar Pradesh.Over the last 24 hours, the state clocked a total of 294 new cases. Other than Lucknow, all 74 districts of Uttar Pradesh have less than 200 active cases.Around 592 people got discharged recovering from the deadly disease, the release also mentioned. While the recovery rate has soared to 98.3 per cent. A total of 3,350 people are currently in home isolation, according to the release.The Test Positivity Rate (TPR) - which shows the level of infections among people stands at 0.1 per cent in Uttar Pradesh, the lowest in the country.On the vaccination front, the state crossed the mark of 25 billion in administering vaccine doses. Uttar Pradesh is conducting an aggressive vaccination programme in the state, under which so far 2,50,83,802 doses have been administered. In the last 24-hour, 4,60,358 doses were administered in the state as a result of the extensive vaccination campaign.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-tests-over-55-mn-samples-for-covid-19-active-cases-drops-below-5000mark-101624110902592.html
19-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi reports less than 150 new Covid-19 cases second time this week||Delhi reported 135 fresh cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, a health department bulletin showed on Saturday, making it for the second time this week when the Capital has seen less than 150 Covid-19 cases in a day. On June 14, Delhi's daily Covid-19 tally stood at 131 along with 16 fatalities due to the viral disease.🏥Delhi Health Bulletin - 19th June 2021🏥 #DelhiFightsCorona pic.twitter.com/hwPztPiCxzSaturday's bulletin also showed seven coronavirus-related fatalities from the preceding 24 hours, taking Delhi's Covid-19 death toll to 24,907. There were 201 more recoveries/discharges as well, taking the total number of such cases to 1,404,889. Active cases, meanwhile, slumped further to 2372, declining from 2445 in the previous 24-hour bulletin.Also Read | Covid-19 third wave to hit India in next 6-8 weeks: AIIMS Director Randeep GuleriaDelhi's cumulative positive cases have reached 1,432,168. Recoveries, deaths and active cases comprise 98.09%, 1.74% and 0.18% respectively.A total of 75,687 samples were tested in this period, as against 76,480 on June 18, giving a test positivity rate of 0.17%. The corresponding figure a day ago was 0.22%. Total 20,702,001 samples have been tested thus far, while 1,089,579 Covid-19 tests have been conducted per million population.Also Read | 63-year-old woman in Bihar gets both Covaxin, Covishield in 5 minutes intervalIn terms of vaccination, 77,605 beneficiaries were inoculated in the last 24 hours, of whom 62,230 received their first dose while 15,375 received their second and final dose. In all, 6,424,166 beneficiaries have been vaccinated till now, including 4,871,781 who have received their first shot and 1,552,385 their second.Also Read | Third wave of Covid-19 arrives in UK, says expert as Delta variant wreaks havocThe Capital is currently in the middle of a third stage of unlock from its Covid-19 induced lockdown. The city began unlocking on May 31, while more relaxations came into effect from June 7.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-reports-less-than-150-new-covid-19-cases-second-time-this-week-101624107019323.html
19-06-2021||Lucknow||Like father, like offspring||Stepping into father’s shoes and making it big is what every youngster dream of! In today’s world of diverse fields and businesses children are following their own passion but there some who are taking up their father’s profession and making a name too. We spoke to a few like them, hailing from Lucknow. ENT specialist Dr Rohit Bhatia’s daughter Saumya and son Karan followed their parent’s medical profession. “Our main conversation since childhood was about patients and case discussion as my mother is also a doc. I was clear that I have to do something around medical dentistry, so I did my masters in oral surgery from London. My brother followed his footstep and also became an ENT surgeon,” says Dr Saumya. She was given a free choice but carried forward with medical line. “I share the same passion, reading habit and punctuality but by brother inherits more qualities of our father while I am a mix of both. He is very quick, crazy about work, stubborn like him besides being master in his field.” IT professional Matrika Gupta gave up her job to contribute to her father’s legacy. She came down from London to digitise their traditional business which dates back to 1805. “It was my dad’s vision and when I saw my IT expertise can benefit our business of Ram Asrey Sweets then I stepped in full-time and added modern nuances and digitally upgraded it. My younger sister Shambhavi is contributing as professional bakery chef while youngest sister Itishree pitches in IT and sales,” shares Matrika. She is proud that her parents never pressurised them and now the three daughters and youngest son Raghuvansh are proudly carrying the legacy forward. Principal St Teresa’s Day School, Peter Fanthome Jr feels for him every day is Father’s Day for him as his father Peter Fanthome Sr, former MLA, retired principal and school’s chairman, till date guides him in professional matters and in day-to-day life as well. “I have learnt everything from him. He stood by me as a friend, philosopher and guide. I follow all his parenting methods for my kids too. I can’t ever fit in his shoes because the way he has dedicated his life towards teaching and social causes, it will be impossible for me to match him.” Adding to that he says, “My father has always maintained a fine balance between professional and personal life even when he joined politics and lived a successful tenure. That’s what I need to learn from him still.”Renowned kathak exponent of Lucknow gharana, Manisha Mishra says, “It’s difficult to carry forward the legacy of my father, renowned tabla maestro Pt Ravinath Mishra, but still we three siblings have tried to imbibe all from the musical legend, who commendably brought forward his father’s legacy. We are trying our best to achieve even a bit of what he has, but we know his passion for music is without equal.” Her sister Manjusha is a classical singer while brother runs a performing arts institute in Bengaluru.The father-daughter duo practice together almost every day and now her son is trying his best to learn his grandfather’s craft. “It’s always a dream come true when we all children share stage with him and perform for all,” she adds. Pt Ravinath feels it’s his duty to pass on his craft to generations to come. “Not just my kids but all my students are my extended version and will lead on from whatever I have taught them,” he adds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/like-father-like-offspring-101624109323230.html
19-06-2021||Delhi||Just a call away! DU’s tele counselling helplines ring for students||After the second wave of Covid-19 brought the Capital to its knees, the Delhi University authorities realised how hard it was for the youngsters battling grief due to loss of their close ones, as well as encountering anxiety and uncertainties about their future. This spiralled the idea of introducing tele-counselling, for which teams at various levels have been set up to help the students handle doubts regarding future course of action, examination, Covid trauma, and even admission queries.While providing mental support to the students during these difficult times, five colleges — namely University College of Medical Sciences (UCMS) and South Campus (UDSC), Gargi College, Maitreyi College, Miranda House and Janki Devi Memorial College — have been roped in to provide support via 28 helpline numbers, along with the Department of Clinical Psychology at Institute of Human Behaviour & Allied Sciences (IHBAS), in Delhi. “The helpline numbers (such as 9821067319, 9625242713, 8800185949) of multiple faculty members are given for different days and times, in different colleges. The responsibility to address varied student concerns has been divided among us; some are dealing with Covid-19 issues that students may have, while others are addressing examination concerns, result anxiety and more. Students are calling up to ask about whether there will be another round of exams for those who are unable to clear this semester. We are all trying our best to provide all the support that they need in troubled times like these,” says Rachna Jain, a faculty member at Maitreyi College.College professors who have volunteered to help the students say they are inundated with calls of students who are burdened with grief amid the pandemic. I’ve had my students call me to discuss family issues, relationship concerns and if they are stressed amid ongoing exams,” explains Indu Soni, a faculty at Janki Devi Memorial College. She adds: “We try to provide some relief to them since many students have lost their loved ones. If we feel the student needs additional support, we help connect them to the college counsellor as well as provide resources for any other need that they may have.”And the calls aren’t restricted to students of the colleges involved. The tele-counselling initiative is providing help to students across the university. Dr Meghna B Thakur, a faculty member at Bombay University, who has been asked to provide counselling by Miranda House, says, “I had given a few talks at the college, and was requested to help students as well as non-teaching staff at the university. I agreed to it because this is the bare minimum I can do to support youngsters who are witnessing unprecedented circumstances, which is testing them emotionally. Whether in Mumbai or Delhi, students are students, and many have been calling to express their concerns and voice their thoughts. Some are anxious about their results and future prospects.” She expresses concern, adding, “Such initiatives are the need of the hour across India because youngsters need all the emotional and psychological support they can get.”Author tweets @bhagat_mallikaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/just-a-call-away-du-s-tele-counselling-helplines-ring-for-students-101624109318969.html
19-06-2021||Pune||Take warning of Covid-19 third wave seriously: Maharashtra deputy CM to people||Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar on Saturday asked people not to lower their guard against Covid-19 in view of the possible third wave of the pandemic, and warned them against visiting tourist attractions in the present scenario just because restrictions have been eased.He said people need to take the warning about the third wave seriously.Pawar was talking to reporters here after holding a meeting with officials to review the coronavirus situation in Pune district.He also said that if people continue to go out of the district for tourism purposes, the administration will have no other option but to impose a 15-day quarantine regime on such people after their return home. Pune city is under level-II of the state government’s unlock plan. The coronavirus numbers are coming down, but as a preemptive measure, it has been decided that all the shops under the non-essential category, malls, hotels, and restaurants will remain closed on weekends, Pawar said. "This system will continue for the next Saturday and Sunday. After that, if the situation improves further, a decision regarding (lifting) the weekend restrictions will be taken after a review," he said. The deputy CM said that during the meeting, police officials and public representatives expressed concern over people heading to Mahabaleshwar, Lonavala and other tourist places in large numbers over the weekends."I don't understand why people are doing this. There is a need to take Covid-19 infection seriously. A lot of people have started going to tourist places out of the state; some go for trekking. If this continues, there will be no option but to quarantine people going out of the district for 15 days. We may have to issue such orders," he warned.On the possible third wave of the pandemic, Pawar said that it is around the corner in America, England and Africa. Despite a large-scale vaccination in America and England, the danger of the third wave still looms large there, he added.“Therefore, we need to take the (warning of) third wave very seriously as people’s health is of paramount importance," he added. Pawar also said that students who want to fly abroad, should get both the doses made by a single vaccine maker."Many countries are preferring vaccines approved by the World Health Organisation (WHO). While Covishield has been approved by the WHO, Covaxin is yet to get its nod. Many students, who have already got a Covaxin dose, are inquiring where they should get the second dose of a different vaccine- Covishield, as it is approved by WHO and because many countries prefer that. Our answer is no, as it is not been advised by the experts," he said. Pawar claimed that Bahirwadi in Purandar tehsil of Pune district has become the first village in the country to complete 100 per cent vaccination.He also talked about a survey conducted by the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) on the Covid-19 deaths that occurred during the second wave. "As per the report, out of total deaths in the second wave that took place in four major hospitals of Pimpri Chichwad, 53 per cent deceased were below age 60, while 20 per cent were in the age group of 21 to 45,” he said. He advised the Pune Municipal Corporation to conduct a similar survey in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/take-warning-of-covid-19-third-wave-seriously-maharashtra-deputy-cm-to-people-101624107447834.html
19-06-2021||Pune||Despite resistance, land measurement of 51% areas for western ring road completed||Despite the resistance by locals in the land acquisition process for ring road, the Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC) has managed to complete land measurement of almost 51 per cent of the total area to be acquired for the western part of the ring road. According to the information given by MSRDC, 695.1099 hectares of land is to be acquired for the western part of the ring road and the measurement of 351.3024 hectares has been completed so far in 21 villages of a total of 37 affected villages in four tehsils. Also, the land acquisition for the Eastern part has begun. Officials have started to conduct the meetings in the affected villages.“We are positive to complete the land acquisition process in record time. The grievances of the locals are being addressed. Land measurement is an important part of the land acquisition process,” said Sandeep Patil sub-divisional engineer Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC)Private land from 37 villages belonging to four tehsils is to be acquired for the western part of the ring road and private land from 46 villages in five tehsils is to be acquired for the eastern part of the ring road. However, the land acquisition process has been facing hurdles due to resistance from the locals in some villages. Earlier, officials had completed the land measurement process for the western part in Ranje village (tehsil Bhor) in police protection owing to the opposition from the farmers. Objections have emerged from the farmers belonging to Khed tehsil who are losing their land in the Pune-Nashik railway project and for the ring road as well.“This problem has occurred with the farmers who own a small piece of land but their objections are being considered and appropriate compensation will be offered to them. We have also spoken to the Maharali officials. There will be compatible underpasses. So, locals will not face any problems. Currently, we have started conducting meetings with the locals in the eastern part and soon the land measurement process will begin,” said Patil.The Pune ring road is a proposed circular outer road for the Pune Metropolitan Region. Earlier this week, on being asked about the resistance from locals for the ring road project, Ajit Pawar deputy chief minister and guardian minister of Pune had said that dialogue is the key in resolving such conflicts. He had also emphasized the necessity of the ring road project. “I personally believe that the Ring road is necessary for PMC, PCMC, and the district’s population. If we consider the traffic in Pune city and suburbs, then the Ring road is planned by thinking for the next 50 years,” Pawar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/despite-resistance-land-measurement-of-51-areas-for-western-ring-road-completed-101624107388977.html
19-06-2021||Lucknow||BJP appoints former IAS officer AK Sharma as vice president of Uttar Pradesh unit||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Saturday appointed former Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer Arvind Kumar Sharma, who joined the party in January, as a vice president of its Uttar Pradesh unit, just months before the state is likely to go to polls in early 2022.Also Read: Ex-IAS officer, close aide of PM Modi named BJP candidate for crucial UP pollsThe appointment of Sharma, a former Gujarat-cadre IAS officer, as the vice president of the UP BJP comes in the backdrop of recent rumours he could be inducted as a minister in the state government in the event of a cabinet reshuffle ahead of assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath last week met Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah and BJP national president JP Nadda in Delhi, triggering rumours that a cabinet reshuffle was on the cards.Also Read: As Modi and Yogi meet, the story behind BJP’s UP sagaThe Adityanath government’s handling of the devastating second wave of Covid-19 is likely to be a major factor in the Uttar Pradesh assembly elections. Earlier this month, BJP national general secretary (organisation) BL Santhosh and Uttar Pradesh in-charge Radha Mohan Singh visited state capital Lucknow to take feedback on the government's handling of the pandemic.Also Read: Ruling party, govt start showcasing unity ahead of UP pollsSharma, who is considered as a close aide of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, was inducted in the BJP just days after he took voluntary retirement from service. He was fielded as a candidate for the legislative council polls, in which he was victorious, thus becoming a Member of the Legislative Council (MLC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bjp-appoints-former-ias-officer-ak-sharma-as-vice-president-of-uttar-pradesh-unit-101624101917359.html
19-06-2021||Pune||Residents in Kothrud-Aundh opposed to road widening for fear of trees being cut||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has resumed a hearing on the proposed widening of city roads from six to nine metres. The final hearings began on Wednesday, of residents of Kothrud, Karvenagar and Aundh.This area has maximum green cover and residents fear trees will be cut to widen the road.The civic body has also received opposition from Kothrud, Shivajinagar, Erandwane, Parvati-Sahakarnagar, Bibwewadi and Mohamadwadi.Sudhar Kadam, executive engineer, building permission and development department, said, “Due to second wave of Covid-19, there were strict restriction. So, we had stopped the hearings. After unlocking we resumed.”He added, “Most residents are concerned about the cutting of trees and wider roads being used for parking. Bungalow owners fear a breach of privacy. The hearing will be completed next week after which, the report will be submitted to the standing committee.”Sarang Wable, a resident from Baner, said, “It is not required to increase the width of the road. PMC needs to first complete the pending DP roads as well as the connecting roads which will solve the traffic issue.” Yaswant Jambhe, a resident of Kothrud said, “Road widening is necessary, as roads are narrow. Width of roads was designed as per old norms of city. While widening roads, the corporation should have of the trees. We don’t want to lose the green cover due to development. There should be a balance between development and nature.”Vinay Karandikar, a resident of Aundh said, “Aundh, and Kothrud have good green cover. We are against tree cutting due to road widening. Wide roads never solved any problem. In my area, there are numbers of tree in the path of the plan. So, I am against the road widening.”PMC has proposed a widening of a total 335 roads, of which 255 roads are in the old city limits, and the remaining in suburban areasThe civic body has received responses from 1,800 citizens. Prima facie, PMC has found that 135 roads have seen very few, or no objections, so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/residents-in-kothrud-aundh-opposed-to-road-widening-for-fear-of-trees-being-cut-101624101689700.html
19-06-2021||Pune||Savitribai Phule Pune University’s second semester exams in July-August||The second semester examinations of the Savitribai Phule Pune University’s (SPPU) various diploma, degree and post-graudate courses be held in July and August. The university’s examination department, on Friday, issued a circular with the instructions for students. This examination was to be held in June and registration is currently on. “The second-semester exams will be held for regular and backlog students, as well as external and grade improvement students. Practicals, orals, seminars, projects, and dissertations should be completed at the college level. Along with this online written exam, internal marks will be considered and after the summary of the second term becomes available. It will be mandatory for colleges to send the marks immediately to SPPU,” said Mahesh Kakade, director, SPPU board of examinations and evaluation. The final dates for the exams are yet to be announced.The exam is of 50 marks with multiple-choice questions (MCQ) in online mode. SPPU’s Edutech Foundation is conducting this exam. All affiliated colleges are to conduct practicals and internal tests before June 20. Marks are to be submitted by June 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/savitribai-phule-pune-university-s-second-semester-exams-in-julyaugust-101624101509851.html
19-06-2021||Pune||Pune varsity and Giripremi launch 1-year diploma in mountaineering||The Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) and the Guardian Giripremi Institute of Mountaineering (GGIM), will together offer a diploma course in Mountaineering and Allied Sports from this academic year, 2021-22.“There has been a significant rise in the adventure sector and mountaineering in particular in the state. Despite this popularity, there was no specific institution that could provide systematic and scientific training considering the safety measures,” said Umesh Zirpe, founder, director, GGIM.“A mountain lover will get detailed knowledge about the subject, and it will be helpful to build a career in mountaineering. It will teach a person the systematic way - physical and mental fitness, leadership qualities, self-confidence, awareness of environment and many more values. This kind of course will also be an experiential learning programme, that will teach discipline and disaster management,” added Zirpe.This course will be for one year and have two semesters with a total of 36 credits. The theory classes of the course will be held every evening on weekdays, while practical sessions will be on aternate weekends. Anyone from the age 18 to 60 years, who has cleared Class 12 and is medically fit is eligible.“This is a first of its kinddiploma course to be offered by SPPU, where we will begin with theory which will be taught online for now. As the government gradually relaxes Covid rules, practicals will be offline with actual mountaineering exercises,” said Deepak Mane, head, department of Sports & Physical Education, SPPU.The programme includes high altitude training at the Nehru Institute of Mountaineering. Applicants have to take an online entrance examination that will take place by the end of July 2021. The curriculum for the exam is shared on the webpage ofSPPU’s department of Physical Education: http://unipunedpe.in/||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-varsity-and-giripremi-launch-1-year-diploma-in-mountaineering-101624101209430.html
19-06-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali is education hub of north India, says principal secy to Punjab CM||With the presence of world-class higher education institutions in the tricity, the city of Mohali has emerged as the education hub of north India, said Tejveer Singh, principal secretary to Punjab chief minister.He was speaking during the inaugural session of QS I-Gauge Virtual RISE Conference, Punjab Edition.First-of-its-kind, the state-level conference was organised by QS I-Gauge, in association with Chandigarh University, Gharuan, and Chitkara University, Rajpura, on the theme, Redefining Institutional Strategy for Excellence (RISE-2021).The virtual conference was attended by academicians from all over Punjab and international speakers from Germany, UK and Australia.While delivering the inaugural address, Tejveer said, “We still have a long way to go as far as improving access to higher education in India is concerned. While the gross enrolment ratio for higher education in India is 27.1%, Punjab fares better at 30%.”He said the National Education Policy provided a road map for steps to be taken to improve this ratio.“The ability to attract quality faculty, creating a liberal campus environment, focusing on content and pedagogy, are the essential ingredients of a world-class higher education institution,” the principal secretary added.Among the speakers were Rajeev Ahuja, director, IIT Ropar; Dr Ashwin Fernandes, CEO, QS I-Gauge; Satnam Singh Sandhu chancellor, Chandigarh University; Madhu Chitkara, pro-chancellor, Chitkara University; Dr Heike Schinnenburg, University of Applied Sciences, Osnabrück, Germany; Paul Stapley, University of Wollongong, Australia; Dr Gurmeet Singh Dhaliwal, chairman, JAC; Jagjit Singh Dhuri, president, JAC, Punjab, and Dr Harivansh Chaturvedi, alternate president, EPSI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-is-education-hub-of-north-india-says-principal-secy-to-punjab-cm-101624100369711.html
19-06-2021||Pune||Startup Mantra: Tech as the broker in this direct sales op||Sujit Jain is a 43-year-old “compulsive entrepreneur”, who began riding the crest of the IT wave in the late 1990s, by opening a “small computer training institute in Pune.”That small institute as today grown into a direct-selling machine that claims numbers and growth that would not put a “buy-out” or IPO too far away.“Netsurf has always functioned as a debt-free, self-funded company and is not looking for PE funding on an immediate basis. We will offer the Initial Public Offerings (IPO) once Netsurf achieves a turnover of ₹2000 crore. I believe that it will help us to take a giant leap and take the direct selling business to another scale,” says founder Sujit Jain.The numbers (see graphic) speak growth. The business strategy on the other hand takes the direct selling model and leverages technology to offer rural sellers direct access to the urban landscape, and vice-versa.Netsurf Network was incepted in 2001, which hardly makes it a startup in the true sense of the word, however, the continuous evolving nature of the Netsurf business and the challenges presented by the Covid-19 pandemic, have meant that the startup hustle has never really stopped for Jain.Today, Netsurf Network direct sells herbal and organic products, personal care, cosmetics, home care, and its primary base from where it grew into the behemoth Jain claims it is today, agricultural goods. In the beginning…After completing his higher education from Symbiosis Institute of Management Studies in 2000, Jain was neither interested in on-campus placements like his peers, nor going into the family business heritage of jewellery, construction and legal advocacy. He aspired to open a small computer training institute in Pune. Setting off on his entrepreneurial journey, he developed a product that allowed a person with basic knowledge of computers to develop their own website. There was a key missing ingredient in Jain’s grand plans: funds. Realising this, Jain implemented the strategy of direct selling, by informing people about the software. It didn’t take long for Jain to connect with 80 direct sellers. By 2002, the number of direct sellers increased to 40,000 with the company achieving a 500-fold growth. This was the beginning of Netsurf Communications.Says Jain, “I was short on funds, but high on dreams and this was when our family friend, Sanjay Malpani, joined me and we, together, paved the way. In 2003, we acquired Ajay Bio-Tech, which was into manufacturing and research of organic farming products. Netsurf started distributing those products under the brand name Biofit, through their direct selling network. While the business operations kicked off from Pune, the network of direct sellers gradually spread across the rural regions of Maharashtra, Gujarat, Karnataka, and Madhya Pradesh.”The Biofit USP is that of chemical-free farming, something Jain claims farmers were not aware of at the time.“Through our direct selling model, we made them aware of organic farming. The current Biofit range of products spans 11 agricultural products. Today, one million farmers are using Biofit products,” claims Jain.What does Biofit offer? The claim is “greater yield” and “a cut in expenditure on farming”. “Biofit contributes 60 per cent of the current Netsurf turnover,” says Jain.Fly high, and diversify In 2004, the household segment beckoned. Netsurf launched its health and wellness category, with “Naturamore”. Today the range consists of 10 nutraceuticals in the form of powders and capsules. The company established Netsurf Research Labs in Parwanoo, Himachal Pradesh. “Ninety percent of Netsurf products are manufactured by us and the composition is also developed by our R&D specialists. We also have a manufacturing unit in Pune and the sourcing of the materials is done from across India,” Jain explains. Herbs and More: Started with six Ayurvedic products; today, range consists of 30 productsRang De: Cosmetics line launched in 2019 While all of the success Netsurf has managed may well be because of the quality of its product line, it’s the direct selling business model that really enabled the sustainability.Like Netsurf’s training and support system for its direct sellers, established in 2007, by which time, the number of direct sellers in its network had reached the half a million mark. Netsurf also launched a personal care range under “Herbs and More”, to increase the participation of women in the business. In 2014, Netsurf launched its home care range, Clean & More, with two products. Jain drops all the right words while pushing his Clean & More line, “plant extracts”, “enzymes”, and “probiotics”. In 2014, Netsurf Communications made its first investment in F&B brand Woohoo. Jain is also an investor in Mylab Discovery Solutions, the company which developed India’s first indigenous testing kit for Covid-19. He now plans to acquire a fintech startup. However, it was not until 2015 that the company crossed the ₹100 crore turnover mark.All the healthcare products are approved by FSSAI. The personal care products are approved by the FDA. Organic farming products are approved by Ecocert. “Over and above the certifications, we regularly conduct the clinical trials, safety studies and field trials for our health care, personal care and organic farming products,” says Jain.All the products are formulated in-house and only 10% products are manufactured at the third party currently. A QC team is employed at the 3rd party manufacturing units.Covid-19 – turning crisis into opportunitySays Jain, “Our direct selling business helped generate employment opportunities even in the rural interiors, where the maximum population (and unemployment) resides. It provided a solution to socio-economic issues like migration of workers in the shadow of unemployment, large scale-layoffs, the new normal of work-from-home and the insecurity around jobs. Our business allowed people to earn supplementary income at minimum investment and risks, by spending a few flexible hours every week. Moreover, they could earn additional incentives working from home, and thereby, seek personal growth.”The tech-knowNetsurf developed its own captive e-commerce portal for direct sellers (e-tailers) who have opted for an online retail model of the business plan. It’s a completely screen-to-screen model indigenised by the tech team of Netsurf, wherein direct sellers merely need to send their customised e-commerce link to the prospective consumers. It is a convenient model as it involves no capital blockage, and shipment and logistics is handled by the company. Direct sellers get their retail profits directly credited to their account. Jain explains, “We also have a comprehensive mobile app which enables direct sellers to retail Netsurf products in their social circle. Netsurf Mobile app is loaded with content for sellers allowing promotion on Netsurf products on respective social media handles. Our direct sellers are adapting to the tech-based changes, especially the 20 to 35 age group.”The Netsurf app currently is at 0.65 million downloads and accounts for 45% of the business generated.Business expansion and future plansNetsurf has five captive manufacturing facilities located in Maharashtra and Himachal Pradesh, with a total staff strength of 500. These facilities undertake the manufacturing of Netsurf’s products. Raw material is sourced from various states of India, and a few are imported.Jain said, “Organic fish farming practices. It will be sub-categorised under Biofit and will be called Biofit Aqua, an exclusive range of products that provides quality nutrition to fishes, shrimps, prawns, and crabs. These products do not contain any chemicals, pesticides, antibiotic, or hormones. It also ensures optimum quality and purity of water without damaging the environment. Organic fish farming practices ensure that we produce healthy, disease-free natural fish food. It also helps safeguard the environment from the adverse impact of harmful conventional Fish Farming methods.”What vendors sayUsha Bhanushali from Maharashtra said, “I come from a traditional MLM business background and started my journey as a consumer of Netsurf’s products initially in 2014. I became successful within a span of 4 years and was blessed with the title of a ‘self-styled entrepreneur’ at Netsurf Network. I have mentored over 30,000 Asmita’s (female) direct sellers which today form an integral part of my network. I believe that the reward and recognition systems along with additional income avenues at Netsurf played an important role in me reaching greater heights of success at Netsurf Network.”Amway, Herbalife, and Modicare are some of Netsurf’s main competitors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/startup-mantra-tech-as-the-broker-in-this-direct-sales-op-101624100249465.html
19-06-2021||Noida||Loni case: Police arrest man accused of filming assault||The Uttar Pradesh Police said on Saturday they have arrested another person in connection with an incident in Ghaziabad's Loni where an elderly Muslim man was assaulted by a group of six men on June 5.The accused, Ummed Pahalwan, was arrested from Delhi, Ghaziabad Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Amit Pathak told the media."A team of Ghaziabad Police has arrested Ummed Pahalwan from near Lok Narayan Jai Prakash Hospital in Delhi. He will be brought here for further investigation," Pathak said.According to the FIR filed on June 7, Pahalwan is accused of shooting the video of the assault, which went viral on social media.The victim, 72-year-old Sufi Abdul Samad, was beaten up by a group of men, who allegedly made him chant "Jai Siya Ram," besides forcibly chopping off his beard. However, in the FIR, the police have ruled out any communal angle to the case, saying that Samad was beaten up over a "personal dispute," adding that his attackers included both Hindus and Muslims. The victim's family, however, has questioned the police's narrative.Also Read: UP police send legal notice to Twitter India MD over Loni incidentOn Tuesday, the police filed another FIR in connection with the incident, naming nine entities, including Twitter India. Others who have been named in the FIR include online news portal The Wire; Congress leaders Dr Shama Mohammed, Salman Nizami and Maskoor Usmani; senior journalists Rana Ayyub and Saba Naqvi; and Alt News co-founder Mohammed Zubair.Also Read: Congress leaders, others booked for tweets on Ghaziabad incidentThose named in the FIR have been accused of falsely giving communal colour to the incident, without checking the facts. Twitter, the police have said in the FIR, "did nothing to prevent the video from going viral."On Thursday, the Uttar Pradesh Police sent a legal notice to Twitter India managing director Manish Maheshwari to appear before it within seven days for questioning over the video of the incident.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/loni-case-police-arrest-man-accused-of-filming-assault-101624095775735.html
19-06-2021||Patna||Bihar govt obliged to fight ‘infodemic’, provide accurate death figures: High Court||The Bihar government is obliged to fight the “infodemic”, the Patna high court has said while pulling it up for its reluctance to put in the public domain the number of Covid-19 related deaths over the last year in the state.The court underlined transparency is the hallmark of good governance. “...the resistance is uncalled for, as such action is neither protected by any law nor in consonance with settled principles of good governance,” the court said in an order uploaded on Friday. It asked the government to correct its “myopic approach” and added it needs a reminder that “to cover with the veil of secrecy, the common routine business, is not in the interest of the public”. The court added such secrecy can seldom be legitimately desired.Bihar revised its Covid-19 toll from the second wave this month by adding 3,951 deaths. This marked an increase of 72.8%. The government attributed the increase in fatalities to earlier unaccounted ones at private hospitals, homes and due to post-disease complications. It undertook a 20-day exercise to audit Covid-19 deaths after the high court flagged irregularities in death figures in Buxar district on May 17. After verification, the state’s Covid-19 cumulative toll jumped to 9,375 on June 8, as against 5,424 reported a day earlier.The court flagged inconsistency in death figures in Buxar district after affidavits filed by the state’s chief secretary and Patna divisional commissioner differed. The judges asked the government to verify facts from all sources before placing them in court. The court heard the case after at least 80 bodies were discovered floating in the Ganga in Buxar.A bench of Chief Justice Sanjay Karol and Justice Sanjay Kumar, in the order uploaded on Friday, cited the Registration of Births and Deaths Act, 1969, and also the Right to Information Act, 2005. It added the people have the right to “almost unequivocal terms of their access to information”.“It is needless to say that private information of deceased individuals will still be protected under the Right to Privacy read into Article 21 of the Constitution but has to be balanced with ‘General public awareness’ and information dissemination,” the court said.The court said the right to information is a fundamental right as recognised by the Supreme Court. It added the Bihar government is under obligation to provide information on the number of deaths for whatever reason during the pandemic.The court said the annual reports that are to be uploaded on the internet have not been since 2018. It added this should be carried out within the next two months.The court said the state is obligated to provide accurate information, fight the “infodemic” and heal the systemic neglect. “The Government of Bihar shall take all necessary action for sensitizing the general public, especially in the rural areas, of their Constitutional and Statutory right of uploading and obtaining information on the digital portal,” it said.The court said the chief secretary, the additional chief secretary, or development commissioner shall forthwith convene a meeting of all concerned and ensure compliance to the order.The bench said the number of deaths the government reported during the second wave of Covid-19 were incorrect. It cited the government’s affidavit dated June 10 and added it put the toll from the pandemic in the state at 9,375 and not 5424.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-govt-obliged-to-fight-infodemic-provide-accurate-death-figures-high-court-101624097249126.html
19-06-2021||Patna||200 apply for vacant posts at state women commission in Bihar||Preparations have begun to get the Bihar State Commission for Women a new chairperson and also to reconstitute the seven-member panel at the women commission, officials privy to the development said.“We have sought the date and time for the meeting from social welfare minister, Madan Sahni. He, along with the education minister, has been the members of the selection committee. Once the scheduled of the meeting is finalised, members will sit together to review the applications,” Rajkumar, social welfare director and member secretary of the selection committee, said. The social welfare department, which invited entries for these posts, has received around 200 applications for vacant positions. The selection committee which has been created by the department will soon be holding a meeting for the scrutiny and screening of the entries.The state women commission has been without a chairperson and the panel of members since November 2020. The three-year term of the chairperson and members lasted till October 31, 2020.Once there will be a consensus over the names, the tentative list of candidates will be forwarded to the government for approval, Rajkumar added.The official said that posts in the women commission would have been filled much earlier “but the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown delayed things,” he said.Meena Tiwari, the All India Progressive Women’s Association general secretary, said for the last seven months the state women commission has been without the chairperson and panel members. “Imagine the situation of women who have been the victims of physical or mental violence. How helpless they must be feeling in this situation,” she said.Not less than 20,000 cases must be pending here as the state commission, which earlier used to receive cases related to women through the post only, started receiving applications online also just before the expiry of the last panel of members, she added. “Not surprisingly, even those women who could have registered the case at the commission office must have tried registering cases online,” she said. Members were also receiving cases on WhatsApp, she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/200-apply-for-vacant-posts-at-state-women-commission-in-bihar-101624095148902.html
19-06-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand on high alert as mucormycosis cases rise||With a rise in mucormycosis or black fungus cases in Jharkhand, the state government has directed the health machinery to be on high alert and extend all possible care to the affected people, an official said on Saturday.A total of 79 confirmed and 53 suspected cases have been reported to date in 18 of the 24 districts, he said."The state has thus far registered 26 deaths due to mucormycosis, while 50 people have recovered from it," Ravi Shankar Shukla, Mission Director of the National Health Mission (NHM) Jharkhand, told PTI.Mucormycosis is a fungal infection leading to prolonged morbidity and even mortality among Covid-19 patients.Its treatment requires a multi-disciplinary approach consisting of ENT specialists, and eye, neuro and dental maxillofacial surgeons, besides administering Amphotericin-B injection as an antifungal medicine.The state government has declared mucormycosis as an epidemic amid the rising number of cases."On the direction of Chief Minister Hemant Soren, black fungus has been declared as an epidemic," the CMO had tweeted.In May, the state government had asked the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP) to maintain records related to the lethal fungal infection. Civil surgeons in all the districts were asked to report fresh confirmed and suspected cases of mucormycosis to the IDSP."We are keeping a vigil on the situation and all hospitals have been asked to report any case on an urgent basis. We have asked for providing proper treatment to such patients," a health official said.Ranchi has reported the highest number of cases at 46, of which 29 are confirmed and 17 are suspected, while eight patients have died.Of the 21 cases reported in East Singhbhum, 18 have been confirmed while five patients have died, Shukla said.Other districts that reported a high number of mucormycosis cases are Hazaribag (10), Garhwa (eight), Ramgarh (seven) and Giridih and Palamu (six each).Most of the patients are being treated at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences in Ranchi, and Tata Memorial Hospital and Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Medical College and Hospital in Jamshedpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-on-high-alert-as-mucormycosis-cases-rise-101624093456070.html
19-06-2021||Other||Assam baby weighs 5.2 kgs at birth, doctors call it state record||A woman in Assam’s Silchar has delivered a baby boy weighing 5.2 kilograms which doctors claim to be the heaviest weight at birth for a newborn in the state, HT has learnt. “It was a case of late delivery but we didn’t realise that the baby will weigh 5.2 kilograms. As per our knowledge, it is the heaviest baby ever born in Assam to date. The average weight of newborns in Assam is around 2.5 kilograms. There were newborns weighing around 4 kilograms in past but 5.2 kilograms for a newborn is a unique case. We have discussed with our senior officials and they also agreed with us,” said Dr Hanif Md. Afsar Alam Laskar of Satindra Mohan Dev Civil Hospital. A team of senior doctors at the government hospital performed the caesarean section procedure on Tuesday afternoon. This is the second child of Jaya Das and Badal Das, their first child weighed around 3.8 kilograms during birth. Doctors at Satindra Mohan Dev Civil Hospital, Silchar of Cachar district, claim that the baby was the heaviest child ever born in Assam. Dr Hanif Md. Afsar Alam Laskar, assisted by nurse Roselyn, Manjarul and anaesthetist Dr Rajat Deb, performed the caesarean operation on Jaya Das at Silchar civil hospital. Dr Laskar said the family delayed the process fearing Covid-19 infection. “In most of the cases, babies arrive between 38th and 42nd week of pregnancy. When babies don’t arrive by week 42, they are considered post-term or delayed delivery. In this case, the mother’s admission to the hospital was delayed. Her delivery date was due on May 29 but she wasn’t admitted at that time because her family was hesitant to go to hospitals amid the pandemic. Thankfully we managed to save the mother and the newborn.”Badal Das, father of the newborn said, “This is our second child, the first one weighed around 4 kilograms. But that was a different time, today covid infected patients are being treated in every hospital. I was a bit hesitant about taking my pregnant wife to a government hospital but finally, we had to take the decision to take her to the hospital. Thankfully, doctors have saved my wife and the child.”Initially, the family was advised to go to Silchar Medical College and Hospital but they decided against it because of many Covid-19 patients in the hospital. Hospital authorities have requested everyone to reach out to them on time even if the pregnant mother is Covid-19 positive. There were several cases when the mother was Covid-19 infected but the doctors did not hesitate in performing the cesarean operation for the delivery.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/assam-baby-weighs-5-2-kgs-at-birth-doctors-call-it-state-record-101624092448874.html
19-06-2021||Bhopal||MP lawyer, jailed for sending ‘indecent’ birthday message to judge, gets bail||A lawyer, who was in jail for the last four months for sending an "indecent" birthday message to a woman judge, has been granted bail by the Madhya Pradesh High Court. If he is found to approach the judge directly or indirectly or tries to stalk her, the bail order shall stand cancelled, the Indore bench of the court said.Justice Subodh Abhyankar passed the order during a virtual hearing of Yadav’s second bail application. On April 27, the high court dismissed his first bail application.The lawyer - Vijay Singh Yadav - allegedly downloaded a photo of the judge from her Facebook account and used it to make a greeting card which he then sent to her on her official email address on January 29. He was arrested on February 9.Ratlam Police booked the lawyer under sections 420 (cheating), 467 (forging documents) and others of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) besides relevant sections of the IT act on a complaint lodged by a district court official, according to news agency PTI."The application filed by the applicant (lawyer) is allowed, subject to the condition that if it is found that the applicant in any manner directly or indirectly tried to approach the concerned judge (the victim) and tries to stalk her in any manner, this order shall stand cancelled without further reference to the court and the police shall be entitled to arrest the applicant in the present case,” the high court said, according to news agency PTI on Saturday.Meanwhile, Yadav's counsel KK Gupta said that since his client does not have a criminal background, is a lawyer, has undertaken that he would never try to approach the concerned judge and would not practice in her court in the future and has tendered an unconditional apology, his bail application should not be rejected. State's counsel Kushagra Jain opposed Yadav's bail plea in view of his "conduct”. However, after hearing the applicant and the respondent, the court allowed Yadav’s bail application on a personal bond of ₹50,000.“Having considered the rival submissions, on perusal of the case diary including the message sent by the applicant, this court is of the considered opinion that since the charge sheet has already been filed and the applicant in jail since February 9, 2021, he has also tendered unconditional apology and the final conclusion of the trial is likely to take sufficient long time due to fresh spread of Covid-19, in the considered opinion of this court, the applicant's application deserves to be allowed,” the court said, according to PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/mp-lawyer-jailed-for-sending-indecent-birthday-message-to-judge-gets-bail-101624087195282.html
19-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt to give ₹1 crore ex-gratia to families of 6 slain personnel: Deputy CM Sisodia||Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia announced on Saturday the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP)-led government will provide an ex-gratia of ₹1 crore to the families of six security forces personnel who lost their lives in the line of duty. Of these, three belonged to the Indian Air Force (IAF), two were Delhi Police personnel and one was a part of the civil defence.“Although loss of a soldier is irreparable, the Kejriwal government after coming to power launched the scheme to provide ex gratia to families of such personnel so it could become a source for them to live with dignity,” Sisodia said while addressing a press briefing, according to news agency PTI.Kejriwal Govt to give an ex-gratia of ₹1 crore each to the families of 6 brave martyrs:ACP Sanket Kaushik (DP)NC(E) Rajesh Kumar (IAF)Flt Lt. Sunit Mohanty (IAF)Sqn Ldr Meet Kumar (IAF)Shri Vikas Kumar (DP)Shri Pravesh Kumar (CD)Salute to the heroes! 🇮🇳 -Dy CM @msisodia pic.twitter.com/1cakzZ1bjXThe Delhi deputy chief minister then went on to announce the names of the martyr’s whose families will receive the financial assistance:1. ACP Sanket Kaushik (Delhi Police)2. NC(E) Rajesh Kumar (Indian Air Force)3. Flight Lieutenant Sunit Mohanty (Indian Air Force)4. Squadron leader Meet Kumar (Indian Air Force)5. Constable Vikas Kumar (Delhi Police)6. Pravesh Kumar (Civil Defence)Towards the end of the briefing, Sisodia said the Delhi government stands shoulder to shoulder with the families of soldiers who were killed while serving the country. “The Delhi government is with the families of the martyrs. And this ex-gratia gives a surety to all security forces personnel who take part in operations or in war that the public and the government are with them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-to-give-ex-gratia-of-rs-1-crore-to-families-of-6-martyrs-sisodia-101624090345211.html
19-06-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand reports 141 new Covid-19 cases, tally over 344,000||Jharkhand's Covid-19 tally rose to 344,270 on Saturday as 141 more people tested positive for the infection, while two fresh fatalities pushed the state's coronavirus death toll to 5,097, a health bulletin said.Ranchi registered the highest number of new cases at 19, followed by East Singhbum and Gumla (18 each) and Hazaribag (14).The fresh fatalities were reported in Ranchi and East Singhbum districts.The state now has 1,811 active cases, while 337,362 people have recovered from the disease so far, including 274 in the last 24 hours, it said.The recovery rate among the patients in the state has improved to 97.99 per cent, while the mortality rate stands at 1.48 per cent.Jharkhand has thus far tested over 9.29 million samples for Covid-19, including 39,496 in the last 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-reports-141-new-covid-19-cases-tally-over-344000-101624088641562.html
19-06-2021||Other||Odisha activist moves HC seeking special audit of Covid-19 deaths||Amid allegations from opposition parties about the state government hiding Covid-19 death data, an activist on Thursday approached the Orissa High Court seeking a special audit of the Covid-19 fatalities in the state, HT has learnt.“There are many irregularities between the Covid fatalities data furnished by the district-level authorities like the CDMO and the state government’s health department statistics. From the figures, it is clear that the Odisha government has tried to suppress the Covid death numbers to protect its image,” Congress leader and activist Nishikanta Mishra said in his petition.Mishra, in his PIL before the HC, prayed for a special audit of the number of deaths in the state due to Covid-19 infections. He cited news reports and claimed that deaths were being underreported in official statistics.Of the 3,508 deaths recorded in Odisha till now, a little more than 1,870 were reported in the first wave till the end of December last year. In the second wave, which started in mid-April, there were over 1,600 deaths in just 2 months making it more severe than the first wave.Mishra, in his petition, said that anecdotal evidence suggested underreporting of Covid-19 related deaths. Though officially the death toll stood at 133 in April, enquiries with various Covid hospitals and district authorities suggested many more people died due to the Covid-19 infection in the state.Also read: ‘Ensure Covid-19 norms, don’t grow complacent’ - Centre to states as cases dropMishra said he visited the Satichoura crematorium in Cuttack on April 25 and found that the workers there were too busy in cremation. Citing an article published in The Hindustan Times on May 6 about the real picture of Covid-19 deaths in the state, Mishra said at least 44 bodies were cremated on a single day there while as per the government report only 3 patients died in Cuttack that day.Mishra said in western Odisha district of Nuapada, the test positively rate in April was consistently around 35% (which means one out of every three persons tested positive for the infection), the official death toll was just 4. But districts said 82 deaths were reported from the Covid hospitals. He also cited the case of Nayagarh chief district medical officer reporting 97 deaths in the second wave while the state government said only 14 people died.“In my petition, I have highlighted that despite all tall claims made by the state government, so far only 1.3 crore people have been tested for Covid-19, which is quite less. The situation is worse in rural pockets of the state where Covid testing is almost negligible,” he said.Last week, Congress in Odisha had accused the ruling-BJD of hiding data about Covid-19 deaths and demanded making the ‘actual data’ public. Congress leader Sudarsan Das said information obtained through RTI showed that around 1,288 bodies were cremated at the Satya Nagar crematorium of Bhubaneswar in September 2020, while the government report said only 342 bodies were cremated.“During this Covid pandemic, there has been an increase in the number of fatalities due to Coronavirus but the government is hiding the fact. The state government is denying the deaths due to Covid-19 infection,” he alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/odisha-activist-moves-hc-seeking-special-audit-of-covid-19-deaths-101624087711940.html
19-06-2021||Chandigarh||Milkha Singh to be accorded state funeral, says Punjab CM Amarinder Singh||Milkha Singh will be given a state funeral by the Punjab government and a day's mourning will be observed as a mark of respect to the track legend, chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh said on Saturday. "Have directed that Late Milkha Singh Ji will be given a State Funeral by our Government. Also Punjab will observe one day of State mourning as a mark of respect to the departed legend," Amarinder Singh tweeted.Have directed that Late Milkha Singh Ji will be given a State Funeral by our Government. Also Punjab will observe one day of State mourning as a mark of respect to the departed legend. pic.twitter.com/V5ewngTO0jMilkha Singh will be cremated in a crematorium in Chandigarh's Sector 25 at 5pm on Saturday. Milkha Singh died aged 91 following a long battle with Covid-19. Singh, dubbed the "Flying Sikh", passed away at a hospital in Chandigarh late on Friday. Nirmal Kaur, former India volleyball captain and his wife, also died from Covid-19 earlier in the week.Milkha Singh's family informed about the legend's death in a statement. "It is with extreme sadness that we would like to inform you that Milkha Singh Ji passed away. He fought hard but God has his ways and it was perhaps true love and companionship that both our mother Nirmal Ji and now Dad have passed away in a matter of 5 days," the family said.They are survived by their son, former Asian Tour number one golfer Jeev Milkha Singh, and three daughters.Also read | Milkha Singh: An unmatchable romance with a near missPrime Minister Narendra Modi led the tributes for Milkha Singh, saying India had "lost a colossal sportsperson, who captured the nation's imagination and had a special place in the hearts of countless Indians."Former cricketer Yuvraj Singh and India spinner Harbhajan Singh also paid their condolences to the late athlete on Twitter. “Heartbreaking news of the passing away of Milkha Singh ji. His life and accomplishments will continue to inspire millions and in these memories, he will be eternal. My deepest condolences to Jeev and the family,” Yuraj Singh tweeted. “Very sad, heartbreaking to hear flying sikh Sardar Milkha singh ji is no more..” Harbhajan Singh said.The track-and-field athlete became the first Indian man to reach the final of an Olympic athletics event when he was placed fourth in the 400m race at the 1960 Olympic Games in Rome.Also read | On air: Milkha Singh recorded multi-part autobiography for Prasar BharatiThe Asian Games and Commonwealth Games champion, whose fourth-place finish at the 1960 Rome Olympics remains a benchmark for Indian athletics, was admitted to Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) in Chandigarh on June 3 after his oxygen levels dipped at home following treatment at Fortis Hospital, Mohali, for a week. The former Indian sprinter tested positive for Covid-19 last month.PGIMER said in a statement that Milkha Singh was admitted to the ICU of its Covid-19 hospital on June 3. "He was treated for COVID there till June 13 when after putting up a valiant battle with COVID, Milkha Singh Ji tested negative. However, due to post- Covid complications, he was shifted out of COVID Hospital to medical ICU. But despite the best of efforts by the medical team, Milkha Singh Ji could not be retrieved from his critical condition and after a brave fight, he left for his heavenly abode at 11.30 pm on 18th June 2021 here at PGIMER," the hospital said.Milkha Singh was awarded the Padma Shri, India's fourth-highest civilian honour, in recognition of his sporting achievements.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/milkha-singh-to-be-accorded-state-funeral-says-punjab-cm-amarinder-singh-101624086175998.html
19-06-2021||Delhi||DU teachers and aspirants raise concerns over CUCET||With the possibility of a common entrance exam for admissions to undergraduate courses at Delhi University (DU) this year, teachers and aspirants have raised concerns over the new format, saying it will disadvantage students from the marginalised and rural backgrounds and those opting for a stream change.Last year, the Union education ministry constituted a committee to look into modalities for the Central Universities Common Entrance Test (CUCET) for admissions to all undergraduate (UG) courses at central universities in accordance with the National Education Policy (NEP) 2020. While the committee has submitted its report and the ministry is yet to come out with a final decision on whether it would be implemented this year or not, DU teachers have expressed concerns over the matter.Former DU executive council member Rajesh Jha said that introducing a new mode of entrance test without giving aspirants time to familiarise themselves with the syllabus or the paper pattern may disadvantage those students who don’t have uninterrupted access to learning material.“Cancellation of board exams has given way to demands for CUCET so that some form of an exam is conducted for admissions to UG courses in DU. But we should not implement anything without proper consultation with the university’s academic council and other statutory bodies. There have been several research reports documenting centralised tests such as CUCET have favoured people from affluent backgrounds who have access to better study material and we need an inclusive admission policy,” he said.Several aspirants have been writing to teachers and officials at DU requesting them to look into the matter and form an inclusive admission policy. On Thursday, a group of Class 12 students from across the country also wrote to DU’s acting vice-chancellor PC Joshi on the matter.“The proposed format in the existing CUCET exams contains a subject-specific exam. On the other hand, universities like DU have courses that are open for students who have not studied the subject [in Class 12] before allowing changing of streams. There were no restrictions in choosing the subjects for graduation. But if one aspires to pursue a subject which s/he didn’t learn in class 11 and 12, then such group of students will face problems in competing in the entrance exams where there is a subject-specific test,” the students wrote in the letter.Tisha Mondal, a Class 12 student from a private school in Bengaluru who is a part of the group, said, “We don’t have issues with CUCET as it is a great alternative for merit-based admissions. But it had to be announced earlier. It is already mid-June and it is likely that the exams will be conducted in July or August. We don’t even have the time to collect resources, practice mock papers, and it is more difficult for those who are changing their streams for their undergraduate exam. Online coaching classes have already started for CUCET and those with high-internet access already have an edge over others.”Another Class 12 student. Tanisha Pathak, who is from Haldwani in Uttarakhand, said, “We still have no idea as to how in case of an integrated exam DU is going to address this issue. If DU adopts the same eligibility criteria as the other Central Universities, then it would simply restrict students from joining these courses. Moreover, conducting CUCET will contradict the NEP, which freely allows students to switch streams.”Vishal Shrivas, a resident of Tikamgarh in the Bundelkhand region of Madhya Pradesh, said his younger brother wanted to apply for Delhi University this year but the possibility of CUCET has left him worried.“Students in our district are used to appearing for offline papers. They are not used to online tests conducted in computer centres, which is the likely format for CUCET. ...with the pandemic, offline learning options are few and resource gathering will also be scarce. Students with little to no internet access will suffer,” he said.Joshi said the CUCET committee has taken all these considerations into account while preparing the report. “There has been no final decision on the entrance exams yet and whenever that happens, these concerns will be taken into account. There is no need for unfounded fear and aspirants will be provided reasonable time and syllabus for the test. It is premature to worry about this right now,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/du-teachers-and-aspirants-raise-concerns-over-cucet-101624086148836.html
19-06-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka man cuts off leg for not getting alcohol, in critical condition||A 42-year-old percussionist in the Kodagu district of Karnataka allegedly cut off his leg as he was frustrated because he could not buy alcohol, a Kannada-language newspaper has reported. Papanna, a resident of Ammatti Karmadu village, severed his right leg near the ankle and was rushed by his family to a government hospital in Madikeri in a critical condition, Prajavani reported on Saturday.Prajavani said Papanna, an addict, went under severe depression for not being able to fulfill his urge for liquor. He was also facing financial difficulty as he wasn't getting work as a percussionist. He used to play in weddings and religious ceremonies.According to the newspaper, neighbours said he used to quarrel with his mother and other family members when they did not give him money to buy alcohol. Nanjappa, a neighbour, said that he spent most of his earnings on liquor.As a result of the lockdown, religious and wedding ceremonies in the Kodagu district are not being allowed, affecting percussionists' livelihood in the last two months. Karnataka chief minister BS Yeddyurappa announced a Covid relief package worth ₹1250 crore in May, aimed at helping people whose livelihood and income was severely affected by the pandemic.The relief was meant for people in the low-income bracket, comprising floriculturists, artisans, labourers, artists, domestic help, taxi, auto-rickshaw drivers, domestic workers and other categories of workers. The funds were channelised through the deputy commissioners of the districts under the social welfare account head. Artists and art troupes were provided a one-time compensation of ₹3,000 each.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-man-cuts-off-leg-for-not-getting-alcohol-in-critical-condition-101624083022537.html
19-06-2021||Other||Odisha to conduct RT-PCR tests on servitors four times ahead of Rath Jatra||In a bid to next month’s Rath Jatra in Puri free of Covid-19 infection, the Shree Jagannath Temple Administration (SJTA) on Thursday decided that all the servitors participating in various rituals of the deities will undergo multiple rounds of the Covid-19 test (RT-PCR) 48 hours before the festival, SJTA chief administrator Dr Krishan Kumar said.“A detailed micro-plan is being made for setting up of special medical posts during Ratha Jatra. Apart from the servitors, police personnel and temple officials involved in the Ratha Jatra arrangements will also be tested. The focus will be on the servitors who will pull the three chariots in view of the Covid-19 restrictions,” said Dr Kumar.Kumar, who headed a meeting in this regard, said the testing will be done in four stages - before Snana Yatra, before Gundicha Yatra, before Bahuda Yatra and finally, 15 days after Niladri Bije. The Ratha Jatra is scheduled for July 11.Considered as part and parcel of the social, religious and cultural ethos of the people of Odisha, the Ratha Jatra is one of the main festivals of Odisha that commemorates the annual journey of Lord Jagannath and his siblings from the 12th century Jagannath temple to their aunt’s abode in Gundicha temple, 2.5 kilometres away in Puri town.During the Ratha Jatra, a million devotees come to Puri town believing that they would attain salvation by touching the ropes attached to the 3 chariots of Lord Jagannath, Lord Balabhadra and Goddess Subhadra. After staying in Gundicha temple for 9 days, the three deities come back to Jagannath Temple on the 10th day in a return journey called “Bahuda Yatra”.The SJTA chief administrator said a nodal officer will be appointed by the SJTA, Puri district administration and the CDMO office for close coordination on a day-to-day basis. An adequate number of masks would be distributed among the servitors during Snana Jatra and Ratha Jatra. To promote hand hygiene like last year, sanitisers would be distributed amongst families of servitors. Meetings will be held with members of various Nijogs to sensitize the servitors on do’s and don’ts to be followed during the conduct of the rituals.Earlier this month, the state government said that the Ratha Jatra will be held on July 11 without the presence of devotees as per the guidelines issued by the Supreme Court last year. After refusing to allow it, the apex court, last year, permitted the Rath Yatra to happen on the condition that there is no public attendance and all entry points into Puri will remain closed. The state government said each chariot would not be pulled by more than 500 persons and social distancing should be maintained as far as possible.However, the state government’s decision to stop Ratha Jatras in other towns of Odisha amid the pandemic has been opposed by political parties and local people.The Kendrapara district unit of BJP on Friday requested the Odisha government and the Centre to take necessary steps to allow the conduct of the upcoming Rath Yatra at Baladevjew temple in Kendrapara town. A team of the Kendrapara BJP staged a protest in front of the office of the district collector and before the temple seeking fulfilment of their demands. The party workers and leaders also demonstrated in front of the offices of all the Tehsildars.The Kendrapara district unit of BJP on Friday requested the Odisha government and the Centre to take necessary steps to allow the conduct of the upcoming Rath Yatra dedicated to the Siddha Baladevjew in Kendrapara. The national vice president of the BJP, Baijayant Panda, also demanded that the government should take all necessary steps as there are a lot of similarities in the rituals, religious practices between the shrine of Siddha Baladevjew and Puri Jagannath temple.On Thursday, people in Baripada town demanded permission to conduct Ratha Jatra at Haribaldev Jew temple in Baripada, also known as Dwitiya Sreekhetra, the second most important shrine of Lord Jagannath after Puri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/odisha-to-conduct-rt-pcr-tests-on-servitors-four-times-ahead-of-rath-jatra-101624080568743.html
19-06-2021||Other||Assam govt to provide incentive, waive off options for microfinance loans||The Assam government on Friday decided to provide ‘incentive’ as well as ‘waive off’ options to over 2 million women across the state who had taken loans from microfinance companies, chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said.“For those who have been repaying their loans regularly, the government would pay them a certain amount as an incentive, which they can use to repay their loans or use for other purposes,” said Sarma.The CM said that the move is aimed at keeping the Bharatiya Janata Party’s poll promise of waiving off microfinance loans. He said the government has formed three categories of borrowers. The first is those who have been repaying their loans regularly, the second who haven’t paid interest and instalments in the past two, three months following assurances of waiver by the government, and third of those who have not been repaying their loans for a long time and don’t have the ability to do so. “For the second category, we will repay their overdue instalments and also provide them with incentive. The third category would be those who can’t repay or don’t want to avail the incentives. We will waive off their entire loan amounts. But there would be certain conditions for this category as waivers will be only for those who are poor and needy,” he added. Sarma said that while the total amount of microfinance loans was ₹12,500 crore, it has now come down to ₹8,250 crore after discussions with microfinance companies in the past weeks. “The decrease is due to some Reserve Bank of India (RBI) norms not followed by these microfinance companies like loans exceeding ₹1.25 lakh for one borrower and more than three loans provided to one borrower by different companies,” he said. “The companies have assured that they will address those anomalies at their end. Anyone who has taken loans worth more than ₹1.25 lakh won’t have to repay the excess amount and those who have taken more than three loans don’t have to repay the fourth and the subsequent loans,” he added. Soon after taking charge in May, Sarma constituted a committee on waiving off microfinance loans. The report submitted by the committee listed many conditions on the waiver, including the exclusion of borrowers with an annual income of over ₹1 lakh and those owning four-wheelers.The committee’s report had led to protests by several women groups across the state that accused the government of reneging on its poll promise and demanded that loans of all borrowers should be waived off without any conditions. On Friday, Sarma informed that the government’s move would benefit around 2.2 million women borrowers. He said details on the incentives and waiver will be taken by the cabinet in the next two weeks. The CM said that The Assam Microfinance Institutions (Regulation of Moneylending) Act, 2020, which seeks to regulate microfinance institutions, passed by the previous government, has been endorsed by the Governor. “In his election speeches, Himanta Biswa Sarma promised to waive off microfinance loans of all women borrowers. But within a month of coming to power on that promise, the government has taken a U-turn on it,” said Assam Congress president Ripun Bora. “The conditions imposed by the government on waiver of loans are such that most borrowers would be left out. Now, women across the state are coming out spontaneously in protest against these conditions,” he added. Those with more children won’t get benefits “In the coming years, the government won’t provide benefits of government schemes and loan waivers to those who have more children as per the provisions of the state population policy. However, those from SC, ST and tea-tribe communities would be exempted from this condition,” Sarma said. “Gradually, population norms will apply on schemes. Initially, it would be for those who have more than 5 or 6 children, but that would be brought down every year and finally, only those who have two children will be able to benefit from government schemes,” he added. The Population and Women Empower Policy of Assam, 2017 disallows those having more than two children from contesting panchayat and civic body polls and also provides incentives and disincentives to those people who have more than two children.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/assam-govt-to-provide-incentive-waive-off-options-for-microfinance-loans-101624076908543.html
19-06-2021||Kolkata||West Bengal reports 2,788 new Covid-19 cases, 58 deaths||West Bengal's Covid-19 tally rose to 14,77,037 on Friday as 2,788 more people tested positive for the infection, while 58 fresh fatalities pushed the state's coronavirus death toll to 17,240, a health bulletin said.North 24 Parganas district registered the highest number of fresh cases at 388 followed by Kolkata (287), Purba Medinipur (265), and Darjeeling (240).North 24 Parganas also recorded the highest number of fresh fatalities at 15, followed by Kolkata (11) and Nadia and Jalpaiguri (six each).As many as 2,112 more people have been cured of the disease, taking the recovery rate among the coronavirus patients in the state to 97.30%.The state now has 22,691 active cases.A total of 1.35 crore samples have been tested in the state so far, in which the positivity rate was 5.04%, it said.The state has thus far vaccinated over 1.86 crore people, including 2.02 lakh on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/west-bengal-reports-2-788-new-covid-19-cases-58-deaths-101624076075777.html
19-06-2021||Lucknow||Rainfall, thunderstorms likely in eastern UP: IMD issues alert||Rainfall activity is likely in parts of Uttar Pradesh during the next two hours, the regional weather forecasting center of the India Meteorological Department (IMD) at New Delhi informed on Saturday morning. The met department predicted light to moderate intensity rainfall over isolated areas in UP such as Rampur, Moradabad, Bijnor, and adjoining areas. Meanwhile, the IMD website on Saturday issued a heavy rainfall warning, accompanied by thunderstorms and lightning, for eastern Uttar Pradesh."Light to moderate intensity rain would occur over isolated places of Rampur, Milak, Moradabad, Amroha, Sambhal, Bhajoi, Bijnor, Chandpur, Chandausi, Nazibabad (U.P) and adjoining areas during next 2 hours," the met department posted from the RWFC New Delhi handle on Twitter. A cyclonic circulation is was seen lying over east Uttar Pradesh and its neighbourhood earlier this week.19-06-2021; 0745 IST; Light to moderate intensity rain would occur over isolated places of Rampur, Milak, Moradabad, Amroha, Sambhal, Bhajoi, Bijnor, Chandpur, Chandausi, Nazibabad (U.P) and adjoining areas during next 2 hours.Light to moderate rains along with thundershowers lashed few places in eastern Uttar Pradesh earlier on Wednesday, with some parts of eastern UP recording heavy rains. The temperatures were markedly below normal in Gorakhpur, Varanasi divisions; appreciably below normal in Ayodhya, Prayagraj, Bareilly, Moradabad, Jhansi, Agra, Meerut divisions; below normal in Lucknow division and normal elsewhere.Meanwhile, large-scale atmospheric conditions are not favourable for further advance of monsoon into Rajasthan, remaining parts Punjab, Haryana and Delhi till June 27, the IMD said on Thursday. However, there could be slow progress into some more parts of Gujarat state and Uttar Pradesh during the next two days, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/rainfall-thunderstorms-likely-in-eastern-up-imd-issues-alert-101624069897998.html
19-06-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab govt approves 2-fold salary hike for its employees: All you need to know||The Congress-led government in Punjab on Friday decided to implement a majority of the recommendations of its sixth pay commission with effect from January 1, 2016, which will benefit more than 500,000 of its serving and retired employees. The decision was taken in a cabinet meeting chaired by chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh and it comes just before Punjab will hold elections next year.“The move will benefit over 540,000 serving and retired state government employees,” an official statement said, adding it was approved by the government despite the “precarious financial health” of Punjab.Here is what you need to know about the two-fold salary hike:1. The minimum pay for all Punjab government employees will now increase from ₹6,950 to ₹18,000 per month. Hindustan Times reported on Friday the arrears will be paid in two equal instalments in October this year and in January 2022.2. Disbursal of salaries and pensions under the new structure will begin from July 1 this year.3. The implementation of the recommendations of the sixth pay commission will entail 2.59 times rise in salaries and pensions over the previous pay commission recommendations, with an annual increment of three per cent, resulting in pay scales of all existing employees continuing to be higher than that of Haryana, the official statement said.4. The statement added the decision will put an additional burden of ₹8,637 crore on the exchequer with a prospective additional net annual burden expected to be nearly ₹4,700 crore.5 The minimum pension will now increase from ₹3,500 to ₹9,000 per month and the minimum family pension will increase to ₹9,000 per month.6. Divorcees and widows will be eligible for the family pension.7. The Punjab government has also accepted the restoration of the commutation of pension to 40 per cent from July this year.8. House rent allowance along with other benefits has been rationalised under the new structure. Special allowance to watchmen and drivers is being doubled.9. The Punjab government is introducing a higher education allowance in the form of a lump-sum incentive to employees who obtain a higher education degree during their course of employment and in the field directly relevant to their job. But new employees will be paid in accordance with the Centre’s pay scales, which at present apply to all new recruits.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-govt-approves-2-fold-salary-hike-for-its-employees-all-you-need-to-know-101624069401766.html
19-06-2021||Noida||Noida records 10 new Covid-19 cases in 24 hours, tally hits 62,950||Gautam Buddh Nagar recorded 10 new Covid-19 cases on Friday while Ghaziabad had eight along with one death linked to the coronavirus, official data showed.With this, the overall number of positive cases reached 62,950 in Gautam Buddh Nagar and 55,522 in Ghaziabad, according to Uttar Pradesh's Health Department data for a 24-hour period.The death toll reached 461 in Ghaziabad with one more fatality while it stood at 466 in Gautam Buddh Nagar, the data showed.Eighty-eight patients recovered in Ghaziabad but none in Gautam Buddh Nagar with the overall recoveries surging to 54,943 and 62,349 in these districts, respectively, it showed.The active cases have come down to 118 in Ghaziabad while it stood at 135 in Gautam Buddh Nagar, according to the official figures.The number of active Covid-19 cases in UP came down to 5,343 from 6,019 on Thursday while the overall recoveries surged to 16,76,458 and the death toll mounted to 22,081 on Friday, the data showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-records-10-new-covid-19-cases-in-24-hours-tally-hits-62950-101624068625649.html
19-06-2021||Delhi||7 held after cops bust fake global call centre||Delhi Police on Thursday busted a fake international call centre in west Delhi’s Ganesh Nagar, near Tilak Nagar, and arrested seven people for allegedly duping foreigners on the pretext of offering technical assistance by impersonating the technical support staff of a multinational firm.DCP (west) Urvija Goel said the west district’s cyber cell unit received information that some people were running an international online cheating racket through a call centre at Ganesh Nagar.“It was also learnt that the racketeers were cheating people based in the US on the pretext of providing them technical support by projecting themselves as the official technical support staff of an e-commerce major,” said Goel.On Thursday, a police team raided the call centre and found seven people making calls by posing as genuine tech supporters of the firm, said Goel.“The technical support scam begins with a pre-recorded call claiming that suspicious transactions have taken place in their account,” added the DCP.Later, after persuading them to connect with them, the scamsters gain access to their computers or mobiles to cheat them, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/7-held-after-cops-bust-fake-global-call-centre-101624060941455.html
19-06-2021||Delhi||As inflation spirals, Delhi government hikes dearness allowance||The Delhi government on Friday increased the dearness allowance for workers in scheduled employment, a move that deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said will help workers and labourers cope with spiralling inflation.The new rates will be effective from April 1 this year, which means all such workers will get arrears.After the increase in dearness allowance, the revised monthly wages for unskilled labourers has been increased from ₹15,492 to ₹15,908. For semi-skilled labourers, from ₹17,069 to ₹17,537, and for skilled labourers, from ₹18,797 to ₹19,291.For clerical and supervisory staff, the minimum wage has been enhanced from ₹17,069 to ₹ 17,537 per month for non-matriculates, from ₹18,797 to ₹19,291 for workers who are matriculates but not graduates, and from ₹20,430 to ₹20,976 for graduates and above.“These steps have been taken in the interest of the poor and working class, who have suffered disproportionately due to the current pandemic. This shall also benefit those in clerical and supervisory jobs,” Sisodia said.He said people in the unorganised sector employed on minimum wages should not be deprived of dearness allowance.Retail inflation in the country rose to 6.3% in May from 4.23% in April, propelled by an increase in both food and core inflation.This is the second time the Delhi government has increased dearness allowance for workers during the pandemic.In December last year, Sisodia issued a similar order and the revised wages (the existing rate as on date) were applied retrospectively from October 1, 2020.On Friday, the deputy chief minister said, “Although we have had to cut down on expenditure, this decision has been taken keeping in mind the interests of our working class. Every section of the society has been adversely affected due to the pandemic. Adding to the woes of the masses is the soaring prices of daily essentials such as oil and pulses. I hope that this increase in wages will provide some relief to our labour brethren.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/as-inflation-spirals-delhi-government-hikes-dearness-allowance-101624059672984.html
19-06-2021||Gurugram||Resettle us on humanitarian grounds: Khori Gaon residents appeal to authorities||Residents of Khori village in Faridabad, slums in which are scheduled to be demolished on Supreme Court orders for encroaching on Aravalli land, said on Friday that the government must prepare a rehabilitation plan before evicting them.“Even if we want to leave the place and go somewhere else, most of us do not have the financial strength to take this step as we have not had jobs since the start of the pandemic. In such a situation, the government should think of a solution,” said a resident from the village who did not wish to be named.At a press meet in Delhi on Friday, activists and lawyers backed the demand.Nirmal Gorana, the general secretary of Bandhua Mukti Morcha that works with the residents said, “The situation in the village is tense after the suicide (referring to a 70-year-old man who died on Wednesday, following which residents pelted stones at the police). There are many other people who are talking about taking similar steps. The Supreme Court’s order should be followed but the administration must think of a rehabilitation plan on humanitarian grounds.”Human rights activist and the residents’ lawyer in the apex court, Colin Gonsalves, said, “If Khori village has encroached on forest land, then the same applies to the hotels and farmhouses situated next to the village. Displacement during a global pandemic is not justified with such blatant inequality.”The Supreme Court on Thursday directed the Haryana government, for a second time, to clear all encroachments on Aravalli land in Faridabad by July 19. It refused residents’ request to not demolish homes.A senior Faridabad district official said, “The Supreme Court’s orders will be strictly followed but we are looking into the demands of the residents and steps will be taken accordingly.”On Thursday, chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar also told the district administration to find a rehabilitation option.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/resettle-us-on-humanitarian-grounds-khori-gaon-residents-appeal-to-authorities-101624059142469.html
19-06-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh doctors observe ‘Black Day’ to protest assaults on medics||On the call of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) for a nationwide protest against the assault on doctors and medical professionals, doctors from various sectors of Chandigarh observed Friday as a ‘Black Day’.IMA, the apex medical body, had asked all its state and local branches across the country to observe a protest on Friday by wearing black badges, masks, ribbons, and by running an awareness campaign against violence on healthcare staff.Over 40 members of IMA Chandigarh, including government and private doctors, staged a protest outside IMA house in Sector 35. While displaying “Save the saviours” placards, the doctors demanded implementation of the Central Hospital and Healthcare Professionals Protection Act along with Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) sections.However, health services across hospitals were not disrupted during the protest. “We have sent a written request to the Prime Minister to implement this law. Private health sector, specially small and medium health establishments, is providing 75% services to the citizens and they are more subjected to violence and attacks. Besides physical assaults, doctors are increasingly coming under mental and psychological assaults by patients and their relatives,” said Dr Virender Kappal, state president, IMA Chandigarh.Dr RS Sethi, former national vice-president, IMA, said, “Mostly due to financial burden, patients and their families attack the doctors. Young doctors are now showing reluctance in undertaking emergencies because of fear of violence. We urge people to go for family insurance to avoid extra expenses, which ultimately lead to assaults.”Around 1,300 senior and junior resident doctors of Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) wore black badges and ribbons to show their support to the healthcare workers. “We stand with the doctors of our country. Medical professionals, who are saving lives during the pandemic, must be saved from the assaults,” said Dr Uttam Thakur, member of the Association of Resident Doctors (ARD), PGIMER.Meanwhile, not many doctors at the Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, and Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, were seen wearing black badges to observe protests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-doctors-observe-black-day-to-protest-assaults-on-medics-101624052487472.html
19-06-2021||Chandigarh||Picked in India’s net bowlers squad, Chandigarh lad Arshdeep is raring to go||Despite soaring temperatures in Chandigarh, left-arm pacer Arshdeep Singh has been bowling relentlessly off-late in the nets with his coach Jaswant Rai. IPL 14 may have been disrupted midway, but the Punjab Kings 6’3” tall speedster has been training hard with an eye on the Sri Lanka tour. The lanky bowler has been constantly working on slower deliveries, bouncers, yorkers and kept his focus on bolstering mental strength. The 22-year-old bowler might not have been included in the Shikhar Dhawan-led Indian team for Sri Lanka tour starting July 13 but he has made it to the net bowlers’ list, along with Ishan Porel, Sandeep Warrier, Sai Kishore and Simarjeet Singh for the ODI and T20 series. And the best part about this selection according to him would be to be around coach Rahul Dravid and chewing his brain.Dravid, who has been mentoring young cricketers in the recent years, has also played a significant role in fine-tuning Singh’s bowling while he played for India U-19 team and also attended camps at the National Cricket Academy (NCA) in Bengaluru. Looking forward to regrouping with Dravid after the U-19 World Cup in 2018 in New Zealand, this is what Singh said, “Dravid sir had been exceptional when I played for India U-19 team way back in 2017 and 2018. The way he inspired and backed the cricketers showed his class and expertise. So many cricketers of that batch are now either in the Indian team or knocking at the door of Indian team. I am so excited to be bowling with Dravid sir in attendance during the net sessions. I am going to ask him many questions and also take his valuable feedback.” Both Porel and Singh were part of India’s victorious U-19 World Cup campaign in 2018 under captain Prithvi Shaw and coach Dravid.Singh, who made his Indian Premier League (IPL) debut for Punjab Kings in 2019, had successful 2020 and 2021 stints for his franchise making a long-lasting impression with his bowling, especially in the death-overs. Singh has been rewarded for picking 19 wickets in 17 IPL matches at an average and strike rate of 25.11 and 16.79 respectively. He showed his bowling prowess in IPL 14, taking the responsibility of bowling at crucial junctures and providing breakthroughs. Singh starred in the thrilling win over Rajasthan Royals in their season opener, bowling the final over of the game and dismissing in-form Sanju Samson.“When one is bowling to the likes of Chris Gayle and KL Rahul in the nets and has a coach like Anil Kumble, one is going to improve and get better with each game. Then there was Mohammed Shami for inputs from the other bowling end. Also, the time I got to work on my fitness in the lockdown last season helped me perform well in both 2020 and 2021 IPLs. I am going to use all my experience of being around senior cricketers like Shikhar Dhawan and Bhuvneshwar Kumar,” felt Singh, who is Punjab’s strike-bowler along with Siddharth Kaul. “I want to continue bowling well for Punjab Kings when IPL shifts to UAE in September and be consistent. IPL is a huge platform to learn from the best in the business and showcase talent,” added Singh. The Chandigarh-based bowler earned accolades from all corners during IPL 14, including praise from former India left-arm quick bowler Irfan Pathan and his captain KL Rahul.“Arshdeep has improved tremendously in the last three years. The experience he gained during IPLs helped him become more confident about himself. He is turning out to be a thinking bowler and is constantly working on improving. He knows he can be in the Indian team if he performs consistently for Punjab Kings in IPL and Punjab in domestic cricket,” shared his coach Rai, who is also a former Ranji Trophy player from Himachal Pradesh. India will play three ODIs and three T20s in Sri Lanka.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/picked-in-india-s-net-bowlers-squad-chandigarh-lad-arshdeep-is-raring-to-go-101624052367103.html
19-06-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh RLA services to resume from June 21||With Covid-19 cases declining in the city, the Registering and Licensing Authority (RLA) has decided to start all services related to acquiring registration certificates and driving licences (except new learner’s licence/renewal of learner’s licence) with effect from June 21.Getting a new learner’s licence, renewal of learner’s licence and regular driving licence test will be started from June 28 (online booking may be done from June 27).Applicants desirous of book an appointment for the above mentioned services can visit the official RLA website www.chdtransport.gov.in or call on 1860-180-2067.The portal for booking of appointments will be made functional from June 20, 10am onwards. The booking of appointments for getting a new learner’s licence or renewal of learner’s licence and regular driving test will be made functional from June 27, 10am onwards. No applicant will be entertained without online appointment.Earlier, RLA had resumed public dealing on June 1 for various services including registration of new vehicles, other state vehicles, no-objection certificate (NOC) of vehicle and renewal of registration certificate. Issuance of international driving permit/licence, NOC of driving licence and renewal of driving licence was also started from June 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-rla-services-to-resume-from-june-21-101624052006991.html
19-06-2021||Chandigarh||Petrol rate shoots up to ₹99.04 per litre in Mohali||With continuous price hikes by the government, petrol cost in Mohali rose to ₹99.04 per litre, the highest ever and within sight of crossing the ₹100 mark soon. Diesel also reached the all-time high of ₹90.62 per litre. Prices in Chandigarh and Panchkula are also hitting new highs every week.In Panchkula, petrol costs ₹94.48 per litre and diesel ₹88.09 per litre. Both are slightly cheaper in Chandigarh, at ₹93.22 and ₹87.34, respectively.President of Mohali Petroleum Dealers Association, Ashwinder Mongia said, “Fuel consumption in Punjab is mostly by farmers and transporters, so the rise in diesel prices will directly affect their livelihood. Even earlier people would prefer to go to Chandigarh and Panchkula for fuel refills, but further increase in the price margin is taking away more business from Mohali.” “With global rates of oil increasing, the price in the domestic market is also fluctuating. This is a temporary increase due to the policies of other countries. Further, once the Covid situation improves global fuel prices will come down and domestic markets are also likely to see some relief,” said Arjan Singh, president of the Chandigarh Petroleum Dealers Association.The prices of vegetables and other commodities may also get affected with the spike in fuel rates. “Some inflation in household goods can be expected. Prices of fruits and vegetables being brought from other states will also increase if the trend continues,” said BL Sharma, general secretary of the Chandigarh Transport Association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/petrol-rate-shoots-up-to-99-04-per-litre-in-mohali-101624051946990.html
19-06-2021||Chandigarh||Parida’s legacy as Chandigarh adviser a mixed bag of hits and misses||As UT adviser Manoj Parida gets transferred to Delhi, his two-and-a-half-year stint in Chandigarh will be remembered for its hits and misses in the city’s struggle against Covid-19.Parida had joined as adviser in December 2018 and little was known at the time about him except that as the chief secretary, Puducherry, he had gotten into a public spat with former lieutenant governor of Puducherry and former inspector general of Chandigarh Police Kiran Bedi.A little over a year into his tenure as UT adviser, Covid hit. As the pandemic unfolded, Parida’s detractors squarely put the blame on him for the administration’s many flip flops, which they alleged created confusion and uncertainty among residents.Questions were raised over the administration’s performance in home delivery of essential commodities. UT couldn’t even spend half the central government allotted for Covid management. However, the administration’s management of the Bapu Dham Colony containment zone—the Covid epicentre last year—elicited some appreciation in a report by the World Health Organisation.During the pandemic, particularly the first wave, a trigger-happy Parida on Twitter attracted both bouquet and brickbats even from those not living in the city. His daily interactions with Twitterati became a platform for information, feedback for administration and also entertainment for some owing to his quirky responses.Bringing in NGOS for Covid managementDuring the second wave, when the city was severely struggling with beds for Covid patients, Parida’s idea of inviting NGOs for establishing mini Covid centres clicked, bringing major relief to the beleaguered city. UT’s oxygen management also got a pat on the back from Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Poor coordination with Punjab and Haryana on covid management, and public spat with PGIMER also marked his tenure during the pandemic. Till the second wave subsided, availability of ICU beds remained problematic.Parida’s colleagues, who are senior IAS officers, termed him a quick decision maker. “He never hesitated to take tough decisions during the pandemic. He also gave freedom to his officers to make decisions and backed them,” said a secretary-rank IAS officer, who worked with Parida during his deputation in the city.Uneasy relationship with BJPHis not-so-friendly relationship with the ruling political dispensation continued in Chandigarh too. “He was not accessible to the party leaders and at times didn’t even respond to their calls,” claimed a senior BJP leader, who didn’t want to be named.The BJP leaders also blamed him for the water tariff hike controversy. “We consented to a marginal tariff hike, but didn’t expect it to be done during the peak of the pandemic. He played a key role in that,” said the leader.A senior IAS officer, who also worked with Parida, gave a counterview: “He was clear from the start that water tariff hike rollback was a political decision and didn’t interfere.”Many insiders within the administration also observed an undercurrent of unease between Parida and UT administrator VP Singh Badnore, particularly, during the second Covid wave. But unlike Puducherry, the alleged tension never came out in the public here.Of rankings and achievementsParida leaves behind many unresolved issues like poor solid waste management, which kicked the City Beautiful out of the top 10 cleanest cities in the country. In the ease of doing business rankings, too, the city was stuck at the bottom. In the Sustainable Development Goal 2021 ranking, though, the city topped among the UTs during his tenure.The Tribune flyover issue remained unresolved and no progress was made on urgent public transport issues like mass road transport system and the outer ring road. The administration was also pulled up by the Punjab and Haryana high court for the “rushed” move of power privatisation. Parida said, “Controlling the pandemic was a big challenge, which I am happy that I overcame. It was an unprecedented situation, and nobody knew what to expect. Most of the smart city work had not started but took off during my tenure. We also bought 150 long-route buses for CTU. Recruitments were done. Police started an e-beat system. The financial situation of MC has improved.”Parida, who will return to Delhi after two and a half years, takes over as the chairman of the National Authority of Chemical Weapons Convention.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/paridas-legacy-as-chandigarh-adviser-a-mixed-bag-of-hits-and-misses-101624051706974.html
19-06-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh needs to involve Mohali, Panchkula to preserve heritage||From its creation to preserving its unique nature, Chandigarh, a landlocked city, is heavily dependent on its periphery, which now encompasses two fast expanding cities of Mohali and Panchkula.Last week, the Haryana government unveiled the Panchkula Metropolitan Development Authority (PMDA). Punjab already has the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA). But for the whole of the tricity, with Chandigarh at its centre—capital of both the states—there is neither an institutional mechanism for plan coordination nor a comprehensive development plan.The city, originally designed for half a million people, has a population of more than a million now, and caters to an additional million population of both Mohali and Panchkula regions.The Covid-19 pandemic acutely highlighted the interdependence of the tricity region and a need for coordinated action among the three cities.Regional plan neededThe Chandigarh Master Plan (CMP) 2031 expects a symbiotic relationship with the regional urban areas. A sensitive and coordinated development is required to safeguard the region’s natural and man-made heritage, emphasises the CMP.Environmental protection in the tricity, designated agriculture zones, preservation of heritage, integrated transportation plan of the region, decentralisation of the bulk material markets, augmentation of affordable housing, physical and social infrastructure in respective towns, effective solid waste management and disaster management for the tricity require a regional plan.Advocating for coordinated regional planning, former UT adviser Manoj Parida said, “There should be a common tricity development authority. It should have representatives from UT, Punjab, Haryana and the Union government. Secretary, urban development, can be its chairman.”A regional planning board on the lines of National Capital Region Planning Board is needed for the Chandigarh metropolitan area too, said Sumit Kaur, former UT chief architect. Plan on paper onlyIn 1975, the Chandigarh Urban Complex (CUC) was created by the ministry of urban development, incorporating Chandigarh and CUC boundary in lieu of the 8 km radius around the city.In 1984, the Chandigarh Interstate Capital Region (CISCR) was created by the Central Town and Country Planning Organisation comprising the CUC and the 16-km radius periphery control area (outside CUC) along with portions beyond the 16-km radius in Punjab and Haryana. This total area measured 2,431 square kilometres.Consequent to it, an Inter-State Chandigarh Regional Plan 2001 was prepared, which covered a 50-sq km radius. In 2016, the ministry recommended creation of an Inter-State Chandigarh Regional Plan 2051, and institutions like a tricity planning development authority.R Srinivas, town and country planner, the ministry of housing and urban affairs, said, “Urban planning is a state subject. The Union government had earlier taken initiatives for creation of an inter-state regional plan, but the two principal states, Haryana and Punjab, haven’t actively supported it. So, these have remained on paper only.”Sumit Kaur, former UT chief architect, said: “Preparation of interstate regional plan is needed to dissipate rather than concentrate development around Chandigarh. We should create more Chandigarhs and not create another Delhi here. There has to be legal backing for the plan.”The plan should be legally binding on all the constituents so that its sanctity can be maintained, added Kaur.WHAT A REGIONAL PLAN WOULD DO||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-needs-to-involve-mohali-panchkula-to-preserve-heritage-101624051649259.html
19-06-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh admn cancels Sunday lockdown||The UT administration has ended the Sunday lockdown in the wake of consistent decline in Covid-19 cases in the city. UT administrator VP Singh Badnore on Friday decided to lift the lockdown restrictions on Sunday. However, daily night curfew will remain in force from 10.30pm to 5am.Sukhna Lake will also remain off bounds for public on Sunday, except from 5am to 9am and 6pm to 8pm for morning and evening walkers. Rock Garden, cinema halls, theatres and swimming pools will continue to remain closed. Up to 30 people can attend marriages and cremations, and religious, political and social gatherings.The administration had first imposed a seven-day lockdown on May 4, ordering non-essential shops to stay closed and enforcing complete weekend curfew on Saturday and Sunday.The curbs on non-essential shops continued till May 25 when traders were allowed to resume business with restricted timings of 9am to 3pm.On May 31, salons and barber shops were allowed to open. Major relaxations came on June 8, five weeks after the lockdown was first enforced, when restaurants and bars were allowed to offer dine-in services at 50% capacity from 10am to 9pm. Previously, these were allowed to only deliver food. All shops were allowed to open from 10am to 6pm.Shopping malls, gyms, clubs and spas were also permitted to resume operations, and museums and libraries were thrown open to public. Further on June 16, all shops were allowed to remain open from 10am to 7pm and restaurants’ timings were extended till 10pm.Steep decline in casesAt the peak of the second wave in May, the city was registering more than 800 new cases per day, hitting the all-time high of 895 on May 9. After five weeks of curbs, the cases fell below the 100 mark on June 4 and are now down to less than 50 for the past four days.The business community, which had been demanding Sunday relaxations, welcomed the administration’s decision. Charanjiv Singh, president, Chandigarh Beopar Mandal, said, “Lifting of lockdown on Sundays is a step in the right direction. CBM is now hopeful of regular shopping hours in the coming week.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-admn-cancels-sunday-lockdown-101624051347977.html
19-06-2021||Chandigarh||Cops detain 45 students following scuffle amid protest at Panjab University||A protest held by various student bodies of Panjab University on Friday evening ended in a scuffle, following which the police detained 45 protesters.The protest was staged outside the vice-chancellor (VC’s) office by parties including Students for society (SFS), National Student Union of India (NSUI), Student Organisation of India (SOI), Students Organisation of Panjab University (SOPU) and Panjab University Research Scholars Association (PURSA). They were demanding that the PU authorities consider the lockdown a zero period and give all research scholars hostel accommodation. They also demanded that girls hostel four mess and canteen be reopened as the number of Covid cases in the city are going down. The scholars have been organising various protests since the beginning of June.SFS president Sandeep, who was also part of the protest, said, “Earlier, we were protesting outside the V-C’s office, with over 100 research scholars. Later, we marched towards the his residence where police had set up barricades. They thrashed us there and arrested many protesters and took them to the Sector 11 police station. Around 50 research scholars were detained.”Police officers from the Sector 11 police station privy to the matter, said, “The students were arrested while they were planning to enter the V-C’s house. Around 45 students were detained for a couple of hours before they were released. No case was registered.” Officials also denied allegations of any lathi charge by them.The varsity said in a statement, “PU authorities had advised the protesting students to have a dialogue with the officials, but instead, some of them got into a scuffle with the security and police officers and tried to break the barriers. One police officer was also injured.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cops-detain-45-students-following-scuffle-amid-protest-at-panjab-university-101624051107845.html
19-06-2021||Chandigarh||Flying Sikh together with his sweetheart again||“Meet my sweetheart wife, who is my heartbeat,” India’s legendary sprinter Milkha Singh had said while introducing Nirmal Kaur to his mentor Dr Arthur W Howard, former coach of the Indian athletics team, at the Chandigarh Golf Club in 2007. Such was Milkha’s admiration and love for Nirmal. Chandigarh will miss the evergreen couple that lost the battle to Covid-19 in a span of a week.ALSO READ: Milkha Singh (1929-2021): The giant who could flyBeing the only athlete to win gold in the 400m race in the Asian as well the Commonwealth Games in 1958, Milkha had been part of Chandigarh’s folklore since he settled in the City Beautiful in the early 1960s. The Indian track-and-field athlete, who became the first Indian man to reach the final of an Olympic athletics event when he was placed fourth in the 400m race at the 1960 Olympic Games in Rome, has inspired a whole generation of sportspersons with his stories of success, gumption, glory, dedication and discipline. His dedication towards a fit and healthy lifestyle post his retirement was phenomenal. In many ways, his death is the end of an era. Recalling the days when they started playing golf together at the Chandigarh Golf Club (CGC) greens in 1977, former CGC president and friend RS Mann, says, “I first met Milkha in 1973 and we bonded instantly. He was the director of sports in the Punjab ministry of education back then. A few years later, our interest in golf grew and we started playing together. He had so many stories to tell about the Partition, Rome Olympics and his stint in the army. Jeev grew in front of me and went on to become an international golf icon. Milkha and his wife always encouraged their son’s passion for golf and as a result Jeev turned out to be a star and has in turn inspired numerous children to take up golf.” ALSO READ: ‘India, Punjab poorer today’: Capt Amarinder Singh condoles Milkha Singh’s deathGolf aficionado“Milkha was always very competitive, be it on the athletics field, golf greens or at the table playing cards. He frequently travelled to Jammu and Kashmir, and Delhi for golf tournaments and had even played against former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Farooq Abdullah!” says Mann. “I would always be amazed to see Milkha’s charm and jovial attitude whenever he was playing golf with dignitaries, or senior politicians. His presence at the CGC, especially after the release of the movie Bhaag Milkha Bhaag, attracted many eyeballs. For 55 years, he always had one beer at lunch and two glasses of whiskey at night,” adds Mann. A through-and-through philanthrope Milkha was always also ready to extend a helping hand to the needy and set up the Milkha Singh Charitable Trust in 2003. In 1999, the Singh family adopted Manjit, the seven-year-old son of Havaldar Bikram Singh, who was killed in action during the Kargil war in the Battle of Tiger Hill. Ravinder Chaudhary, general secretary of the Chandigarh-based Athletic Federation of India, said, “Milkha jeewas a real hero. We would often invite him over for local athletic championships and he would always oblige. He would always encourage young athletes and keep asking me about needy athletes, and later help them. A great soul, he will always be remembered for his magnanimous nature.”  A woman cricketer, Mamta Kothiyal, who lived near Milkha’s house in Sector 8 until a few years ago, recalls how the legendary athlete helped her with funds ahead of a tournament. The local celebrity “I reached out to Milkha sir and Nirmal ma’am when I needed funds. They were so kind and gave me their blessings too! When Bhaag Milkha Bhaag became a hit, fans would come to see his house and would wait around to catch a glimpse of him,” she said. Former Indian test cricketer and actor Yograj Singh says he learnt a lot about Milkha’s life and achievements when he played the role of young Milkha’s coach Ranbir Singh in the biopic Bhaag Milkha Bhaag. Yograj says he spoke to his coach Ranbir, who was based in Canada, several times over the phone during his research.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/flying-sikh-together-with-his-sweetheart-again-101624051047589.html
19-06-2021||Chandigarh||Bonanza for govt staffers as Punjab cabinet okays over 2-fold salary hike||The Punjab government on Friday decided to implement a majority of the recommendations of its sixth pay commission with effect from January 1, 2016, a move that will benefit over five lakh serving and retired employees. A decision in this regard was taken in cabinet meeting chaired by chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh. According to a government spokesperson, the minimum pay for state government employees will increase from ₹6,950 to ₹18,000 per month. The arrears will be paid in two equal instalments in October 2021 and in January 2022. The disbursal of salaries and pensions under the new structure will begin from July 1. Chaired by former IAS officer Jai Singh Gill, the commission was appointed by the previous state government on February 24, 2016. It submitted its report on April 30, 2021. The state government’s decision has come months before Punjab goes to the assembly polls next year. The implementation will entail 2.59 times increase in salaries and pensions over the previous pay commission recommendations, with an annual increment rate of 3%, resulting in pay scales of all existing employees continuing to be higher than in neighbouring Haryana. The minimum pension will go up from ₹3,500 to ₹9,000 per month, and the minimum family pension would increase to ₹9,000 per month under the revised structure. Divorcees or widows will be eligible for family pension. The decision will put an additional burden of ₹8,637 crore on the exchequer with prospective additional net annual burden expected to be nearly ₹4,700 crore, the spokesperson added. The expected amount of arrears from January 1, 2016 to June 30, 2021 is nearly ₹13,800 crore. The government has also accepted restoration of the commutation of pension to 40 % with effect from July 1, 2021. Death-cum-retirement gratuity (DCRG) has been enhanced from ₹10 lakh to ₹20 lakh and the existing rates of ex-gratia have been doubled. Both the DCRG and ex-gratia have been extended to employees covered under the New Pension Scheme. House rent allowance and other benefits have been rationalised under the new structure. Special allowance to chowkidars and drivers has been doubled. A higher education allowance, in the form of a lump sum incentive to all employees who attain higher educational qualification during the course of employment and in the field directly relevant to an employee’s job, is being introduced by the government. New employees will, however, be paid as per the central government pay scales, which now apply to all new recruits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bonanza-for-govt-staffers-as-punjab-cabinet-okays-over-2-fold-salary-hike-101624050987100.html
19-06-2021||Chandigarh||Remove some advisers, officials to repair govt’s image: MP Bajwa to Capt||Rajya Sabha member Partap Singh Bajwa on Friday said chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh should remove some key advisers and officials to repair the image of the state government, denying any meeting with the CM amid the ongoing rift in the Punjab Congress. Bajwa, who has been critical of the CM’s style of functioning, said he needed to get rid of officers who were hurdles in smooth working of the government. “If these people cannot work properly, they should go on leave or quit their positions. All retired officers given important positions should be replaced with party men. The CM needs to address such irritants, including unfulfilled promises,” he said at a press conference in Chandigarh. The Rajya Sabha member said he did not have any meeting, secret or otherwise, with Amarinder as was being claimed. “He is the CM of our party. We are part of a family. If he wants to come to meet me, he will be most welcome,” he said, adding, “I have no personal enmity with him but there is a difference of opinion over the government’s functioning. I have not changed my views.” Bajwa’s denial came amid a strong buzz in Congress circles and some media reports that he and Amarinder met in Chandigarh recently and have buried the hatchet to reach an understanding as the former wants to come back to state politics. A senior party leader claimed that Bajwa was keen on contesting from the Batala assembly seat in the assembly elections next year. ‘No colonel can become general overnight’ About former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu eyeing the state unit president’s post, Bajwa said he, high command and party workers want Sidhu to get an important role but it takes time to reach top positions. “There are party loyalists who have spent 40-45 years, besides taksali (traditional) Congressmen…loyalty, seniority and capability are important. No colonel can become a general overnight. The decision has been left to the party leadership,” he said. The Rajya Sabha MP also said that when Sidhu was entering the Congress (in 2017), some senior Punjab leaders were creating hurdles. “I intervened at that time that he (Sidhu) and Pargat Singh will be assets for the party. Sidhu is a good speaker and has a good image,” he added. Bajwa also said he had told the three-member Kharge committee and the party high command that he is not in contention for the chief minister’s post or that of the state unit president.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/remove-some-advisers-officials-to-repair-govt-s-image-mp-bajwa-to-capt-101624049969556.html
19-06-2021||Chandigarh||Patti shootout: Interpol issues RCN against Canada-based fugitive gangster||The Interpol (International Criminal Police Organization) has issued a red-corner notice (RCN) against fugitive gangster Lakhbir Singh, alias Landa, who is wanted in the Patti shootout in which a Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) worker and his associate were shot dead in broad daylight on May 27. Lakhbir, a native of Harike town who faces 11 criminal cases, including three of attempt to murder, had fled to Canada in 2017. Two car-borne men had opened fire at Amandeep Singh, alias Aman Fauji, the Akali worker with a criminal past, and his aide Prabhjit Singh when they were returning after paying obeisance at a tomb in Patti. Their friend Samsher Singh, alias Shera, had received a bullet injury in his stomach. Lakhbir’s name emerged in the shootout case after the Tarn Taran police arrested truck union leader Malkit Singh, alias Laddu, an associate of Patti Congress MLA Harminder Singh Gill, for conspiring the killings. The police had said Lakhbir demanded ₹20 lakh ransom from a Patti-based person. Fauji, an acquaintance of the person from whom the ransom was sought, had refused to pay the money, they claimed. Nursing a grudge, Landa hired history sheeter Preet Sekhon for executing Fauji and his aides, they added. Lakhbir is facing cases under the Arms Act and the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act in Tarn Taran, Moga, Ferozepur and Chandigarh. “We had written to the Union government for pressing the Interpol to issue an RCN against Lakhbir, who is also involved in running drug smuggling racket in India from Canada. The Interpol on Friday issued the notice. Our teams are working to bring him back to Punjab soon,” said Tarn Taran senior superintendent of police (SSP) Dhruman H Nimbale. The police have also identified one Happy Makhu, a gangster based abroad, in the Patti shootout case, who allegedly provided shelter to shooter Preet Sekhon after the latter executed the crime. “Happy is presently living in Greece. He is facing at least seven criminal cases in Punjab. We have also begun the process to extradite Happy,” said a senior police official. Sekhon had claimed responsibility for the Patti killings on his purported Facebook page. He was also accused of shooting a bouncer dead in Amritsar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/patti-shootout-interpol-issues-rcn-against-canada-based-fugitive-gangster-101624049968698.html
19-06-2021||Chandigarh||SGPC to conduct videography of relics, valuables at Golden Temple treasury||The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) on Friday said it will conduct videography and photography of historic relics and valuables at the treasury (toshakhana) of the Golden Temple to preserve these items. After an executive committee meeting, SGPC president Jagir Kaur said, “The historic relics and valuables preserved in the toshakhana will be documented and preserved by conducting videography and photography. Also, the toshakhana will be renovated and equipped with modern technology.” “A store of generic medicines will be opened for the needy and the poor at subsidised rates.”For now, the store will be opened at Sri Darbar Sahib (Golden Temple) and later at Takhts and other gurdwaras. Laboratories will also be set up,” she added. It was also decided to file a lawsuit against SS Kohli Associates, the chartered accountant (CA) firm handling SGPC accounts till last year, for “causing a great loss to the gurdwara body”. “We will start the process to get its licence cancelled. Also, SGPC employees in responsible positions holding the same post for more than 2 years will be transferred for better functioning,” Kaur said. “We will write to the ministry of home affairs again so that 35 gurdwaras listed under Section 87 can be maintained directly by the SGPC,” she said. Kaur informed that hotel management training will be provided to the staff deputed at the serais (inns) of the Golden Temple and other gurdwaras. A free vaccine camp will be started at Takht Kesgarh Sahib in Anandpur Sahib on June 19, she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sgpc-to-conduct-videography-of-relics-valuables-at-golden-temple-treasury-101624049967062.html
19-06-2021||Chandigarh||Drug, illegal weapon racket run from jail busted; student held with 1-kg heroin, arms||With the arrest of an alleged drug peddler, a college student, in the Adampur area of Jalandhar district, police claimed to have busted a drug and illegal weapon racket being run from the Nabha and Faridkot jails. Four pistols, ammunition, 1-kg heroin and a car were recovered from the arrested accused, identified as Lachhman Singh (22), a resident of Sangrur district, the police said. Jalandhar senior superintendent of police (SSP, rural) Naveen Singla said Lachhman, a second-year undergraduate student at a college in Samana, was running the racket at the behest of two criminals who are lodged in the two jails. “We got information that Karamjit Singh of Patiala and Manpreet Singh of Tarn Taran district, who are lodged in the Nabha and Faridkot jails, were into drug and illegal weapon trade. The jailed duo used internet calls to strike deals for supply of drugs and weapons across the state. On Friday, they sent Lachhman to Amritsar to collect heroin and weapons,” added Singla. The two will brought from jail on production warrants to probe their links with the drug network, a police official said. A case was registered against the accused under relevant sections of the narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act at the Adampur police station. 2 wanted in 4-kg heroin case held from DehradunThe Jalandhar police arrested two accused, including a proclaimed offender, wanted in a 4-kg heroin seizure case registered in December last year at the Lohian police station. The accused are Gursewak Singh of Patiala and Satbir Singh of Kapurthala district. Gursewak was running a drug racket at the behest of gangster Palwinder Singh who is lodged in jail. A pistol was recovered from Satbir who was bearing Gursewak’s living expense in Dehradun, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/drug-illegal-weapon-racket-run-from-jail-busted-student-held-with-1-kg-heroin-arms-101624049909918.html
19-06-2021||Chandigarh||Plans afoot to restore Sikh general Hari Singh Nalwa’s haveli in Pakistan||The Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (PSGPC) and Evacuee Trust Property Board (ETPB) have planned to restore the Sikh General Hari Singh Nalwa’s haveli (mansion) located at Katasraj in Chakwal district of Pakistan’s Punjab province.PSGPC chief Satwant Singh said, “We have decided to restore the historic structure to pay tribute to one of the great military commanders of Maharaja Ranjit Singh. The restoration work will be carried out by PSGPC and ETPB jointly.” Nalwa was the commander-in-chief of the Sikh Khalsa Fauj, the army of the Sikh Empire. He is known for his role in the conquests of Kasur, Sialkot, Attock, Multan, Kashmir, Peshawar and Jamrud. The fortified haveli was built by him in the 1800s and overlooks the holy Hindu ponds believed to be Shiva’s tears. The haveli is built at the place which is a prominent Hindu shrine, with a typical military design, including kill holes.Notably, a jatha of Hindu pilgrims visits the Hindu shrine twice a year as per the India-Pakistan bilateral pact. With cooperation of US Sikh body Ranjit Nagara, historic Sikh shrine Gurdwara Choa Sahib is under restoration. Built in 1834 under the command of Maharaja Ranjit Singh, the gurdwara was lying closed since the Partition. Located on the northern edge of Rohtas Fort — a UNESCO world heritage site — near Jhelum, it fell prey to neglect. The gurdwara commemorates the site where Guru Nanak is believed to have created a water spring during one of his (udasi) journeys. However, the PSGPC and ETPB are silent over Gurdwara Nanaksar Sahib associated with Sikhism’s founder Guru Nanak and situated in Chakk Fateh Bhinder village in Daska tehsil of Sialkot district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/plans-afoot-to-restore-sikh-general-hari-singh-nalwa-s-haveli-in-pakistan-101624049908920.html
19-06-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab govt announces ₹2.25-crore prize for Olympics gold winner||In order to boost morale of the athletes participating in the Tokyo Olympics, the Punjab government has announced a big cash prize for prospective medal winners from the state at the mega event starting July 23. Addressing the state athletes who have qualified for the 2020 Summer Games, Punjab sports minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi announced that the government would hand over ₹2.25 crore to gold medal winners, ₹1.5 crore to silver medal winners and ₹1 crore to bronze medal winners. The Punjab government has also given ₹5 lakh to state athletes to give them a push in the lead up to the games. As many as 26 athletes from Punjab are going to take part in the Tokyo Olympics. Those who attended the conference included discus thrower Kamalpreet Kaur, boxer Simranjit Kaur, Tejinderpal Singh Toor from shot-put, and hockey players Gurjeet Kaur, Rupinder Pal Singh, and Harmanpreet Singh among others. Parents of some athletes also took part in the conference. “I want to wish all of you good luck for the games and hope that you return with medals,” Sodhi said during the virtual conference on Friday. “We have already deposited ₹5 lakh in your accounts as a little encouragement,” he added. Among those who got ₹5 lakh were Indian men’s hockey captain Manpreet Singh, ace shooters Anjum Moudgil and Angad Vir Singh Bajwa, boxer Simranjit Kaur, discus thrower Kamalpreet Kaur along with para-shuttler Palak Kohli. In total, 20 hockey players, including men and women from Punjab, will be seen in action in Tokyo.Hardeep appointed as karate coachSodhi also handed over the appointment letter to 23-year-old Hardeep Kaur as karate coach. She is a former international karate player from Mansa and had been struggling to make ends meet. She was promised a government job two years ago. But she could not complete her documentation owing to the ongoing pandemic, so her appointment was delayed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-govt-announces-2-25-crore-prize-for-olympics-gold-winner-101624049907895.html
19-06-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers protest: High court forms panel to resolve deadlock||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Friday constituted a committee on the plea of an Adani group subsidiary seeking removal of blockade by farmers protesting against three farm laws outside its Ferozepur warehouse.The high court bench of Justice Manjari Nehru Kaul acted on the plea of Adani Wilmar Limited that had approached the court on April 27.The committee comprises principal secretary, home, Punjab; additional director general of police, law and order, Punjab; Ferozepur deputy commissioner and Ferozepur senior superintendent of police to resolve the deadlock, said lawyer Abhinav Sood.The court acknowledged the efforts made by the Punjab government, but added that all parties will have to think out of the box and act expeditiously to prevent further loss/wastage of about 8,000 MT of foodgrains stored at the facility, which the court said “a country like India can ill afford.”The firm has sought free movement of foodgrains to and from its facility at Ferozepur. Meanwhile, in another development, a coordinate bench of Justice AG Masih gave Punjab a week’s time to respond to a plea against blockade by farmers at another subsidiary’s warehouse at Ludhiana. This plea has been filed by Adani Logistics against the farm protesters holding up its stocks. The bench, while fixing the hearing for June 28, observed that the matter is getting delayed, which is resulting in loss of revenue, both to the firm as well as the public exchequer. It gave last opportunity to the government to file its reply within one week asserting that no further time would be granted.The firm had approached the court in March saying that the farmers have been sitting on a dharna in front of its inland container depot in Ludhiana, thus rendering it non-operational since January 1. While its competitors are doing business as usual, the petitioner’s facilities are locked up for months, the plea said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmers-protest-high-court-forms-panel-to-resolve-deadlock-101624049906860.html
19-06-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers barge into Bathinda admn complex against land acquisition||Scores of villagers led by farmer unions barged in the conference hall of the Bathinda deputy commissioner’s office on Friday to lodge their protest against the upcoming process of land acquisition for national highways. Officials of the district administration and Punjab Pollution Control Board had called the Friday’s meeting with villagers to discuss the environmental impact of the proposed strengthening of the Amritsar-Jamnagar and Ludhiana-Jamnagar highways. Bathinda tehsildar Sukhbir Brar said the meeting was postponed after the villagers obstructed the proceedings. Union leaders said the Punjab government intends to acquire land for central government projects by offering a meagre amount to landowners.As the first meeting was underway at district administrative complex, a large number of protesting villagers gathered outside the secretariat. A heavy deployment of police personnel could not bar the farmers from entering the secretariat.Farmers alleged that the district administration had called only selected persons to expedite acquisition whereas the genuine landowners were not allowed to join the meeting. Leader of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ekta Dakaunda) Buta Singh Tungwali blamed the administration for using “tactics to suppress the voice of aggrieved farmers”. Another leader Malkeet Singh said the government wanted to acquire land at the rate of ₹30 lakh per acre whereas the market rate of the land was between ₹70 and ₹80 lakh. “We will oppose any move to acquire lands. Farmers demand due compensation in lieu of their land which is their only source of living. The government should invite farm leaders for discussion before proceeding for acquisition,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmers-barge-into-bathinda-admn-complex-against-land-acquisition-101624049846820.html
19-06-2021||Chandigarh||Lockdown-hit Ludhiana hosiery industry looks at revival with easing of restrictions||Reeling under losses for the second consecutive year, Ludhiana’s hosiery and textile industry comprising nearly 14,000 small and medium units is now hoping for revival with easing of Covid-19 restrictions in Punjab and other parts of the country. The pandemic-induced lockdown over the last one-and-a-half month spelt losses for the sector as there was no demand from distributors and fresh orders were hardly placed. The manufactures say there are strong chances of a recovery as shops have been allowed extended timings. “The summer cycle for the hosiery industry starts in February-end and goes on till September. Already three months have elapsed and we are facing up to 20-30% losses. We are now hopeful that the remaining three months will be good,” said Sudershan Jain, president, Knitwear and Apparel Manufacturers Association of Ludhiana. As the majority of apparel manufacturing units in Ludhiana fall in the unorganised sector that relies on cash and credit, smaller players were impacted most by the lockdowns. This, coupled with the shortage of labour in the last month as migrants in large numbers went to their native places dealt a severe blow to the industry. However, the majority of the workers have now returned to the city, said Jain. “Our main distribution market in Delhi was closed and reopened only this week on odd-even basis. With this market closed for over a month, there were no buyers from other parts of the country to whom we catered to. Nearly 90% of our stock has piled up,” said Tarun Jain Bawa, president, Bahadur Ke Textiles and Knitwear Association. Ajay Nayyar, owner of Silver Arc Mall in the city, said as timings were extended till 8pm, the number of customers thronging the garment stores will increase. “More than 80% visiting the malls now want to buy something. In pre-Covid times, this percentage was less as many indulged in window shopping. We appeal to the government to allow us to open on Sundays as well,” he said. Amit Thapar, vice chairman of the Punjab chapter of the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), and president of Ganga Acrowools, said the sector suffered losses to the tune of 30% due to the lockdown. “But now we are on the path of recovery,” he added. Even as overall sales were down, there was a consistent demand for casual wear as most people stayed home. “We sold pajamas in large volumes during the lockdown,” said Vinod Thapar, chairman, Knitwear Club.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/lockdownhit-ludhiana-hosiery-industry-looks-at-revival-with-easing-of-restrictions-101624049728680.html
19-06-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Police bust fake remdesivir manufacturing racket||Rupnagar police on Friday busted a multi-crore interstate fake remdesivir manufacturing racket with the arrest of six persons, including the kingpin who also used to sell the replicas of the life-saving anti-viral drug used to treat critical Covid patients on the black market. The police have recovered designs and packaging material used for making these vials besides ₹2 crore and four cars bearing registration numbers of Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab and Chandigarh from the possession of accused. Those arrested are Mohammad Shahwar of Muzaffarnagar in Uttar Pradesh, Arshad Khan of UP’s Baghpat, Mohammad Arshad of Saharanpur, Pradeep Saroha of Haryana’s Kurukshetra, Shah Nazar and Shah Alam, both from Mohali. Punjab DGP Dinkar Gupta said Shahwar had 10 months ago taken a property in Maloya village on lease on the pretext of stocking medicines. Following the recovery of vials in Bhakra canal last month, the SIT constituted to investigate the case traced the marketing address written on the recovered vials to Nautwins Pharmaceuticals in Maloya, whose owner was quizzed. He led the police to the unravel the entire conspiracy and identify the accused, the DGP added. The owner also disclosed that various police teams from Delhi, Panipat, and Ambala had also raided the premises to know the whereabouts of the accused. Samples sent to Kolkata for forensic examInvestigations are on to ascertain their area of operations in other states and samples from recovered vials have been sent to the Kolkata central drugs laboratory for forensic examination, the DGP said. After nominating the name of Shahwar and his aide Shah Nazar, who was the main supplier of these fake injections, the Rupnagar police conducted raids at Kala Amb, the main office and house of Shahwar, to get further leads. In the meantime, Shahwar visited Goa, Bengaluru, UP, Delhi and various other locations to evade arrest, Gupta said. An SIT headed by SP (headquarters) Ankur Gupta was formed after 3,000 vials, including 621 of remdesivir and 1,456 of cefoperazone, were recovered from Bhakra canal on May 6. An FIR was registered under relevant provisions of the IPC, the Trademark Act, the Essential Commodities Act, the Epidemic Diseases Act, and the Drugs and Cosmetic Act at Chamkaur Sahib police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-police-bust-fake-remdesivir-manufacturing-racket-101624049726964.html
19-06-2021||Chandigarh||Unidentified body stuffed in sack fished out of Buddha Nullah||The body of an unidentified man, which had been stuffed in a sack, was fished out of the Buddha Nullah — a seasonal stream that passes through Ludhiana and drains into the Sutlej River — on Friday morning. Residents of Upkar Nagar spotted the body and informed the Haibowal police. Assistant commissioner of police (ACP, west) Gurpreet Singh said the victim appeared to be in his mid-40s. It is suspected that the man was strangulated to death. “Decomposition suggests the man was murdered at least three days ago,” Singh said. The body has been sent to the civil hospital. Police will wait for 72 hours for identification of the corpse. Cops are combing through missing person complaints lodged within the last week and have made announcements in the public to ascertain the identity of the victim. The victim was wearing an olive coloured t-shirt with the slogan ‘Say no to drugs’ printed on it. A murder case has been registered against unidentified persons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/unidentified-body-stuffed-in-sack-fished-out-of-buddha-nullah-101624049606809.html
19-06-2021||Chandigarh||Covid claims 3 lives, infects 67 others in Ludhiana||Three persons died and 67 others tested positive for Covid-19 in the last 24 hours in Ludhiana, health officials said on Friday. The deceased include two men, aged 68 and 62, of Basant Nagar and Macchiwara respectively. The third casualty is an 86-year-old woman of Model Town extension. The district has so far recorded 86,558 Covid cases, of which 2, 074 persons succumbed. There are 854 active patients in the district at present.4 new black fungus cases detected Four fresh cases of mucormycosis (black fungus) were reported in the district, while no casualties were reported due to the fungal infection. So far, 134 black fungus cases have been diagnosed across the district, of which 19 patients have succumbed to the disease. At present, there are 52 active cases in the district.Of the confirmed cases, 75 infections and nine deaths have been reported among locals, while other patients were residents of other districts or states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-claims-3-lives-infects-67-others-in-ludhiana-101624049366740.html
19-06-2021||Chandigarh||Kin of 23-year-old who ended life block traffic in Machhiwara||Relatives of the 23-year-old man who had ended his life after allegedly being harassed by an inspector, woman constable and two others on June 3, blocked traffic on the Khanna-Nawanshahr highway in Machhiwara for three hours on Friday, seeking arrest of the accused. Around 150 protesters blocked the road and raised slogans against the police. The victim’s kin have threatened to block the national highway outside the office of the Khanna senior superintendent of police unless the accused were brought to book. They only left after the police assured them that the accused will be arrested. The victim’s mother said that a fortnight had passed but the police were yet to arrest the accused — Khanna police control room in-charge inspector Davinder Singh, her daughter-in-law, a constable at same control room, and two of her relatives. The victim’s mother said her elder son, a constable himself, had married the accused on October 27, 2020. However, her daughter-in-law had developed an illicit relationship with inspector Davinder Singh.On June 3, the accused had humiliated her, and both her sons, after which her son had jumped into the canal. They had learnt of the incident after his motorcycle wad found parked near Garhi Canal Bridge. His body was fished out of the canal on June 5, following which a complaint was lodged against the accused.Machhiwara station house officer inspector Rajesh Thakursaid that a case under Sections 306 (abetment to suicide), and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal code had been lodged against the accused. “The police are conducting raids to arrest the accused and they will be caught soon,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kin-of-23-year-old-who-ended-life-block-traffic-in-machhiwara-101624048948476.html
19-06-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: A Sufi shrine made of daylight||Daylight’s so common—it is everywhere. One ends up taking it for granted. And in Delhi’s dreadful summer, daylight can be downright hostile.But there’s one place in the city where this ubiquitous element can be experienced as art. Here, the light scatters into an array of designs and moods.Come anytime in the day to Hazrat Chirag Delhi, the Sufi shrine in the south Delhi village of that name. This is a sprawling courtyard, dotted with domed chambers, scores of graves and a handful of gigantic trees. All of these individually are as calm as self-contained refuges, but what unites them harmoniously is the way they engage with daylight.This afternoon, the light is streaming in through the lattice screen inside the small chamber of Hazrat Khwaja Kamaluddin Allama, one of the saints buried in the compound. It falls on the facing wall into many little bricks of light. In the middle of the wall stands a golden-yellow column, painted with red flowers and green leaves. This man-made attempt to beauty lends something ethereal to the nature’s daylight patterns, which in comparison, look more intricate, more effortless and much lighter. They actually seem to replace the concrete of the wall with some intangible airy-seeming substance. One wonders at the possibility of the chamber being lifted upwards by this incredible feeling of lightness, and flying forward like the scores of aeroplanes crisscrossing the sky above the dargah’s dome every 5 minutes.This is merely one wondrous spot in the shrine. The daylight is embroidering its patterns in so many other places—in each it weaves something distinct, powerfully poetic. Like in the dozens of graves littered across the floor, littered with dry leaves and rose petals. The daylight succeeds in pirouetting its way around them and over them, turning the wrinkled ground into a tapestry of shades and shines.As one walks about purposelessly—the compound mostly remains empty—the impression is of wading through some luminous fourth dimension, linked to this world and yet not of it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-a-sufi-shrine-made-of-daylight-101624048659594.html
19-06-2021||Chandigarh||Burglary in minister Ashu’s cousin’s house: Police round up suspects||A day after a gang of burglars struck at the house of Narinder Kumar Kala, the cousin of Punjab food, civil supplies and consumer affairs minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu, and fled with cash, gold and other valuables after sedating the family members, police rounded up some migrant workers from nearby ‘vehra’ dwellings and questioned them on Friday. In his complaint, Kala said burglars had stolen ₹4 lakh and 150g of jewellery from his house, besides other valuables. The burglars had also stolen the cash in the pockets of Kala and his son. However, their licenced weapon was not taken as the thieves could not find it. There are no closed-circuit television (CCTV) cameras in the house but the footage from cameras in the neighbourhood showed some persons scaling the wall to enter and exit the house from an adjoining vacant plot. Cops said it was a well-planned operation as they knew the number of family members in the household and their rooms. Kala lives with his wife, son and daughter-in-law in the house. They have employed a domestic help as well. Police are looking into the possible role of the domestic help.Division number 8 station house officer Rajinderpal Singh said a case had been registered under Sections 457 (house-trespass) and 380 (theft) of the Indian Penal Code against unidentified persons. The incident brought major embarrassment to the police as the house is merely 50 metres away from the office of the Ludhiana police commissioner and cops are under tremendous pressure to solve it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/burglary-in-minister-ashu-s-cousin-s-house-police-round-up-suspects-101624048526898.html
19-06-2021||Chandigarh||Three held for drug peddling in 2 separate cases in Ludhiana||The Special Task Force (STF) arrested three men in two separate cases of drug peddling on Thursday night and recovered 2.058-kg heroin and ₹7.5 lakh in drug money from them.Two men from Hoshiarpur was arrested with 1.98-kg heroin, ₹7.5 lakh and an electronic weighing machine. The accused have been identified as Daljit Singh Bantu, 30, and Gurpeeet Singh Rinku, 24. Inspector Harbans Singh, in-charge at Ludhiana unit of STF, said the duo was arrested near the Hoshiarpur Bypass in Phagwara. He added that they are both drug addicts and Daljit is already a proclaimed offender in a case of assault. In another case, the STF arrested Ravi Vij, 30, of Kailash Nagar Road, with 78 gram heroin near Guru Vihar of Rahon Road. He is also facing trial in two cases of rape. The inspector said that Ravi confessed that he is a drug addict and indulged in peddling to fund his addiction. Drugs case have been registered in both incidents. He added that they are questioning the accused to find out from where they use to procure heroin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/three-held-for-drug-peddling-in-2-separate-cases-in-ludhiana-101624048169242.html
19-06-2021||Chandigarh||IMA Ludhiana demands central law to protect doctors against violence||As part of the nationwide stir against rising incidents of violence against doctors, members of the Ludhiana unit of Indian Medical Association (IMA) protested at IMA House in BRS Nagar on Friday.Wearing black badges and holding placards, the members demanded enactment of the Central Hospital and Health Care Professional Protection Act with provisions under Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC).Stating that the Union government has failed to work for the safety of doctors, they stated that there has been constant rise in incidents of violence against the doctors and hospitals have been vandalised. Due to this, the youth is stepping away from the profession and seats at medical colleges are lying vacant.President of IMA Ludhiana, Dr Saroj Aggarwal, stated that there should be zero tolerance towards incidents of violence against the doctors .Former state president of IMA and member of Punjab medical council, Dr Manoj K Sobti, said that apart from enacting central law for safety of doctors, hospitals should also be declared as protected zones. Further, assault cases should be heard in fast-track courts.The members stated that an Act is applicable in Punjab since 2007, under which violence against health workers and damage to property is a non-bailable offence, but that is also not being implemented in letter and spirit.Secretary of IMA Ludhiana, Dr Ashish Ohri, said that the protest will continue and be intensified in a phased manner across the country till the central law is passed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ima-ludhiana-demands-central-law-to-protect-doctors-against-violence-101624048167421.html
19-06-2021||Chandigarh||Post-matric SC Scholarship row: Raghav Chadha terms Punjab govt anti-Dalit||Terming the Congress-led state government “anti-Dalit”, Delhi MLA and Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) Punjab unit co-incharge Raghav Chadha slammed chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh and cabinet minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot on Friday, over the alleged multi-crore post-matric SC scholarship scam .Chadha was in the city to support the six AAP leaders who have been sitting on hunger strike at Jalandhar Bypass Chowk seeking Dharamsot’s resignation, including deputy leader of opposition in Vidhan Sabha, Sarvjit Kaur Manuke and senior leader Manwinder Singh Giaspura. Chadha said that Congress leaders are fighting with each other over the seat of the CM, while the future of over 2 lakh SC and backward class students has been jeopardised due to the scam. Colleges are not releasing their roll number, as the government has failed to release the scholarship amount.Chadha added that a case should be registered against Punjab finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal and minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot under the SC/ST Act, as they are responsible for the scam. He said that Congress government has released some amount to the private colleges after AAP raised the issue, but the students will not be able to sit for their exams till the balance of ₹1,539 crore is released. “The Captain government, during his tenure, has not only embezzled scholarship money but also crores of rupees in the procurement of vaccines and Fateh kits,” said Chadda, while adding that the AAP willcontinue the agitationtill the roll numbers of Scheduled Caste students are not released.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/postmatric-sc-scholarship-row-raghav-chadha-terms-punjab-govt-antidalit-101624048050330.html
19-06-2021||Chandigarh||BJP slams Ludhiana MC officials for serving ‘absurd’ illegal-construction notices||Slamming civic body officials for serving thousands of ‘absurd’ illegal-construction notices on the basis of new power connections availed by home owners, the local unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party submitted a memorandum with the municipal town planner at the Zone D office on Friday. The BJP leaders, led by party state vice-president Praveen Bansal and former councillor Inder Aggarwal, alleged that around 16,000 notices had been served across the district, without verifying whether any actual illegal construction had taken place. “Notices are also being served to those who have gotten a sub-meter installed at their house or have gotten their power load extended,” they said. Criticising mayor Balkar Sandhu, Bansal said the civic body’s single-minded attempts to fill their coffers was causing harassment to the common man, who was forced to make multiple visits to the MC office to get the confusion straightened out. “This is also encouraging corruption as some municipal corporation officials are promising to settle the matter in exchange of a bribe,” he alleged. “The notices are being served on the assumption that if a person has applied for new power connection, he must have carried out some reconstruction. This will not fly. We will also take up the matter with the mayor once he returns from Chennai. If need be, our party will raise an agitation,” Bansal said. A local, Jatinder Kumar, who had accompanied Bansal, said, “Earlier, we used to live in a joint family. After we separated our households, my brother got a separate electricity meter installed in his portion of the house. Subsequently, the civic body served us a notice saying that we had made changes in the building as well, which is untrue.” An MC official, requesting anonymity, said additional commissioner Rishipal Singh had initiated an inquiry into illegal construction in the district by comparing the approved building plans with the power connections availed by residents over the last few years. During the inquiry, 16,000 extra connections were found, following which the building branch was directed to serve notices to building owners. Municipal town planner Surinder Bindra said, “The notices were served on the directions of higher authorities so as to keep a tab on illegal construction. Since we have been apprised of the issues being faced by residents, I will take up the matter with the higher officials and further action will be taken as per their directions.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bjp-slams-ludhiana-mc-officials-for-serving-absurd-illegal-construction-notices-101624047927143.html
19-06-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Punjab’s recovery rate rises to 95.8%||Punjab on Friday recorded 626 fresh Covid-19 cases that took its tally to 5,91,168, while 35 more fatalities pushed the death toll to 15,771, according to a medical bulletin.As many as 1,229 more patients were discharged from hospitals, which took the number of cured people to 5,66,568, it added.With this, the recovery rate has risen to 95.8%. It had plunged to 80% during the peak of second wave in the second week of May.On Friday, Jalandhar reported 70 fresh cases, followed by 67 in Ludhiana and 63 in Bathinda, the bulletin said. The latest fatalities were reported from Amritsar, Bathinda, Faridkot, Ferozepur, Fatehgarh Sahib, Hoshiarpur and Ludhiana, it said.The number of active Covid-19 cases in Punjab dropped to 8,829 from 9,479 on Thursday. There are 170 critical patients who are on ventilator support, 460 critical patients and 2,062 others are on oxygen support, the bulletin said. So far, 1,03,01,323 samples have been collected for testing in the state, and positivity rate stands at 1.12%||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid19punjabs-recovery-rate-rises-to-958-101624044566555.html
19-06-2021||Chandigarh||4,500 sanitation workers, sewermen to get regular jobs in Punjab||The Punjab government will regularise all safai karamcharis (sanitation workers) and sewermen, who are working on contract with various municipalities in the state. This was decided by the state cabinet during a virtual meeting chaired by chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Friday.The cabinet also directed the department of personnel to expedite the proposal to enact a new legislation to regularise these contractual employees of urban local bodies. According to local bodies minister Brahm Mohindra, the decision will benefit around 4,500 employees.The cabinet also decided to allow hiring, on contract, of more such karamcharis and sewermen, as may be required by the municipalities, thus relaxing its earlier decision of March 18, 2017. Due process should be followed and preference should be given to those with relevant experience in such hirings, the cabinet decided. However, the cabinet, after careful consideration, noted that employees provided by the service providers/ contractors through outsourcing arrangement cannot be regularised or hired by the government even through direct contract. It observed that such employees cannot be taken on the pay rolls of the government, in view of the existing law as laid down by the apex court and other rules. “The government will sympathetically look into the demands of another 15,000 safai karamcharis and sewermen who are working with the contractors as we have full sympathy with them,” said the minister. SC scholarship: 40% dues in 3 instalments this fiscalThe cabinet also gave its nod to clearing 40% of the ₹200 crore arrears owed to private educational institutes against the post-matric scholarship scheme for scheduled caste students for the 2017-20 period. The state government had already made the announcement last week, after which the Joint Association of Colleges decided to issue roll numbers to nearly two lakh SC students in the state.While approving the report submitted by the group of ministers (GoM) constituted for the purpose, the cabinet decided that the government will give these arrears to the private institutions in three equal quarterly instalments during the 2021-22 financial year. It also decided that the CM will take up the issue of the balance 60% pending arrears with the Prime Minister. The scheme is being implemented through central assistance, but no funds have been released against the demand for the years 2017-18 to 2019-20, said an official spokesperson. Keeping in view the hardships faced by SC students, the GoM was constituted on January 14 to examine and resolve this issue. It comprised finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal, social justice, empowerment and minorities minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot; higher education minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa and technical education minister Charanjit Singh Channi.The GoM had also recommended that private educational institutions would not retain the roll numbers, certificates and degrees of SC students, would make no claims nor approach court against the Punjab government for claiming pending fees for the session 2017-18 to 2019-2020, and will withdraw cases pending in court in this matter. Further, it said in its report that if 60% amount is not received from the Government of India, then the educational institutions could not claim it from the Punjab government. Other key decisionsIn view of Covid, specialist doctors of medicine, anaesthesia, and TB and Chest allowed to continue their service after superannuation till March 31, 2022 on clinical posts. Amendment to mines and minerals Act and IPC for stricter penalty on setting up nakas to collect illegal royalty. Creation of 798 posts of civilian support staff (specialised) in the Punjab Bureau of Investigation, by abolishing 915 posts of constable to avoid any additional financial implication. Request for USD 210 million loan from World Bank/Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank for canal-based water supply project in Amritsar and Ludhiana.Regularisation of standalone buildings constructed outside municipal limits without the approval of housing and urban development department but with strict adherence to building bylaws.Easing of rules for mini bus operators in renewing their permits due to upgrading of link roads.Comprehensive policy for compensatory afforestation in projects affecting forest area up to one hectare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/4500-sanitation-workers-sewermen-to-get-regular-jobs-in-punjab-101624044447761.html
19-06-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab: Resident doctors demand fee waiver, hike in stipend||Resident doctors working in government medical colleges across Punjab have written to chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh demanding annual fee waiver and increase in their monthly stipend. The doctors claimed that despite paying the highest fee in the country, they are being paid the lowest monthly stipend as compared to medical colleges in other states.“Postgraduate doctors are paying nearly ₹2 lakh annually to government colleges,” the Resident Doctors Association said in the letter, adding that while junior residents receive a monthly stipend of ₹49,000, senior residents get ₹55,000. In comparison, the association claimed, the annual fee for junior doctors at the PGIMER, Chandigarh, and other institutes in Delhi and Haryana is between ₹10,000 and ₹60,000, while they get monthly stipend of ₹80,000-1 lakh.The doctors said they are the ones managing the Covid wards and handling the major workload in government colleges during the pandemic. “We are cooperating with the college and hospital administrations at every step, and in return, we except government to waive our annual fee besides bringing parity in monthly stipend,” said association general secretary Dr Prabsimran Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjabresident-doctors-demand-fee-waiver-hike-in-stipend-101624044446481.html
19-06-2021||Chandigarh||Policy to make Haryana data centre hub to be ready by July: Dushyant||Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala on Friday announced that setting up “data centre hub” is going to be yet another concrete initiative of the state government to attract investment and generate employment in state.The deputy CM, who also holds the portfolio of industries and commerce department, said the “data centre policy” will be ready by July.After holding a meeting with representatives of big companies through video conferencing for formation of data centre policy and seeking their suggestions, Chautala said the state government has been continuously creating new opportunities to increase investment and employment in state.He said another concrete initiative of the state government is to create a data centre hub for which development of a plan has been started.He added that the state government will soon come out with a new data centre policy to attract foreign companies to open data centres in state.Chautala said data centre is a new area in the industries having potential to provide new opportunities for investment and generate employment.He said that with the formation of new data centre policy data centres in Haryana cities including Faridabad and cyber city Gurugram will get a boost, and data centres in metro cities will be attracted to shift to Haryana.“Many foreign companies want to set up their data centres in India and Haryana government wants to develop the state as a hub of big data centres in country,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/policy-to-make-haryana-data-centre-hub-to-be-ready-by-july-dushyant-101624043786592.html
19-06-2021||Chandigarh||3 held, over 1 quintal doda post seized in Karnal||The Haryana Police on Friday foiled an attempt to push drugs into the state from Jharkhand and seized 1.28 quintal doda post and over 7.5kg opium concealed in a truck under rice bags in Karnal.The accused have been identified as Rajat, Kuldeep Singh and Gurmeet.Primary probe revealed that the accused had brought rice bags from Ranchi in their truck and had to unload the bags in Ambala.Taking advantage of this, they bought opium and doda post from Ranchi at cheap rates and hid them in the middle of the rice bags.The accused were to supply this consignment to different places in Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh at exorbitant prices, police said.Acting on information about smuggling of narcotics in a truck coming from Uttar Pradesh side, a police team intercepted the vehicle from Meerut road in Karnal.“During search, the police team found eight bags of doda post (1.28 quintal) and 7.5kg opium in a plastic bag hidden behind rice bags,” police said.A case was registered against the accused under the NDPS Act and further probe is on to find out the chain of drug peddling, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/3-held-over-1-quintal-doda-post-seized-in-karnal-101624043668139.html
19-06-2021||Other||Haryana sports minister faces farmers’ ire in Yamunanagar||Haryana sports minister Sandeep Singh, who was in Yamunanagar to chair a meeting of the Public Grievances Cell at the DC office, faced black flags from the protesting farmers on Friday.Farmers and activists of different unions, under the banner of Sanyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), had already announced to oppose his presence as part of their resistance against the ruling BJP-JJP leaders to push for repealing Centre’s three farm laws.Heavy police force was deployed inside and outside the mini-secretariat as farmers started gathering at the grain market opposite to it.The agitating farmers also tried to break the barricades and move in but the situation was averted after talks with farm leaders.BKU (Charuni) district director Mandeep Chappar said the farmers will oppose BJP-JJP leaders till the three farm laws are repealed.He alleged that mayor Madan Chauhan tried to run over them, while he was being blocked from entering the office.However, no official complaint has been filed till the writing of this report.Meanwhile, the minister was shown black flags as he left the secretariat after the meeting.At the meeting, 16 grievances were kept forward by residents, of which 11 were resolved on the spot and five were kept pending till the next meeting.DUSHYANT FACES FARMERS’ PROTESTROHTAK Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala on Friday faced farmers’ protest outside Hisar airport site.Chautala had come to Hisar to pay condolences to his grandmother Kanta Devi in Sector 13, Hisar. A heavy police security was put in place to avert the situation.Later, the farmers decided not to protest outside his grandmother’s house.Farm leader Shamsher Singh Nambardar said they protested Chautala’s visit as he had accused them of doing politics in the name of farm agitation against Centre’s three farm laws.Police remained on toes to control the law and order situation. Chautala also held a meeting of district officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/haryana-sports-minister-faces-farmers-ire-in-yamunanagar-101624043666434.html
19-06-2021||Other||BSEH faces criticism over Class 10 results||The Board of School Education Haryana (BSEH) is facing criticism from various stakeholders after at least 15% (46,950) of around 3.13 lakh Class 10 students scored a perfect 500/500 in the evaluation of this year’s board results, “making a mockery of the education system”.In 2020, Rishita, a student of Tagore Senior Secondary School in Hisar’s Narnaund had topped the Class 10 exams with a perfect 500/500 score. She was the only student among 3.37 lakh students who appeared in the exams to score 100%. The pass percentage in Class 10 results was at 64.59%.In 2019, four students - Himanshu from Jhajjar, Isha from Kaithal, Sanju from Panipat, and Shalini from Jind – had topped the BSEH exam by scoring 497 out of 500. The pass percentage was recorded at 57.39%. Total 3.85 lakh students from the state had participated in the exam.Board chairman Jagbir Singh said at least 15% (46,950 students) of around 3.13 lakh Class 10 students have secured 100% score in this year’s results.“We are yet to compile the figures of students who had secured 100% but at least 15% have achieved this figure mark,” he added.Last week, BSEH had declared class results for 3.13 lakh regular students while 11,278 appeared for compartment exam.The board achieved a 100% pass percentage against last year’s 64.59%. All students cleared the exam but nobody was declared topper for the first time in 51 years, since the board’s inception in 1970.‘INJUSTICE WITH INTELLIGENT STUDENTS’Former state education minister and Jhajjar MLA Geeta Bhukkal, of Congress, slammed the Haryana government and the state board for the Class 10 results.“In previous years, only one to two students had bagged 100% but this year tens of thousands students have scored a perfect 500/500. I don’t know on what parameters the state board has evaluated the Class 10 board results. It is difficult to get 100 marks in a single subject and the board officials had distributed 100% to many students like sweets,” she said.“The education minister had announced to distribute tablets to students last year but the government had failed to deliver on its promise. If this was done, the board exams could have been conducted through online mode. This year, the education minister has announced to give scholarships to 500 students. How will he select the 500 students among tens of thousands of students who have secured 100% for the scholarship?” she added.“From Class 1 to 8, we cannot fail any student under Right to Education and Class 10 results were a litmus test for students. But the Haryana board has pushed the students in Class 11 by giving them higher percentage without conducting test. The board and government are playing with the future of students,” she said.Naveen Soni, a government teacher in Hisar, said the state board has done injustice in Class 10 board results.“To secure 100 marks in any subject, a student has to take multiple revisions, besides solving previous years’ question papers. And the board has given 100% score to many students. This will reduce the morale of those who have passed the exam in 2020 and earlier,” he said.“Such results will bring incompetent students into competition. Few years ago, there was a value of a student who used to get 90% or more. But now, everyone is getting more than 95%, which is a mockery of our education system,” he added.Reacting to the criticism faced by the board over Class 10 results, board chairman Jagbir Singh said the evaluation was done after taking approval from the state government.“A panel of two vice-chancellors, a registrar and a few intellectuals had decided on evaluation of Class 10 results. We had announced the results on the basis of assessment sent by schools,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bseh-faces-criticism-over-class-10-results-101624043246511.html
19-06-2021||Other||Pilot study in Mumbai Metropolitan Region demonstrates viability of low-cost air quality sensors||A pilot project conducted across various locations in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) has demonstrated the viability of low-cost sensor devices (LCSD) in collecting actionable data on air pollution. Experts have proposed that these LCSDs may be used to expand currently deficient monitoring systems in Mumbai and beyond at a fraction of the cost of regulatory-grade continuous ambient air quality monitoring systems (CAAQMS). The study was conducted in partnership between Indian Institute of Technology (IIT)-Kanpur and the Maharashtra State Pollution Control Board (MPCB), using a fleet of low-cost devices produced by four indigenous companies: Respirer Living Sciences, Airveda Technologies, Personal Air Quality Systems (PAQS) and Oizom Instruments. While a low-cost monitor can be purchased for about ₹60,000, a regulatory grade device can cost above ₹20 lakh each. “This is a prohibitively expensive cost, as a result of which our existing framework of CAAQMS is a bit patchy. But we can’t spend all our money on measurement. We also have to invest in mitigation. CAAQMs only give a broad picture of air pollution, while low-cost devices can be used for a more hyper-local picture. But first we needed this study to make sure that the information they provide is reliable,” said Sudhir Srivastava, chairman, MPCB. Data for the study, ‘Technical Assessment of Low-Cost Sensor based PM2.5 and PM10 Monitoring Network in Maharashtra’ was gathered between November 2020 and May 2021, when 40 such low-cost monitoring sensors were installed alongside or co-located with MPCB’s 15 existing CAAQMS in Colaba, Worli, Sion, Bandra, Vile Parle, Kurla, international airport, Powai, Kandivli, Mulund, Borivli, Vasai, Mahape, Nerul and Kalyan. The low-cost monitors, restricted to capturing data on particulate matter pollution (PM2.5 and PM10), were solar powered and connected to the Internet for real-time data transmission. The monitors were allowed to operate for seven-months, and the data acquired from them was compared with that of the nearby CAAQMS. The findings reveal that sensors from three start-ups saw a percentage error (measured with respect to true value measured by CAAQMS) of less than 25% for uncalibrated values. After calibration, the error was reduced to less than 15% for three types of sensors and 20% for the fourth type. A range of machine-learning techniques were also used to develop the base calibration model, which experts said can be continuously improved over time to reduce the rate of error produced by low-cost devices. “It has been a matter of debate whether cheaper tools can be used to complement regulatory-grade devices in India, as has already been done in cities such as Beijing, London and across the US. Our study shows that this is possible, but only when the correct calibration model is applied. Of the 40 low-cost devices we used, more than half showed an acceptable error rate. To be sure, this data is not a substitute for regulatory-grade devices, but can be used by citizens and authorities to take mitigative action with reasonable confidence of accuracy,” said Dr SN Tripathi from the Centre for Environmental Science and Engineering at IIT-K, who led the study. The experiment also provides insights into the granular nature of air pollution across Mumbai. The average pollution load calculated by the sensor-based network for PM 2.5 concentration across each location in MMR varied largely month by month. For instance, at Vile Parle it was 80 ug/m3 in November, which dipped to 26 ug/m3 in May. Some coastal locations like Colaba too recorded high pollution levels with a PM 2.5 concentration of 56 ug/m3 in December. The monthly mean was the highest at 124 ug/m3 at Kalyan in the month of January. Commenting on these findings, Dr VM Motghare, joint director (air quality) at MPCB said, “We [Maharashtra] have the highest number of non-attainment cities and macro planning is needed to monitor the implementation of the National Clean Air Programme. So, the data from these low-cost sensors will really help us in identifying the hotspots in the state.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pilot-study-in-mumbai-metropolitan-region-demonstrates-viability-of-low-cost-air-quality-sensors-101624043125833.html
19-06-2021||Other||Maharashtra plans to rework electric vehicles policy||As it failed to achieve much three years after rolling out the electric vehicles (EV) policy, the Maharashtra government has decided to improvise the scheme in better synchronisation with various other departments of the state and Central governments. The state is also planning to have a gigafactory in Maharashtra for manufacturing batteries and increasing the number of charging stations to provide a boost to EVs over the next few years.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray held a meeting on Friday to review the status of the implementation of the policy, which was rolled out in 2018. A committee headed by additional chief secretary of transport department Ashish Kumar Singh has prepared a revised draft of the policy by updating and fine-tuning it with the Central policies and the decision issued thereafter. The state is also planning incentives and subsidies to the industries and manufacturers of the vehicles and auxiliary businesses such as manufacturers of batteries, chargers, spare parts, among others.Thackeray has directed the transport department to present the revised policy before the state cabinet for its approval at the earliest. “The policy should focus on steps to be taken for its effective implementation in rural and urban areas by setting up robust infrastructure for the charging stations. The policy should also tap the subsidies to be given to suppliers and manufacturers, besides the foreign investment. It should also look at the measures that need to be taken to encourage EVs in public transport and their maximum use in the government sector,” he said.Environment minister Aaditya Thackeray has directed the administration to push for steps to promote charging stations at housing societies.Maharashtra was one of the first states to unveil its EV Policy in February 2018. However, it could not be implemented effectively due to the subsequent changes made by various Central government departments. “There are many changes made by various Central government departments after our policy was rolled out. Maharashtra, being a leader in the manufacturing and sales of the vehicles, was supposed to witness a boost to environment-friendly vehicles, but the delay in framing the integrated scheme of incentives resulted in a lukewarm response from the industry. We aim the share of EVs in the new vehicle registration by 2025 to increase by 5, 10 and 20% for four, two and three-wheelers, respectively. We are also aiming to set up at least one Gigafactory for manufacturing advanced batteries. Manufacturing giants such as Tesla are expected to invest in the state, for which incentives are being rolled out,” said an official from the transport department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/maharashtra-plans-to-rework-electric-vehicles-policy-101624043005819.html
19-06-2021||Other||Flamingos face shrinking wetlands||Until not too long ago, the landscape around Uran, a fishing village in Navi Mumbai, was considered a bird-watching hotspot. During winter, large congregations of flamingos and other migratory birds could be seen along a 30km-long patchwork of wetlands at Uran’s Panje and Funde villages, south of the Jawaharlal Nehru Port.Two years ago, flamingo numbers began to explode at a group of small water bodies located at the northern edge of this stretch – namely the TSC-NRI wetland complex near Palm Beach road in Belapur. This includes the Talawe wetland, which has yielded some of the most striking visuals of flamingos in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) in recent times – forsaking Uran’s wetlands.“[Last year] people thought that there was a direct link between the Covid-19 lockdown and the explosion of flamingo numbers at TSC-NRI. People seemed to think that the birds were perhaps undisturbed for the first time due to the reduction in human activity,” said Adesh Shivkar, a veteran birder who has been tracking avian biodiversity in MMR for over 20 years.But the lockdown isn’t really why the flamingos seem to have shifted base.The network of wetlands in Navi Mumbai serve largely as the roosting grounds for flamingos and other waders, who fly over from their feeding grounds in Thane Creek during high tide. Local residents and environmental experts said that Uran’s wetlands have been systemically reclaimed and dried out, as dumping of mud and construction debris into water bodies and mangrove swamps has been a regular occurrence in the area for about a decade.In an interim report submitted to the state forest department last year, the Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS) noted, “Panje was one of the larger wetlands (which) used to support a huge population of migratory birds. Now, as Panje is disturbed due to inconstant water flow, it can be assumed that the avifauna that was coming to Panje might have started using the other suitable sites.”The interim report is part of a decade-long bird-monitoring study that the BNHS was commissioned to do in 2017 after construction began on the Mumbai Trans Harbour Link (MTHL) bridge to connect Sewri and Uran. Part of the mandate of the study is to create a conservation blueprint for the Thane Creek over which this bridge will come up, which will ensure that the habitats of flamingos thrive. Environmentalists say that such a study should have already happened – in the absence of it, we still don’t know how habitats are affected by pollutants or construction. For instance, the flamingo numbers in Sewri and Nhava are reportedly still high though construction of the MTHL is underway in those areas.At least four major wetlands -- Panje, Belpada, Bhendkhal and Dastan Phata -- have been completely dried out, either through dumping of mud or through willful stoppage of intertidal waters by authorities. The City Industrial Development Corporation (Cidco), for example, had halted the flow of water to Panje by shutting off the sluice gates in its flood control barrier. These were later opened after a High Court order, but there are still four tidal inlets to the wetland which remain blocked (in violation of recent instructions to Cidco by the National Green Tribunal).The Cidco spokesperson did not respond to calls and messages on questions about inlets.At Panje, the largest of these water bodies (covering an area of at least 120 hectares),barely a dozen flamingos roosted in a small pool of accumulated rainwater at the start of the month. “This is a far cry from the situation a few years ago. Had you visited, say, in 2008 or even as late as 2015, you would have seen thousands of them,” said Dilip Koli, a resident of Uran, who is associated with the Paaramparik Machhimar Bachao Kruti Samiti, a local fishworkers unions.“There was a point when we could throw our nets here and catch fish. Now there is not even enough water for the birds,” Koli said.Reports have documented the loss of Uran’s wetlands too. A 2019 BNHS report titled ‘Coastal Wetlands and Waterbirds of Navi Mumbai’ for example, noted that the water spread of Belpada wetland reduced from 147.98 hectares (ha) in 1973 to just 53 ha in 2018. Simultaneously, the area of human settlements around the water body increased tenfold during the same time period, from 128 ha to 1,280 ha.A similar trend was observed at the nearby Bhendkal wetland, where the water spread reduced from 173 ha in 1973 to 89 ha in 2018. Human habitation in the vicinity of this water body also increased during this period, from 106 ha to 833 ha. Experts emphasized that this is in clear violation of Coastal Regulatory Zone (CRZ) guidelines, which prohibit construction over wetlands.“The coastal inlets which ensure perennial flow of water to these wetlands have been completely buried, or blocked,” Koli said, saying this also worsened unseasonal flooding in Uran, particularly over the past two years. The ecological importance of these wetlands, particularly with respect to migratory birds, has been acknowledged by the state government. More than five years have passed since the State Board for Wildlife (SBWL) approved the declaration over 1,600 acres of wetlands in Mumbai, Raigad and Thane districts as bird sanctuaries, with the express intent of protecting flamingos and other migratory shorebirds. These included the wetlands of Panje-Funde and TSC-NRI, as well as Sewi-Mahul on the city’s eastern waterfront.The decision was formally announced on December 4, 2015, by the office of the then CM, Devendra Fadnavis, and came on the back of a suggestion by the BNHS earlier that year, in response to the MTHL project. To mitigate possible adverse impact, the BNHS had emphasized on the need to protect so called “satellite wetlands” around Thane Creek, including the TSC-NRI wetland in Navi Mumbai (Thane), and Panje-Funde in Uran (Raigad).“There is a need to give protected status to the wetlands of southern Mumbai... especially, the Uran mudflats, and the NRI-TSC wetlands, Panje-Funde wetlands,” the BNHS had noted at the time, in a report to the MMRDA. But despite the state government’s initial willingness to bring these areas under protection of the Wildlife Act (1972), the SBWL’s 2015 proposal never saw the light of day. The Thane Creek Flamingo Sanctuary, declared in 2015, has been criticized for not including some of the most prime flamingo habitats within its 1,690 hectares delineation.Last June, the Maharashtra forest department approved and published an official document showing six ecologically sensitive areas in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) as wetlands, as part of a 10-year management plan for the Thane creek flamingo sanctuary (TCFS). Six sites – Bhandup (11 ha) in Mumbai, Panje (124 ha), Belpada (30 ha), Bhendkhal (8 ha) in Uran, Training Ship Chanakya (13 ha) and NRI Complex (19 ha) in Navi Mumbai – were designated officially as wetlands.Then, in July 2020, forest department wrote to the Cidco and the Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust (JNPT) -- who own the land on which this network of wetlands is located -- seeking their comments on declaring these six water bodies as Conservation Reserves under the Indian Wildlife Act, which would deter any further development around them.Cidco and JNPT have both since rejected this proposal. In a response to the forest department, CIDCO wrote that these sites “are developable land parcels” which “do not qualify to be declared as wetlands.” Cidco is also currently fighting a Bombay High Court order which restricts it from developing the TSC-NRI wetlands into an 80 hectare golf course and residential complex.“In light of the MTHL project, the importance of these satellite wetlands cannot be emphasized enough. The bridge across Thane Creek itself may not pose a threat to the future of these birds, but the destruction of these satellite wetlands certainly does,” said Mrugank Prabhu, a researcher at BNHS currently working on a long-term study on flamingoes and other migratory birds in Thane Creek and Navi Mumbai. “Recently, a greater sand-plover tagged three years ago by the BNHS was found at Panje, after the overflow of tidal water during the Super Moon period in April. This demonstrates the fact that migratory birds show a high degree of site fidelity tendency, which is their preference for returning to the old places that they are used to. There has been a definite noticeable pattern in the bird flights that we have been noticing over the past couple of years – no flamingos in Uran, and lots of them in Talawe wetlands and DPS Lake. This is worrisome,” said BN Kumar, an environmentalist with the Navi Mumbai-based NatConnect Foundation, who has been documenting the destruction of Uran’s wetlands for nearly a decade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/flamingos-face-shrinking-wetlands-101624042825859.html
19-06-2021||Mumbai||CBI bid to hinder state probe against Singh, Shukla: Maharashtra govt to HC||The Maharashtra government on Friday argued in the Bombay high court that the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) was trying to interfere in its investigations against former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh and IPS officer Rashmi Shukla.Maharashtra has initiated separate inquiries against Singh over the reinstatement of the now suspended ASI Sachin Vaze, and Shukla in an alleged phone tapping case.The state moved the high court alleging that portions of the FIR registered by the central agency against former state home minister Anil Deshmukh, including one related to transfer of officers, were unwarranted and a pretext to interfere in its two investigations.“They (CBI) are trying to interfere in the investigations that we have already ordered. Now, through a back-door method, through this FIR, the CBI is trying to rake these issues and resurrect these inquiries,” government’s lawyer Rafique Dada said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cbi-bid-to-hinder-state-probe-against-singh-shukla-maharashtra-govt-to-hc-101624042285837.html
19-06-2021||Other||Petrol price surges to ₹103.08 per litre, diesel crosses ₹-95 mark in Mumbai||Fuel prices in the city surged on Friday, following which a litre of petrol was available at an all-time high of ₹103.08 after an increase of 26 paise in its rate. The price of one litre of diesel reached ₹95.14 after a surge of 30 paise was witnessed.On Thursday, petrol and diesel were priced at ₹102.82 and ₹94.84 per litre, respectively.In neighbouring Thane, one litre of petrol was priced at ₹103.21 on Friday, while the rate of diesel reached ₹95.26 per litre. In Maharashtra, the highest fuel prices were recorded in Parbhani, with one litre of petrol costing ₹105.42, while diesel was priced at ₹95.93 per litre.Citizens have urged the state government to reduce the value added tax on petroleum products in the city. “There is a daily rise in fuel prices. It is getting impossible to manage. The state government should immediately reduce taxes on petrol and diesel and make it feasible for people,” said Sonali Patil, an Andheri resident. Transporters’ bodies across India have decided to stage a one-day protest against fuel hike on June 28 and would announce an indefinite agitation if their demands are not met. “There will be a nationwide protest on June 28 across the country and a memorandum will be submitted to the Prime Minister. It has been decided to prepare for an indefinite nationwide chakka jam [blockade] if similar situation persists,” Bal Malkit Singh, chairman, All India Motor Congress (AIMTC) said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/petrol-price-surges-to-103-08-per-litre-diesel-crosses-95-mark-in-mumbai-101624042105823.html
19-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai eligible for level one: Call on easing curbs is likely next week||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) may take a call on easing some restrictions in the city next week, but will not change the level of unlock from three to two or one yet, said senior civic officials on Friday. Currently, level three restrictions are in force in Mumbai. The BMC will opt to change Mumbai’s status from level three, considering factors such as caseload in adjoining districts and internal medical management, officials said.Municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal on Friday said, “The BMC will remain in level three at present.”Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner incharge of BMC’s public health department, on Friday, said, “We may wait one or two weeks before taking a call on changing the status from level three. In the next week, we may take a call on easing some restrictions, if needed. Changing the status for Mumbai depends on a lot of factors. If we opt for large-scale easing of restrictions at present, and come to a situation where caseload increases rapidly, we will find it difficult to control.”Kakani said the BMC’s decision to remain on level three of restrictions is based on its population density, mobility on regular days, and recommendations of the task force. “When the BMC will opt to change its status from level three, we will have to consider a lot of factors, including caseload in adjoining districts, and internal medical management,” Kakani said. “If adjoining districts have a lot of cases during this time, we have to be very careful. We are in constant talks with the task force,” he added.Currently, Mumbai has 10,934 oxygen beds, of which 1,949 are occupied. However, of the 2,635 ICU beds, 1,170 are vacant; of the 1,455 ventilator beds, 504 are vacant. Kakani said, “The ICU and ventilator bed vacancy is not concerning at present, because of daily caseload. However, if we open up and cases increase rapidly, we can’t take a chance.”Mumbai on Friday recorded 758 Covid cases and 19 deaths. The active cases in the city are now 18,764.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-eligible-for-level-one-call-on-easing-curbs-is-likely-next-week-101624041865850.html
19-06-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra to start vaccination drive for 30- 45 age group on Saturday||The Maharashtra government has decided to start the vaccination drive for beneficiaries between 30 to 45 years of age group from Saturday. The drive will be conducted at the government-run centres, state health minister Rajesh Tope announced on Friday. The state has also allowed walk-ins for those in this age group.The ongoing drive for 45 years and age group will also be continued along with it.“The Centre has allowed the state to determine priority for the citizens between 18 to 45 years of age for vaccination. Following this, the state health department has decided to give priority to the beneficiaries in the 30 to 45 years of age group,” Tope said on Friday.“The citizens are also allowed to register on the spot, along with the existing system of online registration for taking vaccine jabs,” he added.The necessary training required to make changes in the Co-WIN app for the staff involved in the vaccination drive was also completed on Friday. “The registration of the beneficiaries is mandatory on the Co-WIN application. The app, however, has sections only for two groups — 45 years and above and 18-45 age group. Making any changes in the required training to the concerned staff has been completed today,” said Dr Archana Patil, director, Directorate Of Health Services.The state government had started its drive for beneficiaries between the 18-45 age group on May 1 after it was allowed by the Centre. However, it was suspended owing to the non-availability of vaccine doses on May 12.“Since then, we have covered most of the people eligible for the second dose. After having sufficient stock, we have decided to start the drive for the beneficiaries from the 30-45 age group,” she added.Meanwhile, BMC on Friday said 10 vaccination centres in the city will start vaccination for 30 to 44 years age group starting Saturday, only on an appointment basis.The 10 centres where vaccination will take place include Priyadarshini Park in Walkeshwar, BMC Murli Deora Eye Hospital in Kamathipura, Acworth Leprosy centre in Wadala, Seth Ayurvedic Centre in Sion, Bhabha Hospital in Bandra, MW Desai Centre, Malad, Krantijyoti Savitribai Phule Hospital in Borivli, Jolly Gymkhana in Ghatkopar, Deonar Maternity Home in Govandi and VD Savarkar Centre in Mulund.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-to-start-vaccination-drive-for-30-45-age-group-on-saturday-101624041745820.html
19-06-2021||Mumbai||40% vaccination in Mumbai done at private hospitals, shows data||Over three months after private hospitals were permitted to conduct Covid vaccination, nearly 40% of the total vaccination in the city is done by private hospitals, according to the data of Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC).On Friday, the city also crossed the one million mark for the 18-44 age group as a total of 1,013,875 citizens in the age group have been vaccinated. Of the total 961,081 were vaccinated in private hospitals.The city has administered 4.6 million vaccine doses as of Thursday, of which, 1.7 million vaccine doses have been administered at private hospitals.The city has a total of 375 active vaccination centres, of which 89 are private. According to BMC officials, with every passing day, vaccination conducted by private hospitals is increasing as they have better stock as compared to public vaccination centres.For example, on June 17, a total of 70,115 vaccine doses were administered in the city, of which 56,019 were administered at private hospitals. The imbalance is considering - private hospitals have more stock than that of the corporation and also because vaccination for 18 years to 44 years is shut in the corporation since the second week of May 2021.The BMC is vaccinating citizens between 18 to 44 years only in case of students going abroad, citizens going abroad for jobs or those participating in Tokyo Olympics. However, vaccination at private hospitals is open for all.Until June 17, a total of 973,568 citizens between the age group of 18 to 44 have been vaccinated, followed by 3,018 lactating mothers, 1,348,009 citizens between the age group of 45 to 59 and 1,318,898 and remaining healthcare, frontline workers.A total of 4,326,427 citizens have been vaccinated, of which, 3,470,200 have taken their first dose and the remaining have taken their second dose. In the city, 4,015,818 have been administered with Covishield, 309,702 have taken Covaxin and the remaining 907 have taken Sputnik.The Covid vaccination started on January 16 in the city, with healthcare workers followed by frontline workers.Starting March, senior citizens were added, following those above 45 years of age. From May 1, those between the age group of 18 to 44 were also allowed to get vaccinated. However, with the increase in citizens eligible for vaccination, the supply went down resulting in fewer citizens getting the jab in May 2021.The BMC got 265,000 vaccine doses in January, 571,000 vaccine doses were received in February, 810,950 vaccine doses in March, 947,500 vaccines doses in April and 523,440 vaccine doses in May, due to which vaccination got slowed down in the city.The BMC has estimated vaccination of 9 million citizens eligible for vaccination in 18-44 years of age group. On Friday, total 61,710 citizens were vaccinated. Overall, 4,38,8137 citizens have been vaccinated in the city. 22,321 have taken both doses in 18-44 age group, according to BMC data.Meanwhile, Dr Siddarth Paliwal, a city-based physician said, “We need to focus on vaccinating more citizens between the age group of 18 to 44. Of the total figure, around 22% is the ratio of vaccination in the 18 to 44 years age group. Considering the factor of economy and third wave, vaccinating more youngsters will help to ease the burden on health infrastructure.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/40-vaccination-in-mumbai-done-at-private-hospitals-shows-data-101624041685796.html
19-06-2021||Other||Thane to hold special Covid vax drive for third gender||The Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has announced to conduct a special vaccination drive for the third gender, at the Parking Plaza vaccination centre from 11am to 2pm, on Saturday. TMC has initiated vaccination for those between 30 to 44 age group as well, from Saturday onwards. The centres will be open in the afternoon within the city and vaccination will be provided only on prior online appointment. “This is part of our initiative to ensure that all sections of the society are vaccinated and we are better prepared to handle the probable third wave. In the last few weeks we have initiated many such vaccination programs to ensure that no one is deprived of this facility,” said Vipin Sharma, commissioner TMC. Even those without proper identification cards will be provided vaccine by the TMC. A helpline number is also provided for those who have any doubts regarding the vaccine process for Third genders. Helpline number- 09167253130||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/thane-to-hold-special-covid-vax-drive-for-third-gender-101624041386751.html
19-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai colleges reopen; no clarity on teachers’ attendance yet||Colleges affiliated with the University of Mumbai (MU) re-opened virtually for the 2021-22 academic year this week, but confusion still looms over several issues. The latest has been a tussle between teachers and the management as several colleges have directed their staff to be physically present in college starting next week. However, the demand has not gone down well with the teachers.“All colleges know that travel restrictions are still in place, and teachers are still not allowed to travel by train. How do they expect us to reach the institute? Why are we expected to pay for auto or cab from our pockets?” asked a disgruntled teacher of a college in central Mumbai.MU-affiliated colleges started the new academic year from June 14 this year, and the varsity in a circular reiterated that the first semester will be conducted online only. This circular, however, has not clarified anything else including the academic calendar or the status of teacher attendance in colleges. With no clarity in place, colleges are left to figure out the regulations on their own.“We didn’t hear from the university so we directly contacted the university officials and were told that even the MU staff has to follow 50% attendance, so we decided to implement something similar. Each teacher will come to work twice a week, only if they can travel to and from home comfortably,” said Anju Kapoor, principal of UPG College, Vile Parle.Some complaints have also been received by teacher groups, who have forwarded such queries to the university. “While there is no clarity on the status of teacher attendance, one thing which has been clarified by the university is that the new semester will be conducted solely in online mode. So there is no need for colleges to indulge in such risky moves, especially since trains are still inaccessible to teachers,” said Madhu Paranjape, general secretary, Bombay University and College Teachers’ Union (BUCTU). She added that some of the complaints have already been forwarded to the varsity and if no action comes from the MU officials, they will take up the matter with district authorities.A spokesperson for the university said that even though there’s been no circular on these lines, colleges need not insist on teacher attendance if the teachers are facing problems. “We haven’t received any complaints yet, but will look into this matter,” said the spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-colleges-reopen-no-clarity-on-teachers-attendance-yet-101624041385883.html
19-06-2021||Mumbai||Kandivli Covid vax drive: Mumbai civic body unsure over authenticity of certificates||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), which is still conducting its internal investigation into the vaccination drive at Hiranandani Heritage, Kandivli, is now confused over the reconciliation of issued vaccination certificates to residents. The civic body is yet not sure if the certificates are genuine. An employee of Kokilaben Dhirubhai Ambani Hospital, Andheri— Rajesh Pandey, who is now terminated, conducted an immunisation drive at Hiranandani Heritage on May 30. He claimed that the drive was being done in association with the hospital. The R-North ward has submitted the report of their investigation to Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner on Friday late night. Later, after seven-eight days when the beneficiaries started receiving vaccination certificates from other hospitals and vaccination centres, they became suspicious and raised alarms. As per residents, they have got vaccination certificates from Nanavati Max Super Speciality, Lifeline Hospitals and civic-run Nesco jumbo centre, Goregaon. However, later, all these three vaccination centres refused their involvement in the immunisation drive.Now, residents are questioning the authenticity of the vaccination certificates issued by the accused. Of the 390 beneficiaries, almost 260 have received the certificates. All the issued certificates are getting reflected on the centralised Co-WIN portal with the names of three respective vaccination centres. But as per civic officials, technically, this is counted as “incorrect” uploading of details as the hospitals mentioned weren’t involved in the Covid-19 vaccination.When asked if the civic body would reconcile the data uploaded on the Co-WIN by their accusers, Dr Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, BMC said, “Firstly, we aren’t sure if the issued certificates are authentic. We are still cross-verifying. Until we get it, we can’t decide on reconciliation because we don’t know from where the vials were procured.”A preliminary police investigation has revealed that the accused have conducted similar vaccination drives in several other spots in the city including a production house and a college. If their modus operandi has been similar, then the civic body believes that there would be more incorrect data synced with the Co-WIN portal with the name of other hospitals that weren’t even involved with the drives.“The vials used in the drive have no connection with our centre. We have cross-checked all records. Being a civic-run centre, we don’t supply vials outside for such drives,” said Dr Neelam Andrade, dean of Nesco jumbo centre.“We don’t know if the accused got the login details of the centre. There is a possibility that they hacked into it. We have to wait for the reports,” Andrade added. The Kandivli police station is also waiting for the civic body’s report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/kandivli-covid-vax-drive-mumbai-civic-body-unsure-over-authenticity-of-certificates-101624041265828.html
19-06-2021||Bhopal||IAS officer whose leaked chats set off a row gets threat call, seeks protection||BHOPAL: A 35-year-old Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer in Madhya Pradesh, who recently vented his frustration at his repeated transfers before getting a show-cause notice from the government for recording his phone conversation with a senior colleague a fortnight earlier, has complained that he has received a threat call on the Signal app.“The caller asked me to go on a leave for six months and stay away from the media. He threatened me with dire consequences,” said Lokesh Kumar Jangid, a 2014-batch IAS officer.Jangid has sent a formal complaint to the police and sought protection.Madhya Pradesh director general of police (DGP) Vivek Johri said deputy inspector general Bhopal Irshad Wali was investigating the matter and will submit a report. “Further action will be taken on the basis of findings of the report,” he said.The IAS officer, who has been transferred eight times in less than six years of service, was last month shifted out of western MP’s Barwani district within 41 days of being posted as the district’s additional collector and posted to the Rajya Siksha Kendra.Jangid is alleged to have taped his phone conversation with Deepti Gaud Mukherjee, principal secretary of MP’s general administration department when she called him to inform him about his transfer on May 31. The IAS officer is reported to have shared the conversation with some friends.It was, however, Jangid’s post on a group of MP IAS officers on the mobile app Signal - someone took screenshots and circulated them on social media - that turned the spotlight on him. In his post, the IAS officer had expressed his frustration at his repeated transfers, called the Civil Services Board, a panel of top bureaucrats mandated to approve all transfers to ensure stability of tenure, a joke.Jangid also launched a broadside at his colleagues.“Those who mint money from all kinds of Mafia, get transferred from the field to field (one field posting to another) and those with impeccable integrity get thrown to the secretariat on transfer,” he said in the post.“Of Course who’s who in the bureaucracy are mere Nero’s guests these days. The same thing happened in Shahdol when I was SDM. I told the collector that he’s a weak collector, which he bloody was. And I was removed on that ground as he has a relationship with a politician,” said Jangid in the post that has gone viralICP Keshari, president of MP’s IAS association, reprimanded him and told him to delete the post. “You lost basic decency- not only accusing your colleagues but also the family. Please delete all your posts soon. That’s my sincere advice and desist from such things in future.” Jangid refused and was removed from the group.On Wednesday, when the screenshots went viral, the state government issued him notice for recording his phone conversation with principal secretary Deepti Gaud Mukherjee.By Friday, the controversy over Jangid’s post turned political.The Congress attacked the Bharatiya Janata Party government for transferring Jangid. Congress MLA Bala Baccchan alleged that the IAS officer was eased out because he had exposed “financial irregularities in purchase of oxygen concentrator and stopped the payment of a company.”BJP leader and cabinet minister Vishwas Sarang, however, said: “Jangid’s behaviour is inappropriate with his seniors and whatever he posted and later circulated on social media is against the civil services rules.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/ias-officer-whose-leaked-chats-set-off-a-row-gets-threat-call-seeks-protection-101624041146291.html
19-06-2021||Lucknow||Direct BJP-SP contest likely in district panchayat chairpersons’ polls in Uttar Pradesh||A direct contest is likely between the ruling Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) and the main opposition Samajwadi Party (SP) for a majority of the zila (district) panchayat chairpersons’ posts, going by the scenario in most of the 75 districts of Uttar Pradesh. The election is scheduled on July 3.The Samajwadi Party that upset the BJP’s applecart in the three-tier panchayat elections held in April by bagging 779 zila panchayat wards has mobilized its resources in a bid to capture a majority of the zila panchayat chief’s posts.The BJP that won 579 wards is out to counter the SP strategy by winning the maximum number of chairpersons’ posts. The Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) that won 361 panchayat wards and the Congress that bagged 76 wards are also working out their strategies to make their presence felt by allying with like-minded parties or winning the support of independent ward members.The 3,050 district panchayat ward members will play a decisive role in the election for the 75 zila panchayat chairpersons’ posts. Among them, 1,272 are independents or members of smaller parties.The State Election Commission, in a notification on June 15, announced that the election will be held on July 3. The chairperson will be elected by the system of proportional representation by single transferable vote, making each vote crucial. The BJP, SP and the BSP have started working for extra votes and are lobbying with the members of other parties or independents.The Samajwadi Party appears to have the upper hand in its strongholds of Mainpuri, Etah, Firozabad, Kasganj, Etawah, Kannauj, Auraiya, Rampur and Fatehpur. In eastern and central UP, it is in a comfortable position in Ballia, Mirzapur, Kanpur, Lucknow, Siddharthnagar, Jaunpur, Lakhimpur, Prayagraj, Varanasi, Ghazipur, Kushinagar, Maharajganj, Bijnor, Unnao, Bahraich, Ayodhya and Pratapgarh districts with more ward members in its ranks than the rival BJP.The support of the Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD), the Mahan Dal as well as the Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party (PSP) (Lohia) led by Shivpal Yadav paved the way for victory of SP members in a large number of wards. Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav also opened the doors for rebel SP leaders belonging to the OBC (Other Backward Class) community in the Kurmi-dominated Lakhimpur, Barabanki, Gonda and Mirzapur districts.Senior SP leaders, as well as 49 party MLAs, have fanned out to the various districts, holding meetings with the district units to finalise the candidates and rope in the independents, said an SP leader.The BJP appears to be in a comfortable position in Badaun, Gorakhpur, Mathura, Agra, Hardoi, Jhansi, Baghpat, Bulandshahr, Gautam Buddha Nagar, Moradabad, Shahjahanpur, Sambhal, Bhadohi, Saharanpur and Basti districts.Realising that the support of smaller parties will be important in winning the zila panchayat chairpersons’ posts, the BJP has reached out to its alliance partners Apna Dal (Sonelal) and the Nishad party. The BJP leaders are also understood to have held talks with Suheldev Bhartiya Samaj Party (SBSP) led by Om Prakash Rajbhar.UP BJP general secretary (organisation) Sunil Bansal and state unit president Swatantra Dev Singh are holding meetings in various districts to collect feedback from the party office bearers, as well as discussing the poll strategy.The BSP won several ward seats in Azamgarh, Saharanpur, Meerut, Bhadohi, Ghazipur, Jalaun, Chitrakoot, Banda and Pratapgarh districts. The independent ward members will play a crucial role in deciding the fate of the candidates fielded by the political parties.That the political parties are leaving no stone unturned to upstage the rivals could be gauged from the fact that BJP has made an independent, Shyam Sunder Verma aka Sadhu Verma, the candidate for the chairman’s post in Ambedkar Nagar district. In Baghpat, it has decided to field rebel SP candidate Baabli Devi. In Jaunpur, the BJP leaders held talks with Srikala, the wife of former MP Dhananjay Singh. In Hathras, the BJP has fielded Seema Upadhyay, wife of rebel BSP MLA Ramveer Upadhyay.In Sitapur, the BJP got a shot in the arm when 12 independent members joined it. The Nishad party ward members announced their support to the BJP in Sultanpur district.In Sant Kabir Nagar district, the SP has fielded independent candidate Baliram Yadav for the chairperson’s post. In Aligarh, the SP earlier announced it was fielding Archana Yadav but later decided to back RLD candidate Rajkumari.In Saharanpur, the BSP has joined hands with the Congress and the BKU (Bhartiya Kisan Union) to work for the victory of its candidate Shimla Devi. In Pratapgarh district, Jansatta Dal Loktantrik led by Raghuraj Pratap Singh aka Raja Bhaiya, holds the key to the victory of the BJP or SP candidates.Samajwadi Party (SP) spokesperson Rajendra Chaudhary alleged the BJP was misusing the state government machinery to win the support of independents.BJP leader and cabinet minister Sidharth Nath Singh refuted the SP’s allegation. He said the BJP would win a majority of the zila panchayat chairpersons’ posts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/direct-bjp-sp-contest-likely-in-district-panchayat-chairpersons-polls-in-uttar-pradesh-101624041086733.html
19-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: IIT-B researchers develop a low-cost way of extracting hydrogen from water||Researchers from the Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B) have developed energy and cost-efficient method of extracting hydrogen from water. This is likely to significantly bring down the cost and time of producing hydrogen gas, which is widely used as a clean fuel as it releases water upon combustion.Conventionally, hydrogen is extracted from water by inserting two electrodes across the water and passing a current through it. Since this is a time-consuming process, chemical elements such as metals are used as catalysts to speed up the process. Metals such as platinum, rhodium, and iridium are used as catalysts for electrolysis but are very expensive.While compounds of cobalt are also well-known catalysts, researchers from the department of chemistry at IIT-B have developed a way of making this catalyst more energy efficient. Their study was published in the journal ACS Sustainable Chemistry and Engineering on June 2.“We have developed florets of nanostructured hard carbon (used as electrodes in electrolysis). These florets, arranged like a marigold flower, can act as a suitable support for attaching the catalyst. While compounds of Cobalt as a catalyst are well-known, the interface between the catalyst and carbon was developed by us,” said Chandramouli Subramaniam, associate professor, department of chemistry.To speed up the electrolysis, the researchers did not rely on the electric field alone but also introduced magnetic fields. They found that if they introduced a small fridge magnet near their setup, the reaction speed increased about three times.“We found that the electrolysis consumed 19% less energy in a stipulated time when there was a magnetic and electric field in comparison to the electric field alone,” said Jayeeta Saha, lead author and doctoral student at IIT-B.“This is because the catalyst we have designed can sustain the magnetisation for prolonged periods, the key being the development of a synergistic carbon-metal oxide interface. A one-time exposure of the magnetic field is enough to achieve the high speed of hydrogen production for over 45 minutes,” said Saha. Based on the standard market cost of cobalt which is used as a raw material in this study, the catalyst costs at least 800 times lower than platinum.While hydrogen is known as a clean fuel that can reduce emissions from vehicles, in India it is used as a fuel in large steel and cement plants. “There are two major problems in using hydrogen as a fuel in mobility at the moment: the electrolysis is expensive and storage is a concern. We want such innovations to happen in India so the industry can adopt clean technologies soon,” said Pawan Mulukutla, director, electric mobility and head of the hydrogen project at World Resources Institute, India.“We can directly adopt the modified setup in existing electrolysers without any change in design or mode of operation of the electrolysers,” says another author of the study Ranadeb Ball, a former IIT-B student and a PhD candidate at the University of Pennsylvania.“The intermittent use of an external magnetic field provides a new direction for achieving energy-efficient hydrogen generation. Other catalysts can also be explored for this purpose,” said Subramaniam. The team is now looking forward to industrial partners implementing their findings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-iit-b-researchers-develop-a-low-cost-way-of-extracting-hydrogen-from-water-101624041026599.html
19-06-2021||Delhi||Out-of-turn promotions for 68 Delhi cops||Sixty-eight Delhi Police personnel between sub-inspector and constable ranks were on Friday awarded “out-of-turn promotions” for “displaying extraordinary courage while arresting wanted criminals or for exemplary performance at work”, senior police officers said.Of the 68 who were promoted, 46 are from the special cell, a unit that looks into cases related to terrorism and organised syndicates involved in drug peddling, trafficking of firearms, and large-scale cyber crimes.The others were from the Dwarka, Rohini, south, north-west, west, outer-north and outer Delhipolice districts and the police control room (PCR) unit.The only PCR head constable promoted was rewarded for reuniting 100 missing children with their families between September 2020 and March 2021.Except one sub-inspector, all those promoted are constables, head constables and assistant sub-inspectors who have now got the next higher rank, the officers said.“I congratulate them for their achievements and wish them a bright career ahead,” Delhi Police commissioner SN Shrivastava tweeted from his official handle on Friday evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/out-of-turn-promotions-for-68-delhi-cops-101624040486821.html
19-06-2021||Delhi||After HC warning, markets in Delhi say onus also on shoppers to be responsible||Within two weeks of the easing of lockdown restrictions and reopening of markets, Covid-appropriate behaviour has gone for a toss in several areas, as crowds throng public spaces in the national capital.Taking cognisance of images of crowded marketplaces in the city, the Delhi high court on Friday called for stricter restrictions to prevent the spread of coronavirus. It warned that this may “hasten” the expected third wave, adding, “Gold help us if all that happens!”Traders’ associations said that though they have adopted different measures to control crowding and ensure social distancing, more cooperation was needed from shoppers, especially youngsters, who are “often spotted without masks”.Ashok Randhawa, president of the Sarojini Nagar Mini Market Traders’ Association, said that the market appointed 28 volunteers on Friday for additional monitoring and enforcement of protocols. “We have also created physical distancing markers outside all shops and are also providing masks to visitors if they don’t have one... We are aware that if the crowd increases, there is a possibility that the market might be sealed. This is against our interests at a time when we are barely making a living,” said Randhawa.Sanjay Bhargava, president, Chandni Chowk Sarv Vyapar Mandal, said that roadside encroachments were also making social distancing hard. “All encroachments need to be removed so that there is adequate space for movement... Many hawkers and rickshaw drivers are lax when it comes to masking. The authorities are not doing anything about it. Market associations are not enforcing agencies and can only do so much,” said Bhargava. He also said that it was crucial for the Metro to open all gates since serpentine queues were being witnessed outside.Sanjeev Mehra, president of Khan Market Traders’ association, called for stricter government monitoring. “Recently, we asked a woman to enter the shop after wearing the mask but she hit the owner instead. The government has to come down heavily on such people... We can’t do much,” said Mehra.Mall authorities contended that their facilities were safer. Vineet Parashar, head of operations, V3S mall and V3S East Center Mall, East Delhi, said, “So far, our mall has not seen a lot of footfall. People are yet to return but we are making periodic announcements. In addition to that, if anyone is found to be negligent, our staff will remind them.”An official from a South Delhi-based mall, who did not wish to be named, said that both staff and visitors need to adhere to Covid protocols.“If there is an issue or a customer is unruly, our security steps in but since reopening, most people are abiding by rules,” said the spokesperson.Sucheta Sharma, who visited DLF Promenade in Vasant Kunj this week, said that she wanted a breather after months of staying cooped in. “So far, the crowd doesn’t seem a lot and SOPs are also being followed,” she said.A 70-year-old woman, who came to mall along with family, said that she was a sceptical about going out.“There was a little fear but we are wearing masks and following the other norms,” said the woman, who did not wish to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/after-hc-warning-markets-in-delhi-say-onus-also-shoppers-to-be-responsible-101624040485697.html
19-06-2021||Mumbai||Drivable destinations a hit among travellers||As the impact of the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic seems to have weakened in Maharashtra and the country at large, travellers seem to be heading to driveable places either for the weekend, workation or staycations. With decrease in the number of cases in a few states like Maharashtra, governments have started to ease restrictions, resulting in people feeling positive towards stepping out of their homes.To add to the decrease in Covid-19 cases in the current month, the arrival of monsoons has added to the number of Mumbaiites travelling again.Destinations that are easy to drive to or a quick flight away are trending with families, solo travellers, small personal groups, couples and millennials. Micro trips are seen to be a rising travel trend, especially with Gen Z and millennials who see it as the best medium to escape their hectic work-from-home schedules.The Indian Hotels Company Limited (IHCL), of which Taj Hotels is a subsidiary, said they are seeing green shoots of travel begin to resume. “There has been an increase in demand for vacations at destinations located within driving distances from key cities and staycations within the cities. In and around Maharashtra, IHCL hotels and resorts in destinations such as Nashik have witnessed a substantial increase in occupancies, as have those in Rajasthan, Rishikesh, Theog and Corbett,” IHCL spokesperson said. She added, “IHCL’s ama Stays & Trails bungalows in Madh Island, Lonavala and Khadakvasla and also South Goa, which are at drivable distance from Mumbai and Maharashtra, have seen consecutive bookings. City hotels in Mumbai as well as those in Delhi have seen many takers for staycations especially over weekends.”According to Booking.Com, travellers are looking at alternative accommodation such as resorts and villas, getaways with more privacy and seclusion from the crowd.Ritu Mehrotra, regional manager - South Asia at Booking.com, said, “With the vaccine rollout well underway coupled with lockdown restrictions slowly being lifted across the country, we are noticing pent-up travel demand resurfacing, particularly for domestic destinations. Travellers are looking at shorter booking windows and closer-to-home drivable destinations to reconnect with others and themselves. Based on our recent data, some of the most searched destinations for the month of June in and around Mumbai include Lonavala, Pune, Ahmedabad, Nashik and Vadodara.” Five-star properties and other luxury suites enjoy maximum confidence due to pre-existing traveller trust in these brands as well as the transparency with which they display their sanitisation practices, assuring high standards of hygiene and safety.According to Vikas Chandak, SVP and head – strategic businesses, financial products, partnerships and alliances in InterMiles, as the second wave of Covid-19 peaked in Mumbai, May saw a lull in bookings. However, post unlocking, there has been a 151% increase in flight bookings for June, as compared to May. “We have also seen a tremendous 247% month-on-month increase for domestic hotel bookings via our platform, InterBook,” he said.“This is notably evident as over 90% bookings from April 2021 to June 2021 are for five-star properties in Mumbai, Pune, Lonavala and Nashik. Five-star properties like Trident (Nariman Point), JW Marriott (Juhu), Oxford Golf Resort (Pune) as well as 3+ star properties like The Source at Sula (Nashik) and Hotel Ritz (Pune) witnessed over 600% surge in bookings on InterBook in June 2021,” he added.However, InterMiles clarified that close to 60% accommodation reservations continue to remain instantaneous, with majority of travellers opting for same-day bookings or short lead time bookings.Within a week since restrictions began to ease, MakeMyTrip said that they have seen a jump of nearly 200% in hotel bookings for June. The portal said they are expecting week-on-week recovery to pick pace further as cases continue to drop further. “Booking patterns on MakeMyTrip indicate that confidence is building back in travel with cancellations being limited to only 10% of overall bookings being made on the platform for June. We are also seeing people book weekend getaways and staycations with many booking hotels for a minimum of two to three nights. Pricing for breakfast only packages continues to remain more or less the same as rates in January and February this year,” said Vipul Prakash, chief operating officer, MakeMyTrip. It is also observed that villas are now being perceived as a premium experience, given the privacy and exclusivity on offer. Villa stays have been a popular trend worldwide and is now a fast emerging trend in India.“Staying indoors for many months has created a strong pent up urge for travel, and people are eager to connect and travel once again. With restrictions beginning to ease in Maharashtra, we are seeing a rise in search for stays in destinations that are a short drive away such as Karjat, Lonavala, Mahabaleshwar, Alibag. Unique accommodation formats, such as villas and farmhouses that have an assortment of outdoor amenities or are laden with luxury features, remain highly sought after,” said Simran Kodesia, communications head, Airbnb, India and South East Asia.Travellers are opting for non-standard, eclectic accommodation such as colonial bungalows, plantation villas, heritage properties and palaces for non-standard/unique experiences like additional dining experiences, unique sightseeing, private transport and travel insurance. “Properties in Alibag, Lonavala, Goa, Mahabaleshwar, and Nashik are receiving enquiries and bookings. There has been an increase of over 300% for enquiries, which have been from key metros and tier-2 and tier-3 markets,” said Daniel D’souza, president and country head, Leisure, SOTC Travel. In order to attract travellers, SOTC has come up with ‘Holiday First and Pay Later’ offer for select states. To better understand consumer behaviours and travel needs, SOTC surveyed over 4,000 customers in June 2021 and found that 18% travellers are ready to travel immediately post unlock; 21% in next three months; 30% within six months; 31% in 2022. The survey also highlighted that travellers prefer flexible travel policies and health and safety are top priorities. It further found that around 81% respondents are seeking refundable/zero cancellation products.“We are seeing a surge of over 400% for villa accommodation in June vs May 2020, primarily for Maharashtra,” said Rajeev Kale, president and country head – holidays, MICE, visa, Thomas Cook (India) Ltd.“Our data in June highlights significant and growing demand for our Maharashtra villa staycations and workations from large/extended families and groups of young working professionals and friends, with source markets extending across Mumbai, Pune and tier-2 cities like Nagpur, Indore, Surat/Baroda and primarily for Alibag, Lonavala and Panchgani properties. With prices ranging from ₹25,000 to ₹30,000 per night for three- or four-bedroom villas, properties with swimming pool and garden/open areas are in high demand. A majority of the queries start with requirements for a weekend, but stays are being extended with growing interest for 10-15 days and more,” Kale added.However, there are some inhibitions due to inter-state travel restrictions, especially in states like Maharashtra where all passengers travelling by air are required to produce a negative RT-PCR report. Zubin Saxena, managing director and vice president operations, Radisson Hotel Group, South Asia, said, “Weekend occupancies in leisure destinations like Karjat and Alibag are beginning to show recovery compared to last month. We are also seeing enquiries for weddings and corporate bookings in destinations like Alibag and Ahmedabad. However, owing to fluid situations in government norms, guests are exercising caution in confirming these bookings. These are still early trends and a more definitive picture will emerge over the next few weeks. We remain hopeful that business will pick up as more states ease restrictions and pent up demand strengthens.”The Machan, an eco resort near Lonavala, has been a go-to place for weekend getaways and it is completely packed for the month. “At The Machan, we are socially distant by design, with only 29 Machans on a 25-acre property. Our goal has always been to provide our guests a getaway from city life that is steeped in nature affording them a chance to - Disconnect to Connect. With a keen focus on the health and safety of our staff and our guests we have found that travellers from Mumbai, Pune and beyond have honoured us by making us one of the most sought after travel destinations in India. On account of being cooped up in our homes during these rolling lockdowns, we find that the need to escape our city confines is greater than it has ever been. This is clearly reflected in our bookings funnels as the Month of June was completely full before we even entered the month,” said Sanat Hooja, partner, Machan Resorts.Raj Rabadia, a Vile Parle resident who had booked a villa in Lonavala, said, “The pandemic has forced us to be glued to our homes since long. As soon as I learn that the state is seeing lesser Covid cases now, I decided to spend a weekend with my friends and booked a villa to have some time out from our work-from-home lives.” Indraneel Sadadekar, an Andheri resident who decided to visit Amby Valley during weekdays, said, “I decided to stay in a villa for two weekdays with my family to spend some quality time and celebrate an occasion. We did not consider any other property than a villa for safety reasons. Travelling to a place near Mumbai and getting to breathe in some fresh air was much needed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/drivable-destinations-a-hit-among-travellers-101624039825794.html
19-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi traffic police notify plan to block vehicles in Chandni Chowk||The Delhi traffic police announced vehicular restrictions on roads leading to the main Chandni Chowk road from Saturday, two days after the Delhi government notified a similar proposal to speed up the completion of the redevelopment of the stretch. Traffic police advised commuters to use Delhi Metro and other public transport modes to avoid congestion.Vikram Singh, deputy commissioner of police (traffic), central zone, on Friday said that vehicles will not be allowed on the main Chandni Chowk road -- Red Fort to Fatehpuri Mosque -- from 9am to 9pm on all days, starting Saturday.“Only emergency vehicles, such as ambulances, fire tenders, hearse vans, and any other vehicle carrying pregnant women and patients, will be excused from the restrictions,” Singh said.The restrictions, however, will not apply on HC Sen Marg to Jubilee Cinema cut (opposite Gandhi Maidan parking); Rai Kedarnath Marg towards main Chandni Chowk Road to Rai Kedar Nath Marg T-Point (Town Hall entry road); Kachha Bagh Road, including Chandni Chowk metro station and Ramjas Senior Secondary School no-3, to main Chandni Chowk Road; Shanti Desai Marg towards main Chandni Chowk Road to Shanti Desai Marg T-Point (Town Hall exit road); and on the road leading to Bagh Diwar Park up to main Chandni Chowk Road (behind Dangal Maidan parking).Other roads where free movement of traffic will be allowed are Netaji Subhash Marg, Jama Masjid Road up to Chawri Bazar Road crossing, Chawri Bazar Road up to Hauz Qazi Chowk, Lal Kuan Road to Katra Bariyan Road T-point, and Katra Bariyan Road up to Fatehpuri Mosque T-Point.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-traffic-police-notify-plan-to-block-vehicles-in-chandni-chowk-101624039707607.html
19-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi Waqf board inks deal to repair Masjid Mubarak Begum, restore it to its former glory||The nearly 200-year-old Masjid Mubarak Begum’s central dome, which was damaged due to heavy rain last year, will be restored to its former glory with the help of an international heritage site preservation fund, officials of the Delhi Waqf board (DWB) said.Mehfooz Mohammad, section officer, DWB, said the board has already inked an agreement with World Monument Fund (WMF) -- a non-profit organisation that provides direct financial and technical support for preservation of heritage sites across the globe -- on the directions of the Waqf board CEO Tanvir Ahmed, and work on repairing one of the mosque’s three domes that collapsed due to heavy rain in July last year “will begin soon”. WMF officials said the work should be completed in “four-five months”.Waqf board officials said WMF approached the board with an offer to help in August last year. “We are hopeful that the mosque will be restored to its former glory. Work will be carried out on the central dome as well as some others areas damaged by the dome collapse,” said Mohammad, adding that the board had signed the agreement with Christopher Jeannopoulos, chief financial and administrative officer, WMF.Amita Baig, executive director, WMF India, said, “We are going to restore the broken dome and fix other portions inside. While we hope to complete the project in four to five months, there might be delays due to the pandemic.”Commissioned in 1822Masjid Mubarak Begum was commissioned in 1822 by Mubarak Begum, the wife of David Ochterlony, the first British Resident to the Mughal court after the British conquest of Delhi, said author and historian Swapna Liddle. Located in Old Delhi’s Hauz Qazi Chowk, the mosque is built using sandstone and painted in terracotta colour.Liddle said that conservation experts should take appropriate measures for the mosque’s repair and maintenance while factoring in its historical importance.“Mubarak Begum commissioned the construction of the mosque, and lived in a haveli next to it. She was well-respected and exercised much influence. People who wanted to approach Ochterlony would go through her. She was popularly called ‘Generalee Begum’ as Ochterlony was known as General Ochterlony,” said Liddle.She added that Begum remained active for a long time, and was a frequent visitor at the courts of Bahadur Shah Zafar and Akbar Shah.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-waqf-board-inks-deal-to-repair-masjid-mubarak-begum-restore-it-to-its-former-glory-101624039706998.html
19-06-2021||Delhi||Showers in store for Capital over weekend, predicts Met||The national capital is expected to receive light to moderate rainfall and thunder during the weekend as it awaits the arrival of the monsoon, the India Meteorological Department said on Friday.“Pre-monsoon showers are likely over the weekend, with rain and thunder likely to cover the entire city. Light rains will start from Saturday, and will intensify by Sunday,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre. He added that residents will have to wait a little longer for the official arrival of monsoon.On Friday, the maximum temperature at the Safdarjung weather station, which is considered the official marker for the city, was 36.6°C, three degrees below what is considered normal for this time of year. The minimum temperature here was 25.1°C, three degrees below normal.At the Palam observatory, the maximum temperature was 35.2°C, five degrees below normal, and the minimum temperature was 24.6°C, three degrees below normal.IMD forecasts about the monsoon have been consistently wrong this season.Last week, IMD announced that monsoon was expected to advance in the entire northwest India and hit Delhi by June 15. However, Met officials later retracted the forecast and said that the onset of monsoon had slowed down and is likely to take at least another week before it covers the Capital.On Thursday, IMD predicted that the monsoon will reach Delhi in five days.Some parts of Delhi and NCR received a brief spell of rain on Thursday, which also led to a slight drop in temperatures.The rain and the increased wind speeds on Thursday also led to an improvement in air quality on Friday.The Central Pollution Control Board recordings show that on Friday, Delhi’s overall air quality index was 81, in the satisfactory category. This was an improvement from Thursday’s 108 — moderate on the AQI scale.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/imdpredicts-light-to-moderate-rain-in-delhi-over-the-weekend-101624039645730.html
19-06-2021||Delhi||Private CBSE students say new plan puts them at a disadvantage||Class 12 students enrolled in the CBSE’s private, or patrachar, programme and those scheduled to appear in compartment tests for a second time opposed the board’s decisions to conduct exams for them, even as it announced an alternate assessment policy for regular students on Thursday. Several students in the private programme on Friday said the decision throws their futures into uncertainty, and demanded alternative assessment criterion.Shashwat Anand, 18, a private CBSE Class 12 candidate, said, “How can we predict when the situation will become conducive [for exams]? If the board has cancelled exams for regular students, why do we not get the same treatment? Most universities will start admissions as soon as Class 12 results are declared. What will we do then?”Students in the private programme are those not enrolled in any school, but registered with the CBSE for the Class 10 and 12 board exams. Last year, around 30,000 such students were registered for the Class 12 CBSE exams. Apart from students who need to appear for a second compartment test, also excluded from CBSE’s new Class 12 assessment formula are those who filled the improvement forms in order to appear for the test again. Last year, 29,000 students appeared in the Class 12 exams to improve their scores.Every year, students enrolled in the programme take exams with regular students and their results are announced together.Child rights activist and advocate Anubha Shrivastava Sahai, who earlier filed a petition demanding that all board exams be cancelled due to the pandemic, on Friday tweeted that she along with other lawyers would move an intervention petition on behalf of private and compartment students in the Supreme Court.The approved mechanism for CBSE includes a 30:30:40 formula, which takes into account a student’s performance in the last three examinations (the 12th pre-board, the 11th finals, and the 10th board) to settle at a score for the theory component of the examination.However, CBSE, in its notification, said, “For private, partrachar and 2nd chance compartment candidates, etc., the examination will be conducted by the Board as and when the conditions become conducive.”Several students on Friday tweeted with the #CancelCBSEprivateexam hashtag. “We too are CBSE students like those enrolled in schools. It should not waste our year,” said Prateek Raghav, another private Class 12 candidate.Shashank Singh, 19, who completed Class 12 last year but applied to appear in the improvement exams this year, on Friday submitted an appeal in CBSE’s Preet Vihar headquarters. “Since CBSE will declare the results of regular students before they do for private students, universities will admit those who have their results in hand... Please provide equal opportunities to private students to take admissions,” he said in the letter.CBSE’s controller of examinations Sanyam Bhardwaj said the board will try to find a solution. “We are working on this issue and will come out with a policy favourable for these students,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/private-cbse-students-say-new-plan-puts-them-at-a-disadvantage-101624039585713.html
19-06-2021||Pune||Rise in demand for spike protein antibody tests among vaccine beneficiaries||The spike protein antibody test has gained a lot of buzz among vaccine beneficiaries. After inoculation, many beneficiaries are undergoing the test to detect the presence of proteins created by the immune system to fight the SARS-CoV-2 virus. A private lab in Pune has observed a 25% surge in people opting for the antibody test in June as compared to April and May.According to medical experts, there are spike proteins in coronavirus that attach to the human cell and then the Covid infects the humans. There has been a lot of interest among people regarding the spike protein antibody test as soon as the vaccination drive was started for everyone.Dr Sanjay Ingle, zonal technical head (west) and consultant pathologist, Apollo Diagnostics, said, “This test targets antibodies that are directed against the spike proteins which allow the coronavirus to penetrate the human body and prevent one from contracting the virus. Majority of the vaccines which are available now, create an antibody response against the spike protein. People taking the test are keen to know how their bodies are reacting to the vaccine when it comes to the development of antibodies. This test helps understand the level of immunity obtained by vaccination. The spike protein antibodies tend to develop after two weeks of the second dose of vaccination. It is advisable to get this test done after 28 days of the second dose of vaccine.”The lab conducted about 160 antibodies tests in two months in which all the samples tested positive for antibodies.Dr Ingle said, “Once the spike protein is detected means the body has produced antibodies against the spike protein which is the infectious component of coronavirus. If you have a high number of antibodies after you are fully vaccinated then your chances of covid infection will be less. More and more people should go for it to know the immune status post-vaccination and assess their health. After a vaccine is administered, it is essential to know the antibody level in order to evaluate any change after complete vaccination.”“Many people are going for spike protein antibody tests, before and after inoculation, to check the level of antibodies formed in the body to fight Covid-19. But, people must opt for this test only after consulting a doctor. Do it when the doctor recommends you,” said Dr Sanjay Nagarkar, general physician.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/rise-in-demand-for-spike-protein-antibody-tests-among-vaccine-beneficiaries-in-pune-101624035085417.html
19-06-2021||Other||HC allows withdrawal of PIL seeking disposal of bodies buried near Ganga||PRAYAGRAJ: The Allahabad high court on Friday allowed withdrawal of a PIL seeking disposal of dead bodies buried near river Ganga at different ghats in Prayagraj, and stopping burials near the river. The court refused to pass “any order at this stage.”The bench observed, “Having gone through the entire petition, we are of the view that the petitioner has not done much research work in respect of rites and customs, which are prevalent among various communities living along the bank of river Ganga.”“Therefore, we are not inclined at this stage to cause any indulgence instead to allow the petitioner to withdraw the petition with a liberty to file fresh petition after inquiry and research in respect of the practice of last rites in various communities that are residing along the bank of Ganga. With a liberty above, the petition stands disposed of as withdrawn”, added the bench.The Bench comprising chief justice Sanjay Yadav and justice Prakash Padia disposed of the petition filed by one Pranvesh.The petitioner’s plea was that during the second wave of Covid-19, there were many who succumbed to the disease, but were not cremated properly and the state government must be directed to perform the cremation according to religious rites and dispose of the bodies buried near Ganga at different ghats in Prayagraj as early as possible.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hc-allows-withdrawal-of-pil-seeking-disposal-of-bodies-buried-near-ganga-101624034545441.html
19-06-2021||Patna||Bihar chief secy Tripurari Sharan set to get six-month extension||Bihar’s chief secretary Tripurari Sharan, who took charge as the state’s top bureaucrat on May 1 and is due to retire on June 30, is set to get a six-month extension, it’s reliable learnt.The 1985-batch Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer took over as chief secretary on May 1 this year following the death of his predecessor Arun Kumar Singh.It is learnt that the state government has got concurrence from the central government for giving extension to Sharan as chief secretary for six months , though there was no official confirmation.“Concurrence from the Centre is required for extension of chief secretary’s tenure. It is done at the highest level of chief minister’s office. So we are not aware of it,” said an official of the state’s general administration department.Chanchal Kumar, principal secretary, general administration department, could not be contacted despite several attempts.Officials in the state administration said the government was not very keen on a reshuffle in the top echelons of the bureaucracy amid the deadly second wave of coronavirus.Other contenders for the post of state’s top bureaucrat, as per seniority list, are Sanjeev Kumar Singh, a 1986- batch IAS officer posted as chairman and member of revenue board, development commissioner Amir Subhani of 1987 batch and Atul Prasad of the same batch posted as additional chief secretary, social welfare department.Singh is due to retire on May 31, 2022, while Prasad will retire on February 28, 2022. Subhani will retire on April 30, 2024.Over the last few years, the state government has given extension to incumbent chief secretaries Deepak Kumar and Anjani Kumar Singh.Deeepak Kumar, who retired on February 28 this year, was given two extensions of six months each last year. Kumar was appointed as principal secretary to the chief minister following his retirement.When contacted, chief secretary Sharan said he was not aware of any development regarding the possibility of him getting an extension.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/chief-secy-set-to-get-six-month-extension-101624033828268.html
19-06-2021||Lucknow||UP farmer’s son cleared JEE Main, but chose to serve the Army||The passing-out parade of the Indian Military Academy (IMA), Dehradun was held on June 12. It was a big moment for Anuj Dhariwal, 21, of Bharwara village of Sambhal district in UP, who has now been commissioned as a lieutenant in the Indian Army.“After the passing-out parade, I went home to share the joyous moment with my parents. Normally, parents are invited for the ceremony, but this didn’t happen this time due to the pandemic,” said Lieutenant Anuj Dhariwal, an alumnus of VidyaGyan (Bulandshahr). He looks forward to serve the country and motivate other village youth like him to join the forces.“I wanted to prove a point to all youngsters of this village that lack of resources cannot be a hurdle if you’re determined to achieve something in life,” said Anuj, whose father Mahendra Singh is a farmer with a meagre income of ₹1 lakh.While growing up, Anuj looked up to one of his maternal uncles who served in the Indian army. Given his family’s limited resources, Anuj’s goal seemed like a distant dream till he secured admission at Shiv Nadar Foundation’s VidyaGyan in 2010 (in Class 6). In 2017, after Class 12 he got into the NDA, Pune, where he stayed for three years and then went to the IMA, Dehradun.“In Class 12, we were exposed to multiple career options. I was preparing for JEE. I also had a chance to have a special interaction with Col (Retd) Gopal Karunakaran from the Shiv Nadar Foundation. It was an inspiring experience and he spoke to us about the positive aspects of working with the armed forces. Subsequently, I took the NDA test, which I cleared along with the SSB, and the rest is history,” said Anuj.On the misconceptions about the armed forces, Anuj said, “Students assume that one wouldn’t have to study as much as one did while preparing for the IITs. But NDA is no cakewalk, it’s a lot of physical and mental training and as difficult as preparing for the IITs.”Anuj’s rural background helped him during training sessions. “I am from a rural background and it helped. We used to play a lot in villages earlier and I used to help my father with farming, which allowed me to stay physically fit and also have the mental strength to overcome tough tasks. As I was physically fit, I didn’t face any struggle in the physical trainings at the academy,” he added.“Through his seven years at school, Anuj was nurtured and supported by his teachers to pursue his dream,” said Bishwajit Banerjee, principal of VidyaGyan, Bulandshahr.He scored 93.6% in Class 12 exams and cleared the JEE Main in 2017. However, Anuj chose to go for the National Defence Academy (NDA) and was successful when he cleared the written as well as the Service Selection Board interview.Anuj is not the only student from VidyaGyan to qualify the NDA. Seven others are currently at the academy undergoing the rigorous training programme.VidyaGyan is a residential co-ed school that offers free world-class education to rural, underprivileged meritorious students from families with an annual income of less than ₹1 lakh. They conduct entrance test to tap poor meritorious students who are about to clear Class 5. At VidyaGyan, the school starts from Class 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-farmer-s-son-cleared-jee-main-but-chose-to-serve-the-army-101624029866785.html
19-06-2021||World||Who is Ebrahim Raisi: All you need to know about Iran's new chief||Ebrahim Raisi's record of fierce loyalty to Iran's ruling clerics helped explain why the senior judge had been expected to win Friday's presidential election, a contest the authorities limited almost exclusively to hardline candidates like him.The win for Raisi, 60, an implacable critic of the West whose political patron is Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, burnishes his chances of one day succeeding Khamenei at the pinnacle of power, analysts say.Accused by critics of human rights abuses stretching back decades - allegations his defenders deny - Raisi was appointed by Khamenei to the high-profile job of judiciary chief in 2019.Later that year, Raisi headed the legal system as authorities used the courts to suppress the bloodiest political unrest since the 1979 Islamic revolution. Iran says its legal system is independent and not influenced by political interests."Raisi is a pillar of a system that jails, tortures, and kills people for daring to criticize state policies,” said Hadi Ghaemi, executive director of New York-based advocacy group the Center for Human Rights in Iran (CHRI), in a statement.Iran denies it tortures prisoners.A mid-ranking figure in the hierarchy of Iran’s Shi’ite Muslim clergy, Raisi has been a senior judiciary official for most of his career. He served as deputy head of the judiciary for 10 years, before being appointed prosecutor-general in 2014.Gaining a reputation as a feared security hawk, he was one of four judges who oversaw executions of thousands of political prisoners in 1988, rights groups say. Amnesty International has put the number executed at around 5,000, saying in a 2018 report that "the real number could be higher".SUPPORT FOR IRAN TALKSThe CHRI said that those executed were "buried in unmarked mass and individual graves, based on the committee’s determination of their 'loyalty' to the newly established Islamic Republic. These prisoners had already been tried and were serving their issued prison sentences".Iran has never acknowledged the mass executions. However, some clerics have said the trials of the prisoners were fair, and those judges involved should be rewarded for eliminating the armed opposition in the revolution's early years. Raisi himself has never publicly addressed allegations about his role.In 2020, U.N. human rights experts called for accountability over the 1988 deaths, warning "the situation may amount to crimes against humanity” if the Iranian government continued to refuse to hold responsible those involved.The United States imposed sanctions on Raisi in 2019 for human rights violations, including the 1980s executions and his part in the suppression of unrest in 2009.Raisi, who lost to pragmatist President Hassan Rouhani in 2017, offered no detailed political or economic programme during his election campaign, while wooing lower-income Iranians by promising to ease unemployment.However, by promising not to "waste a single moment" in removing U.S. sanctions, Raisi signalled his support for talks with world powers aimed at reviving a 2015 nuclear deal.A Raisi presidency will strengthen Khamenei's hand at home, and rights activists fear it could usher in more repression."He would not have registered as a candidate if his chances were not all but certain, and Raisi's decision to register would have almost certainly been guided by Khamenei himself," said Kasra Aarabi, a senior analyst on Iran & Shia Islamist Extremism at the Tony Blair Institute for Global Change. NEXT SUPREME LEADER? With the rejection of prominent moderate and conservative candidates by a hardline vetting body, voters had a choice only between hardliners and low-key moderates in the election. Turnout was, as expected, a record low amid rising anger over economic hardship and curbs on personal freedoms."By taking its exclusionary strategies to a new height, the Guardian Council has left no space for surprise," said Ali Vaez, senior adviser at the International Crisis Group. An election win would increase Raisi's chances of succeeding Khamenei, who himself served two terms as president before becoming supreme leader upon founder of the Islamic Revolution Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini's 1989 death, analysts said before Friday's vote."Raisi is someone that Khamenei trusts ... Raisi can protect the supreme leader's legacy," said Sanam Vakil, deputy director of Chatham House’s Middle East and North Africa Program.Born in 1960 to a religious family in Iran's holy Shi'ite Muslim city of Mashhad, Raisi was active in the 1979 revolution that toppled the U.S.-backed Shah and continues to proclaim his fidelity to the "fundamental values" of Khamenei."The deep state is willing to go as far as undermining one of its pillars of legitimacy to ensure that Ayatollah Khamenei's vision for the revolution's future survives him when Raisi takes over the Supreme Leader's mantle," said Vaez.Vaez was referring to the republican pillar of Iran's dual system of clerical and republican rule. Critics say the hardline election body's rejection of leading moderate and conservative hopefuls to enter the election race has cleared the way for tyranny, a charge Iranian authorities deny.(Writing by Parisa Hafezi; Editing by William Maclean and Frances Kerry)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-is-ebrahim-raisi-all-you-need-to-know-about-iran-s-new-likely-chief-101624126681498.html
19-06-2021||World||Palestinians rejected 'completely valid' vaccines, claims Israel||Israel's health ministry insisted Saturday that a shipment of Covid-19 vaccine doses the Palestinians rejected as about to expire were "completely valid".The Palestinian Authority on Friday called off a deal that would have seen Israel provide it with one million jabs in exchange for doses from Pfizer that the Palestinians are scheduled to receive later this year.PA spokesman Ibrahim Melhem said an initial delivery of some 90,000 Pfizer doses failed to conform "to the specifications contained in the agreement, and accordingly prime minister Mohammad Shtayyeh instructed the minister of health to cancel the agreement"."The government refuses to receive vaccines that are about to expire," Melhem said, in a statement carried by the official WAFA news agency.The Israeli health ministry said the vaccines it delivered were "completely valid", although the prime minister's office acknowledged Friday that they were "about to expire", without specifying the use-by date."The Palestinian health ministry received Pfizer vaccines that were valid, with expiration dates that were known, agreed on and that matched the agreement between the two sides," the ministry said.Israel has launched a sweeping vaccination campaign after obtaining millions of doses of the Pfizer vaccine.More than 55 percent of Israel's population -- some 5.1 million people -- have received both doses of the vaccine.Far fewer Palestinians -- just over 270,000 people -- have received their two doses in the West Bank and Gaza, according to the Palestinian health ministry.dac/hcPFIZER||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/palestinians-rejected-completely-valid-vaccines-says-israel-101624126182865.html
19-06-2021||World||Myanmar rejects UN resolution urging arms embargo after military coup||Myanmar’s Foreign Ministry on Saturday rejected a UN General Assembly resolution calling for an arms embargo against the Southeast Asian nation and condemning the military's February seizure of power.Myanmar described the resolution, which passed Friday and is not legally binding, as being “based on one-sided sweeping allegations and false assumptions.” The statement issued in the capital Naypyitaw said the Foreign Ministry had sent letters of objection to the UN secretary-general and the General Assembly's president.The resolution reflected a broad international consensus condemning the takeover that ousted Aung San Suu Kyi’s elected government. It called on the military junta to restore the country’s democratic transition, condemned its “excessive and lethal violence” since the takeover and called on all countries “to prevent the flow of arms into Myanmar.”The resolution also called on Myanmar's armed forces to immediately and unconditionally release Suu Kyi, President Win Myint and other officials and politicians detained after the coup, as well as “all those who have been arbitrarily detained, charged or arrested.”″The measure was approved with 119 countries voting “yes,” Belarus — a major arms supplier to Myanmar — voting “no” and 36 countries abstaining, including Myanmar’s neighbors China and India, along with Russia.Myanmar’s UN Ambassador Kyaw Moe Tun, who in February denounced the military takeover, voted “yes” and urged the international community “to take the strongest possible action to immediately end the military coup.”The Foreign Ministry statement said it considers Kyaw Moe Tun as having been dismissed from his position and noted that he has been charged with treason in Myanmar.“Accordingly, his statement, participation and action in the meeting are illegitimate and unacceptable and Myanmar strongly rejects his participation and statements,” it said.“While Myanmar embraces constructive advice by the international community in addressing the challenges that Myanmar is facing, any attempt infringing on the state sovereignty and interference in the internal affairs of Myanmar will not be accepted,” said the statement.The more powerful UN Security Council, whose resolutions are legally binding, has adopted several statements on Myanmar, including condemning the use of violence against peaceful protesters, calling on the military to restore the democratic transition and “exercise utmost restraint” and “on all sides to refrain from violence.”But it has never been able to condemn the coup or authorize an arms embargo or other sanctions because of an almost-certain veto by China, and possibly Russia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/myanmar-rejects-un-resolution-urging-arms-embargo-after-military-coup-101624122205870.html
19-06-2021||World||A packet of coffee in Kim Jong Un's North Korea costs $100: Report||North Korea's food crisis, which supreme leader Kim Jong-un has admitted, appears to be bigger than what it seemed as reports claimed that a packet of coffee in capital Pyongyang has gone up to $100 ( ₹7,381 approx). The price of a small packet of black tea has gone up to $70 ( ₹5,167) while one kilogram of banana costs $45 ( ₹3,336 approx). According to NK News, a bottle of shampoo is selling at $200 in Pyongyang.Rice and fuel prices have remained stable while the prices of imported products like sugar, soybean oil and flour have skyrocketed. In the four-day meeting of the ruling party, which ended on June 19, Kim admitted the crisis and swore to find a redressal to the situation.According to CNN, the depth of the crisis remains unknown as North Korea has not disclosed the scale of the shortage, but quoting the Food and Agriculture Organization's estimate, CNN said that the country is short of approximately 860,000 tons of food which is equivalent to over two months of national supply.The crisis started during winter of 2020 and 2021, which was a fallout of the decrease in the import owing to the pandemic. In May, it was reported that the farmers were asked to donate two litres of their urine daily to make fertiliser as for fertiliser the country is dependent on China. And the borders have been closed and trade remains suspended owing to the pandemic.In April, Kim was reported to have asked his officials to prepare for an "Arduous March", a term related to North Korea's devastating famine in the early 1990s. Only this time, it would be more difficult, Kim was believed to have said to his officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/a-packet-of-coffee-in-kim-jong-un-s-north-korea-costs-100-report-101624120363511.html
19-06-2021||World||Bidens 'beloved' German Shepherd Champ dies; president, first lady pay tribute||US President Joe Biden and First Lady Jill Biden on Saturday announced the passing away of their pet, Champ, who they called a “constant, cherished companion” for 13 years. “Our hearts are heavy today as we let you all know that our beloved German Shepherd, Champ, passed away peacefully at home,” the Bidens said in a statement released by the White House.Champ was one of two German Shepherds living at the White House with the Bidens, living alongside Major, the first rescue dog to live in the White House. Major had to be briefly removed from the premises after two incidents of nipping staff on White House grounds.The arrival of Champ and Major marked the return of pets to the White House after a four-year hiatus under former President Donald Trump. Champ lived with the Bidens when the current president served as vice president under Barack Obama, and spent his days, "chasing golf balls on the front lawn of the Naval Observatory."“Even as Champ’s strength waned in his last months, when we came into a room, he would immediately pull himself up, his tail always wagging, and nuzzle us for an ear scratch or a belly rub,” the Bidens said.“In our most joyful moments and in our most grief-stricken days, he was there with us, sensitive to our every unspoken feeling and emotion. We love our sweet, good boy and will miss him always,” they added.(With agency input)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/bidens-beloved-german-shepherd-champ-dies-president-first-lady-pay-tribute-101624119516516.html
19-06-2021||World||Many Brazilians insist on hard-to-find Pfizer, hesitant to Sinovac, AstraZeneca||Brazil is approaching half a million Covid deaths, a toll second only to the U.S. that shows few signs of easing. Yet residents are spurning vaccines that they believe are substandard in favor of hard-to-find shots from Pfizer Inc.In Sao Paulo, people demand the U.S. company’s shots at public clinics and often walk out if none are available. Some health-care centers have put up signs saying “no Pfizer shots” to save time. Many vaccination centers are empty, and the few that have Pfizer have massive lines.Maressa Tavares, a 29-year-old teacher, could have gotten her shot two weeks ago in Rio de Janeiro. But at the request of her father, she’s holding out for Pfizer. “For me, it didn’t make a lot of difference which one to take, but my father has very strong beliefs,” she said.Such reluctance is hobbling a vaccination campaign already plagued by shortages and delays. Failure to control the disease would harm not only Brazilians, who are dying at the rate of about 2,000 a day, but also threaten a global resurgence of the pandemic if the nation of 213 million becomes a breeding ground for new strains.China’s Sinovac and England’s AstraZeneca Plc account for about 96% of shots available in the country, compared with just 4% for Pfizer, according to government data.While doctors say residents should get any shot available, Sinovac’s CoronaVac has a far lower efficacy rate than other vaccines, and President Jair Bolsonaro bashed its “origin” and initially refused to buy it. Astra saw its usage suffer worldwide thanks to rare blood clots, side effects and a still-pending approval in the U.S.“At first, people were afraid to get CoronaVac, because it’s Chinese, and now it’s Astra because of the reactions,” said Luiz Carlos de Souza e Silva, a nurse who helps immunize people at a public clinic in Rio. “People are really misinformed, the government took too long to come up with a vaccination plan, that creates a lot of fear.”Hesitancy isn’t uniquely Brazilian. Amesh Adalja, who studies pandemics at the Johns Hopkins Center for Health Security in Baltimore, said it has existed ever since the smallpox vaccine was created in 1796. More than two centuries later, U.S. officials have promised everything from french fries to lottery prizes to persuade people. In Europe, Astra usage stalled after the blood-clot reports, and Uruguay even threw away doses.But nowhere are vaccines needed more than Brazil. The country has given out more than 86 million shots, but that covers less than 30% of the population with a first dose and just 12% with two, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Adalja said misinformation on social media, combined with “denial from the highest levels of the government,” have hindered Brazil’s campaign.If the virus continues to spread unchecked, Adalja said, new variants may emerge. Many have already appeared, including the highly contagious gamma, which was first documented in Brazil in November and has since spread to 64 countries. Vaccines appear effective against these variants, but countries with low vaccination rates could plunge deeper into crisis.In Brazil, contagion remains high -- and could worsen as winter arrives in the Southern Hemisphere. Some cities and states are reinstating lockdowns, but after some 15 months of slap-dash quarantines, such measures have become less effective.“The virus is circulating like crazy, a lot of people are infected, few are vaccinated, and mostly just with first doses,” said Atila Iamarino, a biologist educated at the University of Sao Paulo and Yale who specializes in virology. “Opting to wait for this or that vaccine is extremely dangerous.”The government began an organization campaign to push vaccination and masks only in May, more than a year after the virus arrived. Bolsonaro has minimized the crisis throughout. In the past week alone, he was the star of a motorcycle rally in his honor in Sao Paulo, criticized lockdowns and ordered the health ministry to study making masks optional.Unlike the U.S., which earlier bet on several vaccines, Brazil opted to buy only Astra, which has an efficacy rate of about 63% against symptomatic disease. After delays, governors and mayors sought contracts of their own. As options ran out, the government finally struck an agreement for CoronaVac, a shot with an efficacy rate of about 51% that Bolsonaro has publicly disavowed several times.After being criticized during a congressional probe for not buying 95%-effective Pfizer vaccines, the president has begun to highlight arrivals of new batches -- though he still questions the science behind them. He said Thursday that getting sick is a more effective way of protection, and has yet to get a shot himself.Experts say that even less effective shots are well worth taking, but Bolsonaro’s mistrust is reflected among his supporters. Edilson Pessanha, father of Maressa Tavares, delayed his immunization about three months until he could get the U.S. vaccine. He said he feared CoronaVac.“People prefer excellence,” the 62-year-old farmer said. “I research and want what’s best for me, what’s best for our country, which is what’s happening. Bolsonaro is doing what’s best for us.”Natalia Pasternak, a microbiologist who’s become a vocal critic of the government’s handling of the pandemic and testified before Congress, calls such people “vaccine sommeliers.”“It’s the government’s job to tell people they shouldn’t be cherry-picking, they’re all effective and the ‘good’ one is any you take,” Pasternak said in an interview.Still, the pace has picked up recently. After a sharp drop in May, the average number of daily doses given has climbed to about 984,000 in June, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The progress has made markets more optimistic for the outlook for Latin America’s largest economy, sending stocks soaring. More doses are expected to arrive in the second half of the year.But for now, experts see Brazil stuck as the virus rages. With more than 17 million confirmed cases, the country ranks third in infections, trailing the U.S. and India. It’s second in deaths, about 1,500 shy of 500,000 less than two months after crossing the 400,000 mark.Fiocruz, an institution that monitors the disease, called the situation “critical” in a Thursday report. It said the average age of deaths has dropped below 60 for the first time, months after similar moves in cases and hospitalizations. Now, more than half of deaths occur in those between 20 and 59 years.“It’s absurd that we look at these numbers of daily deaths and think it’s OK -- this isn’t OK,” Pasternak said. “A lot of people are seeing other countries going back to normal, and believe we’re also there, but clearly that’s not the case.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/many-brazilians-insist-on-hard-to-find-pfizer-hesitant-to-sinovac-astrazeneca-101624107019709.html
19-06-2021||World||'Crying and begging': Afghanistan running out of oxygen as Covid surge worsens||Afghanistan's is racing to ramp up supplies of oxygen as a deadly third surge of Covid-19 worsens, a senior health official told The Associated Press in an interview Saturday.The government is installing oxygen supply plants in 10 provinces where up to 65% of those tested in some areas are Covid positive, health ministry spokesman Ghulam Dastigir Nazari said.By WHO recommendations, anything higher than 5% shows officials aren’t testing widely enough, allowing the virus to spread unchecked.By WHO recommendations, anything higher than 5% shows officials aren’t testing widely enough, allowing the virus to spread unchecked. Afghanistan carries out barely 4,000 tests a day and often much less.Afghanistan's 24-hour infection count has also continued its upward climb from 1,500 at the end of May when the health ministry was already calling the surge “a crisis,” to more than 2,300 this week. Since the pandemic outbreak, Afghanistan is reporting 101,906 positive cases and 4,122 deaths. But those figures are likely a massive undercount, registering only deaths in hospitals — not the far greater numbers who die at home.Meanwhile, Afghanistan received 900 oxygen cylinders from Iran on Saturday, part of 3,800 cylinders Tehran promised to deliver to Kabul last week. The shipment was delayed by Iran's presidential elections, said Nazari.Afghanistan has even run out of empty cylinders, receiving a delivery of 1,000 last week from Uzbekistan.Meanwhile hospitals are rationing their oxygen supplies. Afghans desperate for oxygen are banging on the doors of the few oxygen suppliers in the Afghan capital, begging for their empty cylinders to be filled for Covid infected loved ones at home.Abdul Wasi, whose wife has been sick for nearly 10 days, has been waiting four days for one 45-liter cylinder to be filled at the Najb Siddiqi oxygen plant in east Kabul. Scores of mostly men were banging on the 10-foot steel gate of the oxygen plant. Some rolled their empty oxygen cylinders up against the gate, while others waved small slips of paper carrying the number of their cylinder inside the plant, waiting to be filled.Wasi said there were no hospital beds for his wife, whose oxygen level hovers around 70-80%. They are rationing her, he said giving her small amounts of oxygen when it drops to around 45 -50%.“How can I do anything else? I have been waiting four days for my cylinder to be filled,” he said. The oxygen plant refills cylinders for 400 Afghanis (roughly $5), while in the market it costs 4,000 Afghanis (roughly $50).For the country’s poor — over half of Afghanistan 36 million people according to World Bank figures — the situation has become desperate.Wasi said on Friday as he waited outside the oxygen plant that a patient on a stretcher was carried to the door while the family begged for oxygen. The patient died.“Right there,” he said pointing to the gate. “I saw them carrying the patient. They were crying and begging and then he died.”Barat Ali had arrived at the plant at 6 a.m. Saturday. It was his third day waiting for his cylinder to be filled.“The poor people in this country have nothing. I have been standing in the sun for eight hours,” he said clutching his small piece of paper that contained his cylinder number. The government “has eaten all the (international) donations.”Necephor Mghendi, who is the Afghanistan delegation head for the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies, told the AP in an interview in Kabul that the groups are working to get an oxygen generation plant into the country. The Afghan Red Crescent runs a 50-bed hospital devoted to Covid patients and uses roughly 250 cylinders a day, but in recent days it has been receiving barely half that many.The needs are critical he said, offering as an example one patient currently at the Red Crescent hospital who needs one 45-litre cylinder every 15 minutes to stay alive, he said.“The situation is very concerning,” he said.Inside the Najib Siddiqi oxygen plant dozens of cylinders were being filled, but owner Najib Siddiqi said he can’t keep up. He supplies hospitals but has cut output to them by half, with the other half going to the crowds banging on his gates. He even fills smaller cylinders for free, but he has only the capacity to fill 450-500 cylinders a day.“It’s not enough. They are outside like this all day,” he said.Sakhi Ahmad Payman, chairman of the Afghanistan Chamber of Industries and Mines, who was inside the plant having made a tour of the oxygen plants in the city, said all nine facilities in Kabul were overwhelmed. Countrywide he said Afghanistan has 30 oxygen producing plants, and all are unable to keep up with demand.Payman blasted the government.“They knew we were in the middle of a crisis and didn’t do anything until it was too late,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/crying-and-begging-afghanistan-running-out-of-oxygen-as-covid-surge-worsens-101624116051803.html
19-06-2021||World||Brazil inches close to half a million Covid-19 deaths, second worst-hit globally||Already battered by the delayed vaccination campaign and the government's staunch opposition to social distancing measures, Brazil is expected to cross the grim milestone of at least half a million deaths due to coronavirus disease (Covid-19). As of Friday, Brazil has registered 498,499 deaths and a total of 17,801,462 confirmed Covid-19 cases, according to the official data. Brazil continues to be the second worst-hit nation globally - second after the United States. In the last week, Brazil saw 2,000 deaths per day on average.Adding to Brazil's woes, the slow-paced vaccination campaign has seen only 11% of Brazilians fully vaccinated. The crisis, experts say, may worsen with the winter arriving in the southern hemisphere and new variants of the coronavirus circulating, deaths will continue to mount even if immunizations gain steam.The virus-driven crisis is far from over for the Americas as officials recorded 1.1 million new cases and 31,000 deaths in the last week. Six Mexican states - Belize, Guatemala, Panama and parts of the Caribbean continue to see a surge. The Pan American Health Organization (PAHO) has warned that Colombia's Covid-19 situation is at its worst point yet, with intensive care unit beds filled in major cities.As seen with several nations battling the viral disease, experts suggest that the deaths in Brazil are not going to slow down before they reach close to a million. "I think we are going to reach 700,000 or 800,000 deaths before we get to see the effects of vaccination," Gonzalo Vecina, former head of Brazilian health regulator Anvisa, was quoted a saying by Reuters. "We are experiencing the arrival of these new variants and the Indian variant will send us for a loop," Vecina said, predicting a near-term acceleration in fatalities.The former health official criticized far-right President Jair Bolsonaro's handling of the pandemic, including the lack of a coordinated national response and his skepticism toward vaccines, lockdowns and mask-wearing requirements, which he has sought to loosen.Raphael Guimaraes, a researcher at the Brazilian biomedical center Fiocruz pointed out the downfall of the delayed vaccination programme. Guimaraes said the full effects of the inoculation drive would not be felt until September or later.Brazil could revisit scenes from the worst of its March-April peak when the country averaged 3,000 deaths per day, he warned. "We are still in an extremely critical situation, with very high transmission rates and hospital bed occupancy that is still critical in many places," he said.This week, new confirmed cases in Brazil accelerated to more than 70,000 per day on average, edging past India for the most in the world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/brazil-inches-close-to-half-a-million-covid-19-deaths-second-worst-hit-globally-101624112171831.html
19-06-2021||World||Putin promises billions of Russian rubles in spending ahead of polls||President Vladimir Putin proposed Saturday at his United Russia party congress billons of rubles in spending ahead of September parliamentary polls that could see the deeply unpopular party struggle.Addressing several hundred of his mostly mask-wearing and socially-distanced loyalists in a Moscow convention centre as the capital set a pandemic high for new Covid cases for the second straight day, Putin proposed deploying billions towards social support.This included 50 billion rubles ($687 million) on public transport, 30 billion rubles for repairing roads and 20 billion rubles to clean up rivers, among other spending projects on infrastructure and healthcare."The program of the party of the leader has to be the program of the people," the 68-year-old Kremlin chief said in a speech broadcast on state television.He also said the state would be allocating payments and new forms of support for families starting next month."Our task is to significantly increase the prosperity of Russian families and the incomes of our citizens," Putin said.The gathering, which determines the ruling party's candidates and electoral platform for September's lower house of parliament vote, comes after the party has seen support tumble in recent years amid economic stagnation, entrenched corruption and widespread voter fatigue.On Friday, state-run pollster VTsIOM published a survey showing that 30 percent of voters support United Russia -- a 10-point drop from the last lower house State Duma elections in 2016.Navalny neutralisedBut the party, which controls a majority of the State Duma, is projecting calm."It is a good base of support that can be further increased during the election campaign," party chairman and former president and prime minister Dmitry Medvedev said at the start of the month.Putin, who came to power in 2000, himself boasts much higher support than his party with an approval rating of 61.5 percent, according to VTsIOM.The pollster also predicts that three opposition parties that are seen as doing the Kremlin's bidding -- the nationalist LDPR, the Communists and A Just Russia -- will garner around 30 percent of the vote.Further buoying the Kremlin's prospects in September is the recent dismantling of the movement of Russia's main opposition politician Alexei Navalny.Barring his organisations from working in the country, a Moscow court earlier this month branded them as "extremist", while Putin signed legislation outlawing staff, members and sponsors of "extremist" groups from running in parliamentary elections.Critics say the moves were aimed at ensuring that Navalny, who was jailed earlier this year for two-and-a-half years on old fraud charges he says are politically motivated, does not spoil September's vote for the Kremlin.Despite the clampdown, Navalny's allies are promoting his Smart Voting strategy that backs candidates best placed to defeat Kremlin-linked politicians -- a tactic that has seen United Russia lose a number of seats in recent local elections.'All opponents in prison'But less known opposition candidates that Smart Voting could help prop up have faced pressure too.Police this month have arrested at least two municipal lawmakers and one pro-democracy activist who had declared their intentions to run.Meanwhile, opposition politician Dmitry Gudkov fled to Ukraine after he said sources close to the Kremlin told him he would be arrested if he did not leave.Critics also claim that authorities will rig the vote in their favour in September.On Friday, Russia's elections chief announced the parliamentary polls would be staggered from September 17 to September 19 to limit the spread of coronavirus.Last summer, after authorities held a constitutional referendum over one week, independent election monitor Golos said it had received hundreds of complaints of violations including multiple voting and intimidation.The opposition said the multi-day nature of the referendum -- which paved the way for Putin to stay in power until 2036 -- gave election officials greater opportunities to fix the vote as the ballots were held overnight.At Saturday's congress, Putin told his party that they must make sure September's elections are conducted fairly and legally."Open battle and honest win, hello? You put all your opponents in prison," tweeted Navalny aide Georgy Alburov.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/putin-promises-billions-of-russian-rubles-in-spending-ahead-of-polls-101624111470473.html
19-06-2021||World||Mystery of ‘see-through’ galaxy deepens after new Hubble observation: Nasa||The mystery behind the unusual “see-through” galaxy discovered using Nasa’s Hubble telescope has only deepened, the US space agency said on Friday. When astronomers first discovered the giant cosmic cotton ball, it looked like the galaxy didn’t have much dark matter, the invisible glue that makes up the bulk of the universe's matter.All galaxies, according to Nasa, appear to be dominated by dark matter and astronomers looked for a simpler explanation after they uncovered the oddball galaxy. In a Hubble Space Telescope snapshot of the galaxy, its ancient stars were so spread out that distant galaxies in the background could be seen through it.“So, finding a galaxy lacking the invisible stuff is an extraordinary claim that challenges conventional wisdom. It would have the potential to upset theories of galaxy formation and evolution,” Nasa said in a statement.The US space agency said that the ultra-diffuse galaxy, first reported in 2018, is almost as wide as the Milky Way but it “contains only 1/200th the number of stars as our galaxy.” The ghostly galaxy, named NGC 1052-DF2, or DF2, doesn't appear to have a noticeable central region, spiral arms, or a disk. Determining the amount of the galaxy's dark matter depends on accurate measurements of how far away it is from Earth."I think people were right to question it because it's such an unusual result. It would be nice if there were a simple explanation, like a wrong distance. But I think it's more fun and more interesting if it actually is a weird galaxy," said Pieter van Dokkum, lead researcher of the Hubble observations.Also Read | ‘Cosmic masterpiece’: New Nasa image shows ‘violent energy’ of Milky Way ‘downtown’To bolster their original finding, the researchers followed up their initial study. They observed about 5,400 ageing red giant stars using Hubble to calculate a more accurate distance to the galaxy. The red giant stars reach the same peak brightness, so they are reliable yardsticks to measure distances to galaxies.The researchers estimated that DF2 is 72 million light-years from Earth, which places the galaxy farther than the original Hubble 2018 estimate of 65 light-years distance. Nasa said that the distance measurement solidifies their claim that DF2 lacks dark matter. The galaxy contains at most 1/400th the amount of dark matter that the astronomers had expected.“So the mystery of why DF2 is missing most of its dark matter still persists,” Nasa added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/mystery-of-see-through-galaxy-deepens-after-new-hubble-observation-nasa-101624113258931.html
19-06-2021||World||Third wave of Covid-19 arrives in UK, says expert as Delta variant wreaks havoc||The race against time for United Kingdom may have begun as the nation is undergoing a third wave of coronavirus infections driven by the Delta variant - first found in India, an expert said. UK will now witness tough competition between the vaccines and the highly transmissible Delta variant, Professor Adam Finn, advisor on the Joint Committee on Vaccination and Immunisation (JVCI) said on Saturday. On Friday, for the first time in four months, United Kingdom recorded 11,007 new Covid-19 cases in 24 hours, with the emergence of the Delta variant. The fresh surge has pushed the figure above 10,000 for the first time since late February.Pointing out the rise in cases, although at a slower pace, Professor Finn said, "It's going up, perhaps we can be a little bit optimistic it's not going up any faster, but nevertheless it's going up, so this third wave is definitely underway."UK will have to vaccinate its population fast against the deadly virus in order to prevent spike in infection and deaths, which implies the clock is ticking for the nation with the arrival of Delta variant. "We can conclude that the race is firmly on between the vaccine programme, particularly getting older people's second doses done, and the Delta variant third wave," Professor Fin said, reported PTI.Alongside, British Prime Minister Boris Johnson had said he was very confident that he would be able to lift remaining coronavirus restrictions on his new target date of July 19, based on the most recent data but was forced to delay the opening-up plan. "I am very confident that we'll be able to go through with step four of the roadmap on the timetable that I've set out with treating July 19, as I've said, as a terminus date," PM Johnson had said. The government has now delayed the planned lifting of remaining social and economic restrictions until July 19 amid a rise in cases driven by the highly contagious delta variant.As per the latest figures, around eight in 10 adults have received their first dose while more than half have had their second dose. The reliance on vaccine is seen a as vital in the fight against the highly transmissible Covid-19 variant. However, Professor Finn stated that he is not confident about the vaccine strategy defeating Delta variant. However, it may help the UK fight the outbreak in the third wave, he said. "No, I don't feel confident, but I think there's some grounds for optimism. The latest ONS [Office for National Statistics] figures continue to show a rise, but that rise has not accelerated quite as much as I'd feared over the last week,” he said."So, the race is on. The sooner we can get, particularly second doses, into older people, the less of a hospitalisation wave we'll see this time around. That's the critical thing, that's what's grounded us all in the past, and if we've managed to protect enough older people that we can avoid a great big surge of hospitalisations and deaths, then things will be able to move back towards normal," Professor Finn said. The latest ONS figures show that one in every 540 people is infected, with the Delta variant now the dominant strain of the deadly virus circulating in the country and accounting for almost all infections.Surge testing is being rolled out in further parts of England, including south London, to track the spread of the growing Delta variant.Britain has recorded almost 128,000 coronavirus deaths, the highest toll in Europe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/third-wave-of-covid-19-arrives-in-uk-says-expert-as-delta-variant-wreaks-havoc-101624105595519.html
19-06-2021||World||US triples Moderna Covid vaccines for Taiwan with 2.5 million-dose shipment||The United States will ship 2.5 million Covid-19 vaccine doses to Taiwan on Saturday, a senior administration official told Reuters, more than tripling Washington's previous allocation of shots for the island, which has faced increasing political and military pressure from China.Washington, competing with Beijing to deepen geopolitical clout through so-called "vaccine diplomacy", initially had promised to donate 750,000 doses to Taiwan, but is increasing that number as President Joe Biden's administration advances its pledge to send 80 million US-made shots around the world.China, which considers Taiwan an integral part of its territory, has repeatedly offered to send coronavirus vaccines to the island, which has been battling a spike in domestic infections. Taipei has expressed concern about the safety of Chinese shots.The 2.5 million donated doses of the Moderna Inc vaccine will leave Memphis, Tennessee, on a flight belonging to Taiwan's China Airlines early on Saturday and arrive in Taipei on Sunday evening, the senior US administration official said, adding that the prompt delivery was due to experts from both sides being able to work out regulatory issues."We are not allocating these doses, or delivering these doses, based on political or economic conditions. We are donating these vaccines with the singular objective of saving lives," the official said."Our vaccines do not come with strings attached," the official said, adding Taiwan had "faced unfair challenges in its efforts to acquire vaccines on the global marketplace."A deal for Taiwan to purchase vaccines from Germany's BioNTech SE fell through this year, with Taiwan's government blaming pressure from Beijing.China has denied the accusation, saying Taiwan is free to obtain the vaccines through Shanghai Fosun Pharmaceutical Group Co Ltd, which has a contract to sell BioNTech's vaccine in China, Hong Kong, Macau and Taiwan."We believe that these attempts by China to block purchases, for political purposes, are reprehensible," the senior Biden administration official said.Taiwan is trying to speed up the arrival of the millions of vaccines it has on order, although infections remain comparatively low despite a rise in domestic cases. Only around 6% of Taiwan's 23.5 million people have received at least one shot of a vaccine regimen.The US shipment comes at a time when Washington has been working with Taipei to create secure supply chains for strategic items such as computer chips, of which Taiwan is a key producer, that are vital for US automobile manufacturers and other industries.It also comes after Taiwan announced on Friday that it will allow Terry Gou, the billionaire founder of Taiwan's Foxconn and semiconductor giant TSMC, to negotiate on its behalf for Covid-19 vaccines.Jonathan Fritz, a senior State Department official, said on Thursday that China had been "very aggressively using vaccine donations as a lever to induce more of Taiwan's diplomatic partners to switch recognition."Beijing has steadily whittled down the number of Taiwan's diplomatic allies, which now stands at just 15 countries.The United States, which like most countries has no formal diplomatic ties with Taiwan, has watched with alarm the stepped up tensions with Beijing and Biden's administration has vowed to boost ties with the island, which it is required under US law to supply with the means of defense.Earlier this week Taiwan reported the largest incursion yet by China's air force, including fighters and nuclear-capable bombers, into its air defense identification zone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-triples-moderna-covid-vaccines-for-taiwan-with-2-5-million-dose-shipment-101624107047772.html
19-06-2021||World||Hit by a ransomware attack in US? Your payment may be tax deductible||As ransomware attacks surge, the FBI is doubling down on its guidance to affected businesses: Don't pay the cybercriminals. But the US government also offers a little-noticed incentive for those who do pay: The ransoms may be tax deductible.The IRS offers no formal guidance on ransomware payments, but multiple tax experts interviewed by The Associated Press said deductions are usually allowed under law and established guidance. It’s a “silver lining” to ransomware victims, as some tax lawyers and accountants put it.But those looking to discourage payments are less sanguine. They fear the deduction is a potentially problematic incentive that could entice businesses to pay ransoms against the advice of law enforcement. At a minimum, they say, the deductibility sends a discordant message to businesses under duress.“It seems a little incongruous to me,” said New York Rep. John Katko, the top Republican on the House Committee on Homeland Security.Deductibility is a piece of a bigger quandary stemming from the rise in ransomware attacks, in which cybercriminals scramble computer data and demand payment for unlocking the files. The government doesn’t want payments that fund criminal gangs and could encourage more attacks. But failing to pay can have devastating consequences for businesses and potentially for the economy overall.A ransomware attack on Colonial Pipeline last month led to gas shortages in parts of the United States. The company, which transports about 45% of fuel consumed on the East Coast, paid a ransom of 75 bitcoin — then valued at roughly $4.4 million. An attack on JBS SA, the world’s largest meat processing company, threatened to disrupt food supplies. The company said it had paid the equivalent of $11 million to hackers who broke into its computer system.Ransomware has become a multibillion-dollar business, and the average payment was more than $310,000 last year, up 171% from 2019, according to Palo Alto Networks.The companies that pay ransomware demands directly are well within their rights to claim a deduction, tax experts said. To be tax deductible, businesses expenses should be considered ordinary and necessary. Companies have long been able to deduct losses from more traditional crimes, such as robbery or embezzlement, and experts say ransomware payments are usually valid, too.“I would counsel a client to take a deduction for it,” says Scott Harty, a corporate tax attorney with Alston & Bird. “It fits the definition of an ordinary and necessary expense.”Don Williamson, a tax professor at the Kogod School of Business at American University, wrote a paper about the tax consequences of ransomware payments in 2017. Since then, he said, the rise of ransomware attacks has only strengthened the case for the IRS to allow ransomware payments as tax deductions.“It’s becoming more common, so therefore it becomes more ordinary,” he said.That’s all the more reason, critics say, to disallow ransomware payments as tax deductions.“The cheaper we make it to pay that ransom, then the more incentives we’re creating for companies to pay, and the more incentives we’re creating for companies to pay, the more incentive we’re creating for criminals to continue,” said Josephine Wolff, a cybersecurity policy professor at the Fletcher School of Tufts University.For years, ransomware was more of an economic nuisance than a major national threat. But attacks launched by foreign cybergangs out of reach of U.S. law enforcement have proliferated in scale over the past year and thrust the problem of ransomware onto the front pages.In response, top U.S. law enforcement officials have urged companies not to meet ransomware demands.“It is our policy, it is our guidance, from the FBI, that companies should not pay the ransom for a number of reasons,” FBI Director Christopher Wray testified this month before Congress. That message was echoed at another hearing this week by Eric Goldstein, a top official at the Department of Homeland Security’s Cybersecurity & Infrastructure Security Agency.Officials warn that payments lead to more ransomware attacks. “We’re in this boat we’re in now because over the last several years people have paid the ransom,” Stephen Nix, assistant to the special agent in charge at the U.S. Secret Service, said at a recent summit on cybersecurity.It's unclear how many companies that pay ransomware payments avail themselves of the tax deductions. When asked at a congressional hearing whether the company would pursue a tax deduction for the payment, Colonial CEO Joseph Blount said he was unaware that was a possibility.“Great question. I had no idea about that. Not aware of that at all,” he said.There are limits to the deduction. If the loss to the company is covered by cyber insurance — something that also is becoming more common — the company can’t take a deduction for the payment that’s made by the insurer.The number of active cyber insurance policies jumped from 2.2 million to 3.6 million from 2016 to 2019, a 60% increase, according to a new report from the Government Accountability Office, Congress’ auditing arm. Linked to that was a 50% increase in insurance premiums paid, from $2.1 billion to $3.1 billion.The Biden administration has pledged to make curbing ransomware a priority in the wake of a series of high-profile intrusions and said it is reviewing the U.S. government’s policies related to ransomware. It has not provided any detail about what changes, if any, it may make related to the tax deductibility of ransomware.“The IRS is aware of this and looking into it,” said IRS spokesperson Robyn Walker.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hit-by-a-ransomware-attack-in-us-your-payment-may-be-tax-deductible-101624103595847.html
19-06-2021||World||Second Ebola outbreak officially over in Guinea, announces WHO||The second Ebola outbreak in Guinea is officially over, the World Health Organization announced on Saturday. The disease outbreak had erupted in the west African state on February 14. Marking the end of disease outbreak, WHO official Alfred Ki-Zerbo on Saturday said, "I have the honour of declaring the end of Ebola", reported news agency AFP. Zerbo was addressing a ceremony in the southeastern Nzerekore region where the disease surfaced at the end of January.In its first deadly wave in 2013-2016, the Ebola outbreak killed 11,300 people in West Africa's Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone. The country is set to announce an end to the Ebola epidemic in the West African state this weekend, the health minister Remy Lamah said on Saturday. Lamah, on Thursday, credited the speed of the health response for getting the outbreak under control.Lamy confirmed the viral epidemic will be declared over on Saturday -- barring the discovery of new cases. The health minister was addressing a webinar hosted by the WHO.The outbreak was officially confirmed in Guinea this year on February 14, sending waves of panic and reminders from the deadly first outbreak. Ebola is a highly contagious hemorrhagic fever that causes a range of symptoms including fever, vomiting, diarrhoea, generalized pain or malaise and in many cases internal and external bleeding.The disease is transmitted through close contact with bodily fluids, and people who live with or care for patients are most at risk.In the second wave, at least 16 people were infected by the disease and five died since February in Guinea, the WHO said. The disease is known to have made a comeback in the forested Nzerekore region in the southeast of the impoverished nation.New outbreaks of the deadly Ebola virus disease in the two African countries are sending fresh jitters to Africa as the continent is still grappling with the Covid-19 pandemic.Soon after the disease reappeared, the Africa Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in March called on all African countries to enhance their cross-border surveillance efforts by mapping population movements to identify all potential crossing points where there is a risk of disease spread.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/second-ebola-outbreak-officially-over-in-guinea-announces-who-101624102694348.html
19-06-2021||World||Ebrahim Raisi: Amnesty demands probe into Iran’s next president over ‘Death Commission’||Amnesty International on Saturday said that Iranian ultraconservative Ebrahim Raisi, who was declared the winner of the Islamic republic’s presidential election, should be investigated for alleged crimes against humanity. Raisi is set to take over from moderate Hassan Rouhani in August and his loyal supporters argue that the former head of the judiciary is Iran’s best hope for standing up to the West and bringing relief from a deep economic crisis exacerbated by coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic and US sanctions.However, for rights groups, Raisi’s name is associated with the mass executions of Marxists and other leftists in 1988 when he was deputy prosecutor of the Revolutionary Court in Tehran. Amnesty International’s secretary-general Agnès Callamard said in a statement that the 60-year-old Iranian leader should have been investigated for the “crimes against humanity of murder, enforced disappearance and torture” instead of being elected as the president of the Islamic republic.Callamard, who has previously served as the Special Rapporteur on extrajudicial, summary, or arbitrary executions for the UN Human Rights Council, said that Raisi had been a member of the “Death Commission” that forcibly disappeared and extrajudicially executed thousands of political prisoners.“The circumstances surrounding the fate of the victims and the whereabouts of their bodies are, to this day, systematically concealed by the Iranian authorities, amounting to ongoing crimes against humanity,” she added.Also Read | Iran's next president: Ebrahim Raisi, ultraconservative 'champion of the poor'Amnesty accused Raisi of presiding over a “spiralling crackdown” on human rights and said that under his watch, the judiciary has granted blanket impunity to government officials and security forces responsible for “unlawfully killing hundreds of men, women and children and subjecting thousands of protesters to mass arrests...in the aftermath of the nationwide protests of November 2019.”“We continue to call for Ebrahim Raisi to be investigated for his involvement in past and ongoing crimes under international law, including by states that exercise universal jurisdiction,” the London-based pressure group added.Raisi has repeatedly denied playing a role in the mass execution even as he has lauded an order he said was handed down by the Islamic republic's founder Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini to proceed with the purge. In 2019, Raisi and others were placed on a sanctions list by the United States, citing the executions and other alleged rights abuses. Tehran had dismissed the charges as symbolic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/ebrahim-raisi-amnesty-demands-probe-into-iran-s-next-president-over-rights-101624102248929.html
19-06-2021||World||Claudette brings rain, floods to Gulf Coast||Tropical Storm Claudette formed Saturday morning along the U.S. Gulf Coast, bringing heavy rains and flooding to coastal states including Louisiana, Mississippi and Alabama.The National Hurricane Center in Miami said in a 4 a.m. CDT advisory that the storm was located 45 miles (75 kilometers) southwest of New Orleans with maximum sustained winds of 45 mph (75 kph).Flooding had already begun overnight Friday into Saturday, with local reports of high water over roads and stranded vehicles. Flash flood warnings dotted the coast while flood watches were in effect well inland for parts of Mississippi, Alabama, Florida, and central and northern Georgia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/claudette-brings-rain-floods-to-gulf-coast-101624097243622.html
19-06-2021||World||‘Ignorant or accomplice’: Afghan NSA hits out at Pak FM over ties with Taliban; Islamabad replies||Islamabad said that Afghanistan’s national security adviser Hamdullah Mohib's criticism of Pakistan foreign minister Mahmood Qureshi's comment on rising violence in Afghanistan was "unwarranted". In an interview with Tolo News, Qureshi apparently held the Afghan government responsible for the recent spate of violence, saying that it would be an “exaggeration” to again blame the Taliban for the rise in violence.“You try to create this impression that the violence is high because of the Taliban, again, that would be an exaggeration. Aren't there other elements over there who are playing the role of a spoiler?” said Qureshi.“Like who?” The interviewer pressed Qureshi on his rhetorical question.The Pakistan foreign minister said, “like Daesh, like forces within Afghanistan...who gained from the war economy? Who wants to perpetuate their power? Who is not seeing beyond their nose and just wants to hold on to power?”Pakistan has been long blamed for providing support to the Taliban in Afghanistan. Qureshi’s attempt to deflect the blame from the Taliban met with criticism from the current Afghan dispensation as well as Pakistani politicians. Pakistan’s Awami National Party leader and Pashtun rights activist Afrasiab Khattak said that Islamabad has thrown away even the pretence of neutrality in Afghanistan and accused the government of internalising the Afghan conflict.“Why would the Taliban need another foreign minister when they already have one?Pakistan’s “neutrality” in Afghanistan was never credible but it has finally thrown away even that pretension.On its way to fully internalising the Afghan conflict,is Pak sure it can chew what it’s biting?” tweeted Khattak.Also Read | Islamabad severs ties with Afghan NSA for terming Pakistan as 'brothel house'The Afghan government has long-standing reservations that Pakistan may be using the Afghan Taliban as a proxy. Mohib, who had earlier drawn the ire of Islamabad for reportedly calling Pakistan a “brothel house”, said that Qureshi’s remark comes at a time when the Taliban is launching a violent offensive against Afghan people across the country.“[Qureshi] is either uninformed, ignorant or accomplice. Maybe he also rejects that, Osama [Bin Laden] was found next to Pakistani Military HQ,” the Afghan NSA tweeted.This comes as Taliban launches violent offensives against Afghan people across the country, we know how & why they continue to be enabled to do this. Quraishi is either uninformed, ignorant or accomplice. Maybe he also rejects that, Osama was found next to Pakistani Military HQ. https://t.co/PmNOnJjEIZThe Pakistan Foreign Office issued a rejoinder to Mohib’s tweet for what it called his "repeated impertinent and unwarranted remarks" and accused him of trying to "disregard and nullify" the progress made in the Afghan peace process. The Pakistan Foreign Office said, "[r]repeated impertinent and unwarranted remarks" were "a calculated attempt by his office to disregard and nullify the progress in the peace process so far", according to Dawn.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/afghan-nsa-hits-out-at-pak-fm-over-ties-with-taliban-islamabad-replies-101624096922164.html
19-06-2021||World||'Fake' Mona Lisa sells for USD 3.4 million||A replica of Leonardo da Vinci's Mona Lisa fetched about 3.4 million dollars at an auction in France on Friday (local time).The painting sold about ten times its estimate at an online auction by Christie's Auction House in Paris, reported NHK World.The reproduction is believed to have been painted in the early 1600s, about 100 years after the Mona Lisa, which hangs in the Paris Louvre.Leonardo da Vinci created his work on a wood panel, while the replica is on canvas.The copy has been dubbed the "Hekking Mona Lisa", after French art collector Raymond Hekking, who purchased it from an antique shop in 1950s, reported NHK World.Hekking expended great effort in attempting to prove his acquisition was in fact the real Leonardo work.Pierre Etienne of the auction house said global art experts may have judged the Hekking work to be not a genuine Leonardo, but the final bid set a record for a reproduction.Leonardo da Vinci's Mona Lisa is one of the most recognisable and famous works of art in the world, and also one of the most replicated and reinterpreted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/fake-mona-lisa-sells-for-usd-3-4-million-101624096627240.html
19-06-2021||World||Iran's next president: Ebrahim Raisi, ultraconservative 'champion of the poor'||Dressed in a black turban and cleric's coat, Iranian ultraconservative Ebrahim Raisi casts himself as an austere and pious figure and an corruption-fighting champion of the poor.On Saturday the 60-year-old was named the winner of the Islamic republic's presidential election, set to take over from moderate Hassan Rouhani in August.Critics charge the election was skewed in his favour as strong rivals were disqualified, but to his loyal supporters he is Iran's best hope for standing up to the West and bringing relief from a deep economic crisis.Raisi is not renowned for great charisma but, as head of the judiciary, has driven a popular campaign to prosecute corrupt officials.In the election campaign he vowed to keep up the fight on graft, construct four million new homes for low-income families, and build "a government of the people for a strong Iran".Many Iranian media outlets see him as a possible successor to supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, who turns 82 next month.Raisi, whose black turban signifies direct descent from Islam's Prophet Mohammed, holds the title of "hojatoleslam" -- literally "proof of Islam" -- one rank below that of ayatollah in the Shiite clerical hierarchy.Like other ultraconservatives, he harshly criticised Rouhani's camp after the 2015 nuclear deal was torpedoed by then US president Donald Trump, who reimposed punishing sanctions.But, like Iranian political figures across the spectrum, Raisi supports efforts to revive the deal to bring relief from Iran's painful economic crisis.Student of the guideBorn in 1960 in the holy city of Mashhad in northeastern Iran, Raisi rose to high office as a young man.Aged just 20, in the wake of the 1979 Islamic Revolution that toppled the US-backed monarchy, Raisi was named prosecutor-general of Karaj, which neighbours Tehran.For the exiled opposition and rights groups, his name is indelibly associated with the mass executions of Marxists and other leftists in 1988, when he was deputy prosecutor of the Revolutionary Court in Tehran.Asked in 2018 and again last year about the executions, Raisi denied playing a role, even as he lauded an order he said was handed down by the Islamic republic's founder Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini to proceed with the purge.In 2019, the US placed Raisi and others on a sanctions list citing the executions and other alleged rights abuses -- charges Tehran dismissed as symbolic.Raisi has decades of judicial experience, serving as Tehran's prosecutor-general from 1989 to 1994, deputy chief of the Judicial Authority for a decade from 2004, and then national prosecutor-general in 2014.He studied theology and Islamic jurisprudence under Khamenei and, according to his official biography, has been teaching at a Shiite seminary in Mashhad since 2018.In 2016, Khamenei put Raisi in charge of a charitable foundation that manages the Imam Reza shrine in Mashhad and controls a large industrial and property asset portfolio.Three years later, Khamenei appointed him head of the Judicial Authority. Raisi is also a member of the assembly of experts who select the supreme leader.He is married to Jamileh Alamolhoda, an educational sciences lecturer at Tehran's Shahid-Beheshti University. They have two daughters.Raisi is the son-in-law of Ahmad Alamolhoda, the Friday prayer imam and supreme leader's representative for Mashhad.'Uproot sedition'His election win comes after he lost to Rouhani in 2017. This time, five ultra-conservatives and two reformists were approved to run after many other prominent figures were disqualified.Raisi gathered support from traditional conservatives, who are close to the Shiite clergy and the influential merchant class, as well as ultraconservatives who are united in a their anti-Western stance.He also sought to extend a hand beyond his traditional base, by pledging to defend "freedom of expression" and "the fundamental rights of all Iranian citizens".Raisi has also vowed to eradicate "corruption hotbeds" -- a theme he already pursued in his judicial role, through a spate of highly publicised corruption trials of senior state officials.Even judges have not been spared by his much trumpeted anti-graft drive; several have been sentenced over the past year.Raisi has also taken a hard line against protest groups. When the Green Movement in 2009 rallied against populist president Mahmoud Ahmadinejad winning a disputed second term, he was uncompromising."To those who speak of 'Islamic compassion and forgiveness', we respond: we will continue to confront the rioters until the end and we will uproot this sedition," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/irans-next-president-ebrahim-raisi-ultraconservative-champion-of-the-poor-101624089842892.html
19-06-2021||World||Two more Indo-Canadians join Ontario province cabinet||Representation of Indo-Canadians in the cabinet of Canada’s most populous province Ontario has tripled with two more members of the community being appointed in a major reshuffle on Friday.With the reshuffle, Ontario now has the highest number of Indo-Canadian cabinet ministers among any province in the country. It equals the record for three, which was also in Ontario under the previous Liberal Party government of Kathleen Wynne.In the previous ministry, Ontario Premier Doug Ford’s government had one Indo-Canadian - Prabhmeet Sarkariya, who was the associate minister of small business and red tape reduction. Sarkariya has now been promoted to take over as president of the Treasury Board.His prior portfolio will now be handled by one of the two Indo-Canadian newcomers, Nina Tangri. The other entrant is Parm Gill, who has been appointed minister of citizenship and multiculturalism.Gill, who represents the riding (as constituencies are called in Canada) of Milton in the provincial parliament, was born in Moga, Punjab. A businessman, Gill was earlier the parliamentary assistant for housing to the minister of municipal Affairs and housing.Gill was a Conservative Party MP in the House of Commons between 2011 and 2015 representing Brampton-Springdale. In a tweet, Gill welcomed his latest responsibility: “Who would have thought a young boy who immigrated from India to Canada, raised by a single mother, would today be sworn in as minister of citizenship and multiculturalism for the province of Ontario.”Like Gill, Tangri, who represents a riding in the Greater Toronto Area, Mississauga Streetsville, also served as a parliamentary assistant, to the minister of economic development, job creation, and trade.Sarkaria, who represents Brampton South, was the only Indo-Canadian to serve even as a parliamentary assistant when the Doug Ford government was elected in June 2018. Originally, parliamentary assistant to the minister for community safety and correctional services, he later became parliamentary secretary to the solicitor general. It was only in June 2019 that he became an associate minister, and the first person wearing a turban to be appointed to the Ontario cabinet.Ford was criticised at the start of the tenure for not including any Indo-Canadians, but with provincial elections due next June, and the significance of the community, he has increased their representation in the latest reshuffle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/two-more-indo-canadians-join-ontario-province-cabinet-101624084648710.html
19-06-2021||World||Hong Kong: Executives of pro-democracy newspaper Apple Daily denied bail||Two executives of Hong Kong pro-democracy newspaper Apple Daily, charged under a national security law, were denied bail on Saturday in a case that has drawn international condemnation and stoked fears over media freedoms in the financial hub.Editor-in-chief Ryan Law 47 and chief executive officer Cheung Kim-hung 59 were among five Apple Daily executives arrested on Thursday when 500 police also raided the outlet's newsroom, which authorities described as a "crime scene."Police said on Thursday dozens of the newspaper's articles were suspected of violating the national security law. It was the first case in which authorities have cited media articles as potentially violating the contentious legislation.Law and Cheung, who are charged with "collusion with a foreign country or with external elements to endanger national security" appeared at the West Kowloon Magistrates' Courts on Saturday and were denied bail by Judge Victor So.They will next appear in court on August 13.The pair are accused of colluding with Apple Daily owner and staunch Beijing critic Jimmy Lai between July 1 2020 and April 3 April 2021 to request a foreign country, person or organisation "to impose sanctions or blockade or engage in other hostile activities against the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region or the People's Republic of China," according to a charge sheet.The National Security Law came into force in Hong Kong just before midnight on June 30, 2020.Judge So said Law and Cheung were denied bail because there was insufficient evidence to believe they would not endanger national security.Under the security law, the onus is on defendants to prove they will not pose a security threat if released on bail.Three companies related to Apple Daily that are also being prosecuted for collusion with a foreign country appointed people to represent them in court. Authorities have frozen HK$18 million ($2.32 million) of the companies' assets.The other three executives arrested on Thursday, Chief Operating Officer Chow Tat-kuen, Deputy Chief Editor Chan Puiman and Chief Executive Editor Cheung Chi-wai, were released on bail late on Friday, according to Apple Daily.Earlier on Saturday, crowds had gathered outside the court ahead of the hearing, some holding yellow umbrellas or wearing Apple Daily T-shirts saying, "No fear, fight on.""Right now, you can be charged with NSL (the national security law) because of a word or a speech that they didn't like. It’s a big regression,” Lo, 29, a reader of the popular, 26-year-old paper, said.The law punishes what Beijing broadly refers to as secession, subversion, terrorism and collusion with foreign forces with up to life in prison.The arrests and scale of the Apple Daily raid have been criticised by Western nations, global rights groups, press associations and the chief U.N. spokesperson for human rights.Apple Daily and its listed publisher Next Digital have come under increasing pressure since Lai was arrested last year under the legislation.Lai, whose assets have been frozen under the security law, is already in jail for taking part in unauthorised assemblies and awaiting trial in his national security case.As investigations into Apple Daily and its senior executives ramp up, some employees and observers have expressed deepening concern over the newspaper's future.Since the law was imposed by Beijing in June last year, more than 100 people have been arrested, with most denied bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hong-kong-executives-of-pro-democracy-newspaper-apple-daily-denied-bail-101624082821676.html
19-06-2021||World||Iran's sole moderate presidential candidate congratulates Raisi for win: Report||Iran's moderate presidential candidate congratulated his hardline rival hardline judge Ebrahim Raisi for winning the election, Iranian state media reported on Saturday, as the interior ministry said counting of the votes continued.Millions of Iranians voted on Friday in a contest that has been expected to hand the presidency to Raisi, a hardline judge who is subject to U.S. sanctions for alleged human rights abuses, including overseeing the executions of thousands of political prisoners in 1988.Also Read: Iran votes for new president with an eye on nuclear deal, hardliner cleric tipped to win"I hope your administration, under the leadership of Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, will make the Islamic Republic proud, improve livelihood and ensure the nation's well-being and welfare," said former central bank chief Abdolnasser Hemmati in a letter, media said.In a televised speech, outgoing President Hassan Rouhani congratulated "the people's elected (president)", without naming him."Because it has not been officially announced yet, I will delay the official congratulations. But it is clear who received the votes," Rouhani said.The interior ministry is to announce the final results later on Saturday as the counting of the votes continued, state TV said.Other candidates also congratulated Raisi, who was sanctioned by the United States in 2019 shortly after being appointed by Khamenei as the judiciary chief.Hoping to boost their legitimacy, Iran's clerical rulers had urged Iranians to turn out and vote on Friday, but dissidents inside and abroad said popular anger over economic hardship and curbs on freedoms kept many Iranians at home.Another deterrent for many pro-reform voters was a lack of choice, after a hardline election body barred heavyweight moderate and conservative candidates from standing. Opinion polls suggest turnout around 44%, lower than previous elections in the Islamic Republic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/irans-sole-moderate-presidential-candidate-congratulates-raisi-for-win-report-101624082642503.html
19-06-2021||World||Justice Jamal will be a valuable asset to Canada’s highest court: PM||Prime Minister Justin Trudeau has said that Mahmud Jamal, who will be the first person of Indian-origin to be a Supreme Court justice, will be a valuable asset to Canada’s highest court.A statement from the prime minister’s office described him as having “had a distinguished career as a litigator with a deep commitment to pro bono work”. Trudeau said, “I know that justice Jamal, with his exceptional legal and academic experience and dedication to serving others, will be a valuable asset to our country’s highest court.”Earlier, Trudeau had nominated Jamal, an Ontario judge to Supreme Court. Once he assumes that position after the retirement of an incumbent judge, he will become the first person of Indian-origin to be a Supreme Court justice in Canada.Jamal is currently a justice at the Court of Appeal for Ontario, to which he was appointed in 2019.He was born in Kenya in 1967 to parents from India, and two years later the family immigrated to the England. In 1981, they moved to Canada, settling in the city of Edmonton in Alberta.Narrating his experience in a questionnaire for Supreme Court candidates, he said, “Like many others, I experienced discrimination as a fact of daily life. As a child and youth, I was taunted and harassed because of my name, religion, or the colour of my skin.”Justice Jamal was the first in his family to attend university, spending a year at the London School of Economics before obtaining an economics degree from the University of Toronto. He then moved to McGill University in Montreal to complete the national programme in common law and Quebec civil law, before receiving a graduate law degree from Yale Law School.While he grew up in the Ismaili Muslim tradition, he is a practising member of the minuscule Baha’i faith. “These experiences exposed me to some of the challenges and aspirations of immigrants, religious minorities, and racialised persons. My perspectives on these issues have broadened and deepened over more than 25 years as a lawyer and judge,” he wrote.The judge is married with two teenage children.He was earlier a director of the Canadian Civil Liberties Association, and has taught constitutional law at McGill University and administrative law at Osgoode Hall Law School, which is in York University in Toronto.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/justice-jamal-will-be-a-valuable-asset-to-canada-s-highest-court-pm-101624082008466.html
19-06-2021||World||Myanmar: Protesters wear flowers to mark deposed leader Suu Kyi's birthday||Anti-coup protesters in Myanmar donned flowers in their hair Saturday to mark the birthday of ousted civilian leader Aung San Suu Kyi, who remains under house arrest and is due to face court again next week.Suu Kyi's elected government was overthrown in a February 1 coup that sparked mass protests and renewed clashes between the military and ethnic rebel armies in border regions.Flowers tucked into a bun have long been a signature look of Suu Kyi, who turns 76 on Saturday.Many replicated the floral hairstyle and uploaded pictures onto social media across Myanmar on Saturday.Among them was Myanmar Miss Universe beauty queen Thuzar Wint Lwin, who wore red flowers in her hair and wrote: "May our leader be healthy."In Yangon's north, protesters put up posters on power lines wishing Suu Kyi a happy birthday and expressing solidarity."Happy Birthday Mother Suu. We are right behind you," the signs read.Some marched with black umbrellas and banners that read "freedom from fear" alongside pictures of Suu Kyi.In the border region of Karen state, some rebel soldiers were photographed holding their guns and yellow, white and purple posies and single flowers tucked behind their ears.Demonstrators in the south-eastern city of Dawei made a giant pink birthday cake and brought it to their street protest.The Noble Peace Prize Laureate's international reputation was damaged after she defended Myanmar's military over allegations of genocide against the ethnic minority Rohingya population in troubled Rakhine state in 2017.Back in courtNot all Myanmar flower protest participants were full of praise for Suu Kyi."I am involved in this campaign because now she is unfairly detained by the military and her civilian rights... and freedom is denied," a 35-year-old activist told AFP, adding it wasn't personal support."After she is free from her detention, she will have to take full responsibility over her silence concerning the suffering of Rohingya and other ethnic groups."The civilian death toll since the coup is estimated to be at least 870 people and close to 5,000 protesters are in detention after being arrested, according to a local monitoring group.The UN General Assembly on Friday took the rare step of calling on member states to "prevent the flow of arms" into Myanmar, part of a non-binding resolution condemning the military coup in the violence-wracked country.The resolution -- which did not go so far as to call for a global arms embargo -- also demands that the military "immediately stop all violence against peaceful demonstrators".It was approved by 119 countries, with 36 abstaining including China, Myanmar's main ally. Only one country, Belarus, voted against it.Suu Kyi is due back in court next week and has been hit with an eclectic raft of criminal charges, including accepting illegal payments of gold and violating a colonial-era secrecy law.She went on trial for sedition on Tuesday, but journalists were barred from observing proceedings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/myanmar-protesters-wear-flowers-to-mark-deposed-leader-suu-kyi-s-birthday-101624081178138.html
19-06-2021||World||Hong Kong court holds first hearing for Apple Daily executives||The top editor of Hong Kong's Apple Daily pro-democracy newspaper and the head of its parent company were brought to a courthouse Saturday for their first hearing since their arrest under the city's national security law.Ryan Law, the chief editor, and Cheung Kim-hung, the CEO of Next Digital, arrived in an unmarked white van with covered windows. They have been charged with collusion with a foreign country to endanger national security in a case widely seen as an attack on press freedom in the semi-autonomous Chinese territory.Three others also arrested Thursday — two Apple Daily senior editors and another executive — have not been charged yet and were released on bail late Friday pending further investigation.The Apple Daily has long been one of the most outspoken defenders of civil liberties in Hong Kong. It supported massive protests demanding more democracy in 2019 and has criticized the subsequent crackdown, including the enactment of a national security law last year.The central government in Beijing has defended the legislation and the crackdown on opposition voices as necessary to restore order and stability. The 2019 protests that challenged Beijing's rule often started as peaceful marches during the day but turned into violent clashes between hard-core demonstrators and police at night.Apple Daily founder Jimmy Lai is currently serving a 20-month prison sentence after being convicted of playing a role in unauthorized assemblies — rallies and marches that had not received police approval — during the 2019 protests. He has also been charged under the national security law.The latest arrests mark the first time journalists have been targeted under the new law, except for a freelancer who was arrested for pro-democracy activities. Hundreds of police and security agents who raided Apple Daily's office on Thursday also seized 44 hard drives, and authorities froze $2.3 million of its assets.Police said the arrests were based on more than 30 articles that had appeared in the Apple Daily since the security law took effect and that had called for international sanctions against China and Hong Kong.The security law specifically criminalizes colluding with a foreign country, institution, organization or individual to impose sanctions or a blockade against Hong Kong or China. Critics say Beijing is walking back on its promise at the 1997 handover of Hong Kong from Britain that the city could retain its freedoms not seen elsewhere in China for 50 years.The US has imposed sanctions against Chinese and Hong Kong officials over the crackdown and called for the immediate release of the Apple Daily editors and executives.Asked how journalists should avoid getting in trouble, Hong Kong Security Secretary John Lee told a news conference this week that “the answer is simple: Do your journalistic work as freely as you like in accordance with the law provided you do not conspire or have any intention to break the Hong Kong law and certainly not the Hong Kong National Security Law.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hong-kong-court-holds-first-hearing-for-apple-daily-executives-101624077384101.html
19-06-2021||World||Kim Jong Un 'solemnly swears' to salvage North Korea's economy||Kim Jong Un "solemnly swore" to pull North Korea out of deepening economic troubles at the four-day meeting of the ruling party ended, as he acknowledged food shortages and urged officials to prepare for both dialogue and confrontation with the US, state media KCNA reported on Saturday. Kim Jong Un said that the party “will surely break through head-on the difficulties lying in the way of the revolution,” the Korean Central News Agency reported.Kim Jong Un presided over a four-day plenary meeting of the ruling Workers' Party's Central Committee, which kicked off on Tuesday. Before this, Kim Jong Un ordered his government to prepare for both dialogue and confrontation with the United States, which has been urging North Korea to abandon its nuclear weapons ambitions and return to talks. Kim also called for measures to tackle the "tense" food situation, blaming the coronavirus pandemic and last year's typhoons.Also read | Kim Jong Un names new politburo members, reviews 'party discipline'KCNA released Kim's comments just before Sung Kim, US President Joe Biden's special representative for North Korea, arrived in South Korea on Saturday for talks over stalled nuclear diplomacy with the North. Sung Kim will meet with South Korean senior diplomats and participate in a trilateral meeting that includes Japanese nuclear envoy Takehiro Funakoshi on Monday. The US state department said his travel emphasises the importance of three-way cooperation in working toward complete denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula.Also read | North Korea's Kim looks much thinner, causing health speculationKim Jong Un has also appointed new members of the Workers' Party of Korea's powerful politburo and "reinforced the discipline" within party ranks. Some members of the leadership expressed "remorse for failing to live up to the expectations," after Kim pointed out "serious problems" with their lifestyle, KCNA said, without elaborating.Also read | North Korea's Kim Jong Un asks officials to strengthen military might: ReportThe central committee's politburo also elected Thae Hyong Chol, vice president of the Presidium of the Supreme People's Assembly, as a new member, and U Sang Chol, an official at the party's Central Auditing Commission, as an alternate member, KCNA said.KCNA reported, without elaborating, that some members of the leadership expressed "remorse for failing to live up to the expectations," after Kim pointed out "serious problems" with their lifestyle.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/kim-jong-un-solemnly-swears-to-salvage-north-korea-s-economy-101624070825712.html
19-06-2021||World||Declaration of Juneteenth holiday sparks scramble in states||Congress and President Joe Biden acted with unusual swiftness this week in approving Juneteenth as a national holiday. That shifted the battle to the states, where the holiday faces a far less enthusiastic response.Nearly all states recognize Juneteenth in some fashion, at least on paper. But most have been slow to move beyond proclamations issued by governors or resolutions passed by lawmakers. So far, at least nine states have designated it in law as an official paid state holiday — Illinois, Louisiana, Maine, Massachusetts, New Jersey, New York, Texas, Virginia and Washington. All but Texas, where the events of the original Juneteenth took place, acted after the killing of George Floyd last year.This year alone, legislation to make Juneteenth a paid state holiday died in Florida and South Dakota and stalled in Ohio, all states controlled by Republicans. But even in Maryland, where Democrats control the Legislature, a Juneteenth bill passed one chamber only to die in the other.The effort recalls the drawn-out battles over recognizing Martin Luther King Jr. Day, the last time the federal government designated a new holiday. That legislation, finally passed in 1983, scheduled the holiday to begin three years later. It set off bitter debates in the states over whether to enact their own holidays.Only a handful of states headed into Thursday's signing of the federal Juneteenth law with the paid holiday on the books to be celebrated in 2021. The governors of Washington, Illinois, Louisiana and Maine, by contrast, all signed more recent laws that were set to kick in for 2022, when June 19 falls on a Sunday.Louisiana Gov. John Bel Edwards closed state offices for a half-day Friday, only a few days after he signed Juneteenth legislation, and Illinois Gov. J.B. Pritzker was among governors who changed their states' start dates to 2021.In another twist, many states have laws that automatically recognize all federal holidays — even those not named in state statute.Such was the case in Ohio, where Republican Gov. Mike DeWine issued a Juneteenth statement late Thursday and closed state offices in the manner of a hastily called school snow day. West Virginia Gov. Jim Justice also declared Juneteenth a state holiday at a last-minute virtual press conference. The governors of Connecticut and Florida issued their Juneteenth proclamations Friday.Ohio state Sen. Hearcel Craig, a Columbus Democrat who is Black, said codifying Juneteenth in state law remains essential. He is sponsoring a bill that passed the Ohio Senate unanimously last session, but time ran out for consideration in the House. Republicans control both of Ohio's legislative chambers.Georgia law caps the number of state holidays at 12, meaning Juneteenth could be added only if another holiday were dropped. In other states, including Oregon, whether Juneteenth becomes a paid holiday will depend on union negotiations.In Mississippi, Democratic state Rep. Bryant Clark has filed bills to make Juneteenth a state holiday for about 15 years. All have stalled.Clark said Friday that he will keep trying. He noted that Mississippi legislators took four years to create a state holiday honoring King after the federal holiday was established. In 1987, Mississippi legislators revised a holiday named for Confederate Gen. Robert E. Lee that had been in place for decades, creating a joint holiday honoring both Lee and King.Two other Mississippi lawmakers said Friday that they plan to file a bill to eliminate Confederate Memorial Day as a state holiday and replace it with Juneteenth.“Sometimes progress is extremely slow,” said Clark, a member of the Legislative Black Caucus. Several communities in Mississippi already hold Juneteenth celebrations. One is the capital city of Jackson, where the population is more than 80% Black.Minnesota has recognized the third Saturday in June as Juneteenth since 1996, but the statute only obligates the governor to issue a proclamation each year honoring the observance. That's a common situation in the U.S., where the holiday is sometimes called Emancipation Day.Calls by Minnesota Gov. Tim Walz, a Democrat, to make it an official state holiday have failed to gain traction so far in the Legislature, the only one in the nation where Democrats control one chamber and Republicans control the other.Hawaii had been one of only three states left not to recognize the holiday at all. A bill marking Juneteenth was signed there Wednesday and in a second holdout state, North Dakota, in April. Neither created a paid state holiday, however.South Dakota still does not officially recognize the holiday, but Gov. Kristi Noem has issued a proclamation celebrating it. The governor does not have the power to make it an official state holiday — that must be done through the Legislature. A bill to recognize it as a working holiday fell a handful of votes short of passing this year.It was defeated by an unusual coalition of Democrats who felt the day should be recognized as a full-fledged holiday, rather than a working holiday, and conservative lawmakers who opposed recognizing the holiday at all.Vaney Hariri, a Black business owner who organized a march after Floyd’s death, said that vote showed the entrenched attitude of many lawmakers who “would turn down a day off rather than celebrate your freedom from pain and captivity.”In Tennessee, an attempt to designate Juneteenth as a state holiday stalled last year after some Republican lawmakers raised questions about the $647,000 price tag. Others questioned why it was necessary when the state already recognizes Aug. 8 as Emancipation Day.Arizona dragged its feet for years on Martin Luther King Jr. Day, until it became the only state that did not have some sort of holiday inspired by the slain civil rights leader.That long delay cost Arizona a Super Bowl and millions of dollars in tourism revenue from canceled conventions and other events. It also inspired a boycott by singer Stevie Wonder and a protest song by Public Enemy called “By the Time I Get to Arizona.”Gov. Bruce Babbitt, a Democrat, issued an executive order in 1986 declaring Martin Luther King Jr. Day a state holiday. Babbitt’s Republican successor, Evan Mecham, rescinded the order a year later, saying Babbitt exceeded his authority.Mecham’s action led to years of divisive political maneuvering, including a ballot measure that ended in defeat for King holiday supporters, before Arizona voters ultimately approved the holiday in 1992.Warren H. Stewart Sr., pastor of the Institutional Baptist Church in Phoenix, helped lead a grassroots campaign to establish Arizona's King holiday. But he said he did not rejoice when Biden signed the Juneteenth law. He fears it will distract from legislation on vital issues such as voting rights and police reform.“I see it as a distraction," Stewart said, "almost as a handout of some candy, but the meat of justice is still going to be denied.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/declaration-of-juneteenth-holiday-sparks-scramble-in-states-101624065063928.html
19-06-2021||World||Global Covid-19 fatalities top 4 million||Coronavirus-related deaths worldwide passed a grim milestone of 4 million on Thursday, according to a Reuters tally, as many countries struggle to procure enough vaccines to inoculate their populations.While the number of new cases and deaths have abated in countries like the US and Britain, several nations have vaccine shortages as the Delta variant becomes the dominant strain around the world.It took over a year for the Covid-19 death toll to hit 2 million, while the next 2 million were recorded in just 166 days, according to a Reuters analysis.The top five countries by total number of deaths - the US, Brazil, India, Russia and Mexico– represent about 50% of all deaths in the world, while Peru, Hungary, Bosnia, the Czech Republic and Gibraltar have the highest death rates when adjusted for population.Countries in Latin America are facing their worst outbreak since March, with 43 of every 100 infections in the world being reported in the region, according to a Reuters analysis.The top nine countries reporting the most deaths per capita over the last week were all in Latin America. Hospitals in Bolivia, Chile and Uruguay are largely seeing Covid-19 patients between the ages of 25 and 40 as the trend towards younger patients continued. In Brazil’s Sao Paulo, 80% of intensive care unit occupants are Covid-19 patients.India and Brazil are the countries reporting the most deaths each day on a seven-day average and are still troubled with cremation woes and lack of burial space. India accounts for one in every three deaths reported worldwide each day, according to a Reuters analysis.Delta variant expected to be dominant in US: CDCThe Centers for Disease Control and Prevention director Rochelle Walensky says she expects the delta variant, first detected in India, will become the dominant coronavirus strain in the US.“As worrisome as this delta strain is with regard to its hyper transmissibility, our vaccines work,” Walensky told ABC’s Good Morning America on Friday. Get vaccinated and “you’ll be protected against this delta variant”, she urged Americans.The White House said President Joe Biden was later on Friday going to announce that 300 million Covid-19 shots have been administered in the 150 days since he took office on January 20. But as Biden marks a new milestone, he is in danger of failing to meet another: his target to have 70% of Americans at least partially vaccinated by July 4.In Russia, new Covid cases hit a pandemic high in Moscow on Friday, tripling in just weeks due to the Delta variant. A total of 9,056 new cases were recorded in the megapolis of 12 million in the past 24 hours, with Moscow mayor Sergei Sobyanin saying that the highly infectious Delta variant represented almost 90% of new cases||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/global-covid-19-fatalities-top-4-million-101624064842470.html
19-06-2021||World||Arizona teenager accused of firing at people across Phoenix area||An Arizona teenager suspected of killing one person and injuring a dozen others during a 90-minute string of drive-by shootings in metropolitan Phoenix told police he believed people were after him because of his involvement in another shooting, according to court documents released Friday.Ashin Tricarico, 19, is accused of opening fire on vehicles and pedestrians from a white SUV on Thursday in at least eight separate shootings in three cities that stoked fear throughout the region. Four people were shot, including a man whose pickup truck careened into a canal alongside a freeway.A witness told police he saw the suspect drive up behind the truck and swerve into the lane beside it and then he heard a gunshot. Police later found the man's body inside the truck with a gunshot wound to the neck and his head, face and body covered in blood, the court documents state.Police said Tricarico admitted to some of the shootings and declined to talk about others but denied firing at a woman or killing the man, whom police haven't identified. Tricarico told police he was involved in another shooting a month ago in Phoenix while he was a security guard and believed people have been following him because of it, according to the court documents.“Ashin thinks every vehicle and person he drives past is pointing a gun at him," police wrote.Phoenix police did not immediately return a message from The Associated Press seeking confirmation of Tricarico's account of an earlier shooting.Tricarico, who was arrested Thursday, appeared remotely for a court hearing Friday and was directed to contact a public defender. The Maricopa County Office of the Public Defender did not have a specific attorney assigned to Tricarico, whose next court hearing is June 24. He faces charges of first-degree murder, shooting from a vehicle, aggravated assault and endangerment.There was no immediate response to a message left at a number listed for a relative of Tricarico.Documents police filed in Maricopa County Superior Court allege Tricarico fired at more than a dozen people, seemingly at random. In some cases, he pulled up beside vehicles and placed the barrel of an assault rifle through his window and fired multiple shots, police said.A 3-year-old child was in one vehicle with her mother when the front windshield and driver's side door were hit, but wasn't harmed. The mother told police she heard three gunshots while driving and immediately felt pain in her arm, stomach and head. She was covered in blood and screaming “oh my god,” according to witness statements.Others were injured as bullets hit or shattered glass. Authorities said the injured ranged in age from 19 to 56.Police said Tricarico left his house in the city of Surprise with an AR-15 rifle and later bought four boxes of ammunition, filling two 30-round magazines. Matching shell casings were found at some of the shooting scenes, police said.Richard Valencia, 34, said he spent Thursday afternoon in the hospital after being shot in the shoulder as he walked from a convenience store in Surprise. He told Phoenix news station KSAZ-TV that he fired back three times with his own weapon.“I don’t even know the guy,” he said. “It was completely random.”Victims and witnesses were able to give authorities a description of the suspect's vehicle — a white Volkswagen SUV — and the license plate number. A local fire department spotted the vehicle and called police, who swarmed a shopping center that includes restaurants, a nail salon and a Walgreens.Neil Betrue, a pastor in Surprise, was alone in his church’s office when he noticed a few police officers and heard a helicopter buzzing overhead. He peered out the door and saw even more officers surrounding the suspect’s car and started recording the commotion on his cell phone.“I did not know at the time it was a shooting spree happening,” Betrue told The Associated Press on Friday. “I just thought maybe there must have been a car chase or something.”As officers drew their weapons, the suspect, wearing a black jacket, black pants and white shoes, raised his hands in the air. He then was cuffed without incident, Betrue's video shows.“I'm just thankful that he didn't try to put the officers or any of the business or anyone else in harm's way here,” Betrue said.Police don't believe anyone else was involved in the attacks.Tricarico also was accused of pointing an assault rifle at a man in the parking lot of a convenience store Wednesday evening as the two were sitting in their vehicles, according to the court documents. Tricarico later followed the man, who ducked when he heard a gunshot but wasn't harmed, police said. Tricarico, however, claimed not to have left his house that day.Police said they won't release any further information until Monday, saying the investigation is complex.The Phoenix metropolitan area has seen other deadly drive-by shootings.In 2005 and 2006, the area was terrorized by a pair of serial shooters who drove around and shot at random targets, killing six people and wounding 19 others. After they were finally arrested, airport janitor Dale Hausner and his roommate Sam Dietman, a petty criminal, were given life sentences. Hausner killed himself in prison by overdosing in 2013.A decade later, a similar string of drive-by shootings started. In 2015 and 2016, nine people were killed and two injured in what police called the “Serial Street Shootings.” Police in 2017 arrested Aaron Saucedo, then 23, alleging he randomly gunned down the people, often at night, while they were returning home from work or in their front yards. He has pleaded not guilty to numerous charges and is awaiting trial. Prosecutors are seeking the death penalty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/arizona-teenager-accused-of-firing-at-people-across-phoenix-area-101624063961545.html
19-06-2021||World||North Korea: Kim Jong Un names new politburo members, reviews 'party discipline'||North Korean leader Kim Jong Un has appointed new members of the ruling Workers' Party of Korea (WPK)'s powerful politburo and "reinforced the discipline" within party ranks, news agency Reuters reported on Saturday, citing a communiqué by Korean Central News Agency (KCNA), the state media of North Korea. The decisions were made at the fourth and final day of the WPK's plenary meeting, where Kim Jong Un, heading the party's central committee, reviewed organisational and ideological issues.North Korea's ruling party, the WPK, elected two new members to the central committee's powerful politburo, according to the KCNA report. The new members are -- Thae Hyong Chol, vice president of the Presidium of the Supreme People's Assembly, and U Sang Chol, an official at the party's Central Auditing Commission, appointed as an alternate member.As the head of North Korea's central leadership organ, Kim Jong Un pointed out "serious problems" with the lifestyles of some of the members of the party leadership, KCNA reported. To this, the party members expressed "remorse for failing to live up to the expectations," the news agency added, without elaborating further on the matter.Notably, Kim had recently sparked controversies after called K-pop, a music genre originating in South Korea, a “vicious cancer” corrupting the country’s youth. Not just K-pop, Kim, and the North Korean party leadership have been rallying in recent months against South Korean pop culture, including movies, K-dramas, and K-pop videos. The North’s state media has warned that K-pop’s growing influence, which it calls “anti-socialist and nonsocialist”, on youth would make North Korea “crumble like a damp wall.”Kim Jong Un, during earlier sessions of North Korea's plenary meetings, had warned about possible food shortages and urged the country to brace for extended Covid-19 restrictions. The meetings were conducted as part of a political conference to discuss national efforts to salvage a broken economy.(With inputs from Reuters)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/north-korea-kim-jong-un-names-new-politburo-members-reviews-party-discipline-101624063021707.html
19-06-2021||World||Extreme heatwave scorches US southwest amid drought, hits record temperatures||An extreme heatwave that has already shattered temperature records across the US Southwest threatened on Friday to push power systems to the brink of failure as residents cranked up air conditioners.California power grid operators, who have so far been able to keep the lights on, issued their latest "flex alert" for Friday, asking homeowners across the state to conserve energy in the late afternoon and evening when demand surges.The heat, which comes amid years of drought across the Southwest, has strained power grids in California and Texas and fueled the spread of wildfires.“It feels somewhat apocalyptic with the record high heat, the smoke from wildfires tearing through the Sonoran desert, and the news on the drought,” said Emily Kirkland, a communications organizer for a Phoenix nonprofit group. "Just the 10-minute walk from my house to the light rail made me queasy."The National Weather Service has issued excessive heat warnings for five states - California, Nevada, Utah, Arizona, and parts of Colorado - warning that temperatures soaring well above 100 degrees Fahrenheit (38 degrees Celsius) can be dangerous."Very hot conditions will continue for interior areas through Saturday, followed by gradual cooling into next week. Until then, USE CAUTION as heat can be deadly! Most importantly, stay hydrated and never leave kids or pets in a hot car!!" the National Weather Service station for Los Angeles said on Twitter.Records brokenTemperature records have already been tied or broken in Salt Lake City, Palm Springs, and elsewhere and record highs were forecast for Phoenix on Friday at 117 degrees."It's miserable, you literally just don't leave your house unless you have to," said Hannah Knight, 20, a waitress at The Coronado coffee shop in Phoenix.The diner has an outdoor dining area but "when it reaches over 110 (degrees Fahrenheit), there's no way to make it comfortable," she said.Many other cities were expected to come close to tying or breaking their daily records, including Las Vegas where a high temperature of 114 degrees was forecast.A high-pressure ridge, or dome, over the Southwest has been blamed for the heatwave."Every year it's hot in the Southwest," National Weather Service meteorologist Bob Oravec said from the Weather Prediction Center in College Park, Maryland. "It just seems to be more newsworthy when you have temperatures of 115 or so day after day. It's pretty hot."Power systems in Texas and California have so far withstood the strain but operators said that if residents did not conserve energy in the late afternoon, rolling blackouts could be required to keep the system running.In Texas, where temperatures have moderated, demand hit a record on Monday, according to the Electric Reliability Council of Texas (ERCOT).California's power demand peaked on Thursday at 41,364 megawatts and was expected to surpass that level on Friday, according to the California Independent System Operator, which operates the grid in most of the state. One megawatt can power about 200 homes on a hot day.The heatwave extended to the Midwest, prompting weather services to issue advisories for Kansas, Missouri, and Illinois before a strong cold front brings relief by the end of the weekend. Temperatures in St. Louis and Kansas City, Missouri, were forecast to top 100 degrees on Friday.Relief, relatively speaking, is also forecast to come to the Southwest at the beginning of next week, Oravec said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/extreme-heatwave-scorches-us-southwest-amid-drought-hits-record-temperatures-101624062202795.html
19-06-2021||World||300 million vaccine shots in 150 days: Biden's new milestone after taking office||President Joe Biden took a cautious victory lap in his quest to bring the Covid-19 pandemic under control, announcing that 300 million vaccine shots have been administered in the 150 days since he took office.Biden credited scientists, companies, the American people and his whole-of-government effort on the milestone. The president noted that 65 per cent of adults have received at least one shot, setting the stage for most Americans to have a relatively normal summer as businesses reopen and employers hire.“We're heading into a very different summer compared to last year,” the president said. “A bright summer. Prayerfully, a summer of joy.”But as Biden marks one milestone, he is in danger of failing to meet another: his target to have 70 per cent of Americans at least partially vaccinated by July Fourth, in a little over two weeks.The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention says 305 million vaccine doses had been administered as of June 1O. About 141.6 million people, or 42.6% of the US population, have been fully vaccinated.The pace of new vaccinations in the US has dropped significantly from a high of nearly 2 million per day about two months ago, jeopardizing Biden's ability to hit the 70 per cent mark.The White House said its whole-of-government approach to the vaccination effort has put the virus in retreat, which in turn has brought Covid-19 cases, hospitalizations and deaths to their lowest levels in more than a year. But Biden noted in his remarks that some communities in states with lower vaccination rates are seeing cases and hospitalizations increase.The administration is in the middle of a monthlong blitz to combat vaccine hesitancy and the lack of urgency some people feel to get the shots, particularly in the South and Midwest.CDC Director Rochelle Walensky said Friday that she expects the delta variant of the coronavirus will become the dominant strain in the US. That strain has become dominant in Britain after it was first detected in India.During an appearance on ABC's “Good Morning America,” she told Americans who get their shots that “you'll be protected against this delta variant.”As part of the administration's vaccination push, Vice President Kamala Harris traveled to Atlanta on Friday to tour a pop-up Covid-19 vaccination site at Ebenezer Baptist Church, where Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. was a pastor until his assassination in 1968. The current senior pastor is US Sen. Raphael Warnock.Harris also spoke at a Covid-19 vaccination mobilization event at Clark Atlanta University, a historically Black school.The Biden administration insists that even if the 70 per cent vaccination goal is unmet, it will have little effect on the overall US recovery, which is already ahead of where Biden said it would be months ago.Biden wants to celebrate Independence Day as a “summer of freedom” from the virus.Earlier this week, the White House announced plans to host first responders, essential workers and service members and their families on the South Lawn for a cookout and to watch the fireworks over the National Mall.More than 1,000 guests are expected for what will be one of the largest events of Biden's presidency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/300-million-vaccine-shots-in-150-days-biden-s-new-milestone-after-taking-office-101624048767114.html
19-06-2021||World||UN aid chief says tackle root causes of hunger and suffering||The outgoing UN humanitarian chief warned that “the explosion” in needs for humanitarian assistance in recent years will keep getting worse until major powers tackle the root causes of hunger and desperation -- conflicts, extremism, climate change, poor governance, corruption and violence, to name a few.Mark Lowcock, who steps down Friday after four years, said in an interview with The Associated Press that unfortunately the world has been dealing with symptoms, including people displaced by fighting and natural disasters or at risk of famine, which is now stalking Ethiopia’s embattled Tigray region and Yemen.In a very divided world, where the geopolitical system has failed to manage conflicts very well, he said, there has been a “failure of the leading powers" to tackle the causes.“If the world wants to see less humanitarian suffering, you have to deal with the causes of that suffering,” Lowcock said. “If you tackle the causes, you can make progress, you can improve people’s lives.”During his lifetime, the 58-year-old British economist said the world moved from having more than half the global population living in “the most extreme poverty” to less than 10% in that dire situation before the Covid-19 pandemic in early 2020.The people and countries left out of that economic progress are “the ones enmeshed in humanitarian suffering,” he said.Lowcock was highly critical of the world’s rich countries, and especially the Group of Seven leading industrialized nations, for “not acting much more aggressively and generously and protecting the poorest countries coming out of the pandemic,” not only with vaccines but supporting their economies, which “have taken the biggest hit in relative terms” and are “under huge strain.”Rich countries pumped trillions of dollars into their economies to protect their citizens and their nations, and “that’s the right thing to do,” he said.“But it would also have been a smart thing as well as a kind and generous thing to have spent a little bit of that money protecting the very poorest countries,” Lowcock said in the virtual interview on Wednesday.It is also in the self-interest of wealthier nations, he said, because the problems that can brew in fragile countries — becoming havens for terrorism, places where climate change is hardest to tackle, sites where new diseases emerge and old diseases like Ebola reemerge — “come back to bite you if you don’t invest enough to contain the problems.”Lowcock called for a much bigger effort to help poorer countries out of the pandemic.Rather than just announcing it was donating vaccines, he said, the G-7 should have made clear that what they were doing was “a small down payment,” and that they would work with the larger Group of 20 major economies to do a lot more.The G-7 leaders promised 1 billion doses for vaccine-hungry countries, far short of the 11 billion doses the World Health Organization said is needed to inoculate at least 70% of the world’s population and truly end the pandemic.Lowcock said the G-7 announcement -- including 500 million doses from the United States and 100 million each from Britain and Canada -- is basically enough vaccine to reach about 10% of the people who need it in low- and middle-income countries.He said the G-7 didn’t announce money to get the vaccine from the manufacturer into the syringes of health workers who can immunize people, stressing that there are “huge costs in the delivery system.” Some of the very poorest countries that got a little bit of vaccine but had no delivery systems gave some back, he said.The G-7 should have made “a much more rounded, longer term commitment” to finance vaccine requirements, he said, and it should be challenging the G-20 “to step up and meet part of the share of the costs as well.”By comparison, he recalled that in the much smaller financial crisis of 2007-2008, “the leading countries in the G-20 instructed the international financial institutions to provide a lot of assistance to the most vulnerable countries, and they bankrolled that.”For the last 15 months, Lowcock said, he has been pressing the G-7 and the G-20 to provide a lot more economic help to the poorest countries.“That has not happened through this crisis,” he said. “If more resources don’t come, then the pandemic is going to last a lot longer than it would otherwise do, and that will ultimately harm the rich countries as well as adding to the misery and suffering of the poorer countries.”Lowcock called his last four years as the UN's undersecretary-general for humanitarian affairs “challenging,” especially because “the causes of humanitarian suffering have been growing.”He said the UN and the broader humanitarian community, whose “true grit” he has come to admire, have been able “to stave off the worst outcomes in these big disasters, essentially because we have raised quite a lot of money.”In his first year, the UN raised $14 billion for its global humanitarian appeals, Lowcock said, and four years later “we raised $20 billion, so roughly a 40% increase over the period.”But he said he worries that funding for humanitarian aid is voluntary, and there’s far too much reliance on a small number of countries. As a prime example, he said, 70% of the $20 billion raised last year came from the US, Germany, the European Union and the United Kingdom.Historically, the system for humanitarian relief has been “far too reactive,” Lowcock said. “It’s waited for the problem to get almost overwhelming before doing something about it, and we’ve tried to act much earlier when we knew a problem was coming, and much faster.”He said an earlier and faster response to a humanitarian crisis is cheaper, and “it’s also more humane.”“We reach 100 million people a year,” Lowcock said. “We certainly saved millions of lives.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/un-aid-chief-says-tackle-root-causes-of-hunger-and-suffering-101624045483512.html
19-06-2021||World||Wall Street sees turbulence as Fed shift causes rally in value stocks to wobble||The Federal Reserve's hawkish shift is forcing investors to reevaluate the rally in so-called value stocks, which have taken a hit in recent days after ripping higher for most of the year.Shares of banks, energy firms and other companies that tend to be sensitive to the economy’s fluctuations have tumbled following the Federal Reserve’s meeting on Wednesday, when the central bank surprised investors by anticipating two quarter-percentage-point rate increases in 2023 amid a recent surge in inflation.The Russell 1000 Value Stock Index is down 4% from its June peak, though still up 13.2% this year. Its growth counterpart is up 9.1% year-to-date.One factor driving the move is the idea that a Fed more strongly focused on preventing the economy from overheating may begin unwinding easy-money policies sooner than previously expected. On Friday, St. Louis Federal Reserve President James Bullard said the central bank’s shift was a "natural" response to economic growth and inflation moving quicker than expected, bolstering that view.“Value stocks had gotten ahead of themselves, particularly in energy and financials, and the folks that are caught offsides are starting to unwind those trades,” said Jamie Cox, managing partner at Harris Financial Group.The post-Fed meeting slide in value has been accompanied by a retreat in some commodity prices, a surge in the dollar and a rally in US government bonds that dragged down yields on the benchmark US Treasury to around 1.44% on Friday afternoon.Investors will be keeping a close eye on next week’s economic data for clues on whether the recent surge in inflation -- which saw consumer prices accelerate at their fastest pace in 12 years last month -- will persist.New home sales and mortgage applications are due out June 23, while May consumer spending numbers are expected on June 25.Investors piled into value stocks in the latter half of 2020, as signs of breakthroughs in vaccines against Covid-19 bolstered the case for a powerful economic rebound in 2021. Value stocks have outperformed growth stocks by nearly 7 percentage points since the start of November 2020, bucking a trend that saw technology and other growth sectors regularly outshine value over the last decade.An unwinding of the heavy positioning in value shares could exacerbate the recent slide. Mutual funds are overweight value names to a larger degree than any time in the last eight years, according to a Goldman Sachs report published on June 9.Some big-name investors such as Cathie Wood, whose ARK Innovation ETF was the top-performing US equity fund last year, have suggested that growth stocks will resume their market outperformance as investors rotate away from value sectors such as energy that are up 38.5% since the start of the year. Wood’s flagship ETF is down 4.8% year-to-date.Others, however, believe the recent wobble in value stocks is a pause, rather than a turning point.Cyclical companies remain the least over-valued in the US stock market, according to Jonathan Golub, chief US equity strategist at Credit Suisse. High sales-growth companies are trading at valuations nearly double their 10-year averages, while cyclical companies are trading at valuations approximately 40% more than their historical levels, he wrote in a research note.The prospect of rising interest rates should also benefit higher quality value stock names that held up better in last year's downturn but have lagged during the recovery, said John Mowrey, chief investment officer at NFJ Investment Group.He has been increasing his positions in utility and consumer staples stocks that have underperformed value stocks as a whole, betting that they will increase their dividend payouts, which would make them more attractive even if Treasury yields eventually rise.Among his holdings are consumer companies Church & Dwight Co, which is down 4% for the year to date, and McCormick & Company Inc, which is down 9.7% for the year to date."The idea of dividend growth has been largely sidelined because we’ve all been enjoying stock appreciation," he said. "We think this will be the next leg of the value stock rally."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/wall-street-sees-turbulence-as-fed-shift-causes-rally-in-value-stocks-to-wobble-101624045536878.html
19-06-2021||World||'Lower drug costs': Pfizer CEO asks Joe Biden to form coalition||Pfizer Inc. Chief Executive Officer Albert Bourla on Friday urged US President Joe Biden to form a bipartisan coalition in Washington to address high drug costs.There’s a great opportunity for Biden to take the initiative to “reduce significantly the cost of medicines for the patients, which is the thing that is now problematic,” Bourla said in an interview Friday with David Westin on Bloomberg Television’s “Balance of Power” show.The out-of-pocket drug costs now paid by patients “is something that needs to be fixed, and it needs to be fixed urgently,” Bourla said. Pharmaceutical industry executives would be willing to help cover the cost of such reform, but they want to ensure their contributions would go directly toward lowering patient costs, he added.“What we don’t want to do is to give money that will go to the black hole of the federal budget,” Bourla said. “We want everything that we contribute to go to lower the out-of-pocket costs of the patients.”In the interview, Bourla didn’t discuss specifics on what reforms he might want to see from the government. In an earnings call in May, though, he said the three key areas the company would like to see from Congress and the Biden administration are rebate reform, capping beneficiary cost-sharing in Medicare Part D and incentivizing the uptake of biosimilars.Pfizer and its partner BioNTech SE are the developers of a messenger RNA vaccine that, along with shots by Moderna Inc. and Johnson & Johnson, has helped stem the Covid-19 pandemic.Bourla was asked if he was worried the goodwill developed by Pfizer’s actions in developing and producing the vaccine could turn over the industry’s overall actions on pricing. “I know that reputation is earned in drops,” he said. “But you can lose it in buckets.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/lower-drug-costs-pfizer-ceo-asks-joe-biden-to-form-coalition-101624038964758.html
19-06-2021||World||China likely to remove all restrictions on births by 2025, says report||Chinese officials are planning to ease birth restrictions further and are considering possibly doing away with all of them by 2025, Dow Jones reported, citing people familiar with the matter.Authorities will likely begin by eliminating restrictions in provinces where the birthrates are the lowest, the news organization reported. The plans being drawn up would include policies to explicitly encourage childbirth, it said.Beijing last month eased a previous two-child limit, allowing all couples to have a third child as it tries to slow the nation’s declining birthrate. However, economists and demographers say the reforms are too little too late and won’t be able to prevent an eventual decline in the population.After the Chinese government changed the norms, social media participants cited the high cost of raising children in urban China, where housing can be expensive and children undergo private tuition in addition to public schools amid a fiercely competitive education system, as deterrents to having kids. At the time, the Global Times, a tabloid published by the ruling Communist Party’s People’s Daily, acknowledged the difficulty of having three children in big cities but also said economics was not the only factor.Researchers at the central bank earlier this year called for birth limits to be abolished entirely.The debate was intensified after the results of China’s latest national census showed the lowest number of births in almost 60 years last year and a decline in the country’s working-age population over the past decade.The decision to allow three children in every family was a response to China’s deepening ageing problem and aims to improve the country’s population structure in the future.The census data made public earlier in May revealed that China’s population is growing at its most sluggish pace in decades, with the country adding only 72 million in the past decade. The average annual growth rate was 0.53% over the past 10 years, down from a rate of 0.57% between 2000 and 2010 - bringing the population to 1.41 billion.The total population figure on the mainland stood at 1.41178 billion on November 1, 2020. The rate is the slowest since 1953 when the first census was carried out.During the period when China strictly implemented the one-child policy — from the late 1970s to 2016 — only couples from minority ethnicities were allowed more than one child.When the country scrapped its one-child policy in 2016, there was a brief uptick in births followed by a decline that has steepened as costs continue to rise.The slump in population growth rate — despite Beijing withdrawing the one-child policy in 2016 — will add pressure on Beijing to incentivise child-bearing as the most populous country deals with a rapidly ageing population and the added economic burden.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-likely-to-remove-all-restrictions-on-births-by-2025-says-report-101624043361659.html
19-06-2021||India||Andhra man slits girl's throat, kills her for rejecting his proposal, arrested||Andhra Pradesh police on Friday arrested a youth from Kadapa who had absconded after murdering a 19-year-old girl for rejecting his proposal.According to sub-inspector of Badvel rural police station, Chandrasekhar, Charan, 21, from Chintala Cheruvu village had been following Sirisha, 19 of the same village for some time."He has been following her in the name of love. But the girl rejected his proposal. This evening at around 4.30 pm Sirisha went to a field next to her house to fetch grass. Charan followed her and attacked her with a knife. He slit her throat and murdered her," said Chandrasekhar."On coming to know about the matter, family members and other villagers beat him up. The injured accused has been shifted to Badvel government hospital," he added.The police have shifted the girl's body to the government general hospital.Legal formalities are to be complied with. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-man-slits-girl-s-throat-kills-her-for-rejecting-his-proposal-arrested-101624126447367.html
19-06-2021||India||10-day-old infant sold for ₹10,000 by poor Odisha couple rescued: Cop||BHUBANESWAR: An infant bought by a 42-year-old childless rag picker for ₹10,000 from its parents, also rag pickers, has been rescued by the police and a non-profit in Odisha capital Bhubaneswar, people familiar with the matter said on Saturday. The 10-day-old boy has been sent to Subhadra Mahatab Seva Sadan, a special adoption agency for rehabilitation in Bhubaneswar.The woman who bought the infant on June 14 has been arrested on charges of illegal adoption and buying a child. Police said they are yet to trace the biological parents who are missing.“The biological parents wanted to sell this baby as they had no money to survive on the streets,” said Benudhar Senapati of Childline, the NGO that was first tipped off about the baby’s sale. Senapati said their initial inquiries have led them to believe that the father may have driven the deal to feed his addiction to drugs and alcohol.Arun Kumar Swain, inspector in-charge of the Kharvel Nagar police station, said the police rescued the baby on a tip off from the NGO. “The nomadic couple who sold their child are rag pickers. The woman, Sumedin Bibi, who bought the baby is also into ragpicking and knew about the birth. As she was childless, she asked the couple to give her the child. The child’s father asked for ₹10,000 which she paid at her home at Malisahi,” said inspector Swain.Stories of child sale are not uncommon in Odisha, once infamous for its poverty in 80s and 90s as scores of poverty-ridden families sold off their sons and daughters to well-off families unable to feed them. Western Odisha districts like Kalahandi and Bolangir are replete with examples of child sale. In 1985, the sale of 2-year-old tribal girl Banita to a blind man for as little as ₹40 and a saree by her sister-in-law Phanas Punji brought the poverty of the state into the limelight. Though Odisha’s per capita income has risen sharply from what it was back then, its real per capita income has consistently remained below the national average.In October last year, police in Sambalpur district rescued a one-month-old girl from a couple who had allegedly bought her from an impoverished couple for ₹15,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/10dayold-infant-sold-for-rs-10-000-by-poor-odisha-couple-rescued-cop-101624124130432.html
19-06-2021||India||Kerala to offer 'In-Car Dining', food will be served in parked vehicles||From early last year after the onset of the Covid-19 pandemic, the culture of eating out and dining took a huge hit. Kerala Tourism has decided to launch a facility to revive this popular everyday lifestyle with an interesting take while paying critical attention to the threats posed by the Covid-19 disease outbreak.The Kerala Tourism Development Corporation (KTDC) is launching a facility that serves travelers food inside their vehicles. The move is aimed at allaying health risks while eating in public spaces amid Covid-19.How does In-Car Dining work?Under 'In-Car Dining', the customers can remain in their parked vehicles and place their orders at KTDC's Aahaar restaurants. The orders will reach to the customers vehicle, tourism minister PA Mohamed Riyas explained.The menu under the 'In-Car dining' will cover breakfast, lunch and dinner besides snacks.The scheme is being implemented considering public safety hazards even as a slide in the second wave of the pandemic is expected to help the tourism industry pick up, the minister said.Only select KTDC restaurants will carry out the scheme, Riyas added.The minister said that in the process, 'In-Car Dining' seeks to provide our customers with a new experience. The aim, he explained, is to provide people with safe and tasty food. "We plan to reach out to the people with safe and tasty food. KTDC hotel chains will be renovated under the project 'Mission Facelift' after classifying them on a priority basis," Riyas said.Kerala is also set to see floating restaurants in select destinations across the state on the lines of the one at Veli in Thiruvananthapuram, the first of which will come up at Kadalundi, the minister added.Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said Covid-19 cases in the state have decreased by 42%. However, he has asked the people to continue exercising caution in the face of a highly contagious delta variant of the virus."The third wave of virus can be prevented if "we all are vigilant as a community", Vijayan said.With inputs from agencies||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-to-offer-in-car-dining-where-food-is-served-in-parked-vehicles-101624111456516.html
19-06-2021||India||10 injured in blast at steel factory in Maharashtra's Jalna||At least ten workers were injured on Saturday in a blast at a steel manufacturing unit in Jana district of Maharashtra, over 400 km from Mumbai, police said. A boiler exploded and hot molten iron fell on workers at Sapashrungi Steel Mill, located in a Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) area, said an official. Four workers were admitted to a hospital in Jalna while six were shifted to Aurangabad for treatment, said police sub-inspector Pramod Bondle. A case was registered against the manager of the company for alleged negligence and further probe was on, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/10-injured-in-blast-at-steel-factory-in-maharashtra-s-jalna-101624120631047.html
19-06-2021||India||Centre invites 14 J&K ministers, including Omar Abdulla, Mehbooba Mufti, to PM Modi meeting||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is set to chair a meeting in Jammu and Kashmir on June 24 and as many as 14 leaders, including four former chief ministers of the erstwhile state, have been invited, news agency PTI reported citing officials.The four former chief ministers are Farooq Abdullah and his son Omar Abdullah of the National Conference (NC), senior Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad, and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chief Mehbooba Mufti. The other ministers on the list include Congress leader Tara Chand, People's Conference leader Muzaffar Hussain Baig, and BJP leaders Nirmal Singh and Kavinder Gupta.In addition, Communist Party of India (Marxist) leader Mohammed Yusuf Tarigami, Jammu and Kashmir Apni Party (JKAP) chief Altaf Bukhari, Sajjad Lone of the People's Conference, J-K Congress head GA Mir, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Ravinder Raina, and Panthers Party (PP) leader Bhim Singh have also been invited by the Centre.Various central ministers, including Union home minister Amit Shah, are also expected to be part of the meeting.The much-anticipated meeting is the first such exercise that is taking place since 2019 when the Centre announced the abrogation of Jammu and Kashmir's special status and its bifurcation into union territories.Meanwhile, PTI reported that Omar Abdullah will hold consultations within the party over the next few days. The Political Affairs Committee of the PDP would also be meeting on Sunday to take a decision about the talks, it also reported.Earlier on Friday, Shah chaired a high-level security meeting in Delhi with National Security Advisor Ajit Doval, R&AW chief Samant Kumar Goel, and CRPF DG Kuldeep Singh.The meeting seems to be part of the preparations for the all-party meet, though the agenda of it was developmental issues and the current situation in Jammu & Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-invites-14-j-k-ministers-including-omar-abdulla-mehbooba-mufti-to-pm-modi-meeting-101624120098069.html
19-06-2021||India||Take vaccine and then come to the meeting: Tharoor-led Parliament panel to Facebook||Congress MP Shashi Tharoor-led Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information Technology has conveyed a strict message to Facebook that the company representatives will have to be physically present in front of the panel notwithstanding what Facebook's company policies say, news agency ANI reported. This comes a day after the panel met Twitter representatives and reminded them that the microblogging platform has to abide by the laws of the country.Facebook informed the parliamentary panel that they could attend an online meeting, which the panel has rejected. The date of the meeting has not been finalised yet. The panel has said that it will give the members enough time to complete their vaccination, but the meeting will be held in person.All other social media and web platforms like YouTube, Google will have to send their representations physically before the panel, ANI reported.Facebook said the company has prohibited its officers to attend an in-person meeting as the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic is still going on, sources told ANI. "Taking cognisance of Facebook's reply, now the chairman of the committee sought the list of Facebook officials whom the company wants to send before the committee. The chairman said the committee will provide Covid vaccination to such officials and will also give enough time to come before the committee," sources told ANI. The news agency reached out to Facebook, which declined to comment.The panel on Friday met Twitter representatives and told them that the microblogging platform will have to abide by the rules of the land. Twitter is at loggerheads with the government over the new IT rules, though the microblogging platform continues to claim that it is cooperating and coordinating with the government. Twitter has recently lost legal protection, which makes it responsible for what anyone posts on the platform.On the new IT rules, Facebook has said it will implement the operational processes and improve efficiencies. It has also listed the address of its local grievance redressal company. Shardul Amarchand Mangaldas & Co, situated at 216, Okhla Industrial Estate, Phase III, New Delhi – 110020, will handle Facebook and WhatsApp's grivance redressal system. While Spoorthi Priya will be the grievance officer for Facebook, Paresh B Lal will be WhatsApp's designated officer, the company has mentioned.(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/take-vaccine-and-then-come-for-the-meeting-tharoor-led-parliament-panel-to-facebook-101624116335873.html
19-06-2021||India||Top 10 states that have administered highest Covid vaccine doses so far. Check here||India has administered more than 27 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses since it began the world's largest vaccination drive on January 16. The cumulative vaccine coverage amounted to 27,23,88,783 doses through 37,48,147 sessions till Saturday 7am, the Union health ministry data said.Over 33 lakh vaccine doses were administered in the last 24 hours across the nation, the ministry data showed.As India continues to conduct the world's #LargestVaccineDrive in full swing, take a look at the state-wise break-up of the number of #COVIDVaccine doses administered. For more real-time updates, visit https://t.co/re1fmuMPbB. #IndiaFightsCorona@MoHFW_India @PMOIndia @PIB_India pic.twitter.com/fqNuYcaz3wHere are the top 10 states that have administered the highest number of vaccine doses so far:Maharashtra has administered the highest number of vaccine doses to date. It has given over 271.5 lakh vaccine doses since January 16.Uttar Pradesh has administered the second-highest number of vaccine doses amounting to over 250.83 lakh, according to the health ministry.Gujarat has administered 215.54 lakh Covid-19 vaccine doses till date.Followed by Rajasthan that has administered 206.18 lakh vaccine doses so far.Next in the top 10 states, is West Bengal that has administered 186.11 lakh vaccine doses.Karnataka has given 180.69 lakh vaccine doses in the state till date.Madhya Pradesh has administered 149.72 lakh vaccine doses since Janaury 16.Bihar has given over 131 lakh vaccine doses.Andhra Pradesh has administered 124.65 lakh vaccine doses.Followed by Tamil Nadu with over 121 lakh vaccine doses given to date.Also read| Third Covid-19 wave in India: What experts say about the gap between two wavesThe government began its liberalized and accelerated phase 3 strategy for inoculation on May 1 and under the strategy, in every month 50 per cent of the total Central Drugs Laboratory (CDL) cleared vaccine doses of any manufacturer procured by the Centre will be provided to the states and Union territories (UT) for free.More than 28.50 crore vaccine doses have been provided to the states and UTs so far, through the Centre's free of cost channel and through direct procurement category, the health ministry informed.The ministry said over 2.87 crore Covid vaccine doses are still available with th states and UTs to be administered and over 52 lakh vaccine doses are in the pipeline, which will be received by the states and UTs within next three days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/top-10-states-that-have-administered-highest-covid-vaccine-doses-so-far-check-here-101624115511268.html
19-06-2021||India||Alert sounded as water level rises in rivers in Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh||Authorities have sounded an alert in Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh as several river are flowing above the danger mark in Uttarakhand, while the water level in Ganga has risen in Muzaffarnagar district of Uttar Pradesh as well.In Uttarakhand, Ganga is above the danger mark in both Haridwar and Rishikesh, while Bhagirathi has exceeded the level at Devprayag in Tehri district. According to data available on the website of the Central Water Commission (CWC), Ganga’s water level is at 294.1 metres, which is 0.10 metres above the danger mark.“In Rishikesh, Ganga is flowing four metres above the water level. In Devprayag, water in Bhagirathi is at 465 metres, or two metres above the danger level, and is showing a rising trend,” CWC superintending engineer Rajesh Kumar said.Residents of villages on the banks of Ganga and Bhagirathi in the hill state have been shifted to shelters being run by the respective district administrations, and to other safe locations, officials said.Meanwhile, in Chamoli, Alaknanda is flowing two metres above the danger mark, while the corresponding figure for Pindar in Karnaprayag is 1.5 metres, Chamoli District Disaster Management Office said.Uttarakhand has been lashed by heavy rains over the last three days, with 142 mm of rainfall in Chamoli on Saturday, while Karnaprayag received 136 mm of rainfall. It was measured at 128mm in Pauri district’s Sri Nagar, 103.8mm in Rudraprayag, 97.2mm in Joshimath and 53 mm in Rishikesh.Meanwhile, district authorities in Muzaffarnagar in neighbouring Uttar Pradesh have alerted people against venturing near Ganga in view of the river’s rising water level. “As a precautionary measure, people have been asked not to go near the river after 375,000 cusec of water was released from a barrage in Haridwar,” subdivisional magistrate Jayendra Kumar said.The water level in the river has been on the rise, according to officials.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/alert-sounded-as-water-level-rises-in-rivers-in-uttarakhand-and-uttar-pradesh-101624116742780.html
19-06-2021||India||News updates from HT: Centre asks states to file FIR against those involved in assault on medics and all the latest news||MHA asks states, UTs to take strict actions against those who assault health workersAmid the rise in violence against healthcare workers, Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla on Saturday urged the states and Union territories (UT) to take strict actions against those who assault healthcare professionals. Read MoreBJP may also challenge poll results in some seats, says Bengal’s Dilip GhoshThe Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) may file election petitions to challenge election results of seats lost by its candidates by a wafer-thin margin, the party’s state president Dilip Ghosh said on Saturday, days after West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee and four Trinamool Congress leaders filed similar petitions in the Calcutta high court. Read MoreKarnataka eases lockdown restrictions in 16 districts with less Covid-19 loadThe Karnataka government on Saturday relaxed lockdown restrictions in districts with less than 5 per cent Covid-19 case positivity rate. Read More'Very disappointed': Shane Warne slams New Zealand for not playing a spinner in WTC final against IndiaAustralia bowling legend Shane Warne slammed New Zealand for not playing a spinner in the World Test Championship final against India. Read MoreYouTube picture-in-picture (PiP) FINALLY rolled out on these devices, but there is a catchYouTube picture-in-picture (PiP) update is finally here and some people can start enjoying it. However, there are many who have been left out and will not be able to access this YouTube feature. Read MoreFather’s Day 2021: Emotional to funny - Stories of bond of love between dads and their kidsFather's Day will be celebrated on June 20 this year. Created in 1910 by Sonora Smart Dodd in the US, this day is presently observed all across the world on the third Sunday of the month of June. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-centre-asks-states-to-file-fir-against-those-involved-in-assault-on-medics-and-all-the-latest-news-101624114543023.html
19-06-2021||India||India wants gaps in bill for Kulbhushan Jadhav fixed, Pak calls it obfuscation||NEW DELHI: Pakistan on Saturday contended India was engaging in a campaign to obfuscate the issue of appointing a lawyer to represent Indian national Kulbhushan Jadhav, sentenced to death for alleged involvement in spying. The claim by Islamabad came two days after India asked Pakistan to remove shortcomings in a bill passed by the neighbouring country’s Parliament to allow Jadhav to appeal against his conviction.Kulbhushan Jadhav, a former Indian Navy officer, was arrested in March 2016 in Pakistan’s Balochistan province on charges of spying and sentenced to death by a military court the following year. India has rejected the charges levelled against him and said he was kidnapped by Pakistani operatives from the Iranian port of Chabahar, where he was running a business.The International Court of Justice (ICJ) stayed Jadhav’s execution in 2018 and ruled the following year that Pakistan must undertake an “effective review and reconsideration” of his conviction and sentencing.A statement issued on Saturday by Pakistan’s Foreign Office spokesperson said paragraph 118 of the ICJ’s judgement requires India to “act in good faith, and arrange legal representation” for Jadhav.“Regrettably, India has been engaging in a deliberate campaign to obfuscate the issue of appointment of a lawyer. As a result, the government of Pakistan had to initiate proceedings before the Islamabad high court to request the court to appoint a lawyer for Commander Jadhav,” the statement said.The high court had “invited India to clarify its position in this regard but India continues to deliberately politicise the issue”, it added.In keeping with the ICJ’s judgment, Pakistan chose to provide Jadhav the right of review and reconsideration by the country’s superior courts through the International Court of Justice (Review and Re-consideration) Ordinance of 2020, the spokesperson said.“Pakistan’s commitment to uphold the ICJ judgment was again reflected by the passage of ICJ (Review and Reconsideration) Bill for Review from the National Assembly of Pakistan,” the statement further said.The International Court of Justice (Review and Re-consideration) Bill was passed by Pakistan’s National Assembly or lower house of Parliament on June 10. The bill, which is yet to clear the Senate or upper house, is aimed at ensuring consular access to Jadhav in line with the ICJ verdict, which called for an effective review of his conviction.The Islamabad high court recently adjourned till October 5 the hearing of the Pakistan government’s petition regarding the appointing of a counsel for Jadhav.India has said the bill passed by Pakistan’s National Assembly has several shortcomings and does not “create a machinery to facilitate effective review and reconsideration of Jadhav’s case, as mandated by the judgement of the ICJ”.The external affairs ministry said the bill invites municipal courts in Pakistan to decide whether or not any prejudice has been caused to Jadhav on account of the failure to provide consular access. “This is clearly a breach of the basic tenet that municipal courts cannot be the arbiter of whether a state has fulfilled its obligations in international law,” MEA spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-wants-gaps-in-bill-for-kulbhushan-jadhav-fixed-pak-calls-it-obfuscation-101624116330018.html
19-06-2021||India||MHA asks states, UTs to take strict actions against those who assault health workers||Amid the rise in violence against healthcare workers, Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla on Saturday urged the states and Union territories (UT) to take strict actions against those who assault healthcare professionals. The home secretary asked the states and UTs to keep a close watch on such cases and invoke the Epidemic Diseases Act, where applicable."In the present circumstances, it has become imperative that strict action be taken against those who assault healthcare professionals. Institutional FIRs should be registered against the assaulters and such cases should be fast tracked. You may also like to invoke the provisions of the Epidemics Disease (Amendment) Act, 2020, where applicable," home secretary Bhalla wrote in a letter to chief secretaries and administrators.Also read: Stir held across country over violence against health workersThe home secretary also urged the states and UTs to keep a close watch on any objectionable content in social media that may exacerbate the situation. He asked the governments to make efforts like posters in hospitals and social media posts to emphasise the contribution of healthcare professionals and doctors during the major healthcare crisis of the century-the coronavirus pandemic.Further, he also requested the state governments to take these measures on priority and to proactively engage with the members of the medical fraternity."I would request the states and Union territories may take these measures on priority and proactively engage with the members of the medical fraternity to assuage their concerns." the home secretary wrote.This comes a day after the Indian Medical Association (IMA) held a nationwide protest in demand for the implementation of a central law to protect doctors and healthcare professionals against acts of violence.The home secretary in the letter also said that their earlier advisories dated April 27 and June 9 suggested remedial measures like provision of adequate security at healthcare facilities, especially at Covid designated hospitals, controlled and restricted access to the premises, deployment of quick response police teams at vulnerable locations, effective local level intervention with well equipped centralized control room for monitoring and quick response etc.There have been several incidents of violence against doctors serving in Covid wards. They were brutally attacked and beaten in states like Bihar, West Bengal, Assam, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Karnataka.The IMA on Wednesday said that around 730 doctors have lost their lives during the second wave of the Covid pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mha-asks-states-uts-to-take-strict-actions-against-those-who-assault-health-workers-101624108223841.html
19-06-2021||India||Karnataka eases lockdown restrictions in 16 districts with less Covid-19 load||The Karnataka government on Saturday relaxed lockdown restrictions in districts with less than 5 per cent Covid-19 case positivity rate. All shops and hotels, clubs, restaurants allowed to operate till 5pm, chief minister BS Yediyurappa said adding that lodges, resorts, gyms, private offices will also be allowed to operate with 50 per cent capacity in 16 districts that have less than 5 per cent Covid-19 positivity. These relaxations will be in place from June 21 to July 5.The announcement was due to come on Saturday as the current restrictions are coming to an end on Saturday. Earlier in the day, neighbouring Telangana announced a full lifting of the restrictions in the state. The Telangana government has also decided to reopen schools and educational institutions from July 1.Karnataka was one of the worst-hit states in the second wave of the pandemic as well. The peak is now past as daily new cases have come around 5,000 in the state. on Friday, the state reported 5,783 new Covid-19 cases and 168 fatalities on Friday, taking the total number of infections to 27.96 lakh and the toll to 33,602. Bengaluru Urban district topped the list of positive cases with a total of 12,03,063, followed by Mysuru 1,60,944 and Tumakuru 1,13,359. Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban was on top with 11,13,808, followed by Mysuru 1,50,619and Tumakuru 1,08,276. Cumulatively a total of 3,23,93,253 samples have been tested in the state so far, out of which 1,42,498 were done on Friday alone, PTI reported.Which districts in Karnataka have less than 5% case positivity rateThe relaxation rules will be applicable in Uttara Kannada, Belagavi, Mandya, Koppal, Chikkballapur, Tumkur, Kolar, Bengaluru urban, Gadag, Raichur, Bagalkote, Kalburgi, Haveri, Ramanagara, Yadgir, and Bidar districts as they fulfil the requirement for the relaxations.Following an unlocking pattern like that of Maharashtra, the Karnataka government too has categorised districts based on the severity of the Covid-19 cases.Guideline for districts with less than 5% positivity rate> Shops will be allowed to remain open till 5pm> Restaurants can allow dine-in till 5pm.> Buses and metro will operate at a 50 per cent capacity.> Guesthouses, resorts, lodges, gyms will also open at 50 per cent capacity.Bengaluru Metro: Namma metro services will resume from June 21 on weekdays from Monday to Friday. Metro train services will not be available on Saturday and Sunday as weekend curfew is still in place. What about other districts13 districts with a positivity rate between 5 to 10 per cent, the earlier guideline issued on June 11 will remain applicable. These districts are Hassan, Udupi, Dakshina Kannada, Shivamogga, Chamarajanagar, Chikkamagaluru, Bangalore Rural, Davanagere, Kodagu, Dharwad, Bellary, Chitradurga and Vijayapura.Mysuru is the only district in Karnataka with an above 10 per cent case positivity rate. Hence, there will be no change in the present lockdown restrictions in Mysuru.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-eases-lockdown-restrictions-in-16-districts-with-less-covid-19-load-101624110697494.html
19-06-2021||India||Third Covid-19 wave in India: What experts say about the gap between two waves||Warning about a possible third wave, several experts have predicted the timing of a possible third wave of the pandemic in the last few days. There are mathematical methods to predict this timing and most experts, including AIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria, opined that the third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic is inevitable in India.What is the general gap between the two waves?A gap of roughly four to five months has been observed between two waves of the Covid-19 pandemic. If India's graph is considered, the first peak was in September and the second peak took place in April-May —in a gap of six months.A poll conducted by Reuters predicted that the third wave may hit India in October, November — which also is six months away.AIIMS director Randeep Guleria on Saturday said the third wave may come within six to eight weeks if Covid appropriate behaviour is not maintained properly. According to him, the virus can make a comeback within two months, earlier than the trend noticed in India so far, if the unlocking process is not measured.Why the gap between two waves is not uniformAcross the world, the gap between the two waves of the pandemic is not uniform as it depends on vaccine coverage, human behaviour, and the variant of the virus. Maharashtra Covid task force member Dr Rahul Padita has said that some countries witnessed a gap of 14 to 15 weeks, but some encountered a fresh wave even before two months of the earlier wave.For example, Germany, France witnessed the third wave of the pandemic in April, while the United Kingdom is beginning to enter the 3rd wave.What happened during the 1918 Spanish Flu?There were three waves in the 1918 Spanish Flu, which had taken place during Spring, Fall and Winter. The second wave was the biggest recording the highest number of deaths.Swine Flu occurred in two waves between 2009 and 2010.Why all these outbreaks have wavesThe respiratory infections come in waves, Dr Guleria had said earlier. In a press meet earlier this month, Dr Guleria said that waves occur in respiratory disease pandemic because the virus changes its form and a portion of the population remains susceptible to it. But when most people develop immunity — either through vaccination or naturally — the virus becomes endemic. "This is what happened to H1N1. Now the infection has a seasonality. It comes only in monsoon and winter," Dr Guleria had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/third-covid-19-wave-in-india-what-experts-say-about-the-gap-between-two-waves-101624109279075.html
19-06-2021||India||Covid-19: Health workers in Chhattisgarh cross multiple hurdles to vaccinate people in remote villages||Healthcare workers are going beyond limits to inoculate everyone against the deadly coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The workers are trying to reach, crossing all the hurdles, be it a river, mountains or forest, the remotest corner of India in an attempt to vaccinate everyone.A team of healthcare workers reached the remote area of Balrampur in Chhattisgarh to hold a Covid-19 vaccination drive, for which they crossed a knee-deep river, climbed mountains and walked 9kms through a dense forest, reported news agency ANI. A member of the team ANM Gyaneshwari told ANI that the team of the health department walked through the dense forest and crossed the river to vaccinate the people of Bachwar village against the virus.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19"Our health team visits these areas for regular checkups. It takes about half a day to reach here. With our Covid awareness campaign, there is no hesitancy regarding vaccination among the people in this village," ANI quoted Balrampur chief medical and health officer (CMHO) Dr Basant Singh as saying.The villagers too appreciated the efforts of the team and told ANI that the health department team not only vaccinates the people but also provides essential health information."The doctors also shared with us their experience of being vaccinated against the virus," ANI quoted one of the villagers as saying.Also read: Woman Maoist killed in Bastar gunfight; AK-47 recovered: Chhattisgarh policeMeanwhile, India reported 60,753 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours. The country reported less than 100,000 new infections for the 12th day in a row, the health ministry stated.India's cumulative vaccination coverage reached over 27.23 crore on Saturday as 27,23,88,783 vaccine doses have been administered through 7,48,147 sessions so far, the health ministry said. More than 3.3 million vaccine doses were administered across the country in the last 24 hours, the minister added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-health-workers-in-chhattisgarh-cross-multiple-hurdles-to-vaccinate-people-in-remote-villages-101624104807204.html
19-06-2021||India||63-year-old woman in Bihar gets both Covaxin, Covishield in 5 minutes interval||A woman named Sunila Devi in Bihar was administered with both Covaxin and Covishield shots at an interval of five minutes. multiple media reports said on Saturday. The 63-year-old woman is a resident of Awadhpur village and she received both of the jabs at the Beldarichak middle school vaccination camp in rural Patna.She is said to be in stable condition and is under the observation of doctors. Devi is said to have been inoculated twice “by mistake”.Following this, a team of medical experts have been deployed to the camp to investigate. They have asked for an explanation from the two nurses who administered the vaccines to Devi.According to reports, Devi was administered with Covishield jab first after the due registration process. She was then asked to wait for five minutes and being unaware of the process, she stood in the second queue which was for the Covaxin jab.However, in an India Today report, Devi claims that she told the second nurse about the first jab, but the nurse insisted that, "another jab will be given in the same hand". She is now demanding strict action against the alleged negligence in the report.If Devi continues tore no adverse symptoms, she will be tested for antibodies after 14 days, a senior health official at AIIMS Patna has said.This is not the first such case that has emerged since the beginning of the inoculation drive in the country. In May, a 43-year-old woman in Rajasthan's Dausa village alleged she was jabbed with two doses of the Covid-19 vaccination simultaneously.However, the staff at the Centre has denied this. "The first attempt to vaccinate her was withdrawn when some blood began to pop put. It is called a prick. The nursing staff then located another spot on her arm and vaccinated her with the first dose. She (Kiran) presumed that she was vaccinated twice, which is not true at all," said Chief medical health officer (CMHO) Dausa, Dr Manish Chodhary, adding that proper vaccination protocol was followed.India rolled out a massive vaccination drive in the country on January 16. It began with frontline workers at the top of the priority list, and has now opened to all above 18-year-olds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/63yearold-woman-in-bihar-gets-both-covaxin-covishield-in-5-minutes-interval-101624105819379.html
19-06-2021||India||Coastal Karnataka district reports 15 deaths, 1,006 new Covid-19 cases in single day||As many as 1,006 new cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 15 fatalities have been reported on Friday alone in Dakshina Kannada, the coastal district of Karnataka, as reported in local media Prajavani. This district accounts for the second-highest number of cases in Karnataka after Bengaluru, according to a statistics released by the district administration. The capital city, Bengaluru with a population of 1.5 crore, is currently reporting the highest number of cases with 1,100 fresh infections and 39 deaths on Friday. Dakshina Kannada with a much smaller population of 14.25 lakh people recorded a higher positivity rate.Also read: Karnataka starts rural campaign to allay fears of Covid-19 vaccinesTesting and surveillance have been intensified in the district and teams of medical workers from Mangaluru and the district health department have been sent to assess the situation. The district office communiqué said that on Friday as many as 665 people recovered from the disease. Dakshina Kannada reported 87,350 positive cases since the beginning of the pandemic in 2020. Out of the cumulative 87,350 positive cases, 79,395 have recovered, 6,931 are undergoing treatment and 1,024 people have died, officials in the health department said. According to district health officer Dr. Kishore Kumar, “It is worrisome that Dakshin Kannada has recorded 10.07% positivity on Friday which is the highest in recent months." The district authorities have declared 23 containment zones of which seven are in Mangaluru city and eight in the hilly taluk of Buntwal. Testing has been ramped up to reach 10,000 people every day on an average. The apartments and individual colonies have been targeted under the ‘ring surveillance method. Deputy commissioner Dr K V Rajendra said that the low and highrise buildings where positivity has been reported will be turned into containment zones. As many as 50 houses in the vicinity of places with positive cases will also be brought under surveillance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coastal-karnataka-district-reports-15-deaths-1-006-new-covid-19-cases-in-single-day-101624105452580.html
19-06-2021||India||Karnataka starts rural campaign to allay fears of Covid-19 vaccines||The Karnataka government started its rural anti-covid drive with a motive to allay the fears and suspicion regarding vaccination. This call was given by the senior member of the state cabinet Suresh Kumar at a tribal village in Yelandur in Chamarajanagar district on Friday.  He reminded a group of tribal leaders that the Biligirirangana Betta Grama Panchayat in Chamarajanagar district has been declared Covid free panchayat. Now, their next aim should be to work towards ensuring 100 percent Covid vaccinated panchayats. He urged and encouraged the leaders to spread the message far and wide, and motivate everybody in the Panchayat to get vaccinated, reported Prajavani. Also read: North Karnataka at risk of floods due to last week’s rainfall in MaharashtraThe Chamarajanagar district is predominantly rural and tribal in nature. So far there had not been any penetration of anti covid and vaccination-related information. This is the first drive taken up to mitigate unwillingness for vaccines and spread awareness in the remote corners of the state.Suresh Kumar said the government was keen on insulating the rural and remote areas of the state against Covid infection. This awareness drive about vaccination will be carried out by all levels of people’s representatives, officials and social leaders from nearby towns and cities.And simultaneously leadership would be fostered among the villagers, in this regard to take the campaign further.Karnataka is one of the first states in the country that attempted to dispel misapprehensions about Covid vaccination in the rural areas. “We will make it better in the coming days by reaching the last person with vaccination and information on Standard Operating Protocol,”said Suresh Kumar.Chamarajanagar, Hunsur, Kodagu, Mandya, Dakshina Kannada, Chikkamagaluru are some of the districts that have a high density of rural and tribal population. These districts of Karnataka are under the scanner of the government’s health department for the rural anti-Covid drive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-starts-rural-campaign-to-allay-fears-of-covid-19-vaccines-101624104274369.html
19-06-2021||India||What is Covid Severity Score? Govt's new software for better Covid-19 management||The Union health ministry on Saturday released information about a software that will identify Covid patients who may require ventilation. The current Covid-19 situation in the country is under control, but as experts are urging people to exercise caution, the third wave in India can't be dismissed. Preparations are going on in view of a possible third wave.The software will calculate a Covid Severity Score —which is also the name of the software — based on an algorithm. "Sudden ICU and other emergency requirements during the pandemic have been a challenge for hospitals to manage. Timely information about such situations would help manage the health crisis better," the government said in a statement.अब Software करेगा ventilator support की ज़रूरत वाले कोरोना रोगियों की पहचान !@IndiaDST के अधीन Science For Equity Empowerment and Development (SEED) के सहयोग से विकसित Covid Severity Score (CSS) Software से आपात स्थिति आने से पहले रोगी को रेफ़र करने में मदद मिलेगी। pic.twitter.com/QxuOT60cynThe technology has been developed by the Foundation for Innovation in Health, Kolkata, with the support of the department of biotechnology and IIT Guwahati. The algorithm, as said by the government, measures symptoms, signs, vital parameters, test reports and comorbidities of the COVID positive patient and scores each against a pre-set dynamic algorithm thus allocating a Covid Severity Score. The software has been tested at some primary health clinics, the government said.While the software will identify patiemts who require serious intervention in advance, it will also identify those unlikely to require critical care support, and thus freeing more beds, the ministry said.During the second peak of the pandemic, the overall health infrstructure of the country crumbled with the number of serious cases shooting up. Demands for ICU beds, oxygen beds increased suddenly as more and more patients required serious medical intervention.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-is-covid-severity-score-govt-s-new-software-for-better-covid-19-management-101624103804398.html
19-06-2021||India||Court takes cognisance of charge sheet against Deep Sidhu, others in Republic Day violence case||A Delhi court on Saturday took cognisance of the supplementary charge sheet filed against actor-activist Deep Sidhu and others in the Republic Day violence case.Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Gajendra Singh Nagar has summoned all the accused through video conferencing on June 29.Production warrants have been issued against Maninder Singh and Khempreet Singh, who are still in judicial custody. Except for the duo, all the other accused are out on bail. The judge said the court is taking cognisance of the charge sheet relating to various sections of Indian Penal Code, except those sections for which prosecution sanction is still awaited. Sanction under the Epidemic Diseases Act, the Disaster Management Act and Arms Act is still awaited from concerned authorities.On January 26, protesting farmers clashed with police during the tractor rally against three farm laws and stormed into the Red Fort injuring scores of policemen.The police had filed a supplementary charge sheet on June 17. The investigating officer pointed out names of the witnesses who were severely injured or from whom weapon was snatched, in the final report.The Delhi Police Crime Branch, which is tasked with the investigation, had filed a 3,224 page-long first charge sheet against Sidhu and 15 others on May 17, nearly four months after the violence.Sidhu, who was accused of being the key conspirator of the violence, was arrested on February 9. The police had also accused him of fuelling the chaos at the Red fort. He is facing charges of rioting, attempt to murder, criminal conspiracy, dacoity, culpable homicide among various other sections of the Indian Penal Code. He was in jail for over two months and released on bail on April 17. Besides Sidhu, the police have also mentioned the name of Iqbal Singh, who was doing a Facebook Live session in which he allegedly instigated the protesters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/court-takes-cognisance-of-charge-sheet-against-deep-sidhu-others-in-republic-day-violence-case-101624102320008.html
19-06-2021||India||News updates from HT: Covid 3rd wave to hit India in next 6-8 weeks, says AIIMS director Guleria and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Covid-19 third wave to hit India in next 6-8 weeks: AIIMS Director Randeep GuleriaAll India Institute Of Medical Science (AIIMS) Randeep Guleria on Saturday warned against the third wave of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and said that it can strike the country in the next six to eight weeks, news agency PTI reported. Read more‘Indian armed forces better equipped, more vigilant on Indo-China borders’: Air Chief Marshal BhadauriaIndian armed forces have been more vigilant and alert on the Indo-China border, especially after the last year’s clashes with Chinese forces in Eastern Ladakh, Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria said on Saturday while interacting with media after the Combined Graduation Parade of newly-trained flight cadets of various branches of Indian Air Force at the Air Force Academy, Dundigal, on the outskirts of Hyderabad. Read more'Kidnapping plot, college fight': Pinarayi Vijayan and K Sudhakaran are certainly not long-lost friendsKerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan and Kerala's new Congress chief K Sudhakaran went to the same college and some of their recollections have created a stir in media as they do not seem to be long-lost friends. Read moreWomen in social entrepreneurship get unified platformTo provide momentum to the Sustainable Development Goals of the United Nations, non-governmental organisation Action for India (AFI) launched a business accelerator programme Women in Social Entrepreneurship (WISE). Read moreMilkha Singh passes away: Indian cricket legends pay tribute to 'The Flying Sikh'Several legends of Indian cricket paid tribute to Milkha Singh, who passed away Friday night after a long battle with Covid-19 at the age of 91. Singh introduced India to track and field and remains its ultimate king till the end. Read moreAnushka Sharma makes fans jealous, watches Ind-NZ match toss from hotel balconyActor Anushka Sharma has shared a new picture on her Instagram Story and made cricket lovers quite jealous. As Team India gears up for the WTC Final Test match against New Zealand on Saturday, Anushka showed how she will be enjoying the match from the window of her hotel bedroom. Read moreRIP Milkha Singh: Anand Mahindra pays heartfelt tribute to ‘The Flying Sikh’India lost legend Milkha Singh on Friday, June 18. Following his demise, people from all walks of life have taken to social media to pay their tributes for “The Flying Sikh”, among them is industrialist Anand Mahindra too. Read moreWatch: Iran elects ultraconservative cleric Ebrahim Raisi as its new president||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-covid-3rd-wave-to-hit-india-in-next-6-8-weeks-says-aiims-director-guleria-and-all-the-latest-news-101624099874220.html
19-06-2021||India||Covid-19 third wave to hit India in next 6-8 weeks: AIIMS Director Randeep Guleria||All India Institute Of Medical Science (AIIMS) director Randeep Guleria on Saturday warned against the third wave of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and said that it can strike the country in the next six to eight weeks, news agency PTI reported. Stressing on the need to follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour, Guleria said that until a sizable number of the population are vaccinated people should strictly adhere to face masks and social distancing norms."If Covid-appropriate behaviour is not followed, the third wave can happen in six to eight weeks. We need to work aggressively to prevent another large wave till vaccination kicks in," the news agency quoted the senior doctor as saying.Speaking on lockdown measures as a way to control the outbreak, Guleria said it cannot be the solution keeping in view the devastating impact on the economy. On preventive measures, he suggested an aggressive surveillance strategy in Covid hotspots and lockdowns in case of any significant surge.Referring to the multiple reports claiming that the next wave will put children in the vulnerable category, Guleria reiterated that till now, there is no evidence to suggest that.Earlier, India's epidemiologists indicated that the third wave of Covid-19 is inevitable and is likely to start from September-October.After maintaining a steady decline in daily cases, India was hit by the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic in April and May. During this massive number of people succumbed to the viral infection while the number of daily cases surpassed the 400,000-mark. The number has now come to below 70,000 in the last couple of days.According to the daily bulletin by the Union ministry of health family welfare, India reported 60,753 new cases over the last 24 hours. India's total tally now stands at 29,823,546, while the number of active cases has come down to 7,60,019, the lowest in 74 days.The death toll climbed to 385,137 with 1,647 fresh fatalities and active cases comprise 2.55 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has improved to 96.16 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-third-wave-to-hit-india-in-next-6-8-weeks-aiims-director-randeep-guleria-101624101413209.html
19-06-2021||India||Rafale fighter jets to be inducted into Indian Air Force by 2022, says Bhadauria||Indian Air Force (IAF) chief RKS Bhadauria on Saturday said the IAF is on its target to induct all the 36 Rafale fighter jets by 2022.Speaking after reviewing the Combined Graduation Parade (CGP) at the Air Force Academy in Dundigal in Hyderabad, Bhadauria said, "The target is 2022. It is absolutely on target. I mentioned earlier. Except for one or two aircraft, minor delays because of Covid-related issues, but, in fact, some deliveries have been ahead of time. So, broadly, we are absolutely on target on the Rafale induction plan. On the operationalisation plan, you are aware, we are fully operational.. so, in terms of time, we will be absolutely on time."Also Read: 3 more Rafale jets leave for India from FranceIndia had signed an inter-governmental deal with France to buy 36 of these fighter jets at a cost of ₹59,000 crore in September 2016.In April 2021, Union defence minister Rajnath Singh also said that the whole batch of the aircraft would reach the country by April 2022. "I want to inform you that till now, 11 Rafale have arrived and by this March, 17 Rafale will be on our land. I also inform that all Rafale will reach India by April, 2022," he had said while replying to a question in the Rajya Sabha.On the situation in eastern Ladakh on the Indo-China border, the IAF chief said there was a need to continue with the parley and carry out the disengagement at the "balance friction points," adding that talks between the two sides were underway."The first attempt is to continue with the talks and do the disengagement at the balance friction points. And, of course, follow it up with de-escalation," he said."However, in parallel, the ground realities are being monitored closely. Whatever is the reality across, in terms of current leftover locations, deployments, any changes, that is being monitored closely and whatever actions are required on our part, we are taking," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rafale-fighter-jets-to-be-inducted-into-indian-air-force-by-2022-says-bhadauria-101624093362394.html
19-06-2021||India||Telangana lockdown ends on June 19; Experts' opinion consulted, says CMO||The Telangana Cabinet on Saturday decided to go for a full lifting of the lockdown starting from June 20, the CMO tweeted. The decision has been taken considering the Covid-19 situation of the state and after consulting medical authorities, the Chief minister's office said. The cabinet was scheduled to meet on Saturday to review the existing restrictions as the present lockdown, extended in the first half of June, will end today. Schools and other educational institutes in the state will reopen on July 1.Hyderabad Metro Rail will now operate from 7am to 9pm from Sunday.లాక్ డౌన్ ను సంపూర్ణంగా ఎత్తివేయాలని రాష్ట్ర కేబినెట్ నిర్ణయించింది. రాష్ట్రంలో కరోనా కేసుల సంఖ్య, పాజిటివిటీ శాతం గణనీయంగా తగ్గిందని, కరోనా పూర్తి నియంత్రణలోకి వచ్చిందని, వైద్యశాఖ అధికారులు అందించిన నివేదికలను పరిశీలించి ఈ మేరకు లాక్ డౌన్ ను ఎత్తివేయాలని నిర్ణయం తీసుకున్నది.With the overall Covid-19 situation steadily improving in the country, several states are embracing unlocking. But a complete unlocking after the second wave of the pandemic is unprecedented and experts are also warning against it. The Telangana government said the decision has been taken consulting experts' opinion.During the lockdown, the state provided relaxation between 6am and 5pm and also allowed a grace period of one hour. So, activities were actually permitted till 6pm.Telangana on Friday reported 1,417 new Covid-19 cases and 12 fatalities. Though the state has never been in the frontline of the wave of the pandemic — be it the first or the second — it witnessed a serious situation from time to time. The overall Covid-19 tally of the state is 6,10,834, while the state's total toll is 3,546 — till Friday.States which went under lockdown in the wake of the second phase of the pandemic, like Delhi, Maharashtra are reopening in phases with a limited set of activities being allowed. Maharashtra too has divided its dictricts on various zones depending on Covid-19 severity and allowed activities accordingly.Risks of complete lifting of lockdownA complete withdrawal of restriction involves the risk of possible crowding. Uncontrolled crowding will hasten the third wave in the country, experts have said. AIIMS director Randeep Guleria on Saturday said the next wave of the pandemic may strike the country in the next six to eight weeks, if covid-appropriate behaviour is not followed appropriately.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-to-lift-lockdown-completely-from-sunday-experts-opinion-consulted-says-cmo-101624096265518.html
19-06-2021||India||'Kidnapping plot, college fight': Pinarayi Vijayan and K Sudhakaran are certainly not long-lost friends||Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan and Kerala's new Congress chief K Sudhakaran went to the same college and some of their recollections have created a stir in media as they do not seem to be long-lost friends. In an interview given to Manorama Weekly, Sudhakaran said he had beaten up Vijayan when both of them were students in Government Brennen College in Thalassery. "He may have hallucinated about it," Vijayan said in reply when he was asked about Sudhakaran's comment.Pinarayi Vijayan meanwhile revealed a secret story that involves a tip-off of kidnapping. As reported by local media, the story goes like this: A former Congress leader who is no more once informed Vijayan that Sudhakaran was planning to kidnap Vijayan's children. The chief minister said he did not leak this information to anyone, including his wife as they would have panicked.So what actually happened in the college?Vijayan said the incident that Sudhakaran referred to took place when Vijayan was an outgoing student and Sudhakaran joined the college. According to the CM's version, Vijayan at that time was a leader of the Kerala Student Federation and Sudhakaran was in Kerala Student Union. The incident took place when Vijayan's party boycotted the exam.Sudhakaran, on the other hand, said many of his off-record comments were published by the Malayalam magazine and also dismissed any truth in the plot of kidnapping. He said Vijayan should have immediately informed the police, had something like this happened.Sudhakaran took charge as the new president of the Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee on June 16. That he has already been able to create a flutter is being interpreted positively in Kerala Congress and he is being seen as a strong opposition leader against Vijayan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kidnapping-plot-college-fight-pinarayi-vijayan-and-k-sudhakaran-are-certainly-not-long-lost-friends-101624095493228.html
19-06-2021||India||Women in social entrepreneurship get unified platform||To provide momentum to the Sustainable Development Goals of the United Nations, non-governmental organisation Action for India (AFI) launched a business accelerator programme Women in Social Entrepreneurship (WISE).It aims at high potential women in social entrepreneurship, who are on their scaling journeys to becoming the next impact unicorns. The programme ignites the minds of the women social entrepreneurs through exploring, networking, funding opportunities, partnering and building new endeavours with AFI. It also offers extensive mentoring and handholding with choicest of leaders, through critically-designed learning spaces to grow their businesses through mentorship sessions, webinars and podcasts.By reflecting upon the journeys of women social entrepreneurs in the past, AFI aims to bridge the gaps of opportunity of investment and accelerate through tailor-made interventions.The concept of creating a Women Entrepreneurship Platform (WEP) to promote and support established as well as aspiring women entrepreneurs in India was born at the Annual Global Entrepreneurship Summit hosted jointly by NITI Aayog and the United States government in Hyderabad in 2017.It is the first-of-its-kind facilitation platform mandated to work in collaboration with public sector as well as private-run organisations and bring them on a single platform. It also enables sharing of best practices amongst women entrepreneurs and partner organisations and promote evidence-based policy making.AFI’s founder president Sanjay Kadaveru said, “Despite passing through a challenging year, it was one of the most active and successful years for AFI. We launched quite a number of initiatives and programmes, pooling in the right resources bridging the gap for the social entrepreneurs. We are thankful to receive the grant from the eBay Foundation enabling us to get this into action.”“There are a lot of accelerators around the world, but women in particular face unique challenges specific to them. Something that we endeavour to do is to design customised interventions that address the challenges faced by women social entrepreneurs to help them accelerate on their scaling journeys.”Discussing the landscape of women entrepreneurship in India, Shanti Mohan, the CEO of Lets Venture highlighted that there is a gender disadvantage. “Looking at the Indian ecosystem today, there are about 30% women entrepreneurs and probably fewer of them are women founders; less than 5% are funded and around 1% are in the investing spaces. Seeing the macro scenario, we must address the fact rather than fight it, that there is a gender disadvantage. It has been a learning for me, that you must spend less time fund-raising and invest more time in building your business.”She added, “We as women founders must take away the fact that we are going to be discriminated, when we go fundraising. As entrepreneurs we must be okay making mistakes and not always try being perfectionists. This is the best time to be an entrepreneur in India.”The NGO welcomed its first cohort of five ‘WISEpreneurs’ from across sectors, including education, health, technology and livelihood.The team comprises Shveta Raina, founder, Talerang, a platform that gets students and young professionals ready for their careers through high quality training, mentorship and access to internships and jobs; Neha Kirpal, co-founder, InnerHour, a mental healthcare platform; Akshita Sachdeva, co-founder, Trestle Labs, an initiative focussed towards empowering the visually-impaired community towards inclusive education, employment and content accessibility; Janhavi Joshi, co-Founder, Bleetech Innovations, a firm that works towards inclusion and accessibility for the deaf through different design and technological innovations; and Pooja Rai, founder, Anthill Creations, an organisation focussed on making sustainable playgrounds and bringing play and learning home to children who are missing school due to the pandemic.The AFI programme strives to give impetus to women social entrepreneurs thereby positively adding to the social and economic development of the society to create a larger global impact.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/women-in-social-entrepreneurship-get-unified-platform-101624091707804.html
19-06-2021||India||National Reading Day 2021: Silver jubilee year of P N Panicker movement to promote reading||India celebrates June 19 as the National Reading Day in honour of P N Panicker, the father of the Library and Literacy Movement in Kerala. This year marks the silver jubilee year or the 25th edition of the celebrations.The P N Panicker Foundation and P N Panicker Vigyan Vikas Kendra have been observing the national reading day, reading week and reading month since June 19, 1996. The P N Panicker national reading day and digital reading month will be celebrated from June 19 to July 18, 2021. Just like previous years, the mass movement to promote the culture of reading will be celebrated in collaboration with the government of India, the ministry of education, NITI Aayog, the national digital library of India (NDLI), the government of Kerala, P.N. Panicker Foundation, P.N. Panicker Vigyan Vikas Kendra and other stakeholders.Also read: Here's how flickering screens help children with reading, writing difficultiesMany reading-related activities will be organized on the occasion like webinars on the importance of reading, digital library and intellectual property rights, Covid-19 awareness, green economy etc. There will also be a digital reading pledge and other reading competitions for school students like quizzes, open art, essay writing.Reading competitions for college students involve quiz, open art, debate, for teachers, librarians and faculty involve quiz and video book.In 1996, the day began as the movement to promote a culture of reading to inculcate the habit of reading and promote book-mindedness among school children, youth as well as the underprivileged population of the country, according to the foundation.In June 2017, Prime Minister Narendra Modi visited Kerala and launched the 22nd national reading day and digital reading month celebrations. The Prime Minister gave a clarion call to promote the message of Vayichu Valaruka or read and grow to 300 million people across the country by 2022 when India will celebrate its 75th year of independence.The PM directed the foundation to promote digital reading to propagate the use of digital technology in all educational tools of the country in 2017. Since past year, digital tools in education is the primary tool of schooling after the coronavirus pandemic hit the world.The government of Kerala and the central government through NITI Aayog has entrusted P N Panicker Foundation and P N Panicker Vigyan Vikas Kendra with the responsibility of observing national reading day and digital reading month every year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/national-reading-day-2021-silver-jubilee-year-of-p-n-panicker-movement-to-promote-reading-101624089023815.html
19-06-2021||India||Will inoculate 300,000 beneficiaries daily from June 21: Assam CM||Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma announced on Saturday that the state government has set a target of vaccinating 300,000 beneficiaries daily against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) starting from June 21 till June 30, according to news agency PTI.Sarma added that for the next one week, there will be no government work and all of the state machinery will be engaged in the vaccination drive. “This is a part of our Enhanced Immunisation Drive. From June 21, we shall be targeting three lakh vaccinations daily till June 30,” he said while speaking to reporters.The chief minister also instructed all government employees to get inoculated within this month as government offices will reopen from July 1. He urged the employees of private companies to get the vaccine dose, as the state government will allow private offices to function till 5pm from July.A total of 5,201,172 beneficiaries have been vaccinated against the Covid-19 disease in Assam till now of which 4,170,576 have received the first dose and 1,030,596 have received the second dose too.Earlier, Sarma told state government officials on June 15 to not slacken the vaccination drive and come up with district-specific strategies to achieve 100 per cent inoculation. Officials were also asked to carry out vulnerability mapping at the block level as more infections were being reported in smaller towns and rural areas.Assam has so far recorded 477,159 Covid-19 cases and 4,138 more deaths and 4,835 recoveries. On Friday, the state saw a marginal increase of 3,706 new cases while 33 more people succumbed to the viral disease. However, the daily recoveries outnumbered the new cases for a third consecutive day. The total recoveries have climbed to 436,043 and active cases have come down to 35,631.The lockdown-like restrictions in the state have been extended till June 22 and relaxations have been provided in some districts.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-inoculate-300-000-beneficiaries-daily-from-june-21-assam-cm-101624088217641.html
19-06-2021||India||News updates from HT: PM, President condole demise of DPIIT secretary Guruprasad Mohapatra and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.DPIIT secretary Guruprasad Mohapatra passes away, PM, President condole demisePrime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday expressed sorrow over the death of department of industry and internal trade (DPIIT) secretary Dr Guruprasad Mohapatra. Read moreIndian funds in Swiss banks rose over ₹20,000 crore? Centre refutes claimThe government on Saturday refuted reports Indians were allegedly holding black money in Switzerland and said it has reached out to Swiss authorities to verify details about the deposits. Read moreLight moment on the mountains: Doctors in PPE kits dance to 'Kala Chashma'A video of two doctors, wearing PPE kits and dancing to a Bollywood song, was shared on Twitter by Union minister Jitendra Singh. "Happy to see our frontline healthcare workers relieving their stress after finishing door-to-door vaccination drive in far-flung hilly terrains of district Doda," the minister tweeted. Read moreCongress leaders greet Rahul Gandhi on birthday, party to observe 'Sewa Diwas'Birthday greetings flowed in for Rahul Gandhi, Congress leader and member of parliament from Kerala's Wayanad, as the veteran leader turned 51 on Saturday (June 19). Read more'The toss hasn't happened yet': Steyn says India 'more than welcome' to make changes to Playing XI for WTC final vs NZBesides weather, if there is one question that has emerged as the hot topic among Indian cricket fans in the last 24 hours, it is about their Playing XI for the World Test Championship final against New Zealand at the Ageas Bowl. Read moreKangana Ranaut misses 'anti national librus', wants them to join Koo: 'They had started to love my sweet torture'Actor Kangana Ranaut is missing her days on Twitter when she would be caught up in a feud with someone, ever so often. Kangana was banned from Twitter in May for sharing incendiary tweets after the West Bengal elections. Read moreFather’s Day: Irrfan Khan to Aamir Khan, meet Bollywood's reel feminist fathersHappy Father's Day: Feminism and patriarchy have become the latest buzzwords and dominate conversations across every aspect of life, whether it's entertainment or politics. Read more‘Gen Zs ka Saas Bahu English Drama’: Smriti Irani misses Game of Thrones, shares witty postGame of Thrones (GOT), an American fantasy series, has developed a loyal fan following across the world. Turns out, Smriti Irani is among them too. If you’re someone who misses GOT, then this post by the minister will speak to your heart. Read moreWatch | RIP Milkha Singh: The 'Flying Sikh' leaves lasting legacy on Indian sports||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-dpiit-secretary-guruprasad-mohapatra-passes-away-pm-president-condole-demise-and-all-the-latest-news-101624086195705.html
19-06-2021||India||Chennai faces prolonged power cuts, maintenance work on. All details here||Chennai residents may experience several power cuts throughout the first half of Saturday, as the Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation Limited (TANGEDCO) takes on maintenance work, leading to a potential disruption in power supply. According to reports, TANGEDCO had informed in an official release on Friday that the power supply will remain snapped in several parts of Chennai from 9am to 1pm on Saturday, owing to maintenance work.Among the regions in Chennai facing a power cut on Saturday are Adyar, Besant Nagar, Shastri Nagar, Pattabiram, Thirumullaivoyal, Velachery East, West and Central, IT Corridor, Puzhal, Stanley, Saidapet, Porur, Neelankarai, Pallavakkam, Guindy, KK Nagar, Manali New Town, and Melur, the reports said, citing the official release from TANGEDCO.Although maintenance work in Chennai is slated to continue till 1pm, TANGEDO said that the power supply will be restored earlier if the work is completed ahead of schedule.TANGEDCO reportedly elaborated on the list of areas in Chennai that are looking at a power cut on Sunday due to maintenance work. Here's the list of regions:Thirumullaivoyal: Lakshmipuram Koonimedu, Gandhi Nagar, and adjacent areas.Pattabiram: Lakshmi Nagar, Balaji Nagar, Rajiv Gandhi Nagar, and adjacent areas.IT Corridor: ETL area, Sholinganallur, Thoraipakkam, Ezhil Nagar, Taramani, and adjacent areas.Manali: Manali New Town, KGL Nagar, and adjacent areas.Velachery East: Tansi Nagar, Anna Nagar Extension, Annai Indira Nagar, Anna Nagar, VGP Selva Nagar, and its extension, Balamurgan Street and Venus Colony.Guindy: Madipakkam, Adambakkam, Nanganallur, TG Nagar and adjacent areas.Saidapet: Rengarajapuram, Thomas Nagar, Kakkan Puram, and adjacent areas.Neelankarai: Blue Beach Road, Sea View Avenue, Casuarina Drive, and adjacent areas||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chennai-faces-prolonged-power-cuts-maintenance-work-on-all-details-here-101624085635740.html
19-06-2021||India||DPIIT secretary Guruprasad Mohapatra dies of post-Covid complications, PM, President condole demise||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday expressed sorrow over the death of department of industry and internal trade (DPIIT) secretary Dr Guruprasad Mohapatra.Grieving the loss of the administrator, the Prime Minister remembered his days as the chief minister of Gujarat when he had worked with Mohapatra. The PM commended the bureaucrat's innovative zeal and paid his condolences to his family and friends."Saddened by the demise of Dr. Guruprasad Mohapatra, DPIIT Secretary. I had worked with him extensively in Gujarat and at the Centre. He had a great understanding of administrative issues and was known for his innovative zeal. Condolences to his family and friends. Om Shanti," PM Modi tweeted.Saddened by the demise of Dr. Guruprasad Mohapatra, DPIIT Secretary. I had worked with him extensively in Gujarat and at the Centre. He had a great understanding of administrative issues and was known for his innovative zeal. Condolences to his family and friends. Om Shanti.Mohapatra died due to post-Covid complications on Saturday. He was admitted to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in mid-April when the country was suffering from the destructive second wave of coronavirus disease (Covid-19).President Ram Nath Kovind also expressed grief over the demise."Dr. Guruprasad Mohapatra, DPIIT Secretary was a very able and hardworking officer. His untimely demise is very saddening. My thoughts and prayers are with his bereaved family in this hour of grief. Om Shanti Shanti," the president tweeted.Also read: J&K leaders express willingness to engage as Modi is expected to hold all-party meetingThe Gujarat-cadre IAS officer from the 1986 batch had earlier served as a joint secretary in the department of commerce. At the state level, Mohapatra also held the charge of the municipal commissioner in Surat, Gujarat.He had also served as the chairman of the Airports Authority of India (AAI) before taking over as DPIIT secretary in August 2019.Tributes poured in from various ministers after learning about his demise. Home minister Amit Shah said, "Dr. Guruprasad Mohapatra, DPIIT Secretary was a very able and hardworking officer. His untimely demise is very saddening. My thoughts and prayers are with his bereaved family in this hour of grief. Om Shanti Shanti."Union minister Piyush Goyal also expressed anguish over the demise of the DPIIT secretary and said his long-lasting service to the nation has left a lasting impact."Extremely saddened to hear about the loss of Dr. Guruprasad Mohapatra, Secretary DPIIT. His long-standing service and dedication to the Nation have left a lasting impact. I convey my deepest sympathies to his family and friends,” Goyal tweeted.Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief JP Nadda were also among the leaders who grieved the demise of Mohapatra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dpiit-secretary-guruprasad-mohapatra-dies-of-post-covid-complications-pm-president-condoles-demise-101624084478868.html
19-06-2021||India||Light moment on the mountains: Doctors in PPE kits dance to 'Kala Chashma'||A video of two doctors, wearing PPE kits and dancing to a Bollywood song, was shared on Twitter by Union minister Jitendra Singh. "Happy to see our frontline healthcare workers relieving their stress after finishing door-to-door vaccination drive in far-flung hilly terrains of district Doda," the minister tweeted.They were seen grooving to the famous Bollywood song 'Kala Chashma' in hilly terrain in Jammu and Kashmir's Doda district. The video, posted by the minister at 10.47am on June 19, has already garnered over 500 views.VIDEO: Happy to see our frontline healthcare workers relieving their stress after finishing door-to-door vaccination drive in far-flung hilly terrains of district #Doda. #JammuAndKashmir pic.twitter.com/bmNN9Xjg06In Jammu and Kashmir, doctors and other health workers have been going all out to ensure that everyone in the state gets vaccinated at the earliest. The healthcare workers cross the difficult hilly terrains and rivers on foot to conduct door-to-door inoculation.The Indian Army is collaborating with the Union Territory administration to vaccinate people living in far-flung areas."We came very close to the Line of Control to inoculate those who cannot come to the cities to get vaccinated. The area is hilly and the terrain is difficult, therefore we came here to vaccinate all, especially those who are aged and disabled, and could not come to the vaccination centre," Captain Sadik Arman, an Army doctor told ANI.Also Read: Jammu and Kashmir administration enforces new curbs to tackle rising Covid-19 casesThis is not the first time that a video of doctors de-stressing after a long day at work has surfaced. Another such video was posted by a doctor on her Instagram account last year in July, where she was seen grooving to the beats of 'Garmi'. While she described herself as "looking like a Teletubby", viewers loved her enthusiasm and positivity.The 'Garmi' video was followed by another such video that went viral in October 2020, in which a doctor was seen dancing to the song 'Ghungroo' to cheer up Covid-19 patients. The video showed ENT surgeon Dr Arup Senapati, who works at Assam’s Silchar medical college, wearing PPE kit and dancing effortlessly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/light-moment-on-the-mountains-doctors-in-ppe-kits-dance-to-kala-chashma-101624085026932.html
19-06-2021||India||Industry secretary Guruprasad Mohapatra passes away||Department of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) secretary Guruprasad Mohapatra died due to post-Covid complications on Saturday.“Extremely saddened to hear about the loss of Dr. Guruprasad Mohapatra, Secretary DPIIT. His long-standing service and dedication to the Nation have left a lasting impact. I convey my deepest sympathies to his family and friends,” commerce and industry minister Piyush Goyal said in a tweet.Mohapatra, a 1986-batch Gujarat cadre IAS officer, took over as DPIIT secretary in August 2019. He also served as the chairman of the Airports Authority of India (AAI).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/industry-secretary-guruprasad-mohapatra-passes-away-101624085129979.html
19-06-2021||India||'Ensure Covid-19 norms, don't grow complacent': Centre to states as cases drop||The Centre on Saturday warned all states and Union territories to not grow complacent in ensuring appropriate coronavirus disease (Covid-19)-related protocols and asked the respective administrations to monitor signs of a surge in Covid-19 cases.Union home secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla wrote to the chief secretaries of all states and Union territories, asking officials to ensure that there is no complacency in adhering to Covid-19-appropriate behaviour and in the test-track-treat strategy. The warning from the Union home ministry comes as several states are relaxing their Covid-19 curbs in view of a declining trend in the daily new cases.Also Read: Telangana lockdown to be extended?: Govt to decide today"With the decline in the number of active cases, many states and UTs have started relaxing restrictions. I would like to highlight that the decision to impose or ease the restriction has to be taken, based on the assessment of the situation at ground level. While the opening up of activities, after a decline in cases is essential, the states and UTs must ensure that the whole process is carefully calibrated," the letter, issued by the Union home secretary, noted.The fivefold strategy of Covid-19 appropriate behaviour includes the mandatory use of masks, hand hygiene, social distancing, and also proper ventilation of closed spaces. Regular monitoring of these protocols is required to prevent a relapse of the Covid-19 situation in the country, the home ministry added.Also Read: Andhra Pradesh extends partial lockdown till June 30"However, the easing of restrictions in some states have led to the resumption of crowding of people in markets etc. without adherence to the norms of Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. It is, therefore essential to ensure that complacency does not set in, and there is no let-up in adhering to Covid-19 appropriate behaviour while opening up activities," the letter highlighted.The Union home secretary also asked states to keep a close watch on early signs of a surge in active and high positivity rates, as well as continue the strategy of 'test-track-treat'."A system should be in place at the micro-level to ensure that whenever cases rise in a smaller place, it gets checked there itself, through local containment measures as per the existing guidelines issued by the ministry of health and family welfare," the Centre said.Highlighting the need for Covid-19 vaccination, the Union home secretary said that a successful immunisation drive is essential to break the chain of virus transmission. "Therefore, all states and UT governments should step up the pace of vaccination, to cover the maximum number of people in an expeditious manner," the letter read.The Centre asked state administration officials to issue appropriate directions to the districts and all other concerned authorities to ensure that the orders are followed through and that the country can gradually relax its Covid-19 restrictions in a safe and cautious manner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ensure-covid-19-norms-don-t-grow-complacent-centre-to-states-as-cases-drop-101624082203583.html
19-06-2021||India||Indian funds in Swiss banks rose over ₹20,000 crore? Centre refutes claim||The government on Saturday refuted reports Indians were allegedly holding black money in Switzerland and said it has reached out to Swiss authorities to verify details about the deposits.Reports citing annual data from Switzerland's central bank said deposits of Indian individuals and firms, including through India-based branches and other financial institutions, in Swiss banks, jumped 286 per cent to over ₹20,700 crore in 2020, from ₹6,625 crore at the end of 2019, on a sharp surge in holdings via securities and similar instruments, even though customer deposits fell. They said that the jump in aggregate funds of Indians with Swiss banks reverses a two-year declining trend and has taken the figure to a 13-year high.According to the reports, these figures do not include the money that "Indians, NRIs or others might have in banks in Switzerland in names of third-country entities."The Union finance ministry pointed out in a statement that India and Switzerland have signed the Multilateral Convention on Mutual Administrative Assistance in Tax Matters (MAAC). "Both countries have also signed the Multilateral Competent Authority Agreement (MCAA) pursuant to which, the Automatic Exchange of Information (AEOI) is activated between the two countries for sharing of financial account information annually for calendar year 2018 onwards," it added.The finance ministry added that India and Switzerland exchanged financial information of their residents in 2019 as well as 2020. "In view of the existing legal arrangement for exchange of information of financial accounts (which has a significant deterrent effect on tax evasion through undisclosed assets abroad), there does not appear to be any significant possibility of the increase of deposits in the Swiss banks which is out of undeclared incomes of Indian residents," it added.The ministry also said five factors could potentially explain the rise in deposits in Switzerland, including increased business transactions and deposits "owing to the business of Swiss bank branches located in India" and that in inter-bank transactions between the banks of the two countries. "A capital increase for a subsidiary of a Swiss company in India and increase in the liabilities connected with the outstanding derivative financial instruments," were also among them, it said."The Swiss authorities have been requested to provide the relevant facts along with their view on possible reasons for increase/decrease in the light of the media reports highlighted above," the ministry said.After the reports came in, the Congress on Friday demanded the Centre make full disclosure of the nature of black money and names of the individuals, who have stashed it in Swiss banks. The opposition parties also asked the government to bring a white paper detailing the amount of money it has brought back to India in the last seven years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-funds-in-swiss-banks-rose-over-rs-20-000-crore-centre-refutes-claim-101624079126189.html
19-06-2021||India||Congress leaders greet Rahul Gandhi on birthday, party to observe 'Sewa Diwas'||Birthday greetings flowed in for Rahul Gandhi, Congress leader and member of parliament from Kerala's Wayanad, as the veteran leader turned 51 on Saturday (June 19). Much like last year, the grand old party has planned to observe Rahul Gandhi's birthday as 'Sewa Diwas' this time as well, distributing essential items, including face masks, medicine kits, and cooked meals free-of-cost among the people in the national capital who have faced the brunt of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.Birthday wishes for Rahul Gandhi on this day ranged across the political spectrum. While Congress leaders and the party's various regional units took to their official Twitter handles to post greetings for their leader, members of the opposing BJP camp were also seen reciprocating the sentiment as well. Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chauhan wished Rahul Gandhi on his birthday and prayed for his long life. Union minister of state Babul Supriyo, too, extended birthday greetings to the Congress leader and wished for his good health.Union minister Nitin Gadkari and the leader of opposition in the Bihar assembly, Tejashwi Yadav, also extended their respective birthday greetings for Rahul Gandhi.My very best wishes to @rahulgandhi for a splendid birthday and a happy and fulfilling year ahead. #HappyBirthdayRahulGandhi @incindia pic.twitter.com/cDMGkPdjItअखिल भारतीय कांग्रेस कमेटी के पूर्व अध्यक्ष श्री @RahulGandhi जी को जन्मदिवस की हार्दिक बधाई एवं शुभकामनाएं।मैं ईश्वर से आपके उत्तम स्वास्थ्य एवं दीर्घायु जीवन की कामना करता हूँ। pic.twitter.com/QjxvSUoQruBirthday greetings to Shri @RahulGandhi ji. May you be blessed with good health and long life.कांग्रेस नेता श्री @RahulGandhi जी को जन्मदिवस की हार्दिक बधाई व मंगलमय शुभकामनाएंl ईश्वर से आपके स्वस्थ, सफल एवं दीर्घायु जीवन की कामना करता हूँ।श्री @RahulGandhi जी को जन्मदिन पर शुभकामनाएं!ईश्वर आपको दीर्घायु करें।Delhi Congress workers, under the leadership of Delhi Pradesh Congress Committee (DPCC) president Chaudhary Anil Kumar, will distribute masks, medicine kits, cooked meals, water, and other items to people in the 272 wards of the municipal corporations of the national capital, the organisation said in a statement.The Congress leaders will also visit the families of those who have lost their near and dear ones to the deadly coronavirus, and extend help and support to them, said Delhi Pradesh Congress Committee chief Chaudhary Anil Kumar.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-leaders-greet-rahul-gandhi-on-birthday-party-to-observe-sewa-diwas-101624077642647.html
19-06-2021||India||Odisha CM lays foundation stone for 8 more PSA oxygen generation plants||Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Saturday virtually laid the foundation stone of various Pressure swing adsorption (PSA) plants, health infrastructures, and Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO) plants in eight districts of the state.According to an official release, the districts include Jharsuguda, Bhadrak, Jagatsinghpur, Puri, Sonpur, Nayagarh, Sundargarh, and Mayurbhanj.The state government aims at setting up a total of 20 PSA plants in Odisha, out of which the foundation stone of 7 was laid on June 9, and today, the foundation stone for 8 more has been laid, it said.Talking about Odisha's Covid-19 situation, the chief minister said that it has improved significantly, "but we have to be more careful.""The fight against Covid-19 has continued for over a year. In the second wave, which began in April, declining oxygen levels among the patient were a major issue. Steps to strengthen the oxygen supply system in all our hospitals are being taken," he added.The chief minister said that "every life is precious" has been the state government's moto for Covid-19, and hence, the Covid patients were provided with free treatment and medicines in Odisha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-cm-lays-foundation-stone-for-8-more-psa-oxygen-generation-plants-101624076801696.html
19-06-2021||India||Magnitude 4.2 earthquake rocks Assam, fifth tremor in 24 hours||A 4.2-magnitude earthquake struck Assam in the early hours of Saturday, the fifth such tremor to hit the northeastern region during the past 24 hours, officials said.A National Center for Seismology report said the latest quake was recorded at 1.07 am, with its epicenter near Tezpur, the headquarter of Sonitpur district, at a depth of 30 km.There was no immediate report of injury or damage to the property.The state was rocked by two more quakes, including a 4.1-magnitude one early on Friday, which also had its epicentre in Sonitpur district.Besides Assam, an earthquake of magnitude 3 with epicenter in Chandel district of Manipur was recorded on Friday and another 2.6-magnitude tremor with epicenter in West Khasi Hills district of Meghalaya.No loss of life or property has been reported in any of the temblors.The northeastern region sits over a high seismic zone, making it prone to earthquakes.A strong 6.4-magnitude quake had shaken Assam on April 28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/magnitude-4-2-earthquake-rocks-assam-fifth-tremor-in-24-hours-101624076567726.html
19-06-2021||India||India abstains from voting on UN's Myanmar resolution, supports ASEAN initiative||India on Friday abstained from voting on the United Nations General Assembly's (UNGA's) resolution for an arms embargo against Myanmar, saying its views were not reflected in the draft resolution before the Assembly passed it. The UN's resolution demonstrated widespread global opposition to the Myanmar military and demanded that the country's democratic transition be restored."The fact that there is lack of support from all neighbouring countries, as well as several countries in the region itself, should, hopefully, serve as an eye-opener to those who choose to pursue a hasty course of action," India's ambassador to the United Nations TS Tirumurti said, adding that it does not believe that the tabling of this resolution for adoption at this juncture, is "conducive to aiding our joint efforts towards strengthening the democratic process in Myanmar."The UN's resolution called "upon the Myanmar armed forces to respect the people's will as freely expressed by results of the general election of November 8, 2020, to end the state of emergency, to respect all human rights of people of Myanmar and to allow the sustained democratic transition of Myanmar, including the opening of the democratically elected parliament, and by working towards bringing all national institutions, including the armed forces, under a fully inclusive civilian government that is representative of the people's will."Belarus called for a vote on the resolution in the 193-member UNGA while supporters had hoped for a resolution unanimously by consensus. The measure was finally approved with 119 countries voting 'yes', Belarus voting 'no' and 36 countries abstaining, including Myanmar’s neighbors China and India, along with Russia, according to the news agency AP.Meanwhile, Tirumurti said India stood by the ASEAN initiative on Myanmar and the 'Five-Point Consensus' that calls for the envoy's dispatch and the immediate cessation of violence. "India welcomes ASEAN initiative on Myanmar and the ‘Five-Point Consensus’. Our diplomatic engagements will be aimed at strengthening these efforts. We call for upholding the rule of law and release of detained leaders," TS Tirumurti said."India’s position on Myanmar's situation has been clear and consistent. We have expressed our deep concern about the developments in Myanmar. We strongly condemn the use of violence and urge maximum restraint," Tirumuti said.The envoy further said that India will stand by Myanmar as the country moves towards democracy. "India will continue to engage with measures to accelerate and support the democratic transition in Myanmar so that the hopes and aspirations of the people of Myanmar are fully respected and met," he said.Commenting on the issue of repatriation of displaced persons from the Rakhine state of Myanmar, the envoy said India has the highest stake in resolving it at the earliest as it is the only country that shares a long border with Bangladesh and Myanmar.The elected leaders of Myanmar were overthrown on February 1 this year in a coup by the army, which accused Aung Sang Suu Kyi's ruling party of cheating in the November elections. The army's allegation has been rejected by the previous election commission and international monitors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-abstains-from-voting-on-un-s-myanmar-resolution-supports-asean-initiative-101624072646435.html
19-06-2021||India||India's daily Covid cases fall to 60,753, slight increase in new deaths at 1,647||India’s tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) climbed to 29,823,546 on Saturday after 60,753 fresh cases were reported in the last 24 hours, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare. As many as 1,647 people succumbed to Covid-19 and 97,743 recovered in the last 24 hours, taking the death toll and recoveries to 385,137 and 28,678,390 respectively so far. The daily recoveries continued to outnumber the new cases for the 37th consecutive day.The active cases have come down to 760,019, the lowest after 74 days. They constitute 2.68 per cent of the caseload.Saturday’s cases are 1,727 less than that of Friday’s when 62,480 people were detected Covid-19 positive. On the other hand, the death toll on Saturday is 60 more than that of Friday’s when 1,587 fatalities were reported, the lowest in over two months.Also Read| India sees state-wise decline in average daily new cases, govt shares mapOver 1.9 million samples were tested for Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, taking the cumulative testing figures to 389,207,637, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said on Saturday.The Union health ministry said on Friday that there has been a continuous decline in the daily infections since the country reported a peak of over 414,000 cases on May 7.COVID-19 Testing Update. For more details visit: https://t.co/dI1pqvXAsZ @MoHFW_INDIA @DeptHealthRes @PIB_India @mygovindia @COVIDNewsByMIB #ICMRFIGHTSCOVID19 #IndiaFightsCOVID19 #CoronaUpdatesInIndia #COVID19 #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/4aUosbedNt“Since May 7, we have witnessed a continuous decline. On May 25, the daily cases went below the 200,000-mark. On June 7, the cases were around 100,000 and if you analyse the data of Friday, 62,480 new cases were seen. This means there is a decline of almost 85 per cent since the highest reported peak in new cases. For the past 11 days, the daily cases have remained below the 100,000-mark,” health ministry's joint secretary Lav Agarwal said while addressing a routine briefing on the Covid-19 situation in the country.On the vaccination front, India has inoculated 272,388,783 people till now of which over 3.3 million were given the shot in the last 24 hours. Underlining the importance of vaccination, NITI Aayog's Dr VK Paul said during Friday’s briefing that studies carried out among healthcare workers revealed that after getting inoculated, the chances of getting hospitalised are reduced by 75-80 per cent even if they test positive for the viral disease. “The possibility of such individuals needing oxygen support is around 8 per cent and the risk of ICU admission is only 6 per cent in vaccinated persons,” Dr Paul added.As the debate on the 12-16 weeks gap between two doses of the Serum Institute of India’s Covishield vaccine is intensifying, the chief investigator of AstraZeneca's vaccine clinical trials has backed the duration announced by the Centre on May 13.Also Read| Covishield: Second dose in 3 months? Here's what AstraZeneca trial chief saysSpeaking to The Wire, Professor Andrew Pollard said on Friday the vaccination policy of India and the United Kingdom cannot be compared because of the different circumstances in both these countries. “An immunisation policy that aims to vaccinate the largest number of people in the quickest possible time with at least one dose makes sense in the present circumstances in India,” Pollard said and pointed out that a single dose of the AstraZeneca vaccine provides above 70 per cent protection against serious illness and hospitalisation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-daily-covid-19-cases-fall-to-60-753-deaths-at-1647-101624073232366.html
19-06-2021||India||J&K leaders express willingness to engage as Modi is expected to hold all-party meeting||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is expected to hold an all-party meeting on Jammu & Kashmir next week, an official in his office said and added the schedule for the first such political engagement since the Centre stripped the region of its semi-autonomous status has been tentatively fixed.A second official said the government was keen to restart the democratic process in the region, which has been without an elected government since June 2018. The official added there has been an effort to speak to public representatives and have them participate in the process almost two years after Jammu & Kashmir’s constitutional status was changed in August 2019. The erstwhile state was also split into two Union territories.Officials said the local parties have agreed informally to participate and after they come to Delhi to meet Modi next week, some announcement is expected.The first major electoral exercise--District Development Council polls--was held in the region as part of efforts to restart political activities in Jammu & Kashmir last year. All major political parties participated in the exercise. The parties have also shown willingness to engage with the Centre.The National Conference (NC)--Jammu & Kashmir’s oldest party and the architect of the special status--has said it was reconsidering its position on boycotting such meetings till the region’s special status and statehood was restoredHT has learnt that the region’s political parties may also agree to participate in the Delimitation Commission proceedings. The commission was set up in March 2020 to redraw the constituencies of Jammu & Kashmir before the next assembly elections are held. The last elected government in the region fell in June 2018 when the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) withdrew support to chief minister Mehbooba Mufti’s People’s Democratic Party (PDP)-led government.Mufti and two other former chief ministers were among hundreds of people arrested in the run-up to the nullification of the Constitution’s Article 370 that stripped Jammu & Kashmir of its special status. A communications blackout and a lockdown were also imposed to stem protests against the move. All the restrictions have since been removed.Suhail Bukhari, a spokesperson for PDP, said Mufti has been called for Modi’s meeting informally. “It is an informal invitation and hopefully the party will also receive a formal invitation,” he said.NC spokesman Imran Nabi said he was aware of an invitation extended to his party but added the ice was breaking. “We (NC) have not changed our stance... but the party has always been open to dialogue.”Also read: ‘Anguished by his passing away’ - PM Modi pays tribute to Milkha SinghAltaf Bukhari, the chief of the Apni Party formed after the changes to the region’s constitutional status, said he has not been invited for any proposed meeting even as he underlined dialogue is the only way forward. “It is a welcome step if Prime Minister Modi is meeting Jammu & Kashmir leadership. We have been demanding restoration of statehood, job and land reservation for the locals from day one and we are hopeful of getting all these things through a democratic process,” said Bukhari, who met Modi last year.Communist Party of India (Marxist) leader Mohammad Yousuf Tarigami said he has not got an invite yet. He added he was unaware whether any of the constituents of the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), a grouping of parties including the NC and PDP, has been invited.The leaders of PADG, which was formed last year for the restoration of Jammu & Kashmir’s special status, have been hinting that their doors are open for any dialogue.Congress leader Ghulam Ahmad Mir said only dialogue can resolve issues related to Jammu & Kashmir, which is currently in mess. “Congress has always championed dialogue and for that, all sides have to show the flexibility. There is unofficial communication going between the Centre and certain Kashmiri leaders. Dialogue is always welcome.”People aware of the matter said former Jammu & Kashmir chief minister and Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad has also been informed about the meeting in New Delhi.Former minister Sajad Lone-led Peoples Conference spokesman Adnan Ashraf said that they have not been invited to the meeting. “We have never been averse to any dialogue on Kashmir. The dialogue is a welcome step.”BJP spokesman Altaf Thakur said that if the invitations are extended, it is a welcome step. “This is a process for holding conducive elections either by the end of this year or earlier next year. If the roundtable conference will be held, our state leaders will be there, and it is a good step.”A meeting Union home minister Amit Shah chaired in Delhi on Friday is seen to have been part of the preparations for the all-party meet even as the agenda for it was developmental issues and the current situation in Jammu & Kashmir.Jammu & Kashmir lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha, National Security Advisor Ajit Doval and other top officials attended Shah’s meeting on Friday. In a statement, the home ministry said Shah called all-around development and welfare of people of Jammu & Kashmir the government’s top priority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-likely-to-hold-an-all-party-meeting-on-j-k-next-week-101624073488053.html
19-06-2021||India||Indian Railways approves 660 more trains, including 108 holiday specials||The Indian Railways has approved the operation of 660 additional trains in various zones to help migrant labourers travel and to clear the waiting list in origin destinations amid the declining number of Covid-19 cases across the country.The Indian Railways said in a statement that before the pandemic, an average of about 1768 mail or express trains were being operated every day and as of Friday, there are 983 trains on tracks daily "which is about 56% of the pre-Covid level". "The number of trains is being enhanced gradually as per demand and commercial justification," it said."As on 01.06.2021, about 800 Mail/Express trains were in operation. During the period 01.06.2021 to 18.06.2021, approval for operating 660 additional Mail/Express trains has been given to the Zonal Railways," the Indian Railways' statement said.For the convenience of passengers, Indian Railways approves 660 more trains in June 2021.About 983 Mail/Express trains are being operated.https://t.co/gr4OiX7plf pic.twitter.com/RsphvPGxaDThese include 552 mail and express trains and 108 holiday special trains.The zonal railways have been advised to restore trains in a graded manner, keeping in view the local conditions, the demand for tickets and the Covid situation in the region.Also read | Indian Railways aims to become 'net zero carbon emitter' by 2030Meanwhile, the Southern Railway also announced the restoration of a number of special trains, earlier cancelled due to poor patronage, from next week. The Southern Railway said in a release that daily specials such as Chennai Egmore-Thanjavur, Dr MGR Chennai Central-Thiruvananthapuram, Coimbatore-Nagercoil and Punalur-Madurai will be restored from June 20 and 21. "Please continue to follow covid safety norms such as wearing of masks, social distancing and hand hygiene," Southern Railway said.The North Eastern Railway will also run two pairs of summer special trains between Uttar Pradesh's Gorakhpur and Ernakulam in Kerala. The Gorakhpur Ernakulam Special Fare Summer Special will leave Gorakhpur at 8.30am on June 19 and June 26 (Saturdays) and reach Ernakulam at 2.30pm on the third day. While coming back, the special train will leave Ernakulam at 11.55pm on June 21 and June 28 (Mondays) and reach Gorakhpur at 6.30am on the fourth day. Weekly special trains will also run on the Silchar-Coimbatore sector from June 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-railways-approves-660-more-trains-including-108-holiday-specials-101624068157879.html
19-06-2021||India||Covishield: Second vaccine dose in 3 months? Here's what AstraZeneca trial chief says||The coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccination programme in India has triggered much debate on the desired gap between the two doses of the vaccine. AstraZeneca, the pharmaceutical company behind the AZD1222 Covid-19 vaccine, being sold under the brand name 'Covishield' in India, has now backed the idea of keeping a 12-16 week gap between the two doses of its vaccine. The chief investigator of the AstraZeneca vaccine trials, in an interview with a news organisation on Friday, said that the level of protection provided by the vaccine significantly increases in the second and third months after taking the shot.Explained: Why there are demands to cut the gap between two Covishield dosesIndia recently decided to extend the gap between the two doses of Covishield to 12 to 16 weeks from six to eight weeks. There has been a lot of contention over this decision, particularly because of varied opinions of vaccine efficacy and different countries pursuing markedly different approaches regarding the duration between two vaccine doses.Professor Andrew Pollard, who supervises the team conducting the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine trials, said that the Covid-19 vaccination policies in the United Kingdom and India should not be compared with one another due to the vastly different circumstances in the two countries. The goal of the immunisation policy in India, he said, is to ensure at least one dose of the Covid-19 vaccine for the largest number of people at the earliest, which is understandable with regards to the present coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation in the country.Pollard, the director of the Oxford vaccine group, clarified that AstraZeneca is not working on a single-dose Covid-19 vaccine. Since both doses are needed to boost protection against coronavirus disease, it is understandable that in case of a vaccine shortage, better measures be instituted for the widest number of people instead of a smaller group. He pointed out that the UK only reduced the gap between two vaccines when a large part of its population was already vaccinated.Also Read: Received one dose of Covid-19 vaccine? Know how protected you areThe gap between the two shots matters because that's how the vaccine works. The first shot increases antibodies while the second shot is a booster one. If the second shot is delayed, the first shot gets more time to work. In April, Public Health England said the vaccine efficacy increases when the interval is 12 weeks. The United Kingdom also overcame the surge caused by the Alpha variant keeping the gap at 12 weeks.Meanwhile, India has vaccinated more than 27 crore vaccine doses till now, the Union ministry of health and family welfare said on Friday. Nearly 30 lakh vaccine doses were administered till 7pm yesterday, while more than 5.2 crore vaccine doses have been administered in the 18-44 age group so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covishield-second-covid-19-vaccine-dose-in-3-months-here-s-what-astrazeneca-trial-chief-says-101624065160599.html
19-06-2021||India||Telangana lockdown to be extended?: Govt to decide today||The Telangana cabinet is scheduled to meet on Saturday to discuss several key issues, including the ongoing Covid-19 lockdown, and the effect of monsoon on agriculture. The present phase of lockdown will end on Saturday and chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao is expected to take a decision on the issue as Covid-19 cases in the southern state are declining."An emergency State Cabinet meeting will be held here at Pragati Bhavan on Saturday at 2 pm under the chairmanship of Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao," a Telangana government's release said on Friday. It said that in the meeting, the cabinet is expected to discuss matters such as "lockdown in the state, rainfall, cultivation in the Monsoon season, agriculture-related seasonal issues, lifting of Godavari waters, Hydel power generation and other issues would be discussed."The ongoing lockdown in the state is coming to an end on Saturday. The cabinet has given relaxation between 6am to 5pm during the lockdown and also granted an additional one hour, till 6pm, for people to reach home from their offices. The cabinet decided on June 8 to extend the lockdown for 10 days.Also read | Telangana extends Covid-19 lockdown till June 19 with some relaxationTelangana on Friday reported 1417 new Covid-19 cases, pushing its tally to 610,834 and the death toll rose to 3546 with 12 more fatalities. The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) accounted for the most number of cases with 149, followed by Rangareddy at 104 and Khammam at 93, according to a state government bulletin on Friday evening.Also read | 66 doctors succumbed to Covid-19 in Telugu states during second wave: IMAThe number of recoveries outnumbered fresh cases with 1897 people recovering from Covid-19, taking the cumulative number to 588,259. The number of active cases of Covid-19 was 19,029, the bulletin said. It said 124,430 samples were tested on Friday, taking the total number of samples tested so far to 1,73,14,780. The samples tested per million population was 465,200.The bulletin said the case fatality rate in Telangana was 0.58 per cent against 1.3 per cent at the national level. The recovery rate in Telangana was 96.30 per cent, while it was 95.99 per cent in the country, it added.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-lockdown-to-be-extended-govt-to-decide-today-101624062415698.html
19-06-2021||India||Covid-19: India sees state-wise decline in average daily new cases, govt shares map||India is witnessing a steady decline in the state-wise average number of new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases daily, a map shared by the central government on Twitter has shown. The map, sourced with the help of Union health ministry data from Thursday, shows that the national average growth in daily new cases is currently in the negative, -5.05% to be precise. While a few states, particularly in the northeastern part of the country, are still showing heightened average growth in daily new cases, a major section of the rest of India was seen taking on a 'negative growth' across the same graph.India's state-wise decline in average daily new Covid-19 cases was shown in a map shared by the central government on Friday through its MyGovIndia portal on Twitter, an official channel meant to update coronavirus-related stats. The data was said to have been sourced from the official figures published by the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) on Thursday (June 17).India's efforts to defeat #COVID19 are beginning to show colours! Here's the state-wise stats showing a decline in the average daily new cases. For more updates, visit https://t.co/CKhgW2LA7d #IndiaFightsCorona pic.twitter.com/drG6pBtGmyThe map shows that the majority of India, including previous hotspots such as Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, and national capital Delhi, are now witnessing negative average growth in daily new cases. However, a few select pockets, particularly in the northern and northeast parts of the country are still showing an above-average growth in daily new cases. Uttarakhand in the north, Kerala down south, and Assam and Tripura in the northeast have shown an average growth of 0-10% in daily new cases over the past seven days. Ladakh, Arunachal Pradesh, and Mizoram have witnessed a heightened average growth of 10-20% over the same duration. Only one state, Sikkim, lies in the red zone i.e. an average growth of over 20% in daily new cases during this time.India's Covid-19 figures were colour-coded on the infographic, state-wise, according to its average growth in daily new cases over the past seven days, i.e. from June 10-17. While green signifies a 'negative growth' benchmark -- a trend seen across a major section of India -- other colours show heightened average growth. Yellow, orange and red signify an average growth in daily new cases of 0-10%, 10-20%, and more than 20%, respectively, over the preceding seven days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-india-sees-state-wise-decline-in-average-daily-new-cases-govt-shares-map-101624060135194.html
19-06-2021||NA||Breaking news: Goa extends Covid-19 curfew till June 28||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks. Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.For those who keep a keen eye on political developments, or want to know about the rumblings in faraway corners of the world, this platform will bring the latest and fastest news updates to bring you up to speed.Get latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.Follow all the updates here:Goa extends state level curfew till June 28Goa extends state level curfew till June 28, shops in malls allowed to open from 7am to 3pm. "State-level curfew will be extended till 7 am on June 28. Shops in malls, except for cinema halls, theatres, multiplexes, entertainment zones allowed to be open between 7 am to 3 pm. Fish market may also open," tweets chief minister Pramod Sawant.10 injured in blast at steel factory in Maharashtra's JalnaAt least ten workers were injured on Saturday in a blast at a steel manufacturing unit in Jana district of Maharashtra, over 400 km from Mumbai, police said. Read More8,912 new cases, 257 deaths in MaharashtraMaharashtra's daily Covid-19 tally increased by 8,912, while the number of active cases has come down to 132,597, according to the daily health bulletin. 257 deaths over the last 24 hours took the death count to 117,356.CRPF DG visits Kashmir to review security operationsCRPF director general (DG) Kuldiep Singh on Saturday visited Kashmir and reviewed the operations of the paramilitary force, which is deployed for internal security and law and order in the region, officials said, PTI reported.Punjab govt cancels Class 12 exams in view of Covid-19Punjab education minister Vijay Inder Singla said the government has decided to cancel examinations of Class 12 due to Covid pandemic. Punjab school education board would declare the results as per the pattern of the CBSE, ANI reported Singla as saying.14 leaders from J-K invited to meet PM in Delhi on June 24: OfficialAround 14 leaders from Jammu and Kashmir, including four former chief ministers of the erstwhile state, have been invited for the meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on June 21, PTI quoted an official as saying.Private offices can operate with 50% staff in 16 districts of Karnataka with less than 5% positivity rateThe Karnataka government on Saturday relaxed lockdown restrictions in districts with less than 5 per cent Covid-19 case positivity rate. Read moreWill fight until Lakshadweep gets justice: Filmaker Aisha SultanaFilmaker Aisha Sultana, who was granted interim anticipatory bail for a week on June 17, on Saturday said that she did nothing against the country and will fight until Lakshadweep gets justice. "I will cooperate with the police of Lakshadweep. They have asked me to appear tomorrow. I hope I will get justice," ANI quoted Sultana as saying. A sedition case was registered against her by Kavaratti Police of Lakshadweep for her 'bio-weapon' remark.MHA asks states, UTs to take strict action against those who assault healthcare professionalsUnion home secretary Ajay Bhalla on Saturday wrote to chief secretaries and administrators of all states and UTs for implementation of a slew of measures to check incidents of violence against healthcare workers.Delhi reports 135 new Covid-19 cases, seven deaths in 24 hours🏥Delhi Health Bulletin - 19th June 2021🏥 #DelhiFightsCorona pic.twitter.com/hwPztPiCxzTripura govt cancels Class 10 and 12 examsTripura education minister Ratanlal Nath said that the government has decided to cancel Class 10 and Class 12 exams of Tripura Board of Secondary Education. However, if any student is not satisfied with the results, they can appear in the exam when the situation is conducive, ANI quoted Nath as saying.Last rites of 'Flying Sikh' Milkha Singh being performed in ChandigarhLast rites of former sprinter #MilkhaSingh being performed at the cremation ground at Matka Chowk, in ChandigarhUnion Sports Minister Kiren Rijiju, Punjab Governor & UT Chandigarh Administrator VP Singh Badnore, and Haryana Sports Minister Sandeep Singh are among those present pic.twitter.com/Y1DTC3Ckq9Bengal Congress chief holds meeting to discuss assembly poll resultsWest Bengal Congress chief Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury on Saturday held a meeting with all district presidents in Kolkata to discuss the assembly election results.Former IAS officer AK Sharma, who joined BJP in January, appointed vice president of party’s UP unitUttar Pradesh Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has appointed MLC AK Sharma as vice president of the party's state unit, reported ANI.Telangana government announces end of Covid lockdown from SundayThe Telangana Cabinet on Saturday decided to go for a full lifting of the lockdown starting from June 20, the CMO tweeted. The decision has been taken considering the Covid-19 situation of the state and after consulting medical authorities, the Chief minister's office said. Read moreOm Birla took steps that enriched Parliamentary democracy: PM ModiOver the last two years, Shri @ombirlakota Ji has ushered in a series of steps that have enriched our Parliamentary democracy and enhanced productivity, leading to the passage of many historic as well as pro-people legislations. Congratulations to him!Punjab govt declares one-day holiday in honor of Milkha SinghPunjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh declared a one-day holiday on the death of track legend Milkha Singh. He said that the government will give him a state funeral and will also have a Milkha Singh chair in Sports University, Patiala in his honor. "We are giving him State funeral in Punjab and declared a one-day holiday. It's a great loss for all of us. Younger generation will get inspired by him. We're also going to have #MilkhaSingh chair in Sports University, Patiala," ANI quoted Singh as saying.J & K L-G Sinha to hold meeting with DDC, BDC, panchayat representatives every monthJammu and Kashmir Lt Governor Manoj Sinha on Saturday said that he will hold 'LG Mulaqaat' or L-G meet with district development council (DDC), block development council (BDC) and panchayat representatives every month."J&K Govt is making Panchayati Raj institutions more empowered & vibrant in true sense. 'LG Mulaqaat' will become a platform to voice developmental aspirations of people,"ANI quoted him as saying. Red Fort violence: Deep Sidhu asked to appear before court on June 29A Delhi court on Saturday took cognizance of chargesheet in connection with a case relating to violence at Red Fort on Republic Day against Deep Sidhu and others. The court issued summons to Deep Sidhu and others, asking them to appear before it via video conference on June 29.'Worst since independence...': Dhankhar on post-poll violenceWest Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar held a meeting with Union home minister Amit Shah over political violence in West Bengal. "This is an occasion for us to believe in democracy, constitution, rule of law. I appeal to bureaucracy and police to confine to their code of conduct and regulations. Such kind of post-poll violence is worst seen since independence," he said after the meeting.Power cuts in Tamil Nadu between 9am and 1pm for maintenance workTamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation Limited (TANGEDCO) announced power cuts from 9am to 1pm for maintenance work.DMK minister Senthil Balaji on Thursday said that electricity maintenance work will go on for another 10 days starting June 19. According to him, this was because the previous (AIADMK) regime didn't conduct maintenance work for 9 months.Jagdeep Dhankhar arrives at the residence of Amit ShahWest Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar arrived at the residence of Union home minister Amit Shah for a meeting before leaving for Kolkata later in the afternoon. The governor met the minister on Thursday as well.Punjab to accord state funeral to Milkha Singh, observe one-day mourningPunjab will accord state funeral to Milkha Singh, who passed away on Friday, and observe a one-day mourning in his memory.Ajay Kumar Bhalla writes to states, UT's, urges all to ensure Covid-19 behaviour is followedUnion home secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla wrote to all states and union territories asking them to ensure there is no complacency in adhering to Covid-19 appropriate behaviour and in the test-track-treat strategy. He also asked states to keep a close watch on early signs of a surge in active and high positivity rates.Talks on for disengagement at Eastern Ladakh: Air Force chiefAir Force chief air marshal RKS Bhadauria said talks were on for the next round over disengagement at Eastern Ladakh. "There's a proposal for Commander-level talks and decisions will be taken. The first attempt is to continue with talks and do disengagement of balance friction points and follow it with de-escalation," he said.PM Modi condoles death of DPIIT secretary"I had worked with him extensively in Gujarat and at the Centre. He had a great understanding of administrative issues and was known for his innovative zeal. Condolences to his family and friends," PM Modi tweeted after the on the death of DPIIT secretary Guruprasad Mohapatra.India's active Covid cases fall by 2.55%, recovery rate at 96.16%India active Covid cases fell by 2.55% on Saturday while the recovery rate climbed to 96.16% with 97,743 patients getting discharged in the last 24 hours.1,647 Covid-19 deaths recorded in India in 24 hoursAs many as 1,647 people died of the virus in India in 24 hours, taking the total death toll to 385,137.India records 60,753 fresh Covid-19 casesIndia on Saturday recorded 60,753 new cases of Covid-19, according to the Union health ministry website. With this, the total infection tally reached 29,823,546.India welcomes UNGA adoption of resolution on MyanmarAfter the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) condemned Myanmar’s military coup and called for an arm embargo against the country, India's ambassador to the UN said his country stood by the resolution.Biden warns of 'potentially deadlier' delta variantUS President Joe Biden has cautioned citizens against delta Covid-19 variant, potentially more deadly than others, and urged all Americans to get vaccinated.Interprovincial bus overturns in Peru, at least 27 deadAt least 27 people were killed and several suffered injuries after an interprovincial bus overturned in the southern Peruvian region of Ayacucho on Friday, news agency ANI reported on Saturday quoting local media. The bus fell into a 250-meter ravine at about 3am while traveling on the Interoceanic Highway from the Ayacucho region to Arequipa.India sees state-wise decline in average daily new Covid-19 casesIndia is witnessing a steady decline in the state-wise average number of new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases daily, a map shared by the central government on Twitter has shown. The map, sourced with the help of Union health ministry data from Thursday, shows that the national average growth in daily new cases is currently in the negative, -5.05% to be precise. Read moreChina considering to end childbirth restrictions by 2025, says reportThe Chinese government is considering to end childbirth restrictions by 2025, news agency ANI reported. As told to the Wall Street Journal, China could completely eliminate its childbirth restrictions at the end of the government's current five-year economic plan.Telangana cabinet to take call on Covid-19 lockdown todayThe Telangana cabinet will be meeting on Saturday to hold discussion on key issues, including the the ongoing lockdown imposed to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). "An emergency State Cabinet meeting will be held here at Pragati Bhavan on Saturday at 2 pm under the chairmanship of chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao," according to a release issued by the state government.The ongoing lockdown is supposed to end today. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-june-19-2021-101624060038548.html
19-06-2021||India||Seers plan to move HC seeking probe into Ram temple construction cost||A section of seers, led by Swami Avimukteshwaranand Saraswati, plans to approach the Allahabad high court seeking a probe into the overall costs incurred during the construction of the Ram temple and the protection of historic temples and idols, which they allege are being removed from the Ram Janmabhoomi campus.“Historic temples inside the Ram Janmabhoomi campus are being demolished. They should have been restored and renovated. Historical idols of these temples are missing,” said Avimukteshwaranand, who is also a disciple of Ramalaya Trust head Shankaracharya Swami Swaroopanand Saraswati.The development comes as the Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust, which oversees the construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya, is facing widespread allegations of corruption in connection with the Ayodhya land deal and claims that the Trust general secretary, Champat Rai, bought the piece of land at an inflated price. The Trust has denied all allegations of irregularities.The Ramalaya trust has also sought appointment of a custodian of the temple, till the Trust is absolved of all charges.Rubbishing the allegations, Mahant Kamal Nayan Das, spokesperson for president of the Trust, said: “Those who are threatening us have never contributed to the Ram temple movement. We have fought the legal battle for decades. We are not afraid of court cases...”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/seers-plan-to-move-hc-seeking-probe-into-ram-temple-construction-cost-101624058400599.html
19-06-2021||India||Delhi court dismisses Christian Michel bail pleas in chopper case||A Delhi court on Friday dismissed the bail pleas of alleged middleman Christian Michel in connection with the AgustaWestland corruption case filed by the Central Bureau of Investigation, and the money laundering case by the Enforcement Directorate.Special CBI Judge Arvind Kumar refused to grant relief to the British national, who was extradited from Dubai in 2018. The court noted that the stage was not fit to grant him bail.In his bail applications moved in both the cases, the accused had said he was not required for the purpose of investigation, and expressed willingness to cooperate with the investigation. The applications said the accused never sought to evade the process of law, and that no purpose will be served by keeping him in further custody. The ₹3,600-crore alleged scam relates to the purchase of 12 VVIP helicopters from AgustaWestland||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-court-dismisses-christian-michel-bail-pleas-in-chopper-case-101624055584847.html
19-06-2021||India||India can resume vaccine exports but after meeting own demands, says VK Paul||India, the world's largest manufacturer of vaccines, wants to resume exports of coronavirus doses but can't do so until its domestic needs are met, the head of the country's Covid-19 task force said Friday.“Once our immediate need of vaccinating a significant proportion of Indian people is achieved and vaccine stockpiles are visible from multiple sources, we would then like to play the role of serving others and providing vaccines to them,” Dr. Vinod K. Paul said in an interview with The Associated Press.Paul defended the Indian government's move to restrict vaccine exports in April as it battled a ferocious surge in infections.He noted that India had given away a “substantial” amount of vaccines at the start of the year as it launched its own immunization drive. “So that has to be respected and has to be recognized, as not many nations have done that,” he said.From January, India began exporting vaccines to more than 90 countries. But the exports stopped when infections soared in India, leaving many developing countries without adequate supplies and affecting millions of people.As critics accused India of mismanaging its sluggish vaccination efforts at home, countries such as Nepal and Bangladesh began looking toward China to fill their vaccine shortfalls.The Serum Institute of India, the world's largest vaccine maker, also abandoned its role as the main supplier to COVAX, the UN-backed project to supply vaccines to poor regions of the world. Last month, it said it may not be able to start delivering doses until the end of this year, dealing a significant blow to global efforts to immunize people against the coronavirus.Paul said a resumption of exports is still “very much on the radar.” But when asked when the restrictions would be lifted, he answered, “It is not fair to put any date at this point in time.”Confirmed coronavirus cases in India have surpassed 29 million, while deaths have surged beyond 380,000. Experts believe both numbers are vast undercounts.Media reports have cast doubts on the government's data collection, with crematoriums and statewide tallies of deaths showing different figures. Paul said the government has no reason to hide deaths or cases.New cases are finally tapering off after exceeding 400,000 a day in May, a global record. But authorities are gearing up for another possible wave of infection and are focusing on yanking vaccination rates up.Currently, less than 5% of India's people are fully immunized, with experts cautioning that vaccination rates must go up significantly to protect a sizable chunk of the population by the end of the year.The hope is that India will achieve a rapid increase in inoculations in the coming months. Last month, Paul told reporters that about 2 billion doses could be available by December under a roadmap that depends on India's two main suppliers -- Serum Institute and Bharat Biotech -- ramping up production and five other potential vaccines being made available in the coming months.But experts and critics pointed out that both Serum Institute and Bharat Biotech have struggled to boost manufacturing, and that the other potential vaccines are still undergoing trials with no clear date for when they would be available, raising questions over whether Paul's estimate was realistic.Paul acknowledged Friday that it was an “optimistic” projection. But he said it was based on estimates by the manufacturers themselves and that the figure showed “there is the potential.”“We are also mindful of the fact that there are steps to be met,” he said, conceding that vaccine makers may face regulatory hurdles or trouble obtaining raw materials.He said India can expect to see at least 740 million doses between August and December. But this includes 300 million of a vaccine that is still in late testing and not yet available. More orders will be placed in the future, he added.While much of India's vast rural hinterlands were largely spared from Covid-19 last year, that has not been the case during the recent surge. Access to healthcare is much more limited in the countryside, raising fears that the virus could rip through small towns and villages unabated.Going forward, the focus will have to shift to these small towns and villages, Paul said.“The spread of our preparedness will be much more into the hinterlands, into the rural areas,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-can-resume-vaccine-exports-but-after-meeting-own-demands-says-vk-paul-101624045283679.html
19-06-2021||India||UP hospital that conducted oxygen mock drill gets 'clean chit', report cites co-morbidities||The Uttar Pradesh hospital that allegedly cut off the oxygen supply for five minutes in a "mock drill" in April resulting in the death of 22 people has been given a 'clean chit' by the Agra district administration on late Friday night, officials said in a fresh report. The report, absolving the charges against the hospital, says there was no mock drill conducted and the Covid-19 patients who succumbed during that period died due to comorbidities.According to the report, it was found that "no ‘mock drill’ was conducted as alleged at 7 am of 26th April and out of 16 who died in that period of 26th and 27th April, 14 had co-morbidities". The district administration had earlier stated that there were only 7 deaths but admitted 16 deaths on basis of the report submitted. “There was no mock drill conducted on 96 patients admitted and wrong meaning was interpreted of words used in video going viral’ stated the report.In a video that went viral in April, Paras Hospital’s owner Dr Arinjay Jain, who is not visible in the video, is heard saying in the 1.3-minute audio clip that they were told that even the chief minister cannot provide oxygen so they should start discharging patients."Then I decided to try something out - a mock drill of sorts - and asked the staff to identify those whose oxygen supply can be cut. That way, we will get to know who will die and who will survive,” Jain is heard saying in the video.“The mock drill happened at 7 am, no one knows about this. Twenty-two patients started gasping for breath and their bodies began turning blue. We came to know that they will not survive," he added.The report was released by the district magistrate of Agra Prabhu N Singh based on findings of four-member death audit committee and another two-member magistrate enquiry.The committees also found that there was no evidence of mock drill conducted by stopping the oxygen supply to patients as alleged in the viral video."If this mock drill was conducted then there should be 22 deaths on the morning of 26th April but there were no such deaths. There was an ample supply of oxygen. The assessment done for oxygen requirement was the ‘mock drill’," the report said. The report added: "In fact symptoms of Hypoxia and Oxygen Saturation level were monitored so that treatment could be done with limited oxygen available. A bedside analysis of every patient was done and it was found that 22 patients were in critical condition".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-hospital-that-conducted-oxygen-mock-drill-gets-clean-chit-report-cites-comorbidities-101624047210262.html
19-06-2021||India||Mother of journalist Siddique Kappan, held on way to Hathras, dies in Kerala||Mother of Siddique Kappan, a journalist from Kerala who was arrested on his way to Hathras in Uttar Pradesh to report the alleged gang rape of a Dalit woman in October year, died in her home in Malappuram district on Friday, her relatives said. Khadeeja Kutty was 90.Jailed in Mathura jail, the Supreme Court in February this year had allowed Kappan to visit his ailing mother and he spent five days in his house under the strict vigil of the Uttar Pradesh police. Kappan’s relatives said he was informed about his mother’s death, and he expressed his helplessness in attending last rites. They added that Khadeeja’s burial, who died due to age-related complications, will be held later on Friday. In one of the recent interviews, Khadeeja had expressed her desire to meet her son.Kappan, who has acute diabetes, was shifted to a hospital in Delhi after he had tested positive for Covid-19 in April. Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan and many MPs from the state had written to the Chief Justice of India about the “inhuman treatment” meted out to him. Later, he was shifted to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences for treatment on April 30. After he recovered from Covid-19, he was again sent back to Mathura jail on May 7. However, his wife had alleged that he was shifted to the jail even before he cured fully.In April, his wife Rahyanth Kappan sat on a dharna outside Malappuram collectorate. She said her husband was innocent and he was on his way to file a report on the incident. She said the Uttar Pradesh police were not even allowing lawyers to talk to him over phone and many new charges were slapped against him.Kappan and three others who were heading to Hathras to report the alleged gang rape were arrested in October last year on charges including under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA). The UP police claimed they were active workers of the Popular Front of India, a fundamentalist outfit, adding that they were masquerading as journalists and trying to fuel trouble in the state.Kappan hails from Vengara in Malappuram and was working in Delhi for the last six years. He is associated with Malayalam news portal azhimukham.com. The Kerala Union of Working Journalists (KUWJ) is fighting his case. Two days back, a court in Mathura dropped the charge of conspiring to breach peace in the state against them (Kappan and three others) after the police failed to file charge sheet in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mother-of-journalist-kappan-held-on-way-to-hathras-dies-in-kerala-101624043725868.html
19-06-2021||India||YouTuber held in TN over abusive content||Chennai: The cyber crime wing of Chennai police on Friday arrested popular Youtuber and gamer M Madan Kumar (29) for allegedly live streaming PUBG, a game banned in India, with offensive and abusive commentary towards women. Kumar, who was absconding ever since he was summoned for an enquiry, was arrested from Dharmapuri district, police said. His wife Krithika (26), who ran the YouTube channels with him, was arrested on June 16 from Salem district and brought to Chennai. Her mobile phone, laptop and desktop were seized for further probe in the case, police said.The couple’s house in the city was also searched, they added. The arrests were made based on a complaint by a Chennai resident PK Abhishek Ravi that sought action against Kumr and a ban on the channels for obscene portrayal of women and creating perversion among minors.“We received more than 100 complaints and are continuing to receive several complaints from across Tamil Nadu,” said an investigating officer in the case.The couple, both graduates in Electronics and Communications, were booked under various sections of Indian Penal Code and Information Technology Act, 2000. While hearing the accused’s anticipatory bail plea on Thursday, justice M Dhandapani of Madras high court had expressed shock after hearing the recorded conversations between Madan and his subscribers, some of whom are believed to be minors. The judge then asked the petitioner’s counsel to take note of the language in the conversations before appearing for another hearing on Friday. The plea, however, turned infructuous as Madan was arrested on Friday. The accused has more than 777,000 subscribers on his YouTube channel named ‘Madan’ which is described as ‘strategies, tips and tricks for PUBG mobile - Take your game to next level… subscribe for daily live videos.” Besides this, the accused runs several other channels on the streaming platform such as ‘Toxic Madan 18+’ which has 105,000 subscribers.“They earned several lakhs in a month through their subscriptions and views and lived lavishly. They owned luxury cars,” the officer quoted above said. Experts say some of the charges may not withstand legal scrutiny. Advocate Gayatri Khandhadai, who works in areas of internet policy and feminism, believes the gaming community across the world is sexist and needs change. “In India, perhaps this issue of women being abused in the multi-player gaming community is becoming public now. In the videos I watched today, the accused is seen abusing other women players, he is using sexualised abuses when he’s speaking to other male gamers and adopts a demeaning and dismissive tone towards women. These comments do amount to abuse and intimidation under current law,” she said. “However, I am conflicted over other content like when he shares his sexual encounters with other players while he is gaming. It could be argued that this is his sexual expression. In my opinion, it is lascivious content as per law. Given the amount of followers he has (on YouTube), it is evident that this is a social problem which needs to be addressed from the front. Since these are private spaces, there is really no way to monitor and moderate this content effectively because that would essentially mean loss of privacy,” she added. City police commissioner Shankar Jiwal said the Centre has introduced relevant rules to deal with such cases in the online gaming world. “There are separate rules for OTT and social media. They’re (Centre) coming up with three levels of mechanisms to complain, monitor and supervise. And we have powers to take criminal action,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/youtuber-held-in-tn-over-abusive-content-101624043605983.html
19-06-2021||India||Madras HC grants six-week extension for final report in IPS officer sexual harassment case||Chennai: The Madras high court on Friday granted an extension to the investigating officer to file a final report within a period of six weeks in the case of a sexual harassment complaint filed by a woman IPS officer against a special director general of police who was subsequently suspended. The case was taken suo moto by justice Anand Venkatesh to monitor the investigations led by the CB-CID. “The investigation is almost complete and what remains is certain reports to be collected by the Investigation Officer before the final report is filed before the concerned jurisdictional Court,” the court said in its orders. The judge said that he was satisfied with the reasons given for the delay and for the investigation not being complete within a six-week time frame set by an earlier court order on April 30. The investigation officer filed a status report that seven more witnesses were examined so a total 113 witnesses have been examined under Section 161(3) Criminal Procedure Code so far and their statements have been recorded. 32 witnesses were interviewed again. Three accused have been examined-- the special director general of police (under suspension) on charges of for sexual harassment, Chengalapttu superintendent of police (under suspension) for preventing the victim from filing a complaint and colluding with the accused and a superintendent of police from Salem. Statements from the complainant’s father-in-law and husband have also been recorded as ‘crucial witnesses. Advocated General, R Shanmugasundaram, submitted that the report of the Internal Complaints Committee has already been submitted to the Secretary, Home Department and steps are being taken to proceed further on the basis of the report submitted.The court was informed that only the analysis report is pending with the Forensic Department. “The State Public Prosecutor, on instructions from the Investigation Officer, submitted that all efforts are being taken to collect the analysis report and an outer time limit of six more weeks may be granted in order to file the final report in this case,” the court said.The alleged harassment took place on February 21 when the complainant had travelled in the car of the accused while they were on official duty for former chief minister Edappadi Palanisami’s tour of the central districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madras-hc-grants-six-week-extension-for-final-report-in-ips-officer-sexual-harassment-case-101624043485879.html
19-06-2021||India||Ramesh Chennithala likely to be made AICC general secretary||Thiruvananthapuram: Senior Congress leader from Kerala Ramesh Chennithala is likely to be made the general secretary of All India Congress Committee (AICC). He was shifted from the post of the opposition leader last month after the party’s humiliating defeat in assembly elections. Speculation is rife after he was summoned to Delhi by the party high command on Friday. After the poll debacle, the party had decided to make major surgery in the faction-ridden state unit. Senior leader V D Satheesan was made the opposition leader and Kannur strongman K Sudhakaran was elevated to the state party chief’s post. In Kerala two prominent groups - one led by former CM Oommen Chandy and the other by Chennithala - called the shot for many years and the party came to a conclusion that growing factionalism was eating into the vitals of the organisation. After he was replaced, Chennithala had expressed his displeasure in the open. After the debacle, he and PCC chief Mullapally Ramachandran had informed their decision to resign from their posts but the party asked them to continue. “I am satisfied after meeting party leader Rahul Gandhi. I explained to him reasons that led to our defeat. True, I and Chandy expressed concern over some of the recent changes. But everything is clear now,” he said, adding it is for the party to decide where he should work. There are reports that after making him the AICC general secretary he will be given the responsibility of some states which are going to the poll like Punjab or Gujarat. To a question, he said he’s happy to work as an ordinary worker and not after posts. Chennithala started his political career in student days and later he became the all-India president of the National Students Union. In 1985 he became a minister in Karunakaran government at the age of 28. But later he fell out with his mentor when he started grooming his son K Muraleedharan. Later he shifted his base to Delhi and became MP four times. He was also the AICC secretary during Rajiv Gandhi’s tenure. In 2005 he again returned to the state politics and later became the PCC chief and in 2016 he was made the opposition leader of the assembly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ramesh-chennithala-likely-to-be-made-aicc-general-secretary-101624043370524.html
19-06-2021||India||On Day 2 of Delhi visit, TN CM calls on Sonia, Rahul||Chennai: Tamil Nadu chief minister MK Stalin met Congress leaders Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi in Delhi on Friday, concluding his two-day maiden visit to the capital after he formed the DMK-led coalition including the Congress government on May 7. Rahul Gandhi tweeted a photo from their meeting saying, “We will keep working with the DMK to build a strong and prosperous state for the Tamil people.” Stalin was accompanied by his wife Durga and the meeting went on for more than 20 minutes. He presented a copy of the book ‘Journey of a Civilization: Indus to Vaigai’ by R Balakrishnan to Sonia Gandhi. “It was a courtesy call,” said a DMK MP in Delhi not wishing to be named. Stalin also recalled that their relationship has been ongoing since the time of his late father and DMK patriarch M Karunanidhi. “I felt this was very close to my heart,” Stalin tweeted in Tamil. On Thursday, Stalin had met Prime Minister Narendra Modi for about 25 minutes and submitted a memorandum of 25 demands. Some of this included issues which have been rolled out by the BJP-led union government and opposed by the DMK, such as the demand to repeal the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA), the three new farm laws and the national education policy. Speaking to reporters following the meeting, Stalin said that he was happy and satisfied with the interaction and that the Prime Minister assured him of support. Stalin had also raised issues such as inadequate vaccine supply, GST dues, abolition of NEET, retrieving Katchatheevu island, offering more rights to Sri Lankan Tamils and to reject the permission granted to Karnataka’s Mekedatu dam project. He also took a jibe that the union government is asking states to not reveal the number of vaccine stocks while referring to shortage of vaccines in Tamil Nadu. Before Stalin’s arrival, a dozen DMK MPs had camped in Delhi, including his half-sister K Kanimozhi. “Though it is customary for chief ministers to meet Prime Ministers since Nehru’s period, this was also the first time that Stalin is meeting and spending some time with Modi so he now has first-hand idea of the kind of the person that Modi is,” said political analyst, Maalan Narayanan. “Until now, Stalin has only gone by what his MPs, alliance partners, and media friends have told him about Modi. They both have to face a Lok Sabha election in two-and-a-half years for which they are under compulsions to deliver. This puts DMK in a peculiar situation because they cannot be seen as being friends with the BJP which will upset their vote-bank but they will have to work together so they will have to blow hot and cold,” said Narayanan. He added that Stalin will neither take a confrontational approach like his West Bengal counterpart Mamata Banerjee nor that of Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik at the risk of being seen as subservient. “In the coming months, I see him rallying the opposition together while working hand-in-hand with the union government,” said Narayanan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-day-2-of-delhi-visit-tn-cm-calls-on-sonia-rahul-101624043305858.html
19-06-2021||India||Supreme Court tells Calcutta HC to defer hearing of Narada case||The Supreme Court on Friday asked a five-judge bench of the Calcutta High Court hearing the Narada sting case to defer the hearing on Monday till it decides on the question of allowing West Bengal Chief Minister and Law Minister to file their affidavits in the pending matter.The West Bengal government had approached the Supreme Court to oppose a Calcutta High Court decision on June 9 refusing to accept affidavits by Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and her Cabinet colleague Law Minister Moloy Ghatak in a matter where the Central Bureau of investigation (CBI) accused them of leading a mob soon after the agency arrested four prominent Trinamool Congress (TMC) leaders in the Narada sting case. A Vacation Bench of Justices Hemant Gupta and V Ramasubramanian agreed to take up the matter on Tuesday. On being informed that the High Court will be continuing with the hearing of the case on Monday, the bench said, “We hope that the High Court will not take up the matter on Monday and Tuesday.” In their separate appeals before the Supreme Court, the WB government and Ghatak said the order deprives them of putting the truth before the HC in order to refute CBI’s allegations. The HC in its order said, “They (Chief Minister and Law Minister) have waited for the arguments in the case to be substantially completed before seeking to place on record their pleadings in response. It is nothing else but filling the lacunae or supporting the accused.” The five-judge bench of the High Court passed the order while hearing an appeal by the CBI seeking shifting of the Narada sting trial from the Special CBI court to High Court. The agency had claimed that on May 17, the West Bengal Chief Minister led a mob to the CBI office in Kolkata and staged a dharna to protest against the arrests. Later in the day, the Law Minster was accused of leading a mob of over 2,000 people at the trial court which granted them bail. Even the bail granted to the four accused was challenged by the agency. Both matters were heard together by a five-judge bench of the Calcutta High Court. West Bengal in its appeal said, “The impugned order deprives the petitioner of the right to be heard, right to respond, and affects its right to access to justice, and is in violation of law.” The petition stated that on two occasions, CBI filed affidavits to improve its case without taking permission of the Court.Senior advocate Vikas Singh who appeared for the state told the apex court that the affidavit was ready for filing on June 7, well within the four-week time allotted to parties under the High Court Rules. “Just as a matter of courtesy we had asked the High Court. We were not supposed to ask as Rule 38 of High Court Rules gives me the right to file an affidavit.”Ghatak, on the other hand, denied the CBI claim that on May 17 he was present in the trial court. Explaining his presence in Bichar Bhawan Court Complex, Ghatak explained that he came there to attend a meeting with the Public Prosecutor and panel lawyers to discuss reconstitution of panels for the new government. Senior advocate Rakesh Dwivedi who appeared for him said it is unfathomable that the petitioner would be present in an empty courtroom as the hearing that day took place virtually. The High Court while denying permission for filing of affidavits held that arguments were at the verge of conclusion and any order at this stage would delay proceedings. The state found this statement “erroneous” as only CBI had concluded arguments while eight other parties were yet to commence arguments. The Narada case involved a sting operation conducted by a journalist who approached the accused persons for favours in return for money. The sting was telecast on a channel Narada News just before the Assembly polls in the state in 2016. A year later, the Calcutta High Court ordered a CBI probe into the entire case. On May 17, CBI filed the charge sheet and arrested two state ministers Firhad Hakim and Subrata Mukherjee along with two former state ministers Madan Mitra and Sovan Chatterjee in connection with the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-tells-calcutta-hc-to-defer-hearing-of-narada-case-101624041987296.html
19-06-2021||India||RTI activist files complaint against Surya||A police complaint has been filed against Bengaluru South MP Tejasvi Surya for allegedly violating lockdown norms. A city based RTI activist, in a complaint lodged with Ulsoor Gate police station on Thursday, alleged that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP was seen dining in at a hotel on Nrupatunga Road on Tuesday. However, police are yet to register a first information report (FIR) in this regard, said officials in Bengaluru central division. RTI activist Vijay Dennis, in his complaint, pointed out that during the lockdown, dining in at a restaurant or a hotel is not allowed and only takeaways are permitted. He referred to a news broadcast by News First Kannada on June 15, which showed Surya and singer Vijay Prakash having a meal at Hotel Nisarga Grand, in his complaint, a copy of which was accessed by HT. “This is a violation of the lockdown, and the MP should be booked and an FIR lodged under the NDMA (National Disaster Management Act) and IPC (Indian Penal Code),” Dennis said in the complaint, a copy of which was accessed by HT.He, however, added in his complaint that if the news turned out to be fake, a case should be filed against the news channel. Officials from the Ulsoor Gate police station confirmed to having received a complaint and said they were looking into the allegations. “MPs and MLAs are a mirror of the society to the public, if the face of the country or state will violate the lockdown or any law, it will motivate the common public to follow their footprint,” Dennis, who is the founder and director of Karnataka RTI Workers Seva Samithi, said in his complaint. Tejasvi Surya was not available for comment. A reaction from the MP’s office on the controversy was awaited.Due to the spike in Covid-19 cases, Karnataka has been under lockdown since April 27. While curbs have been relaxed in some districts, including Bengaluru, dining in and many other facilities are yet to be reopened by the government. This is not the first time that Surya has courted a controversy. On May 5, the MP was accused of unfairly targeting members of the Muslim community during his inspection of the Covid-19 war room in south Bengaluru. During the inspection, he read out the names of 17 out of the 205 persons employed at the centre, asking their qualifications. All of them were Muslim names. A video of the inspection purportedly showed a staffer replying to Surya that all of them were hired after BBMP, Bengaluru’s municipal body, invited applications.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rti-activist-files-complaint-against-surya-101624041985766.html
19-06-2021||India||PM Modi set to hold talks in Jammu-Kashmir on June 24: Officials||In a bid to bolster political processes, including assembly elections in the union territory, Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government is set to hold a meeting with regional parties in Jammu and Kashmir next week, reported news agency PTI. The meeting is likely to be chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and attended by Union home minister Amit Shah and other central leaders, the report added.Initiating the first step, the Centre has started the process of inviting National Conference (NC) chief Farooq Abdullah, PDP chairperson Mehbooba Mufti, Altaf Bukhari of the Jammu and Kashmir Apni Party (JKAP), and People's Conference head Sajjad Lone for discussions, PTI reporting quoting officials.This meet between Prime Minister Modi and regional parties will be the first such meet in close to two years since the Centre announced the abrogation of Jammu and Kashmir's special status and its bifurcation into union territories in August 2019.With inputs from PTI||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-set-to-hold-talks-in-jammu-kashmir-on-june-24-officials-101624040510767.html
19-06-2021||India||Probe on to find how a pvt agency bagged contract for Covid tests at Mahakumbh||Police formed a special investigation team (SIT) on Friday to probe allegations of 100,000 fake Covid-19 tests conducted during the Mahakumbh in April as investigators focused on how an unknown private agency secured the contract during the high-profile event.Haridwar senior superintendent of police (SSP) Senthil Avoodai K Raj said in an order that the seven-member SIT was formed to speed up the ongoing probe into the private agency, Max Corporate Services, and two private labs, Delhi-based Lalchandani Labs and Hisar-based Nalwa labs. Two other probes, one by the Kumbh Mela administration and another by district administration, are already on.“The special team was formed to assist and ensure speedy investigation of the cases lodged in fake Covid testing,” said Ashok Kumar, Uttarakhand director general of police. The SIT asked people to come forward with any information of fake tests.The development came on a day Max Corporate Services – a Noida-based private firm unrelated to Max Healthcare Group – moved the Uttarakhand high court against the FIR lodged in Haridwar’s Kotwali police station, arguing that it was a service provider that contracted other labs for conducting the tests.Investigators are now probing how a relatively unknown agency bagged the lucrative test contract. Max Corporate Services was initially rejected by the district health administration because it was not recognised by Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) but was later chosen by the Kumbh Mela health administration after it sub-contracted two ICMR-recognised labs for testing.In late March, Max Corporate Services signed memorandums of understanding with Lalchandani Lab and Nalva Labs. On paper, the two labs conducted roughly 123,000 Covid-19 tests, of which about 118,000 were rapid antigen tests and 5,000 were RT-PCR, said the investigators.For the last two days, investigators have questioned Kumbh Mela health officer Dr AS Sengar. “The mela health administration probably didn’t carry out verification of the labs which resulted in them easily carrying out fake tests. Even those who collected samples are now under the scanner,” said an investigator on condition of anonymity.Sengar previously said that the mela administration was committed to probing the allegations and have set up an internal investigation. “From fake testing, fake sample collectors to fake phone numbers all aspects are being probed. We have to wait for the final probe report as and when it’s submitted,” said Haridwar chief medical officer Shambhu Kumar Jha.The Kumbh mela was curtailed this year but devotees thronged Haridwar for months despite experts saying the crowds and rampant violation of Covid protocol could spark a surge in infections. Roughly 9.1 million pilgrims took the holy dip in the Ganga from January 14 to April 27. The bulk of this — at least six million people — congregated in April, coinciding with the worst surge in the second wave of the pandemic.Allegations of fake testing surfaced last week after a Faridkot resident complained to the authorities that he received a message for collecting his Covid-19 report despite never having been tested. The complaint triggered a probe that unearthed roughly 100,000 fake rapid antigen tests.Real-time data checking through the ICMR portal revealed fake entries on basis of mobile numbers and addresses of people who were never tested. On contacting such people, many said they had not even visited Haridwar in April.On Thursday, the three labs were booked for negligence, spreading disease, cheating and criminal conspiracy, and under sections of the 2005 Disaster Management Act and the 1897 Epidemic Diseases Act.Lalchandani Labs and Nalwa Labs both denied the allegations. Max Corporate Services was unavailable for a comment.But on Friday, Max Corporate Services approached the Uttarakhand high court seeking protection against police action and arguing that it contracted nationally accredited laboratories for testing during the Mahakumbh and was only a service provider.“If any fake testing has been done, Max Corporate Services has no role to play and in fact is willing to unearth if any such thing has happened”, said the firm’s lawyer, Kartikey Hari Gupta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/probe-on-to-find-how-a-pvt-agency-bagged-contract-for-covid-tests-at-mahakumbh-101624041025854.html
19-06-2021||India||Orders on students’ bail won’t be a precedent: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Friday said the Delhi high court orders granting bail to three student activists, Natasha Narwal, Devangana Kalita and Asif Iqbal Tanha, arrested in May last year for allegedly instigating the February 2020 Delhi riots were “surprising” and directed that these orders shall not be treated as a precedent in any other case or relied upon in any court proceeding.The top court, which was hearing appeals by the Delhi Police against the bail orders, said it was staying “the effect of the high court order” but clarified that the three activists, who were released from prison on Thursday evening, shall remain out on bail for now.A bench of justices Hemant Gupta and V Ramasubramanian remarked that the bail orders required scrutiny of the top court in so far as they sought to interpret the provisions of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) and returned a finding on the circumstances when the anti-terror law could be invoked.It accepted submissions of solicitor general Tushar Mehta and additional solicitor general Aman Lekhi, both appearing for the Delhi Police, that the high court orders could impact several other cases under UAPA pending before different courts.“We agree that many questions arise since the legality of the UAPA or otherwise was not in question before the high court,” remarked the bench.“The issue is important and it could have pan India ramifications. We are going to issue notice and examine it. The way provisions of the law (UAPA) have been interpreted by the high court, it will probably require an examination by this court. We will like to issue notices and decide the matter for the good of the country,” remarked the bench.“We will say that since bail has already been granted, we may not interfere with that at this stage. But we will otherwise stay the effect of these orders.”A high court bench of justices Siddharth Mridul and Anup J Bhambhani on Tuesday ordered the release of the three student activists on bail, describing the charges against them as “hyperbole” and ruling that it would be “a stretch” to “say that the protest affected the community at large for it to qualify as an act of terror”.Mehta, the country’s second senior-most law officer, underlined that the high court orders turned the UAPA and the Constitution on its head by giving a strange interpretation to the law.“Unfortunately, the high court says it was in anxiety on the part of the state to suppress dissent. I ask since when did the right to protest started including the right to kill and hurl bombs? 53 were left dead and more than 700 were injured in the riots but the high court says eventually the riots were controlled. It is as good as saying if someone plants a bomb and that bomb is defused, there will not be any crime,” said Mehta.He said that the high court orders could be cited by the accused in several other cases to seek their exoneration on the sole ground that they genuinely believed in a cause and did not threaten the defence of India, as has been held by the high court.“If what has been held by the high court becomes a law, the persons who had attacked and bombed an Indian Prime Minister in the past would not and cannot be held as terrorist as they would have also have genuinely believed in their cause and their activity would not be covered by defence of India or an activity carried out during the war,” said Mehta.Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for the accused, said he had no problem with the Supreme Court examining the high court orders on a point of law but the fact of the matter remained that these were just orders on bail.To this, the bench replied: “That is what is troubling us. These were orders on bail. In a bail application, a 100-page judgment discussing all laws is very surprising. What we can say is, bail has been granted and they will not be affected, but we will stay the effect of the high court order.”The bench then issued notices to the student activists, seeking their written replies to the appeals in three weeks. It fixed the matter for hearing next in the week commencing July 19.Over 750 FIRs were filed and several people arrested for the communal riots that broke out in north-east Delhi in February 2020, leaving 53 people dead and several hundreds injured.Kalita, Narwal and Tanha were named in one of these FIRs, accused of orchestrating the blocking of roads in an area where riots broke out. Narwal and Kalita had already been granted bail in two other cases, in which they are accused of unlawful assembly and inciting riots. Tanha has already got bail in another case that alleges he was part of a “premeditated conspiracy” to orchestrate the riots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/orders-on-students-bail-won-t-be-a-precedent-sc-101624040845797.html
19-06-2021||India||Covid vaccination doesn’t affect male fertility: Study||Coronavirus vaccines do not have any effect on male fertility, the results of a first-of-its-kind study published on Friday show, after finding that the levels of sperm in volunteers remained at healthy levels after they got two doses of mRNA vaccines.The study by researchers at University of Miami covered 45 men who were assessed before and after they received their vaccines. Its results reinforce the theoretical understanding that these vaccines do not impact fertility, addressing a false belief among many vaccine sceptics.“Of the 45 men, 21 (46.7%) received BNT162b2 (Pfizer-BioNtech) and 24 (53.3%) received mRNA-1273 (Moderna vaccine). Baseline sperm concentration and TMSC (total mobile sperm count) were 26 million/mL and 36 million, respectively. After the second vaccine dose, the median sperm concentration significantly increased to 30 million/mL and the median TMSC to 44 million. Semen volume and sperm motility also significantly increased,” the report, published in the peer-reviewed Journal of American Medical Association (Jama), said.The authors explain the increase as being within routine variation and could be a result of increased abstinence duration prior to the second sampling.“In this study of sperm parameters before and after two doses of a Covid-19 mRNA vaccine, there were no significant decreases in any sperm parameter among this small cohort of healthy men. Because the vaccines contain mRNA and not the live virus, it is unlikely that the vaccine would affect sperm parameters,” the authors write.None of Covid-19 vaccines use a live virus. Even in the case of adenovirus vector doses, such as those made by OxfordAstraZeneca (sold as Covishield in India) and Russia’s Gamaleya Institute (sold as Sputnik), the adenovirus is modified to not replicate and cannot cause an actual infection – it merely acts as a conduit for the code of the Spike protein of the Sars-CoV-2.Experts said it is important to address vaccine hesitancy. “Misinformation around COVID-19 vaccines needs to be dispelled, as this can become a major reason for people refusing to get vaccinated. Studies like these help address myths around COVID-19 vaccines being harmful, in this case to male fertility. We need to use science to counter incorrect information, as well as ensure that we communicate facts through all available platforms,” said Dr Anant Bhan, researchers, Global Health, Bioethics and Health Policy.In November, 2020, scientists found evidence that people may be at a higher risk of infertility if they get infected with Covid-19. The study by researchers from China found that in samples taken from six male Covid-19 patients who died from the disease showed high levels of cells and proteins that indicated inflammation and cell death in the testes and epidymis.In the men recovering from Covid-19, 39% of them had low sperm counts and 61% had an increased number of white blood cells in their semen, which suggested compromised sperm function.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-vaccination-doesn-t-affect-male-fertility-study-101624040846318.html
19-06-2021||India||Ministry may give green nod to Adani’s coal-to-PVC plant||Union environment ministry is considering granting environmental clearance to a coal-to-PVC plant that will come up in Gujarat’s Kachchh district, said people familiar with the matter.The unit that is being set up by Adani Enterprises will have a poly-vinyl-chloride (PVC) production capacity of 2000 KTPA (Kilo Tons Per Annum) requiring 3.1 million metric tonnes per annum (MTPA) of coal that will be imported from Australia, Russia and other countries.The environment ministry’s impact assessment division granted standard terms of reference (TOR) to the plant on April 17. The grant of TOR is one of the first steps in the environmental clearance process.The project will come up at a cost of ₹29,000 crores (US $ 4 billion). Coal is likely to be blended with pet coke , and blending of other coals such as Anthracite Coal is also being explored for the project according to documents on environment ministry’s Parivesh website, seen by HT.A report in the Guardian published on June 18 suggested that the PVC unit will be using coal from Bravus Mining and Resources’ (formerly Adani Australia) Carmichael coal mine which is mired in environmental controversies and litigation.Bravus Mining and Resources, however, put out a statement on Friday that “Carmichael coal, like any other traditional thermal coal, is not suitable for use in plastics. It is suitable for use in energy and electricity generation and has always been intended for that use.”It added that “India will be a foundation customer for the Carmichael Project and is the fourth largest global user of electricity as well as the source of the biggest growth in global energy demand (source International Energy Agency).”According to documents on Parivesh website, no change in land use will be required as 278.79 ha of identified land for the project belongs to the Adani Ports and SEZ (APSEZ) and is already designated for industrial purpose. Forest clearance for 1840 ha of forest land was granted in 2009.The rationale for the project according to Adani Enterprises’ submission to the environment ministry is that PVC demand in India is around 3.5 MTPA which is growing at the rate of 7% year on year.With stagnancy in domestic production of PVC at 1.4 MTPA, India is dependent on imports to keep pace with the demand.“Adani Group is the largest private power producer in India. Power is an important raw material for powering extensive plants such as coal to PVC. In this context, Adani group is planning to come up with a coal-to-PVC project at Mundra, Bhuj, Gujarat. The proposed project will reduce import dependency of polymers and promote domestic manufacturing of polymers, in line with the Atmanirbhar Bharat initiative,” the pre-feasibility report of the project states.In response to a questionnaire from HT, an Adani spokesperson said: “At the outset, coal from the Carmichael Project in Australia is not suitable for the PVC plant. Secondly, it is widely proven that using coal as a chemical feedstock to produce PVC is less polluting as compared to conventional methods such as petrochemical refinery and ethylene cracker. Further, PVC is not toxic or single-use plastic, but an infrastructure material with a life span of several decades.”“Thirdly, given that the project is energy-intensive , the Adani Group’s massive renewable capacity of 24+ GW will enable it to make this a low carbon-intensive project,” the spokesperson added.The member secretary (Industrial Projects) of the expert appraisal committee assessing the project was not available for comment on Friday, his secretary said. A senior environment ministry official said “all the information is available on the website. We have nothing else to add.”According to an Overview on Plastic Waste released by the Central Pollution Control Board in 2013, during polymerization process fugitive emissions are released.“This case brings together two highly controversial projects in Australia and India. Large amount of Mundra’s forest land diverted in 2009, has remained unutilized. In 2008, the Supreme Court’s Central Empowered Committee (CEC) recommended rejecting the proposal for diversion on grounds of its ecological sensitivity, and repeated requests to change of purpose for which the land should be diverted. Prior to diversion, these areas were coastal commons also used by nearby villages and seasonal pastoralists. Post approval they are devoid of mangroves and fenced off . The forest clearance allowed large part of the diverted land to be securitized and remain unutilized for the last 12 years,” said Kanchi Kohli, legal researcher, Centre for Policy Research.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ministry-may-give-green-nod-to-adani-s-coal-to-pvc-plant-101624040726926.html
19-06-2021||India||LJP warring factions move Election Commission staking claim over party||A factional fight for control of the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) reached the Election Commission on Friday after Jamui MP Chirag Paswan and his estranged uncle and Hajipur MP Pashupati Kumar Paras approached the poll watchdog with petitions against each other.A five-member delegation headed by Paswan met EC officials on Friday, and later a three-member team from Paras’s faction also submitted documents to the poll panel. Both factions are expected to hold rival executive committee meetings to stake claim over the party during the weekend.The crisis broke out late Sunday night when Paras and four other MPs rebelled against Paswan and replaced him as parliamentary party chief with Paras. Since then, Paras’s faction has elected him as national president, while Paswan’s group has rejected the new appointments and expelled the rebel lawmakers.On Friday, Paswan claimed that the majority of the executive members are with him, and that the rebels violated LJP constitution. “The EC has assured us that if somebody tries to prove claim in name of LJP, we will be given chance to provide evidence,” said Paswan.The 38-year-old leader said he will meet Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla to ask that a Lok Sabha secretariat decision on Monday to recognise Paras as the LJP parliamentary party head be reversed. “The Speaker made a mistake by deciding without the constitution of our party. I will meet and tell him about the constitution of our party. We had suspended 10 people from the party, including five MPs,” said Paswan.On Thursday, Paswan’s faction asked EC to stop Paras from using LJP’s symbol (bungalow), and flag at their meetings. Paswan also said that he convened a meeting of the party’s national executive committee on Sunday.Hours later, a three-member delegation from the Paras camp, comprising his secretary Ahmed, Vinod Nagar and Sanjay Saraf (all party leaders) submitted papers in EC.Paras, who reached Delhi on Friday, also rejected allegations made by Paswan that his election as LJP chief was “unconstitutional and lacked quorum.”“Let EC and party take a call on this. I was elected unanimously. Returning officer gave me the letter for being elected as national president. A draft has been submitted to the Election Commission today,” said Paras.Asked if he was expecting a Union cabinet berth, he said that it was the Prime Minister’s prerogative. “If I become a minister, I will definitely leave the post in party,” he said.The Paras faction is likely to hold its executive committee meeting on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ljp-warring-factions-move-ec-staking-claim-over-party-101624040666857.html
19-06-2021||India||Twitter India MD summoned by UP Police||The Uttar Pradesh Police have summoned Twitter India managing director Manish Maheshwari for questioning within seven days in connection with an allegedly misleading video showing an elderly Muslim man in Ghaziabad being assaulted. The firm has also been issued a second notice by the Ghaziabad police to seek “account details” of the suspects accused by the police of posting and promoting the video.The summons was issued late on Thursday evening, two days after Twitter, news website wire.in, journalists and Congress leaders were named in a First Information Report (FIR) for allegedly “promoting enmity between religions” for posting and promoting the video amid conflicting narratives of the attack. The video purportedly showed the man being beaten up and his attackers cutting his beard.The initial FIR in connection with the assault of the 72-year-old man was registered by the Loni border police on June 7. The attack had taken place two days earlier but the video started getting traction on social media around June 14.The 72-year-old man’s family and friends have said the man’s attackers forced him to chant “Jai Shri Ram” and chopped off his beard. The Uttar Pradesh Police have claimed that there was no communal angle to the attack even as a Samajwadi Party leader said that the police deliberately left out the alleged communal slogan chanting from the First Information Report filed in the case.Akhilesh Kumar Mishra, the investigating officer in the case, said the notice was issued to Maheshwari late on Thursday evening under the regular provisions of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) and he has been asked to appear within seven days and record his statement. “The notice is served so that he appears to record statements under the CrPC’s Section 161.”The section empowers an investigating officer to seek the appearance of any person who appears to be acquainted with the facts and circumstances of a case.Senior police officials supervising the case said the second notice served on Twitter was issued under Section 91 of the CrPC, which empowers the investigating officer to produce any document or any other material relevant to the case.“In the notice we have sought account details of the suspects named in the FIR. The details include the login of sessions by the suspects and the activity taken up in connection with the video. We will also issue them notices under CrPC 160 in due course of investigation,” said Iraj Raja, superintendent of police (rural).Officials familiar with development said that the notice was issued through the cyber-cell of the Ghaziabad police and requires production of required documents within a month.HT reached out to Twitter on Friday, but the company declined to comment.Officers aware of the matter said Twitter has been named in the case on charges that it did not prevent the video from going viral and allegedly helped in its promotion and circulation.Twitter was booked amid disagreements between the government and the company over the new guidelines that require digital companies to change how they regulate content, appoint nodal officers for compliance and grievance redressal, and adopt features such as traceability of messages and voluntary user verification. They have also faced off over the government’s orders to Twitter to take down posts. Twitter has also raised concerns regarding the safety of its employees in the country and police intimidation.The government insists that Twitter cannot seek safe harbour under the Information Technology Act and claim that it is an intermediary for posts on its platform because it has not complied with the new social media and intermediary guidelines. The guidelines came into effect on May 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/twitter-india-md-summoned-101624040665737.html
19-06-2021||India||No shortcomings in farm laws, but ready to discuss provisions: Narendra Singh Tomar||Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said on Friday that “there were no shortcomings” in the three farm laws against which a large number of farmers have been on protests since November-end last year, ruling out any possibility of repealing the three pieces of legislation. The minister, however, said the government was ready to talk to farm unions on any provisions in the laws.“There were no shortcomings. The government is prepared to talk to farmers. Other than [the question of] repeal, if any farm union wants talks related to any provision of the laws even in the middle of the night, then Narendra Singh Tomar will welcome it,” the minister said in Gwalior after an informal meeting with local leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).Tomar said the government made all efforts to resolve issues raised by farmers, and was still prepared to do so.Farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, among other states, have been protesting along Delhi’s borders for the past seven months against the central government’s three new farm laws, passed in September last year.Gurnam Singh Chaduni, a key farm leader, said on Friday: “The minister’s remarks show arrogance and farmers will continue their protest.”“The government will have to withdraw the laws. We won’t rest until these black laws are withdrawn,” said Rakesh Tikait, another farm leader.On May 21, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, a platform of farm unions leading the protests, wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, asking the Union government to resume dialogue to end the agitation, but said that they were steadfast on their demand to repeal the legislation.In response to the letter to the Prime Minister, Tomar said the government was ready to talk. “The farmers should either list out their specific objections to the three laws or come up with an alternative proposal,” he said at the time, adding that the government had offered to freeze the laws for a period of 18 months, which was rejected.The government has so far held 11 rounds of talks, which hit a dead end on January 22. The Supreme Court has put the laws on hold since.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-shortcomings-in-farm-laws-but-ready-to-discuss-provisions-tomar-101624040666247.html
19-06-2021||India||A free-spirited man who relished every challenge||Around 3:30am on May 15, just a week shy of his 51st birthday, Gordon Lobo’s vitals took a turn for the worse.Doctors at the Goa Medical College and Hospital struggled to revive his dropping oxygen levels even as his family looked on hopefully. At the time, Goa was posting roughly 2,000 cases daily and every second person tested for Covid in the coastal state returned a positive result.At 5am, Lobo died, roughly three weeks after he was admitted to the hospital for Covid. He is survived by his wife, Flavia, and 16-year-old son Logan.Lobo was one of 75-odd people who died across five days at the premier hospital due to a drop in oxygen pressure between 2am and 6am every day – a period referred to by the high court as the “dark hours”.The devastating second wave of Covid is ebbing in the state now. But for his family and large circle of friends, his passing created a void that has been hard to fill.“Another body bag wheeled out of a Covid ward, another addition to the daily death statistics. But for those that knew him and loved him, his passing is a kick in the gut, an irreparable loss, a giant Gordon-shaped hole that will never be filled,” said his close friend Rajiv D’Silva.“It is a cliché when someone has passed to say they were ‘full of life’, but in Gordon’s case, I can’t help but use it. If there ever was a human filled to the brim with joie de vivre, that was our Gordon,” he added.An architect by profession, Lobo was a popular figure in his native village of Aldona in north Goa. ‘Gordy,’ or simply ‘Gord’ loved village festivals and celebrations, especially during São João, a festival celebrated in June around community wells, tanks and ponds.To his friends, Lobo’s demise took away more than a lively personality.“Gordon Lobo was the wildest man I ever met. His unkempt curly grey-streaked hair, his baggy shirt and trousers with a thousand pockets, his droopy eye and equally droopy moustache, astride a junk of a bike, gave him a distinct look,” José Lourenço, a family friend said in tribute.“Wildness ran in Gordy’s blood. If he came to your party you could expect some unpredictable events to occur, for sure… ‘Oi Jupiter!’ he would call out to busy waiters. If that did not evoke a response, he would yell: ‘Mexico!’ Invariably one of these names would work, and a waiter would come scurrying over, to placate the madman at our table. And he would insist on every soiled plate being instantly cleared from the table. If Gordy was at your table, you just felt taken care of,” he recalled.Lobo was also a huge comic book fan who would travel great distances to collect rare editions.“He had an extensive library at his wife Flavia’s ancestral house in Aldona. I once borrowed a book of Kafka’s stories, an edition of The Father Brown Collected Stories, and a third book of crazy trivia from him. He was deeply devoted to his comic book collection. Which explains his son Logan’s name,” Lourenço added.Logan refers to a character in the Marvel universe.As a professional architect, Lobo specialised in helping restore and maintain old Goan houses.“Working on his construction sites gave him great pleasure. Ordinary houses didn’t thrill him. He would brighten up telling of compound walls built in a day or structures repaired overnight, or tackling tricky litigation-hassled works. The man relished a challenge. Else he would relish wallowing on a site, taking ages to finish it,” Lourenço added.He collected knives, swords, and took a keen interest in crafting stuff out of what would appear to be waste wood.“His evenings would be spent at the Aldona Institute with villagers. He was a man with a tremendous wild spirit,” said Lourenco||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-free-spirited-man-who-relished-every-challenge-101624040605755.html
19-06-2021||India||Covid leading to loss of grey matter, hits cognition: Study||Covid-19, even if mild or moderate, is possibly leaving people with significant impact on their brains, according to a study involving pre- and post-infection brain scans involving close to 800 people in a study carried out in the UK.The scans showed loss of grey matter, indicative of damage, and the areas affected involved functions relating to smell and taste, cognition and memory formation. Most of the patients examined had mild-to-moderate disease.“We identified significant effects of Covid-19 in the brain with a loss of grey matter in the left parahippocampal gyrus, the left lateral orbitofrontal cortex and the left insula. When looking over the entire cortical surface, these results extended to the anterior cingulate cortex, supramarginal gyrus and temporal pole,” said the researchers, who work with the University of Oxford, in their report on medRxiv, which is yet to be peer-reviewed.The study was conducted after the researchers pored over data of 40,000 people in the UK Biobank, a long-term, large scale repository of biomedical data, and reached out to volunteers. In all, 782 people who previously underwent brain scans participated, and of these, 394 subsequently tested positive for Sars-Cov-2.The researchers used the scans of these people from before their infection and carried out new scans afterwards. They compared both these scans, as well as the change they saw with the control group — the remaining people who did not have Covid-19 between the two sets of scans.“In total, 394 Covid-19 patients with usable imaging data at both timepoints were included in this study, as well as 388 controls, matched for age, sex, ethnicity and time elapsed between the two scans. These large numbers may allow us to detect subtle, but consistently spatially distributed sites of damage caused by the disease, thus underlining in vivo the possible spreading pathways of the virus within the brain,” the authors said.The authors said they found three main regions that showed significant loss of grey matter, in both thickness as well as volume: the parahippocampal gyrus, the lateral orbitofrontal cortex, and the superior insula. All of these were localised to the left hemisphere of the brain.The parahippocampal gyrus plays an important role in spatial memory and navigation; the orbitofrontal cortex is believed to play a role in higher-order cognition such as decision-making, and the superior insula is part of a region that is yet to be fully understood but is believed to play a role in processing some sensory inputs and emotions.“The loss of grey matter in areas of brain linked to taste and smell is consistent with the clinical symptoms of the patients; loss of taste and smell is one of the earliest symptoms in many Covid-19 patients and it is one of the most sensitive markers of infection,” said Dr Rajinder K Dhamija, head of the department of neurology at Lady Hardinge Medical College.“One of our studies had proposed that there were two mechanisms that the virus could be using to affect the brain --- either getting in directly through the olfactory mucosa (the inner lining in the nasal cavity) or forming tiny clots in the epithelial layer of the blood vessels in the brain. The examination of the pre and post-Covid-19 scans seems to support the first hypothesis... but we still need further studies to understand what it means for the Covid-19 patients. Grey matter once destroyed cannot be created, but patients do get back their sense of smell and taste in four to six weeks,” he added.The researchers found that similar neurological features were seen in a small group of 15 people who were hospitalised. “Comparing the few patients who had been hospitalised with Covid-19 with those who had not also showed a similar pattern of olfactory- and memory-related brain regions, particularly centred around the left cingulate cortex, and the right hippocampus and amygdale [as being affected],” they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-leading-to-loss-of-grey-matter-hits-cognition-study-101624040606307.html
19-06-2021||India||PM Modi unveils courses to train 100k frontline staff||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday launched six crash course programmes to train and upskill over 100,000 frontline workers to help fight the Covid-19 pandemic even as he stressed that the “virus is present” and urged the people to remain cautious.“The virus is present, and the possibility of mutation is also there. The second wave of the pandemic illustrated the kind of challenges that the virus may present to us. The country needs to stay prepared to meet the challenges and training more than one lakh (100,000) frontline warriors is a step in that direction,” said the Prime Minister.Till Friday, India administered 272,072,645 doses of vaccines, one of the world’s largest vaccination drives, although in per capita terms, the country lags behind nations with smaller populations. Apart from the Covishield and Covaxin vaccines that are manufactured in the country, India has also procured stocks of Russian Sputnik V which will be produced in India from the second half of the year.During the virtual address, Modi said India took up the challenge posed by the Covid-19 pandemic and ramped up its capabilities related to Covid care and treatment.“Status of PPE kits, testing and other medical infrastructure related to Covid care and treatment bears testimony to the efforts (of government),” he said.He also sought to assure that the central government is committed to providing free Covid vaccination for everyone starting June 21.About the crash courses, the PM said the Covid warriors will be trained in six customised roles — Home Care Support, Basic Care Support, Advanced Care Support, Emergency Care Support, Sample Collection Support, and Medical Equipment Support.“These courses are designed to skill as well as upskill the health care workforce. 111 such centres are being started from today across the nation under the Skill India programme. With this, we will have more than one lakh new skilled health care frontline workers in the next few months,” said the PM.“Given the size of our population, it is necessary to keep increasing the number of doctors, nurses and paramedics in the health sector… The seriousness and the pace at which the work on preparing the health professionals is going on now is unprecedented,” he added.The courses have been designed as a special programme under the Central Component of Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana 3.0, with the total financial outlay of ₹276 crore, the PMO said.Modi also praised the Centre’s Skill India Mission, saying that the Covid-19 pandemic has proven the importance of ‘skilling, re-skilling and up-skilling’.“Today Skill India Mission is helping millions of this country’s youth every year in providing training according to the needs of the day. Since last year the Ministry of Skill Development has trained lakhs of health workers across the country, even amid the pandemic,” he said.The Prime Minister lauded health professionals like ASHA workers, anganwadi and other workers deployed in village dispensaries, describing them as one of the strong pillars of our health sector who are often left out of the discussion.With agency inputs||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-unveils-courses-to-train-100k-frontline-staff-101624040546874.html
19-06-2021||India||Stir held across country over violence against health workers||Nearly 250 resident doctors’ associations on Friday joined a nationwide protest against recent incidents of violence on doctors and demanded a central legislation to curb such cases. The protest was jointly organised by the Indian Medical Association (IMA) and the Federation of All India Medical Association (FAIMA).“There have been so many instances of violence in just the last couple of months. We demand that the government passes a central law to prevent violence against doctors...,” said Dr Manish Jangra, general secretary, FAIMA.The “Save the Saviors” protest was peaceful and did not affect the services in the hospitals, Dr AK Ravikumar, honorary state secretary of IMA, was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.On June 1, a doctor posted at a Covid Care Centre in Assam was assaulted by the relatives of a patient who succumbed to the virus. On April 26, relatives of a deceased patient vandalised the emergency ward and injured several employees of Delhi’s Indraprastha Apollo hospital.“Currently, 21 states have local laws but what we need is a strong central law to protect doctors from violence...,” said the IMA in a letter.In 2019, the home ministry opposed a draft bill to prevent violence against health care staff, saying that the special law was not feasible as health is a state subject. The bill sought to impose a jail term of up to 10 years for assaulting doctors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/protests-held-across-country-over-violence-against-health-workers-101624040545702.html
19-06-2021||India||Top court asks Calcutta high court to defer hearing in Narada case||The Supreme Court on Friday asked the Calcutta high court to defer the hearing in the Narada sting case to be held on Monday till it decides on the question of allowing West Bengal chief minister and law minister to file their affidavits in the pending matter. The top court will hear the matter on Tuesday.A vacation bench of justices Hemant Gupta and V Ramasubramanian agreed to take up the matter on Tuesday. The bench said, “We hope that the high court will not take up the matter on Monday and Tuesday.”The state government approached the Supreme Court on June 11 to oppose a June 9 high court decision refusing to accept affidavits by CM Mamata Banerjee and law minister Moloy Ghatak in a matter where the Central Bureau of investigation accused them of leading a mob on May 17, soon after the agency arrested four Trinamool Congress leaders. They said that the order deprives them of putting the truth before the court in order to refute CBI’s allegations. The HC had said, “They (CM and law minister) have waited for the arguments in the case to be substantially completed before seeking to place on record their pleadings in response. It is nothing else but filling the lacunae or supporting the accused.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/top-court-asks-calcutta-hc-to-defer-hearing-in-narada-case-101624040487461.html
19-06-2021||India||Schools may not open any time soon, says government||Schools will only be reopened after adequate consultation as scientific data and evidence from other countries suggest that more information is required before allowing children back into classrooms during a pandemic, Niti Aayog member (health) VK Paul said at a Union health ministry briefing on Friday.Paul’s statement comes at a time the state governments and public health experts are attempting to allay concerns that the next wave of Covid-19 infections may hit children harder.“If we look at the global scenario, many countries reopened schools and then saw a surge in cases because of which they had to shut schools again. We cannot put our children and teachers in a similar situation... we need to have more confidence that we have controlled the pandemic enough that we will not face the kind of a situation that other countries faced. Eventually, we will have to reopen but now is not the time,” Paul said.Doctors and scientists have repeatedly said that the virus is known to infect children with mild or asymptomatic illness in a majority of cases, but children can still transmit the disease to others -- who may be more vulnerable -- in the household.“You have to keep in mind that in a school you have teachers, helpers, limited possibility of observing social distancing, etc. All this needs to be thoroughly considered, along with other related vital issues before a decision is taken in this regard,” Paul said, adding that “there is growing scientific evidence to be considered too”.Schools across India have been closed for physical classes since the second wave of the pandemic began in March this year. Some states had reopened schools after the first wave tapered off, but the latest national outbreak pushed classes back online.Although some regions in other countries, including the US and the UK, saw some minor outbreaks among school students and staff members, researchers say there isn’t enough evidence to say that the virus transmits easier in such surroundings.On Friday, Paul also warned against relying on the idea of achieving natural herd immunity -- a threshold of infection levels within a population after which transmission of the virus falls and the outbreak dies down.He said there is no confidence on what the herd immunity threshold will be and how the virus variants will evolve. “If we take a look at the example of Brazil, we saw it had high seroprevalence (which indicates previous infection) and yet had a large outbreak of the P.1 variant. Similarly, Delhi had over 50% seropositivity, and still we saw what happened in the second wave. We can’t take sero study findings for granted. The virus also continues to change.”On speculation that the next outbreak may infect more children, Paul said that children -- when infected with Covid-19 -- largely get mild illness, but “we have to remain cautious”.“There is a possibility that the virus may mutate further to an extent that it affects children more... and that is why we need to stay fully prepared to deal with any surge in future.”The Niti Aayog member noted that the Union health ministry has released guidelines for treatment of children diagnosed with Covid-19, and that the government is prepared to handle any potential surge.He touted the benefits of vaccination, and said several studies have shown the chances of hospitalisation are 75-80% lower in people who have been inoculated. “The point that we are trying to reiterate is that vaccines are absolutely safe and there should be no room for vaccine hesitancy,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/schools-may-not-open-any-time-soon-says-govt-101624040486225.html
19-06-2021||India||‘Onus on China to address remaining issues on LAC’: Foreign secretary Shringla||India and China have addressed some of the issues related to the situation created on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) by the Chinese side, and the onus is now on Beijing to ensure that the remaining issues are tackled, foreign secretary Harsh Shringla said on Friday.“As we’ve seen last year, [there is] an unusual situation, multiple transgressions on the border areas... to some extent, we have addressed some of the issues that had arisen out of this situation that was created by China. But there are still friction points... we are very clear that until these issues are addressed and our border areas are peaceful and tranquil, we will not be able to go into with is known as a normal relationship,” Shringla said, making it clear that the ball is now in the Chinese court for resolving the standoff. He made the remarks during an online dialogue on the theme “India’s foreign policy in the post-Covid world” organised by the Public Affairs Forum of India||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/onus-on-china-to-address-remaining-issues-on-lac-foreign-secretary-shringla-101624035686064.html
19-06-2021||India||‘Powers in anti-defection law need to be redefined’, says Om Birla||Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla completes two years in office on Saturday. In his tenure, the House has broken records in the participation of MPs, performance of the House, and legislation cleared. He tells Saubhadra Chatterji that anti-defection laws require changes, and parliamentary oversight must be strengthened. Edited excerpts:You complete two years in office. How has your experience been?It’s been a great experience. We have been able to strengthen the democratic traditions and work continues even during the Covid-19 pandemic. As a result, we reached an average of 122% productivity in the last five sessions. The one during Covid recorded 167% productivity. In the first session, 33 bills were passed in 37 sittings. These figures underline the commitment of our parliamentarians to perform their duties.One of your strategies has been to give more time for MPs to speak in the House.MPs participated 1,744 times in the sessions in last two years. Debates ran longer than their allotted times. This shows the responsibility and eagerness of the MPs to actively participate in the lawmaking process. I have noticed that every MP wants to talk about issues related to their constituency. I remember once 161 MPs spoke in a day. My job is to provide maximum opportunity to elected representatives. Earlier, issues raised in Zero Hour didn’t attract the government’s response. Now, the government responds... I also persuade MPs and ministers to keep their queries and answers short, so that more questions can be taken up in Question Hour.Most of your predecessors have been veterans in Parliament but you are in your second term. Did you face any difficulties handling senior MPs?Initially, I thought the Speaker’s post would be a challenge. But I regularly communicate with all MPs, and it helped me secure their cooperation. Without their support, I can never run the House.Many MPs requested you to start online meetings of the standing committees. But it was not allowed.When rules were framed by eminent people in the past, no one imagined that such a situation would arise one day. Rule 266 envisaged the proceedings would be secret so that MPs can rise above partisan lines in their deliberations. While some people demanded digital meetings, many opposed it. The rules can only be changed in a Parliament session, but no such demand was made in the first session during Covid. It would have been better if the demands were raised then.Some Opposition MPs also alleged that their issues such as economic situation or job loss are never taken up for discussion.Who is stopping them? There are several avenues to raise issues. They can put questions in the Question Hour or raise any issue in Zero Hour. In both cases, the government will reply to them.You are now dealing with appeals under the anti-defection law. The presiding officers’ conference had discussed this issue at length but nothing happened thereafter.All presiding officers were unanimous that the legislative speakers’ power in the Tenth Schedule needs to be redefined, and I agree. Political situation was different when the Schedule was enacted. People remained committed to the ideology of their parties. But the situation has changed.What are your targets for the next three years?I want to strengthen parliamentary oversight to make the ministries and departments more accountable to Parliament. We are developing a mechanism to ensure that the government looks into all matters raised under Rule 377 and executive action is taken on all suggestions of the standing committees. We have started 24x7 service for members. We will strengthen our research wing to help MPs come better prepared.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/need-to-change-anti-defection-law-says-lok-sabha-speaker-om-birla-101624031726194.html
19-06-2021||India||CM Jagan claims having filled up 6 lakh govt jobs in 2 years, TDP calls it bogus||Hyderabad: Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy on Friday claimed that his government filled up more than six lakh job vacancies across various government departments in the last two years and announced filling up of another 10,143 vacancies in 2021-22. The chief minister’s comments came during an event on Friday.“Of the total 6.03 lakh jobs created, 184,264 were created regularly, 399,791 are outsourced and 19,701 are on a contract basis. The government has also increased the salaries for 702,656 posts which were paid a meagre amount in the previous government’s tenure,” CM Reddy said while releasing a calendar for conducting recruitments in the coming year.The opposition Telugu Desam Party was quick to react and described the government’s claims as a “hoax” and a “jugglery of figures.”The chief minister said it was for the first time in the history of the state that the unemployed youth would know the exact month of the release of job notification and the number of vacant posts. He said that the entire recruitment process would be done transparently without the involvement of any middlemen. The selection would be done based on the marks obtained in the written test conducted by the government without any interviews. CM Jagan claimed that in the last two years, his government filled up a total of 603,756 jobs vacancies, including 1.22 lakh permanent jobs in the village and ward secretariats. Another 2.50 lakh youths were recruited as village and ward volunteers.As per the latest job calendar, the notification to fill 1,238 backlog SC, ST and DA posts will be released in July. The notification for another 36 posts in the Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission (APPSC) group 1&2 category would be issued in August, in September for 450 police jobs, in October for 451 posts in the health department. The notification for 5,251 paramedical, lab technicians and pharmacist jobs would be issued in November and for 441 nurse jobs in December.In January 2022, there would be a notification for the recruitment of 240 lecturer posts in degree colleges, for 2,000 posts as assistant professors in universities in February 2022 and 36 posts in other departments will be filled in March 2022.Senior TDP leader and former finance minister Yanamala Ramakrishnudu ridiculed the chief minister’s claims and called them bogus. “The claims are just bogus. Can the government disclose the names and telephone numbers of those who were recruited in the last two years?” he asked.Ramakrishnudu wondered how could the Jagan government call the merger of over 50,000 Road Transport Corporation employees, working for several decades into the state government’s road transport authority, as new recruitments.“Similarly, 95,112 outsourced employees appointed during the TDP regime in various departments are now being shown as new recruits under AP Outsourced Employees Corporation,” he pointed out.The minister alleged that over two lakh village and ward volunteers, claimed to have been recruited by the government, were none other than YSRC workers. “They were not recruited through any public service commission but via recommendations. Each of them is being paid a paltry ₹5,000 per month. If they are government employees, they should get at least ₹18,000 per month as per the Minimum Wages Act,” he asserted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jagan-claims-having-filled-up-6-lakh-govt-jobs-in-2-years-tdp-calls-it-bogus-101624017805426.html
19-06-2021||India||Forest guards gun down tiger in ‘self defence’ near Kaziranga park||The carcass of a tiger, suspected to have been killed in accidental firing by forest officials as they tried to scare him away from a village, was found on the outskirts of the Kaziranga National Park and Tiger Reserve (KNPTR) in Assam on Friday, officials said.According to a statement by the forest department, the carcass was found at 7.10am by forest personnel near Japoripathar in the Karuabari area on the periphery of KNPTR. “On enquiry, it was found that the tiger died due to a bullet wound, suspected to be [from] accidental firing while trying to scare away the tiger from the public area,” the statement added.P Sivakumar, KNPTR director, said the 10-year-old male tiger strayed away from the park and killed a cow in a nearby village on Thursday.A team of forest personnel was sent to the area to scare away the animal and direct it back to the park, he said. “Preliminary investigation revealed that the tiger attacked our team and a bullet fired in self-defence by a forest personnel accidentally hit the animal...,” he said.The forest department has ordered an inquiry to probe the incident, Sivakumar said, adding: “If there was any lapse on the part of forest personnel in the incident that led to the tiger’s death, proper action would be taken.” A post-mortem was conducted and the results are awaited.This is the third tiger death to be reported from the national park this year.Earlier this month, the carcass of a four-year-old tiger was found at Sidha Kathani area of the park. Officials said there were multiple injury marks on the tiger’s body and they suspected that he died after sustaining grievous injuries during a fight with another tiger.A female tiger cub’s body was found with puncture marks on the neck and broken ribs in February this year. Forest officials said that the cub, just over 4 months old, may have been killed by an adult tiger.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tiger-carcass-with-bullet-wound-found-in-assam-s-kaziranga-101623999204299.html
19-06-2021||India||Panel formed to settle theaterisation concerns||The government has constituted an expert panel for consultations on the military’s theaterisation plans before seeking the approval of the Cabinet Committee on Security (CCS) to implement the long-awaited military reform to optimally utilise the resources of the armed forces, officials aware of the matter said on Friday.“A committee has been formed to look into different aspects of theaterisation. It has members of the armed forces, defence ministry and other ministries involved in the planning and implementation aspects,” said one of the officials.Issues related to theaterisation were discussed and examined in detail by top officials who reviewed a draft cabinet note on new joint structures at a meeting this month, as reported by HT on Thursday. HT learns that there were some differences that emerged at that meeting and that the panel is expected to address these.The key points discussed included the executing authority for theatre commands, the geographies they will control, command and control structures, budgeting and placing some paramilitary forces under the commands. Some of these issues involve the finance and home ministries.Theaterisation refers to placing specific units of the army, the navy and the air force under a theatre commander. Such commands are to be led by an officer from any of the three services, depending on the roles assigned to them.HT reported in February that India was set to begin a formal roll-out of its long-awaited theaterisation plan, with the Air Defence Command and the Maritime Theatre Command likely to be launched by May. “Processes have to be followed before the proposal is sent to the CCS for approval. We have to have more discussions to iron out the details of the theaterisation plan. All stakeholders have to be in agreement... But there will be no inordinate delay,” another official said on Thursday.Apart from the Air Defence and Maritime Theatre Commands, India is expected to have three other integrated commands to secure its western, northern and eastern fronts. In addition, a logistics command is in the works to avoid duplication of efforts and resources.Experts said building consensus among all stakeholders was crucial to take the theaterisation plan forward.There are some very substantive issues involved in the raising of theatre commands, said former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General DS Hooda (retd). “...Theatre commands are essential, but the model can only be successfully implemented if there is a consensus within the three services, which currently appears to be lacking. Hopefully, the new committee can iron out the differences,” Hooda added.The government expects General Bipin Rawat, who took charge as India’s first chief of defence staff (CDS) on January 1, 2020, to bring about jointness among the three services in a three-year time frame (by January 2023). One of the means to achieve this is the setting up of integrated theatre commands for the best use of military resources to fight future battles.The operational control of all the theatre commands will eventually come under CDS, with the service chiefs being responsible for raising, training and sustaining their forces, as previously reported by HT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/expert-panel-formed-to-take-theaterisation-talks-forward-101623996804112.html
19-06-2021||India||Assam Congress MLA resigns; set to join ruling BJP next week||The Congress in Assam suffered a setback on Friday as one of its MLAs resigned from the assembly citing the party high command’s failure to listen to their second-tier leaders. Rupjyoti Kurmi, who won from the Mariani seat in Jorhat district for a fourth consecutive term, said he is set to join the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) coming Monday.Kurmi submitted his resignation as legislator to assembly Speaker Biswajit Daimary, one and half months after his win, and was accompanied by two BJP MLAs — parliamentary affairs minister Pijush Hazarika and chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma’s political secretary Jayanta Malla Baruah.Addressing the media, Kurmi said: “I was assured of the post of Leader of Opposition in the assembly but was denied that later. I had applied for the post of the party’s state president, but didn’t get that. The party didn’t include my name in the list of members for public accounts committee of state assembly. It seems the Congress doesn’t want leaders like me, who belong to a particular community, to rise.”“I must congratulate the hard work and dedication with which chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma is working and am confident that there will be all-round development in the state under his leadership. That’s why, I have decided to join the BJP coming Monday,” he added.The Congress, meanwhile, expelled Kurmi from the party with immediate effect.The decision to expel Kurmi for “his anti-party activities” has been approved by the AICC, said state unit chief Ripun Bora||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-congress-mla-resigns-set-to-join-ruling-bjp-next-week-101623995786119.html
19-06-2021||Today's||From 1991, the lessons for the India of 2021||The 30th anniversary of the 1991 reforms deserves commemoration. They dismantled a dysfunctional system of controls, which tied down the private sector and closed the economy to trade and investment.The reforms were opposed by both the Left and the Right. The Left feared they would hurt the poor and lead to unnecessary imports, perpetuating balance of payments (BoP) problems. The Right feared foreign investors would take over the economy, in a replay of the East India Company phenomenon.Both fears were unwarranted. The results took time because policy changes were gradual, delaying the benefits. However, by the first decade of the 21st century, India began to be seen as one of the fastest growing emerging markets. Far from poverty increasing, for the first time, there was a substantial reduction in it.This looks enviable at a time when India is reeling from the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic, with Gross Domestic Product (GDP) having fallen by 7.3% in 2020-21, and an even sharper decline in per capita GDP because the population has continued to grow. Not surprisingly, unemployment and poverty have both increased.The best way to commemorate the 1991 reforms is to consider what we can learn from them in dealing with the current crisis. The 1991 strategy had two components — reducing the fiscal deficit and implementing structural reforms. Both are relevant today, but with differences.Reducing the fiscal deficit was essential in 1991 because the crisis was caused by excess domestic demand sucking in imports and widening the current account deficit (CAD). A loss of confidence triggered an outflow of funds and financing CAD forced a sharp drawdown in reserves. Reducing the fiscal deficit was an obvious way of containing demand.The crisis today is not caused by excess demand. It has been triggered by a collapse in production following the disruption caused by the pandemic, which, in turn, has caused a fall in demand. Those who lost incomes had to cut consumption. Even those who have not lost income, face uncertainity and have postponed expenditure. Investment, a key source of aggregate demand, has also slowed because of unutilised capacity and uncertainty about growth.Faced with a collapse in demand, it is appropriate to increase the fiscal deficit. The government rightly allowed the fiscal deficit to expand to 9.6% last year, though some of this was statistical, reflecting the inclusion of off-budget items. The question is whether the BE deficit of 6.8 % for 2021-22 is appropriate.Many have called for a stronger stimulus. Is this justified? The budget projection assumed GDP would grow by 11.3%. Those who want a stronger stimulus are not saying 11.3% is not good enough. They are saying that GDP growth will be much lower and, therefore, a stronger stimulus is needed. Most independent analysts say that growth will be much lower than 11.3%.If growth is going to be much lower than projected, there will be shortfalls in both tax and non-tax revenues. If we still try to stick to the 6.8% target, we will have to cut expenditure. This would be unduly contractionary. We should definitely maintain expenditure at the levels budgeted, and let the fiscal deficit rise if it has to. The is also a strong case for providing more funds for vaccination, which is key to reviving growth, and also to cover expanded demand for the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme, which is proving to be a valuable safety net.The government would be well advised to undertake a mid-year review of budget prospects in September, and come up with a revised growth forecast and establish new fiscal targets. We need not fear a loss of international confidence as long as we undertake a credible path for deficit reduction over the next three years. Revising revenue targets to more realistic levels will also have the advantage of not pushing tax officers to achieve unrealistic targets, which only leads to unreasonable assessments.Another important lesson from 1991 is that we need to move away from a “long list of reforms” approach towards a more strategic approach, focussing on the most critical reforms needed immediately.The 1991 reforms succeeded because they were structured around a core package of mutually supportive reforms. The need for mutually supportive reforms was not adequately recognised at the time even by the private sector. Representaives of the private sector asked for elimination of government controls over investment, but did not recognise that this by itself would only mean that investors would have to queue up in the commerce ministry to get licences to import capital goods. Genuine liberalisation required parallel delicensing of capital goods imports, but that could only be done if we had some way of managing the BOP. The obvious solution was to shift to a market-determined exchange rate. All these steps were carefully coordinated and implemented over a very short period.What would a similar priority list look like today?I would put banking sector reforms right at the top. Our banking system is heavily dominated by public sector banks (PSBs) and genuine reform in this area is not in sight. Mergers may help reduce branches, and perhaps monetise excess real estate to boost capital, but it is not a systemic reform. Giving the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) the same regulatory control over PSBs that it has over private sector banks would qualify as a real reform. It is time to take the plunge on this. Vesting the government’s equity in PSBs into a holding corporation run by a board of independent professionals, which then appoints the top management, would also be a serious reform. It was recommended by the PJ Nayak committee in 2015. Implementing it would send a strong signal.The Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC) is a key reform, but its operation was temporarily put on hold because of the pandemic. While the process will hopefully resume, promoters may try to interrupt it through action taken in the courts. The government can play an important role in signalling to the courts that IBC is a flagship reform that should not be undermined.Another example of implementing mutually supportive reforms is the inter-relationship between moderating the fiscal deficit over the medium-term with the creation of an efficient financial sector. At present, the combined deficit of the Centre and the states exceeds the net savings of the household sector. The combined deficit is effectively financed by the net inflow of foreign capital. Preempting net savings to this extent leaves little scope for financing expansion in private investment, unless it is expected to happen through a further increase in net capital flows, which would only increase the system’s vulnerability.The crowding out of private investment may not be relevant today because investment sentiment is depressed but, in the long-run, making room for expanded private sentiment is essential. This calls for fiscal consolidation for next year onwards, which will require greater buoyancy in tax revenues.The need for buoyancy in tax revenues calls for a second look at the Goods and Services Tax (GST) regime. GST is a major reform and it was expected to generate greater tax buoyancy. It has not done so. Its rate structure and exclusions need to be reviewed. An important lesson from 1991 is that tax reforms are best evolved by an expert group outside government. Such a group should be set up and asked to review the experience so far, and make proposals for reform which could be discussed in the GST Council. This cannot be left to the revenue department.The 1991 reforms helped the economy stave off a crisis and then bloom. It is time to outline a credible new reform agenda that will not just bring GDP back to pre-crisis levels, but also ensure growth rates higher than it had when it entered the pandemic.Montek Singh Ahluwalia has served as deputy chairperson of the Planning Commission and finance secretary. He was among the architects of the 1991 reforms. He is currently distinguished fellow, Centre for Social and Economic Progress The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/from-1991-the-lessons-for-the-india-of-2021-101624118192034.html
19-06-2021||Today's||Kenneth Kaunda: A Gandhian in Africa||In the death of Kenneth Kaunda, we have lost an icon of Africa’s liberation struggles, the last of Africa’s first generation of post-liberation leaders, and one of India’s staunchest and most steadfast friends. KK, as he was known, bestrode the southern African political scene like a colossus. He took over as Zambia’s president in 1964 and handed over power after losing elections in 1991. His leadership of the campaign for Zambia’s independence from British colonial rule drew inspiration from Mahatma Gandhi and Martin Luther King. The campaign focused on civil disobedience, strikes, and boycotts. In a repetition of Gandhi’s famous act of defiance in South Africa against the “pass laws”, KK burnt his colonial identity card.I was assigned as deputy high commissioner to Zambia in the Indian mission in the early 1980s — and was acting head of mission for a substantial period. This was the first of a number of assignments I held in Africa. In hindsight, Zambia provided the best introduction for a young diplomat to modern African history, and a ringside seat to history in the making.Under KK and his commitment to the end of White minority rule in Africa, Lusaka had become the centre of the liberation movements. It was the headquarters of the South African liberation movement, the African National Congress in-exile, as also the South West African People’s Organisation before it shifted to Angola. As sometime chairman and always the most prominent of the leaders of the frontline states, which were contiguous to the last bastions of White minority rule, Southern Rhodesia (now Zimbabwe), Namibia, and South Africa, KK kept up the drumbeat of diplomatic, political and material support for the liberation movements. And he was not deterred by the price that Zambia had to pay for this — militarily attacked by the forces of Rhodesia and South Africa, and economically hurt by denial of a transport route to the ports on which Zambia was heavily dependent for its single-important export commodity, copper ore.I still remember the Commonwealth heads of government meeting in 1985 in Nassau. Margaret Thatcher stubbornly held out against imposing sanctions against South Africa’s apartheid regime, but was forced to backtrack by an unstoppable charge led by Rajiv Gandhi and KK. This led to the formation of the Commonwealth Eminent Persons Group to report on the situation in South Africa.To watch KK as a ruler was a lesson in not falling for stereotypes. He was the reverse of the stereotypical “big man” image of the flamboyant, firebrand African leader. Impressed by Gandhi’s asceticism, he was a non-drinker and a non-smoker, and gave up eating meat because people of colour had to shop at a separate window at the butcher’s in the colonial days. He was an orator who could rouse crowds, yet utterly soft-spoken in private, a perfect host pouring out the coffee for guests after a state house banquet. Gifted with a singing voice, his image was inextricably linked with the song “Tiyende Pamodzi” (Let’s pull together).KK banned political parties, and ruled for 27 years in what was a single-party State. For most of this time, Zambians gave his benign one-party rule their loyalty. But the collapse of copper prices and the rise in oil prices ruined the economy, for which he perforce had to shoulder the blame. Forced to bring back the multiparty system under popular pressure, he held elections in 1991, and lost comprehensively. But unlike in other similar situations in Africa, KK congratulated his opponent and handed over power peacefully, the first major African head of state to do so besides an obscure instance in Benin. KK was harassed by his successor, accused of insurrection, threatened with deportation as an alien from Malawi, and yet retained enough respect for the Zambian government to publicly apologise to him in 2004.While the jury is out on his one-party rule, there is consensus about KK’s seminal achievement in providing stability and peace to a nation of over 70 tribal groups. His courage and determination in support of the liberation movements, and his staunch attachment to non-alignment, will be remembered, for old freedom fighters, like soldiers, never die — they just fade away.Shiv Shankar Mukherjee is a retired diplomat The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/kenneth-kaunda-a-gandhian-in-africa-101624116211628.html
19-06-2021||Today's||The roots of the India-China discord||Perhaps I am simple-minded but I prefer analysis that’s clear and focused. Most academics embellish their argument with so much equivocation you’re never certain what they’re saying. Some even resort to language that’s befuddling. They use it to impress rather than express. The book I want to introduce today rises above these failings, which is why it’s easy to read and easier still to understand. Whether you agree or disagree is another matter.I’m referring to Kanti Bajpai’s India Versus China: Why They Are Not Friends. On its opening page, it says “India-China relations are darker and more complex than most observers appreciate or acknowledge”. On the next, it adds “India and China are not friends for four key reasons”. The rest of the book explains the four. They are “deep seated differences over their perceptions of each other”, “their territorial perimeters”, “their strategic partnerships” and, most importantly, “the asymmetry of power”. In Bajpai’s opinion, “mutual perceptions and the power asymmetry” are the most important. I found the chapters devoted to them fascinating and eye-opening. India and China’s mutual perceptions changed pretty significantly over the centuries. China looked up to Buddhist India; a millennium later, India held Imperial China in great regard. The situation changed from the 19th century onwards. China’s respect for India declined, if not withered away, whilst India began to see it through British eyes.Today, we’ve reached the apogee of that trajectory. “Clearly, China does not see India as a fellow great power,” writes Bajpai and, therefore, “from a position of strength China does not see the need to accommodate” India. The opposite applies to India. “From a position of weakness India feels it cannot afford to (accommodate China)” without “loss of standing and strategic autonomy”.It’s in this context Bajpai analyses the power asymmetry. Many will be surprised to read “as a soft power, contrary to the generally held view, China betters India”. But that’s not all. Bajpai also believes China’s lead “looks set to persist for a good long time”. I won’t give away more by telling you why. The answer, however, isn’t unconvincing.More cheering is what Bajpai says about the hard power disparity. We know only too well of the economic gap. What I hadn’t realised is that “compared to the enormous disparities in economic strength, India and China are not as far apart in military strength.” That was a pleasant surprise. “Indeed”, Bajpai adds, “given the stopping power of the Himalaya and the maritime distances, the imbalance is less daunting.”First, however, look how daunting that imbalance is. Although India has the larger army, China has three-and-a-half times more aircraft, three times more submarines and twice as many nuclear weapons. But it’s the difference in indigenous defence production and China’s ability to produce new technologies that gives Beijing the decisive edge. Yet, much of this, Bajpai argues, is checked by geography and strategy. This is why China’s “ability to coerce or defeat India appears limited”.But there are four caveats. First, logistics. “India’s logistics are wafer-thin… because it depends on foreign supplies”. Second, India’s “massive dependence on foreign systems”. We don’t “produce a single major conventional armament, with the partial exception of naval vessels”. Third, “nuclear weapons”. Just as India has escalation dominance over Pakistan, so China has that advantage over us. Fourth, “cyber, automated and remotely operated devices married to artificial intelligence”. Bajpai says the Chinese military is “ahead on all counts”.Which brings me to his conclusions. The lesser: “a good bet there will be more Ladakhs”. He also fears problems in Arunachal, strategically more important because it’s rich in resources. The greater is more disturbing. “China’s comprehensive national power is about seven times that of India”. And “until India substantially closes the power gap, there’s little prospect of a lasting rapprochement.” Finally, is that likely? Here Bajpai suddenly becomes equivocal. To catch up “India will need a near-civilizational change”. His readers have to decide whether that’ll happen.Karan Thapar is the author of Devil’s Advocate: The Untold Story The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-roots-of-the-india-china-discord-101624115010255.html
19-06-2021||Today's||G7: A strong message on democratic values||British Prime Minister (PM) Boris Johnson chose one of England’s favourite holiday destinations to host the G7 summit, the southernmost county of Cornwall. And there seemed to be a holiday-like atmosphere at the summit, at least as seen on television. But behind all the camaraderie, serious differences are bound to have surfaced. The issue of the Northern Ireland Protocol, under which Northern Ireland, though no longer part of the European Union (EU) after Brexit, continues to follow many of the EU’s rules, came up. The protocol provides for checks on goods going from Britain to Northern Ireland to prevent them from passing through the region and into the European single market. Johnson has threatened to suspend the protocol for being detrimental to British interests, drawing the wrath of leaders such as Macron who want Johnson to stick to the commitment made when the protocol was negotiated. United States (US) President Joe Biden has made it clear that he is deeply concerned that the dispute over Northern Ireland could endanger the agreement, brokered by his country, which ended hostilities between the Catholics and Protestants. The pandemic, predictably, figured in the discussions. G7 countries agreed that something had to be done to help the poorer countries, which weren’t able to procure vaccines. The outcome was a pledge to supply one billion vaccines for poorer countries till the end of 2022, something experts widely described as inadequate. PM Narendra Modi, attending the summit virtually as a guest, called for support to the Indian and South African plea for a relaxation of the intellectual property rights protecting the manufacture of Covid-related products. But there was no agreement on this contentious issue.So, did the G7 summit amount to nothing more than a pleasant holiday by the sea? Joe Biden did not think so. He saw the summit in wider terms than mere dollars, pounds or even vaccines, important as they are. He saw it as demonstrating the contrast between democracies and autocracies. After the autocratic conduct of former President Donald Trump, Biden was signalling that he was putting the US firmly back on the side of democracies. Modi did the same, describing India as a natural ally of the G7 and claiming that the values of democracy were “enshrined in the Constitution and the civilisational values of India”. He supported the adoption of the summit’s “open societies statement” defending the freedom of expression, off and online. India is undeniably a democracy. It holds regular elections, the exception being the period of the Emergency. Election results have been accepted by defeated parties, as they have been in the case of West Bengal, even if not always with good grace. It has a vibrant Constitution and the institutions that uphold democracy. But there have to be some doubts over one of the essential elements of democracy —freedom of expression. The judges of the Supreme Court who dismissed the case against journalist Vinod Dua and now the Delhi High Court granting bail to the three young activists have made the judiciary’s views on freedom of expression clear. Could the PM’s public support for the values of democracy mean that he now plans to stop his government from veering further towards limiting the freedom of expression?One step he could take is to tell his law minister to drop the new internet rules, and concentrate on long-overdue reforms in the legal system which took away the freedom of those young activists for a whole year before granting them bail. That would be really walking the talk. The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/g7-a-strong-message-on-democratic-values-101624114661823.html
