20-06-2021||Noida||Discom begins conversion process as 270 Noida high-rises give consent for multi-point connections||NOIDA: In a relief to over four lakh families residing in high-rises in Noida, the power distribution company – Pashchimanchal Vidyut Vitran Nigam Limited (PVVNL) – has started the conversion process in as many as 270 high-rises, which have opted for multipoint connections in place of existing single-point connections. The change in power connection system has already been completed in eight high-rises, officials said. PVVNL had started the conversion process 15 days ago, they said. Following the recent notices issued by PVVNL to high-rises and group housing societies, seeking details to commence work on providing multipoint connections after the Uttar Pradesh Electricity Regulatory Commission (UPERC) decided to do away with the mandatory 51% consent, as many as 270 out of 612 high-rises in the city have given consent for multipoint connections for the flat owners there. Virendra Nath Singh, chief engineer of PVVNL (Noida division), said that supply lines and power meters are being installed in the societies, which opted for multipoint connections. “Later, PVVNL will provide connection and supply electricity after registering all the flat owners on its jhat-pat portal. A consumer will have to pay the stipulated charge of ₹20,720 to avail this benefit,” he said. Singh further said that as per the rules, if a society wants to retain the single-point connection, it will have to show the consent of 51% residents to PVVNL within 30 days. “In case of no response from the apartment owners’ association (AOA) or builder, it will be considered that the society has given its consent for multipoint connections. The recent consent of converting the connections given by 270 high-rises will benefit at least four lakh families,” he said. The chief engineer said that it (multipoint connection) was a long-pending demand of flat owners paying hefty electricity bills in high-rise societies. “It is being done in accordance with the 13th amendment to the Electricity Supply Code of UPERC in August 2018, which allowed apartment owners to have direct power connection from the discom,” he said. Meanwhile, the residents are happy with the discom’s initiative . Rakesh Kumar, a resident of Grihapravesh society in Sector 77, said that the conversion will be a boon for the residents. “We had no option than to follow the directions of AOA, regarding the power charges. In summer days, we were paying about ₹15,000 per month for two ACs and other electrical appliances. Now, we hope that electricity bills will get reduced,” he said. On the other hand, the real estate association, Credai, said that the government’s decision of replacing single-point connections with multipoint connections in high-rises will put a pressure on residents. Subodh Goel, secretary, Credai (western UP), said that the multipoint connection in high-rises is not a good idea due to safety reasons. “The single-point connection is always better in terms of safety and maintenance of the infrastructure. If any developer or AOA is overcharging, then there is a way to file complaint and solve the issue. But multipoint connection is not a way out as it will create more problems,” he said. Goyal also said that the discom is charging a hefty amount for a new meter. “They are taking ₹15,000 for a new meter, which is available everywhere for only ₹3,000. The rate of one unit of electricity is similar in both the systems, i.e. ₹6.35 per unit. Can the discom clarify that who will bear the cost of line loss and faults, besides the maintenance of the high-rises,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/discom-begins-conversion-process-as-270-noida-high-rises-give-consent-for-multi-point-connections-101624213713393.html
20-06-2021||Other||UP irrigation dept writes to Delhi govt for help in clearing encroachers||NOIDA The Uttar Pradesh irrigation department has approached the Delhi government to help remove encroachers from around 20 hectares of its prime properties located in the Capital, said officials. The total land owned by the department in Delhi is around 1,007 hectares. These are at Madanpur Khadar, Jaitpur, Okhla, Jamia, Iron Bridge (Loha Pul) near Gandhi Nagar and Kalindi Kunj, among others, said officials. “We have written to South East Delhi deputy commissioner seeking the administration help in freeing our land. We have decided to first demarcate our land in a joint operation with Delhi officials and then start taking possession,” said BK Singh executive engineer of UP irrigation department. The move follows the Uttar Pradesh government’s order to officials to evict encroachers and protect land, said officials familiar with development. Officials say freeing the land at khasra (land chunk) number 612 in Madanpur Khadar, which is around 4000 square metres, will be a challenge as the encroachers are Rohingya who had fled persecution in Myanmar, officials added. The irrigation department said that the non-government organisation Zakat Foundation had rehabilitated 55 Rohingya families to a village in Madanpur Khadar four years ago. A fire in 2018 forced these families to be moved to the UP irrigation department’s land. “The Zakat Foundation said these families will be shifted from our land in a week but that was not done and now we want it back,” said Singh, adding that around 70 families live there. Abdul Rahman administrative officer from Zakat Foundation, said, “The administration jointly with UP irrigation department is shifting these Rohingya families to Zakat land. We had helped these families settle at our land. But due to fire these families were provided land on UP government land. We are helping Rohingya families in whatever way we can.” South East Delhi deputy commissioner Viswendra said, “We have sought permission from the Delhi lieutenant-governor (L-G) to free the land. Once we get that, we will demarcate and free the land. Some families were shifted back to the Zakat Foundation after the fire, but some remained.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-irrigation-dept-writes-to-delhi-govt-for-help-in-clearing-encroachers-101624213653425.html
20-06-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad, GB Nagar identify 13 clusters for 18+ age group||Ghaziabad: Under the cluster vaccination scheme for 18+ age group, Ghaziabad and Gautam Budh Nagar have selected 13 vaccination sites where beneficiaries will arrive for on-spot registration and get themselves vaccinated against Covid-19 from Monday. According to officials, the scheme has been initiated on a pilot basis on directions of the UP government which will launch a mega drive from July 1 to vaccinate about one million beneficiaries per day in the state. The officials of the Ghaziabad health department said that they have chosen five sites at Bhojpur, Maharajpur, Sadik Nagar, Vasundhara and Adarsh Nagar (in Khoda) where about 14,500 vaccines will be administered per day under the scheme. “We have roped in teams at each cluster to start vaccination for 18+ years’ category from June 21 to June 29 as per directions from the government. The beneficiaries will be able to do on-spot registration and vaccination thereafter. We will try to achieve about 28,000-30,000 vaccinations per day,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer, Ghaziabad. “At present, we have about 110 teams working for vaccination. But from July 1, we plan to add 100 more teams as the target from July 1 will be revised,” he added. Under the cluster vaccination scheme, several residential wards or villages have been identified in form of a cluster and teams will take up vaccination of beneficiaries at a central location accessible to residents. The teams under the pilot project will try to saturate entire 18+ category population and thereafter move to another cluster. Starting July 1, similar pattern will be initiated widely across the entire 75 districts whose areas will be divided in number of clusters for vaccinating 18+ age group. In GB Nagar, the officials said that they will be conducting about 14,000 vaccinations per day under the pilot project which is taken up in areas of Dadri and Jewar. “For the 18+ on-spot vaccination pilot project, we have identified four clusters each in Dadri and Jewar. These will cover 72 villages with the help of 18 teams. At present, we are conducting a total of about 20,000 vaccinations per day,” said Dr Deepak Ohri, chief medical officer of GB Nagar, while adding that the district has 38,000 vaccine doses available and more will arrive in coming days. Experts said that with the cluster scheme for 18+ category, the vaccination process will be simplified. “The health-care workers often face difficulties in vaccinating different age groups. With 18+ category starting now, the issues will be resolved. Further, the on-spot registrations will encourage residents to go to the nearest centre and get the jabs,” said Dr Ashish Agarwal, president of Indian Medical Association (Ghaziabad).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-gb-nagar-identify-13-clusters-for-18-age-group-101624213533995.html
20-06-2021||Other||Monkey takes a ride on Delhi Metro||New Delhi: A video of a monkey roaming in a Delhi Metro train on Saturday has gone viral on social media.The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) official said that the monkey entered the coach from Yamuna Bank metro station on the train heading towards Indraprastha station.The DMRC was informed about the incident by passengers on social media.A DMRC official said, “The monkey was spotted around 4:45 pm as the train moved from Yamuna Bank to IP station on Blue Line on Saturday and moved away on its own by the time it was brought to the notice of DMRC officials by passengers. No harm was caused to anyone and the monkey wasn’t spotted thereafter in metro premises.”In the video, the simian is seen sitting next to a passenger and then climbing on the handrail bar before entering the next coach.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/monkey-takes-a-ride-on-delhi-metro-101624213533356.html
20-06-2021||Noida||Noida traders seek weekend relaxation||Noida: As the night curfew timings are going to be relaxed from Monday, traders in the city have now sought relaxation in the weekend restrictions in order to improve their business.In its unlock guidelines issued on June 15, the government reduced the night curfew timings by two hours that will be in effect from June 21. The new curfew timings will be from 9pm to 7am. Earlier, it was between 7pm and 7am. However, the markets will still be required to shut on weekends for sanitisation, the guidelines had said.However, the traders want work to resume on the weekends now. “Many stores have shut down permanently due to the two Covid-19 waves and subsequent lockdown protocols. Most of our customers usually come out for shopping on the weekends. But with businesses remaining closed during that period, the customers will turn to online marketplace. As a result, we will face further losses,” said Sachin Paul, a shoe shop owner in Sector 18 market.According to Sushil Kumar Jain, president of Sector 18 market association, nearly 30% shops have been closed in the market in the past one year. “The weekend business is comfortably 1.5 times that of the five weekdays. Plus markets are operational in Delhi. Our customers will end up going there if weekends here remain closed. Also, even though the restaurants are allowed to open, with a 9pm deadline they will not be able to cater to the rush,” Jain said.Markets in the city had reopened from June 7 after a month’s lockdown as the active cases had come down to below 600. Gautam Budh Nagar administration officials said that the weekends will be used for sanitisation purposes. However, the traders feel that it would be more beneficial for them if weekend relaxations came into place and a weekday was instead allotted for sanitization.“If the shops are allowed to open on the weekends, we will see more customers. People are anyway hesitant to step out and there is little chance for huge market rush. But businesses will start recovering the losses they have incurred since last year,” said Vicky Yadav, owner of a photography store in Sector 76.District administration officials said that relaxations are happening gradually. “The Covid-19 situation is slowly improving. With the fresh set of guidelines, more relaxations are being given. The situation is being monitored and necessary calls will be taken accordingly,” said Uma Shankar Singh, city magistrate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-traders-seek-weekend-relaxation-101624213473350.html
20-06-2021||Noida||For Covid curfew relaxations, active case criteria revised to 500||Ghaziabad: The Uttar Pradesh government has revised the curfew relaxation criteria based on active Covid-19 cases to 500 from 600 cases earlier. The latest order issued by UP chief secretary RK Tiwari on Saturday also said that districts where the number of active cases go over 500, the relaxations given under the partial Covid curfew will be withdrawn.According to the state’s health bulletin, all the 75 districts in UP had active cases below 500 till June 19, with Ghaziabad having 93 and Gautam Budh Nagar 133 such cases. The last time both the districts went below the 600 active cases was on June 6 and the trend continues thereafter. “With more relaxations coming in from June 21, we are keeping special focus in areas having high population density. Besides, we are regularly conducting about 12,000 vaccinations per day, and it will be scaled up from July 1. For a positive case, we are tracing 30-35 contacts, and testing has been intensified in rural areas,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer, Ghaziabad. “We were expecting that cases will increase with mixing of population when curfew was relaxed from June 7 onwards. But we have only few cases coming in on a daily basis which is a positive sign,” he added. Meanwhile, experts said that the active case criteria should have been based on density of population and demography of the districts. “Since Ghaziabad and GB Nagar are in close proximity to Delhi, rise in cases in the national capital also affects the number of cases in the two districts. Further, the officials must monitor mixing of population as curfew conditions get more relaxed now,” said Dr VB Jindal, former president of Indian Medical Association (Ghaziabad). Recently, Randeep Guleria, director of All India Institute of Medical Sciences, reportedly warned against the third wave of Covid-19 and said that it could strike the country in the next six to eight weeks. “Ideally, the current period till the arrival of any likely third wave should be used to upgrade health infrastructure, and the heightened enforcement is need of the hour. If possible, the criteria of active cases should also be reduced to 250-300 cases to make people conscious about the need to follow Covid protocols. Otherwise, it is generally seen that people throw caution to wind once cases decline,” said Dr Ashish Agarwal, president of IMA (Ghaziabad). In its order, the UP government has directed that activities, outside the containment zones, like opening of markets will now be allowed from 7am to 9pm from earlier 7am to 7pm, but decided against opening of cinema halls, stadiums, swimming pools, and gyms, till further orders. The order added that the relaxations will be for five days in a week with weekend closure continuing on Saturday and Sunday, besides the night curfew will remain in place from 9pm to 7am.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/for-covid-curfew-relaxations-active-case-criteria-revised-to-500-101624213415410.html
20-06-2021||Other||A WhatsApp initiative helps provide relief to power consumers in Prayagraj||: A local sub divisional officer (SDO) has set up a WhatsApp group to provide relief to consumers from power cuts caused by local faults and solving problems related to bill and online payments.SDO, Georgetown Vijay Kumar Tiwari, who set up the group with public representatives, locals and persons of repute in it, said power sub stations of Georgetown, Tagore Town and Allahabad University come under his jurisdiction and his aim is to quickly redress grievances arising in the areas under him.“At present we are receiving 20 to 22 complaints on WhatsApp group which are being sorted by our team. Now, consumers don’t have to come to power substation for reporting their complaints or calling helpline numbers which often goes busy. Moreover, the problems of consumers regarding increase in their power load, bills and online payments are also being sorted out through the WhatsApp group which has at present over 200 members and are increasing each day,” Tiwari said.“The power consumers are now in direct contact of officials and regular communication is helping in sorting out big and small issues related to power supply and bill payments,” he added.Officials said the initiative is helping power department officials know exact location where the fault has occurred besides guiding consumers about how to make online payments.“The consumers are also getting relief from hassles of running to power sub-stations for getting their works done. Formed only a few days back, the WhatsApp group has helped solve problems of many power consumers,” officials said.“Most of the complaints regarding power disruption were found due to local faults which included fault in 11 KW jumper, DO of transformers and electricity wires. The complainants also send photographs of the location where fault has occurred which makes it easy for our team to find the exact location of the problem and address it,” they added.Photo Caption: Electricity department staff at work while responding to a complaint on the WhatsApp group in George Town area. (HT)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/a-whatsapp-initiative-helps-provide-relief-to-power-consumers-in-prayagraj-101624213414163.html
20-06-2021||Other||Students taking internals seriously after CBSE made them part of assessment, says teachers||With the CBSE coming up with a revised evaluation pattern for board students this year and a possible third wave of Covid-19 disrupting another academic cycle, students of classes 10 and 12 slated to appear for their board exams next year are focusing more on their internal tests, anticipating that they may be assessed on the basis of these tests next year. Asees Kandhari, a class 12 student at Step By Step School in Noida, said she was glad as they have time to score better in their internals even if their board exams, scheduled to take place next year, are cancelled.“With doctors predicting a third wave and Covid variants coming into play, there is a possibility that we too may be evaluated on the basis of our internals. Our teachers have been asking us to submit our assignments and homework on time and laying more emphasis on school tests and assignments. Students set to appear for the board exams next year have started to take even their routine homework more seriously,” she said.Amid rising Covid-19 cases, the Union government announced the cancellation of class 10 and 12 Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) exams. CBSE’s revised marking scheme gives weightage to internal unit tests, mid-term, and pre-board exams. Many schools had expressed concerns as students tend to score lower in their pre-board than the final board exams due to strict marking done by the institutions.Nidhi (only first name), the mother of a class 10 student at Springdales, Pusa Road, said, “There is no vaccine for children yet and we don’t know how the pandemic situation will unfold in the coming months. This is why, we are preparing our child to focus on every part of their academics as the previous batch was caught unawares, as they are being marked on the basis of their internals.”With the first round of unit tests set to begin this week in several private schools, students said they are more serious about these tests than before as there is more at stake. Vansh Arora, a Class 10 student at The Indian School, said many of his friends who were earlier “casual” about internal tests, are now working hard for it.“Our schoolteachers have been advising us to take the internal tests seriously because Class 10 students this year were evaluated completely on the basis of their performance in internal exams. It might be the same situation next year, so we have been asked to focus on every such exam,” he said.Principal Tania Joshi said the school is preparing students for any eventuality and focusing on the mental health of the children as well. “These students have not attended classes in over a year and are fatigued by the uncertainty of the situation. We need to prepare them for any outcome. Not just board students but even Class 11 students are now taking their internals seriously because we don’t know what will happen in the future. The existing internal marking by schools will remain the same for the time being as it is too soon to take a call on that,” she said.Several schools, such as The Indian School, Modern Public School in Shalimar Bagh, Mount Abu Public School in Rohini, Amity International School in Pushp Vihar, Tagore International School, said the revised evaluation pattern had caused a change in the attitude of students who were earlier not very serious about their internal tests and assignments.Jyoti Arora, principal of Mount Abu Public School in Rohini, said, “Following the cancellation of board exams this year, we had feared that there may be a lax in the attitude of students. But that hasn’t happened. Everyone has become more serious about it. Parents have questions about how their children will be evaluated and whether there will be any syllabus rationalization. We are still waiting for CBSE guidelines on the matter.”To mitigate academic losses, the CBSE had reduced the syllabi of classes 9 to 12 by 30% for the academic session 2020-21 retaining core concepts. The board is yet to come out with a decision on the same for this academic year.CBSE spokesperson said no decision has been taken on the rationalisation of syllabus for the current academic session.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/students-taking-internals-seriously-after-cbse-made-them-part-of-assessment-says-teachers-101624213413457.html
20-06-2021||Noida||GB Nagar malls, restaurants set to reopen from Monday||Noida: After a gap of 50 days, shopping malls and restaurants in Gautam Budh Nagar will reopen from Monday with 50% capacity. Several restaurant owners and mall authorities said on Sunday that they are ready to open up their establishments with Covid-19 protocols.As per the latest order issued by the state government on Saturday, shopping malls and restaurants will now be allowed to open from Monday to Friday between 7am and 9pm. The partial Covid-19 curfew was imposed from the night of April 30 in the district. Restrictions were relaxed from June 7 after the district had reported less than 600 active Covid-19 cases.However, malls in GB Nagar had started preparations for reopening after a similar announcement by the government was made on June 15.“Cleaning and sanitising process has been underway at our malls since June 16. Even before the curfew, we had been following all social distancing protocols, including no-contact shopping and hourly disinfection,”said Shameem Anwar, associate director (marketing), Entertainment City, which runs Gardens Galleria Mall and Great India Place Mall in Sector 38A.At DLF Mall of India in Sector 18, officials said that a meeting of all the retailers was held recently to chalk out a plan for reopening. “All our retailers have been following all Covid protocols. When the announcements were made on June 15, we held a virtual meeting of all retailers to talk about the plans and procedure for reopening. We hope for good business this time round,” said Pushpa Bector, executive director, DLF Retail.Bector further said that the mall will reopen with 100% of its staff vaccinated. “DLF Mall of India runs with a staff strength of 3,000, including housekeeping staff, security and parking personnel, salespeople, retailers and food vendors. All of these people working at the mall have been vaccinated with the first dose in order to keep them as well as our visitors safe,” she said.As per the order, a Covid helpdesk has to be set up at the entrance gates of the malls which will be equipped with a pulse oximeter, infrared thermometer and hand sanitisers.Meanwhile, restaurant owners are hoping that people who have been locked inside their houses will be willing to eat out. “I am reopening one of my outlets in Sector 18 with half of our staff to gauge the response. We are glad that restaurants have been allowed to reopen and we are sure that people will be willing to eat out with all Covid protocols,” said Varun Khera, head of National Restaurants Association of India (Noida chapter). Khera runs two food outlets in Sector 18.However, those restaurants that also have a bar are not ready to open their establishments. Vicky Saluja, owner of Baby Dragon Bar and Restaurant in Sector 18, says he will wait for permissions for reopening of bars at restaurants. “The orders do not allow serving of liquor. Hence, we will wait for that as of now. It will be a loss for us if we open our restaurant only for food. The weekend curfew is still there, which again will be bad for our business,” he said.Rakesh Bahadur Singh, district excise officer, GB Nagar, said, “The serving of liquor has not been allowed as per the latest orders. It will be allowed once a separate order for the same is issued by the state government.”District administration officials said that malls are allowed to function from 7am to 9pm from Monday to Friday. “Restaurants are supposed to keep alternate tables reserved with ‘do not sit’ markings in order to follow social distancing. At sweets/street food/fast food shops, people are allowed to eat with 50% occupancy,” said Suhas LY, district magistrate.Rannvijay Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police, GB Nagar, said that police teams will make surprise checks at restaurants and malls to ensure all guidelines are being followed. “We need to ensure that the guidelines issued by the government are followed. We will visit restaurants and malls to keep a check,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gb-nagar-malls-restaurants-set-to-reopen-from-monday-101624213354582.html
20-06-2021||Gurugram||Two robbers from Delhi arrested||The police arrested two members on Sunday for allegedly robbing over a dozen autorickshaw drivers of their vehicles at gunpoint in the past two months across Gurugram. They were planning to steal two-wheelers in Badshahpur on Sunday night, said the police.The suspects, identified as Sonu alias Sunil, and Sunder Lal Sharma, are from Delhi’s Sadar and Rajasthan’s Alwar, respectively.According to the police, they have recovered a four-wheeler from their possession and also solved at least 12 cases with their arrest. During questioning, the two suspects revealed that they used to come from Delhi to Gurugram thrice a week to rob autorickshaw drivers, adding that they targeted sectors 50 and 56, and Golf Course Extension Road.Preet Pal Sangwan, the assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that the suspects are repeat offenders and have been arrested thrice. The mastermind, Sonu, had contacted other gang members who were out of the jail and started robbing four-wheelers from Gurugram. The gang members have been allegedly involved in the crime for the past four years.The police said that Sonu targeted vehicles at the developing sectors as the presence of police is comparatively lower there.They only stole vehicles that have a high resale value, the police said. The suspects used to hide the four-wheelers at Sunder’s house in Alwar till they were sold, the police said. Sunder used to send pictures of the stolen four-wheelers to his friends in Uttar Pradesh, who used to arrange for customers.On Sunday morning, the gang members visited Badshahpur to steal parked two-wheelers but were arrested. “We had received a tip-off that four men were roaming near parked motorbikes in the area. We sent our teams, barricaded the area, and arrested the two robbers,” said Sangwan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/two-robbers-from-delhi-arrested-101624210476334.html
20-06-2021||Gurugram||Water management in Gurugram to be bettered with flow meters||To improve management of water supply, ensuring equitable distribution and minimal waste, the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) will be installing 500 flow meters across the city, officials said on Sunday. Officials said that the authority undertook a pilot project, as a part of which flow meters were installed at 31 places, and after successful results, it is being expanded. “We have around 500 underground tanks in the whole of GMDA area, which comprises many big colonies like DLF, Unitech, besides establishments such as hotels. We are planning to connect flow meters in all these tanks. By connecting the sensors to the pipelines connected to these tanks, we will know the level of water, how much water is being supplied and measure if water theft is taking place in between from the pipelines,” said a senior GMDA official, who did not wish to be named. The official said that the pilot project is almost complete, with a few minor tests remaining and that the expansion work will start within a few weeks. Officials said that this measure will not only conserve water but will also ensure that the authority gets the amount due for the water being supplied to residents. The project is a part of a centralised integrated water management system, which is being developed by the Smart City division of GMDA and aims to provide water to all residential housing societies, individual houses and hotels. With the centralised system, the GMDA will have a larger degree of control over the entire distribution and supply chain from a single location through the Integrated Command and Control Centre (ICCC). Electrical sensors in water pipelines help in the proper management of water and tapping of illegal sources used for water theft. “We tested the service in a pipeline which starts from Basai till Dhanwapur and whatever underground tanks are falling on this stretch, sensor devices have been installed in these tanks. The water in this pipeline goes through equipment like a water flow meter (to measure how much water is being supplied), water control valve (to ensure the same water pressure to every house). This way, we are also able to ensure that water is not wasted with the tanks overflowing as regular updates are received at the command centre,” said the official cited above. At present, Gurugram’s water comes from the water channels in the National Capital Region and the Yamuna channel. This raw water is carried to the water treatment plants (WTPs) at Basai and Chandu Budhera, which have a daily operational capacity of 270MLD (million litres per day) and 300MLD, respectively. There are also two boosting stations in sectors 16 and 51 to help overcome the difficulty of transporting water to the eastern parts of the city, which is on a higher ground level than the two WTPs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/water-management-in-gurugram-to-be-bettered-with-flow-meters-101624210475829.html
20-06-2021||Pune||PMC commissioner agrees to form committee for Ramnadi rejuvenation project||Environmentalists working towards the restoration of the Ramnadi river under the aegis of Kirloskar Vasundhara, calling it the Ramnadi restoration mission have undertaken the challenge of improving the Ramanadi ecosystem. The volunteers held a meeting with Pune municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar on Friday at the PMC headquarters who agreed in principle to form a committee for the rejuvenation project. MLA and BJP state chief Chandrakant Patil was also present and demanded that an independent committee be constituted for the revival of Ramnadi river as well as funds be made available for the development. “It was a very detailed discussion with the commissioner as well as representatives of the NGO working on the revival of the Ramnadi river, along with mayor Murlidhar Mohol, city engineer Prashant Waghmare, standing committee chairman Hemant Rasne, leader of the house Ganesh Bidkar, superintendent engineer (construction) Yuvraj Deshmukh, where Patil demanded that a special committee be set up for looking after the Ramnadi restoration project, which has been accepted in principal by the PMC commissioner,” said Virendra Chitrav, director, Kirloskar Vasundhara International Film festival and coordinator Mission Ramnadi restoration project. Kirloskar Vasundhara and 12 other organisations came together to create this mission of restoration of Ramnadi. The mission’s aim is to restore the river, nearest to its former state of continuous pure flow and to bring back the glory of this small and once beautiful river, which is 19.20 lm in length and originates from altitude of 950 meters near Khatapewadi at Jaraseshwar temple and flows through Bhukum, Bhugaon,Bavdhan, Pashan, Aundh and Baner. In a map of 1890 of the Bavdhan area, Ramnadi is referred as river with an original width of 48 meters. PMC commissioner Vikram Kumar said that he has approved the demand to prepare an independent development plan for Ramnadi and invite the representative of NGOs to be part of this special committee, with the mayor as the chairman. He also added that along with the revival of Ramnadi river, Mula-Mutha river will be developed, in which a separate development plan of ₹1,700 crore has been prepared for the beautification, depth and development of Mula-Mutha river. Kirloskar Vasundhara has been working on the restoration of this river for the past two years and their work along with 12 NGOs, 33 colleges, 25 schools, and three grampanchyats have culminated into a bilingual book on the Ramnadi. called Ramnadi, the elusive river, this book will shed light upon the work on the restoration of the river, its history, geography, the challenges and the dangers that this river faces.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-commissioner-agrees-to-form-committee-for-ramnadi-rejuvenation-project-101624203633024.html
20-06-2021||Pune||Nigeria citizen arrested for possessing cocaine||A Nigerian youth has been arrested by the anti-narcotics cell unit I of Pune city crime branch for allegedly selling cocaine from his flat in Undri. A total of 53 grams of cocaine worth ₹5.3 lakh was seized from his possession. The arrested accused has been identified as Olmide Christopher Kayode (42), a native of Nigeria and a resident of Bhakti Pride society in Undri. Acting on a tip-off received by policeman Yogesh Mohite, a team led by police inspector Vinayak Gaikwad raided the flat on June 16 and nabbed Kayode. A case has been registered against him at Kondhwa police station. The crime branch is focussing on outskirts of Undri, Pisoli and Kondhwa wherein suspected foreign nationals involved in drug trade are under surveillance. The action was taken under the guidance of deputy commissioner of police (crime) Shrinivas Ghadge and ACP Surendranath Deshmukh. The team included police inspector Gaikwad and police personnel Praveen Shirve, Sujit Wadekar, Sandeep Jadhav, Rahul Joshi, Vishal Shinde, Vishal Dalvi, Maruti Pardhi, Praveen Uttekar, Manoj Salunke, Nitin Jadhav, Pandurang Pawar, Sandesh Kakade, Yogesh Mohite, Ruby Abraham and Rehana Sheikh. On April 22, Shamsuddin Omotola Hasan (48), a resident of Sankla Exclusive Vista Society in Pisoli and a native of Lagos in Nigeria who had intended to sell the drugs was caught by the police. The drugs in his possession were found to be worth ₹4.16 lakh . Along with the drugs, the police found five mobile phones, one Yamaha motorcycle, cash and a weighing scale. The 48-year-old was found at the gate of Brookefield Society when the officials of the crime branch were patrolling the Kondhwa area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/nigeria-citizen-arrested-for-possessing-cocaine-101624203513030.html
20-06-2021||Pune||PCMC commissionerate to be expanded until Lonavla||The jurisdiction of Pimpri-Chinchwad police commissionerate will extend until Lonavla, Wadgaon Maval, Lonavla city if the proposal seeking extension given by PCMC police chief to DGP office is accepted. PCMC police chief Krishna Prakash forwarded a proposal seeking extension of the jurisdiction to the director general’s office for approval. The proposal seeks inclusion of Lonavla rural, Lonavla city, Kamshet and Vadgaon Maval police stations under the PCMC police commissionerate. Currently, the said four police stations in Maval taluka are under the jurisdiction of Pune rural police. The four new police stations proposed contain an additional population of 4.50 lakh while the earlier population being catered to the PCMC commissionerate is 40 lakh. The director general of police has instructed superintendent of police (Pune rural) Dr Abhinav Deshmukh to seek the opinion of the gram panchayats which fall under the jurisdiction of the police stations on the proposal list to be merged with the Pimpri-Chinchwad police commissionerate. The PCMC police commissionerate was inaugurated on Aug 15, 2018 where police stations namely Pimpri-Chinchwad, Nigdi, Bhosari, Bhosari MIDC, Dighi, Sangvi and Wakad from Pune city commissionerate were added to the new commissionerate. Also, Pune rural police stations comprising Dehu road, Talegaon Dabhade, Talegaon MIDC, Alandi and Chakan were added to the commissionerate. After that new Chikhali police station was commissioned by the police authorities. Following that a fresh proposal seeking three new police stations comprising Mhalunge, Ravet and Shirgaon which fall under Dehu road and Chakan police stations has been sent to the government by the first PCMC police commissioner R K Padmanabhan. On Jan 4, 2021, the said police stations were sanctioned by the state home department. Rural SP Dr Abhinav Deshmukh has instructed all the four police stations to take the gram panchayat resolution on the issue of merger with the PCMC police commissionerate. The DG office also had directed the SP to take village resolution before the final assent is given to the expansion. PCMC police chief Krishna Prakash said, “A proposal seeking extension of commissionerate jurisdiction has been sent to the DG office for approval. After the approval, the commissionerate would require an additional DCP, two ACP and other staff for the merged police stations.” The force has strength of 2,000 personnel although the requirement is of 7,000 personnel, according to the commissioner. As per the 2011 census, PCMC had a population of 1.72 million which is estimated to have grown to 2.08 million. Prakash is the third police commissioner during a span of two years of the commissionerate being commissioned. The existing manpower at the said police stations is likely to transfer to the new commissionerate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pcmc-commissionerate-to-be-expanded-until-lonavla-101624203453030.html
20-06-2021||Mumbai||With 9,361 fresh infections in 24 hours, Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra fall steadily; toll reaches 117,961||Maharashtra saw a rise of 9,361 fresh cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) over the last 24 hours ending at 9pm on Sunday. According to the latest health bulletin released by the state health department, the overall tally now stands at 5,972,781. The death toll increased to 117,961 after 190 people succumbed to the viral disease.As many as 9,101 recovered from Covid-19 taking the overall number of discharged people to 5,719,457, the release also stated.The state authorities conducted 201,938 tests for Covid-19 and as of Sunday evening, 39,514,858 samples have been tested.Mumbai's Covid-19 tally increased by 747, pushing the total tally to reach 720,013. About 19 fresh fatalities pushed the death count to 15,298. The city has a total of 14,809 active cases.With the addition of 204 new cases of Covid-19, the infection count in the Thane district has gone up to 527,604. Besides this, the disease also claimed the lives of 27 more people, taking the death toll in the district to 10,489. The Covid-19 mortality rate in Thane stood at 1.98 per cent.In neighbouring Palghar district, the Covid-19 case count has gone up to 1,14,781, while the death toll has reached 2,474.Meanwhile, on Saturday, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has refused to ease restrictions in Mumbai, insisting that the situation would not be fully in control till the new cases reach a minimum. This comes despite the city having graduated to level one on the basis of the oxygen bed occupancy and positivity rate. With a steady decline in Covid cases, the city is still operating under various restrictions including malls, restaurants, gymnasiums, salons and wellness centres resuming activities only at 50% capacity.Thane, too, adopted a similar cautious approach, though it qualified for level one from level two according to Maharashtra's 5-level unlocking plan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/with-9-361-fresh-infections-in-24-hours-covid-19-cases-in-maharashtra-fall-steadily-toll-reaches-117961-101624203004885.html
20-06-2021||Pune||Pothole-plagued Jambhulwadi road, a nightmare for commuters and pedestrians||For thousands of commuters and pedestrians on Jambhulwadi road starting from Dattanagar chowk, a daily struggle awaits as the entire stretch of road has been dug up. There are hundreds of potholes and mud lying all over the road, and daily there are small mishaps of people slipping from their two-wheeler vehicles. Citizens are now demanding immediate repairs of this road for the safety of commuters and pedestrians. “I daily go to my bank on my bike and since the last one month the road has become terrible, I feel afraid to go by this road. Due to the rains already, roads have become slippery and top of that this dug up road, potholes are adding to the worries. I have seen a two-wheeler rider falling down at one of the spots where mud had come over the road, it should be repaired immediately. We don’t even take our son on bike due to this risky road,” said Sonali Mirashe, a resident and banker. Another citizen Ranjeet Gandhi said, “The underground pipeline work and other road repairing works began around a month back on this road and they are still going on. Some of the works have been completed but the debris and other repairing material is lying as it is on the road, creating a hurdle for citizens. If any major accident or mishap happens, then who will be held responsible for it, PMC road department should look into this issue and get the entire road stretch cleaned up immediately.” In the last 10 years, the entire Jambhulwadi road stretch of around 5 km has developed into a residential area. More than 50 small and big residential housing societies have come up on this road, and over 20,000 residents been shifted here. It is one of the major roads near the Katraj area, which connects various localities like Katraj, Bharati Vidyapeeth, Ambegaon Budruk and Jambhulwadi area. Talking about the issue Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) road department chief engineer Vijay Kulkarni said, “The road repairing work of the Jambhulwadi road is going to be done soon, we have given the proposal in the standing committee for the funds allocation. As soon as we get it in this week, the entire road repairing work will be done on priority basis.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/potholeplagued-jambhulwadi-road-a-nightmare-for-commuters-and-pedestrians-101624203333105.html
20-06-2021||Pune||Further delay in HSC results likely||Since the Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE) continues to finalise the method of assessment for class 12, the results for Higher Secondary Certificate (HSC) are not likely to be announced before July. The class 12 examination was cancelled by the Maharashtra government recently and the final result of students was to be declared by an internal assessment process.On June 14, MSBSHSE issued a notification cancelling class 12 examination for the academic year 2020-2021. Recently, the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) issued its assessment process. CBSE noted that 40 per cent marks of class 12 and 30 per cent marks from class 11 and class 10 will be included in the evaluation. However, the assessment process for HSC has not been declared yet. Speaking about when the results will be declared, Dinkar Temkar, director, Maharashtra State Council of Education, Research and Training (MSCERT) said that the process of evaluation will be declared soon. “The process will be declared in the next 10 days. It is likely to be similar to that of the class 10 assessment process but it may include a few more details. The final notification will be declared in the next few days,” said Temkar. After the evaluation process is declared, it will take at least a month for Junior colleges to complete and upload the result, said senior board officials. Academic experts noted that it is likely that class 12 evaluation for state board may be similar to class 10. However, the delay in evaluation and further delay results in putting a lot of pressure on students. Sampada Waghmare, a student of class 12 from state board said that the process should be declared soon. “Usually,state board examinations are over by March and class 12 results are declared before class 10 results. However, this time it will be totally opposite. It may affect further competitive examinations and the admission process to further colleges. All of these uncertain decisions are increasing the stress on students tremendously,” said Waghmare. The class 10 examination was cancelled in April whereas the education department waited until June to take a conclusive decision over class 12 offline examinations. It was earlier postponed and then cancelled in June. This is as per academics, the first time when Class 12 results will be declared after the class 10 results for state board.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/further-delay-in-hsc-results-likely-101624203273021.html
20-06-2021||Pune||Skywalk project proposed for Lonavla||Looking at the popularity of twin hill stations Lonavla and Khandala, a skywalk has been proposed in a meeting held on tourism development in presence of Pune guardian minister Ajit Pawar. The estimated project is ₹35 crore and four designs were presented during the meeting. The initiative of proposed plan of building skywalk was the brain child of the MLA Sunil Shelke. “The question is - what can we do for the most visited eco-tourismspot in Pune, for example, the tiger point, when tourists come there - they see a cluster of shanty shops. A skywalk with associated shops and centres was thought of to make it an even greater attraction. It will increase foot falls, and the place will have a greater tourist carrying capacity. More jobs would be generated,” said Ayush Prasad, chief executive officer, Zilla Parishad. During the meeting, four designs were proposed. The estimated cost of design A is ₹23 crore while estimated cost for design B is 32 crore while for proposed design C and D the estimated cost is ₹34 and ₹36 crore respectively. “More tourists coming there would mean more tourists into Pune, restaurants on the way would have more business and greater number of jobs would be created. Tourism is the fourth largest sector in Pune. There are so many places in Pune and the idea is to develop each with regard to amenities, engagement activities and access,” added Prasad. Pune guardian minister Ajit Pawar said “The project initiated is commendable and I will try my best as the guardian minister of the district to get maximum funds for it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/skywalk-project-proposed-for-lonavla-101624203212976.html
20-06-2021||Pune||BJP will conduct statewide agitation on OBC reservation: Munde||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) OBC leader and former child and welfare minister of Maharashtra Pankaja Munde has declared that BJP will file a litigation in court to withhold civic polls until the state government resolves the issue of political reservation for the Other Backward Community (OBC). She made a statement in Pune while addressing a press conference on Sunday. She also declared that BJP will conduct an agitation on June 26, 2021 against the state government. After the Supreme Court (SC) verdict to abolish political reservation of OBC, all OBC leaders of different political parties have started expressing their views. Recently, the Akhil Bharatiya Mahatma Phule Samata Parishad (ABMPSP) led by senior NCP minister Chhagan Bhubal declared to start agitation to support their demand of political reservation for the OBC community in local bodies across Maharashtra. Now, BJP has also declared to conduct the agitation on June 26, 2021. While addressing the press conference, Munde said, “BJP has decided to conduct state-wide agitation on June 26. The state government is responsible for the abolition of OBJC political reservation. The government failed to produce empirical data of OBC to the Supreme Court. Now, the BJP has decided to conduct strong agitation so that the state government can hear the loud demand of OBC.” She said, “We cannot wait for the next assembly election. We want that issue to have to be solved before civic polls. Therefore, we have decided to file litigation in court to withhold the process of civic polls in the state.” She said, “I can share the stage with any party leaders on the issue of OBC reservation. The state government cabinet ministers have the right to take decisions. There is no need to point the finger to the central government for the decision. It is the state government’s responsibility to submit empirical data of OBC to court. However, the state government is busier to stabilise their regime and ignore the basic problem of the common man.” While ruling out that the reservation in favour of OBCs in local bodies should not result in exceeding the 50 per cent cap in reservation quota, the apex court directed the state government to appoint a dedicated commission for collecting empirical data, based on which, the reservation quota of the community be fixed. It means no seat is going to be reserved for the OBC community in the upcoming local bodies comprising municipal corporations, municipal councils, zilla parishads, panchayat samiti and gram panchayats at least for this year or until the state completes the entire process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/bjp-will-conduct-statewide-agitation-on-obc-reservation-munde-101624203152968.html
20-06-2021||Pune||Panchavati-Kothrud-Gokhale nagar tunnel gains momentum||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has received a response in the re-tender of the ambitious project of Pashan-Panchavati-Kothrud which was announced in 2017 to ease the traffic problem of Paud road, Senapati Bapat road and Shivajinagar area. Now, the PMC has initiated the process of appointment of consultant. In a recent meeting, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar has given instructions to speed up the work of the project. Earlier, the contractor failed to submit a feasibility report of the project. After that, PMC carried out the retender process and they received responses from contractors. On Saturday, a meeting was held between Pawar and mayor Murlidhar Mohol to review the tunnel work and speed up the work. MLA Siddharth Shirole, municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar, city engineer Prashant Waghmare, chief engineer Srinivas Bona were present for the meeting. Mohol said, “The current distance from Kothrud to Pashan is eight and a half kilometres via Chandni Chowk and the same distance is nine and a half kilometres via Senapati Bapat road. When the tunnel is completed, the distance will be four kilometres. The distance from Pashan road to Gokhalenagar is four and a half kilometres and after the tunnelling, the same distance will be 2.9 kilometres. The length of Kothrud to Panchavati tunnel is 1,090 meters and the length of Panchavati to Gokhalenagar tunnel is 580 meters. Traffic congestion in the area will definitely be reduced after the completion of these tunnels.” He further said, “A consultant was appointed for this work. However, due to untimely completion of the work, the process of changing the consultant has been started. The consultant change process has received a response and a consultant has been appointed after discussion. Therefore, government permits for the work of these two tunnels will be obtained immediately.” Indrabhan Randive, executive engineer of the project department said, “After rendering, four consultants approached PMC. Of that, two consultants were finalised. One consultant has quoted a rate of 3.38 per cent consultancy fee which is more than as per state government ( two per cent consultancy) . We have given a letter to the consultant to reduce the consultant fee.” “After finalizing the consultant, he will have to conduct a topographical survey and aerial survey. At present, we got NOC from central and state government agencies such as Armament Research and Development Establishment (ARDE), National Chemical laboratory (NCL), forest department, Automatic Research Association of India (ARAI),” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/panchavatikothrudgokhale-nagar-tunnel-gains-momentum-101624203093044.html
20-06-2021||Pune||Copper wire from mobile network tower stolen||The copper wire from a mobile network tower was found to have been pulled out and stolen on Saturday in Kondhwa. The theft happened between June 9 and June 15 around 1:30pm when the employer of the company that maintains the tower found the wire missing. The stolen wires cost around ₹50,000, according to the police. The tower is located in Section 7/1 near Nyati County in Mohammadwadi area of Pune. The mobile network tower of a major service provider had an electronic transfer switch. The oil inside the electronic transfer switch was spilled and the copper wire inside it was pulled out, damaging it in the process, according to the complainant. A case under Sections 379 (punishment for theft) and 427 (mischief causing damage of ₹50 or more) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Kondhwa police station. Police sub inspector SN Khetmalas of Kondhwa police station is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/copper-wire-from-mobile-network-tower-stolen-101624202972972.html
20-06-2021||Lucknow||Amitabh Bachchan’s family priest beaten up by police at Vindhyachal temple||Bollywood actor Amitabh Bachchan's family priest was caught in a fight between the police and the priests at the Vindhyavasini temple in Uttar Pradesh’s Vindhyachal on Sunday, according to a report by LiveHindustan.#UttarPradesh : विंध्याचल में वीकेंड #Lockdown के दौरान दर्शन को लेकर पुलिस और पुरोहितों में झड़प, अमिताभ बच्चन के पुरोहित को पुलिस वालों ने घेर कर पीटा#Mirzapur pic.twitter.com/n15eNCszRfThe clashes erupted after policemen escorted the Chandauli district magistrate and his family to the temple and performed prayers despite the weekend lockdown. Seeing the DM offering the puja, the priests also expressed their willingness to perform the puja to which the police officers at the spot opposed. There have been no cases registered in the matter so far.The district magistrate of Chandauli reached the Vindhyavasini temple on Sunday morning at around 11am with the police to perform a darshan. Bachhan family priest Amit Pandey also reached the temple with other priests to perform the same following which clashes erupted and the police beat up the priest, the report said. The video of the clash also went viral on social media.Amit Pandey performs pujas for Amitabh Bachchan’s family and also performed pujas for the Gandhi family, brother of the priest Sumit Pandey said.“Police deliberately did this. Protesting priests are also implicated in false cases. We are very respected in the community,” said Sumit Pandey. Rajan Pathak, former president of Panda Samaj, also condemned the incident and said that every worshipper is equal in the eyes of the almighty. He also said that the temple does not discriminate against anyone.Additional superintendent of police Sanjay Verma denied the incident and said that no policeman escorted any official for performing puja in the temple. “A priest performed darshan puja and when Amit Pandey started taking other visitors for the darshan puja, police opposed,” Verma was quoted as saying by LiveHindustan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/amitabh-bachchan-s-family-priest-beaten-up-by-police-at-vindhyachal-temple-101624196576251.html
20-06-2021||Jaipur||Vedic board to be formed soon in Rajasthan, experts’ suggestions to be sought||The Sanskrit education department will organise a webinar to take suggestions from subject experts for the constitution of a Vedic Education and Sanskar Board in the state to revive the knowledge of Sanskrit scriptures and the Vedas, a senior official familiar with the matter said. Minister of state for Sanskrit education Subhash Garg recently discussed a draft on the formation of the board and directed that a webinar be organised by inviting subject experts, the official said. “The webinar will discuss what will be the nature of the Vedic Education and Sanskar Board, how will it be done, what will be its functioning and which courses will be included in it,” he said.Garg said the board is likely to be formed in the next four to five months. “A committee formed to define the aims, objectives, and functioning of the board has submitted its report to the state government. Based on the report, modules will be presented to the board,” he added. The minister said the board will start functioning after approval from chief minister Ashok Gehlot. The Congress, in its election manifesto for the 2018 state assembly elections, promised to set up a Vedic Education and Sanskar Board and take measures to promote the Sanskrit language. In January this year, the chief minister announced to expedite the work of setting up the board to encourage students to research the Vedas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/vedic-board-to-be-formed-soon-in-rajasthan-experts-suggestions-to-be-sought-101624197033638.html
20-06-2021||Patna||Bihar health dept sets up 3-tier committee to update Covid-19 death toll||Shortly after the Patna high court’s flak over inconsistencies in the Covid-19 related death toll, the Bihar health department has set up a three-tier committee to compile, verify and update the details of Covid-19 deaths in the second wave of the pandemic, HT has learnt. The death toll due to Covid-19, which officially stood at 9,543 till Saturday evening, would be updated once the state-level committee, headed by the director-in-chief, health services, issues a fresh list of casualty after verification of documents of those who died before June 7. The state-level committee, comprising administrative officer of the state health societies and the additional director, health department, has been asked by the department to scrutinise the claims of deaths recommended by the district magistrates (DMs) based on reports submitted by the committees set up at medical colleges and hospitals and the district levels. “The principals will head the medical college-level committees, while civil surgeon would preside over the district level committees,” said a senior officer, citing a letter issued to all the DMs by the department. In the letter issued on June 18, additional chief secretary, health, Pratyay Amrit asked the DMs to compile the fatality figure of all those dying due to Covid before June 7 and help the department update the figure before the next date of hearing of a public interest litigation (PIL) that the Patna high court lodged for hearing suo moto. On Friday last, the court had taken serious exceptions to huge discrepancies in deaths as furnished by the state health department and those compiled by other civic agencies during the second phase of the pandemic. Owing to the high court’s intervention, the department revised the Covid-19 death toll on June 9 to 9429 from the earlier stated toll of 3951. The department, however, refrained from specifying as to when these additional deaths took place, even as the district-wise breakup was released. The Patna High Court, in an order uploaded Friday, made scathing observations on the Bihar government, saying it is most reluctant to put in the public domain the number of deaths that occurred in the state during the last year during the Covid-19 pandemic and that it is obligatory on the state to fight the “infodemic”. A division bench of Patna high court comprising chief justice Sanjay Karol and justice Sanjay Kumar, while hearing the PIL on the Covid-19 management in Bihar, observed that “…Transparency is the hallmark of good governance, more so in today’s era, especially when the government, both Central and the state, are committed to making success the flagship “Digital India” programme and the National Data Sharing and Accessibility Policy (NDSAP) – 2012.” The bench stated that the need to undertake such an exercise arose only “when the court did not find the number of deaths reported by the government of Bihar during the second wave of Covid-19 to be correct, which stood confirmed through the affidavit dated June 10, 2021, filed by the chief secretary wherein it is stated that the total number of deaths which took place in Bihar is 9375 and not 5424, the figure indicated earlier”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-health-dept-sets-up-3-tier-committee-to-update-covid-19-death-toll-101624194994776.html
20-06-2021||Gurugram||Haryana govt extends Covid-19 lockdown with some relaxations. Check what is allowed||The Haryana government extended the Covid-19 lockdown on Sunday for one more week till June 28. As the cases are falling steadily over the last few weeks, it also announced certain relaxations to the restrictions imposed on social events."To continue the preventive and precautionary measures to contain the Covid pandemic … the 'Mahamari Alert-Surakshit Haryana' is extended for another week from June 21 (5 am onwards) to June 28 (till 5 am) in the state," it said in the order. The state government has termed the lockdown "Mahamari Alert-Surakshit Haryana (Epidemic Alert-Safe Haryana)".According to the fresh order, issued on Sunday by state chief secretary Vijai Vardhan, weddings can now take place in courts but the restrictions on processions will continue. As per the order, up to 50 people can attend cremations. Earlier, there was a cap of 21 people.The state government also allowed corporate offices to operate in full capacity, the new order stated. The relaxations are subjected to strict adherence to the Covid-19 protocol including mandatory face masks and social distancing.Clubhouses, restaurants and bars of golf courses are allowed to open with 50 per cent seating capacity from 10 am to 10 pm. Swimming pools and spas in the state would continue to remain closed.All shops can continue to operate from 9am to 8pm, and restaurants and bars, including those in hotels and malls, are allowed to open from 10 am to 10 pm with 50 per cent seating capacity. timings for shopping malls will also remain the same -- 10am to 8pm.The number of daily Covid-19 cases, which had crossed the 15,000-mark last month, has now come down to under 300, while the count of fatalities has also registered a sharp fall.The Haryana government-imposed lockdown in the state has now been extended for the seventh time. In the earlier order, the state government allowed gyms to reopen from 6am to 8pm. It also gave a nod to sports complexes and stadiums to resume sports activities without any spectators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/haryana-govt-extends-covid-19-lockdown-with-some-relaxations-check-what-is-allowed-101624194379916.html
20-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi records 124 fresh Covid-19 cases, lowest since February 16||Delhi recorded 124 coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases on Sunday, the lowest number of daily cases recorded since February 16, as the positivity rate dropped to 0.17%, according to the government’s health bulletin. With these cases, the total Covid-19 tally in the Capital has now reached 1.43 million.The drop in the number of cases does come amid a drop in the number of tests conducted in the last 24 hours. Delhi tested 72,670 samples between June 19 and June 20 whereas the city conducted 75,687 tests between June 18 and June 19. Out of these 72,670 tests done in the last 24 hours, 52,790 were RT-PCR tests, TruNat and CBNAAT tests while the rest were antigen tests. The cumulative positivity rate in the Capital stands at 6.89%. Delhi also recorded 398 recoveries in the last 24 hours which took the number of recoveries to 1.40 million. Delhi currently has 2,091 active cases of Covid-19.The number of deaths also remained below 10 for the second day in a row. The death toll in Delhi has reached 24,914.Delhi has vaccinated 6.5 million people out of which 1.57 million have been fully vaccinated. At least 4.93 people have received a single dose of the Covid-19 vaccine. Delhi administered vaccines to 86,131 people in the last 24 hours.The Delhi government, in addition to reopening restaurants and bars - with 50%seating capacity and from 12pm to 10pm - from Monday under a phased easing of restrictions, has also allowed public parks and gardens to reopen. Experts have asked people in the Capital to exercise caution in order to avoid the third wave and remember to follow Covid-19 guidelines strictly to break the chain of transmission.(with inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-records-124-fresh-covid-19-cases-lowest-since-february-16-101624192029294.html
20-06-2021||Delhi||Completion targets of Metro Phase-4 will depend on Covid-19 scenario: DMRC||Delhi Metro Rail Corporation officials have indicated that significant work on Phase-4 corridors was done despite the constraints in construction activity due to the second wave of Coronavirus in the country. So far there is no change in the deadline, but completion targets will depend on the Covid-19 situation in the days to come. “DMRC is currently engaged in the construction of 65 kilometres of new lines across three priority corridors as part of its Phase 4 expansion. These corridors are expected to be completed by 2025. However, given the fact that the Covid-19 scenario is still evolving, the completion targets shall be reviewed accordingly,” said Anuj Dayal, executive director, corporate communications, DMRC.In the past two months, the DMRC has been working with just half the workforce. While a lot of workers left during Holi, others decided to leave after the lockdown was imposed in April. DMRC officials said that their strength at sites came down from over 4,000 to about 2,500. They added that substantial work was done on the three corridors in Phase-4.One of the important construction activities done during lockdown was the tunnelling work between Janakpuri West and Krishna Park Extension on the Janakpuri West – RK Ashram Marg corridor.“We have completed the tunnelling of 500 metres of one of the 2.8 kilometre long twin tunnels. Delhi Metro has also completed the casting of over 50% of tunnel segments in the casting yard. The first of the twin tunnels on this stretch is expected to be completed by September later this year,” said Dayal.On the Majlis Park– Maujpur corridor, construction of piers at the station as well as viaduct locations was carried out. The work on Delhi Metro’s fifth bridge over the river Yamuna, near the Signature Bridge, is also going on as part of this corridor. The Majlis Park-Maujpur corridor is significant, as its completion will complete the entire ring of connectivity on the Pink Line.For the Tughalabad-Aerocity corridor, the casting yard at Panchsheel Park was prepared for casting with installation of all necessary equipment during the lockdown. This corridor will connect the Kashmere Gate– Raja Nahar Singh Violet Line with the Airport Express Line.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/completion-targets-of-metro-phase-4-will-depend-on-covid-19-scenario-dmrc-101624192413235.html
20-06-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka and Maharashtra to share info on interstate water resources||Karnataka and Maharashtra will share information on interstate water resources data on a real-time basis to mitigate floods in both the states. Both the state governments will set up data-sharing platforms for better water management of Krishna river basin and Bhima river.An agreement was signed in Bengaluru on Saturday between chief minister B S Yeddyurappa and water resources minister of Maharashtra, Jayant Patil, as reported by local media Prajavani.Both the states will work towards mitigating the flood situation by managing water flow out of the reservoirs built across the two rivers.The two states will exchange data on the volume of water in reservoirs, the bulk of water flowing in the river course. They will also share data on the rainfall in the catchment area.Both the states have also unanimously agreed to complete the interstate ‘Dudhganga dam project’ in the next two years. The Dudhganga project that will provide both the states surplus water for irrigation, could not be materialised due to several differences.The project line estimate and plan have been prepared by both states and the civil works were yet to begin.A special technical team will be created for effective water sharing between the states. The team will oversee the day-to-day developments in the rivers and water sharing.According to the agreement, Maharashtra will deliver 4tmcft (thousand million cubic feet) water to Karnataka in summer. In lieu of this, Karnataka will deliver water to drought hit areas of Maharashtra in the monsoons.Both the states will jointly fight in the Supreme Court to enact the Brijesh Mishra tribunal's report on water sharing of Krishna river. This report has also been pending due to legal issues.Law and parliamentary affairs minister of Karnataka Basavaraja Bommai hailed the interstate coordination as historic. He said both states will have ministerial and secretary-level talks to level out the differences and work out modalities for a plausible solution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-and-maharashtra-to-share-info-on-interstate-water-resources-101624190679804.html
20-06-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka should approach CWMA for the surplus Cauvery water going in Tamil Nadu: Justice Manjunath||Justice Manjunath, the chairman of Karnataka Boundary and River Conservation Commission advised the Karnataka state government to claim its legal share of Cauvery river water. He advised Yediyurappa to approach the Cauvery water management authority (CWMA) for a concordant solution on equitable distribution of water between the two states.He further counselled that if Tamil Nadu disagrees for an amicable solution to the water sharing problem, then the matter would be resolved through Inter-states water disputes Act of 1956.Justice Manjunath explained that Karnataka has been discharging surplus water for 45 years, except for the year 2016-17 when Tamil Nadu fell short of 50tmcft water. He pointed out that according to the Supreme court order, Karnataka was obliged to release only 177.25tmcft to Tamil Nadu.But Karnataka has released more than double the volume, for 38 years since 1934-35, excluding the average flow of 177-300tmcft water to Tamil Nadu for 8 years. Consequently, Tamil Nadu was getting surplus water to the tune of 396.201tmcft annually, for 38 years at the Biligundlu gauge point.“Even Tamil Nadu admitted in an affidavit to Madras High Court, that in the absence of adequate storage reservoirs, Karnataka was letting more water. The Tamil Nadu government thus, was only trying to utilise it and augment its reserve before it joined the sea.”To which K.L Manjunath reasoned, citing the Supreme court judgement, that a riparian state like Tamil Nadu cannot use surplus water.Justice has urged Karnataka to seek Central government’s help for postponing Tamil Nadu’s Kaveri-Vaigai link canal project, until Karnataka’s rightful share of water is determined.The surplus water could be used by Karnataka for addressing the problems of irrigation and drinking water scarcity, he suggested.Tamil Nadu government has plans to divert the excess water to various reservoirs in Salem district at Edappadi, Omalur, Sankari and Mettur through a network of lined canals”. This was challenged by the farmers of the lower riparian areas of Tamil Nadu at Madras high court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-should-approach-cwma-for-the-surplus-cauvery-water-going-in-tamil-nadu-justice-manjunath-101624190357618.html
20-06-2021||Pune||Jayant Patil, Karnataka CM discuss Almatti dam issue||Jayant Patil, cabinet minister of Maharashtra, met BS Yediyurappa, chief minister of Karnataka, in Bengaluru on Saturday and discussed measures to tackle possible flood situation during the ongoing monsoon season.In a video statement issued after the meeting, Patil mentioned that Karnataka does not have real-time data tracking system for the Almatti dam, which is located near the border of the two states.“In Bengaluru, I met Karnataka CM, their ministers and chief secretary and other officials. We discussed how to keep a check and control the flow of river Krishna and Bhima in the upcoming months in case of flooding, and how to maintain tandem between the two states in that process,” said Patil.“Especially in Maharashtra, a real-time data acquisition system has been installed, however, Karnataka does not have one. They must install it at the earliest, and if this system is put in place, collectively the Almatti dam levels can be controlled dynamically. The water inflow and outflow of the dam according to the rainfall can be controlled, and if we do so, the water discharge and ideal water level maintenance can be achieved. I’m sure today’s meeting will help us overcome any eventuality if flood situation threatens to occur this year,” he said.The discharge of the Almatti dam is a crucial factor in water levels around Sangli, Kolhapur and other border towns.In the 2019 floods, Western Maharashtra saw at least 50 deaths and displacement of thousands of people as the floods raised the water level to unprecedented levels. The Indian Army had to be deployed along with the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) to rescue and provide relief to people stuck due to the floods. In urban areas, the water had crossed above the first floors of the building, submerging the Irwin bridge in Sangli city, and in rural parts, the floods destroyed a maximum number of fields.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/jayant-patil-karnataka-cm-discuss-almatti-dam-issue-101624188574225.html
20-06-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 1,308 new Covid cases, 31 deaths on Saturday||The district reported 1,308 new Covid-19 cases and 31 deaths on Saturday, as per the state health department data.The current progressive count stands at 1,043,024 cases out of which 1,008,732 have recovered, 16,184 deaths have been reported and 18,108 are active cases and the patients are currently in hospital undergoing treatment or are in home isolation.Pune rural reported 842 new cases which took the progressive count to 303,614 cases and with eight more deaths the death toll stood at 5,564.Pune city reported 253 new cases which took the progressive count to 491,183 cases and with 17 deaths on the toll went up to 7,993.Pimpri-Chinchwad reported 213 new cases and the progressive count went up to 248,227 cases and with six more deaths, the toll stood at 2,437.The state meanwhile, reported that 10,373 patients were discharged on Saturday and 5,710,356 patients have been discharged after full recovery till date. The recovery rate in the state is 95.76 per cent.Also, 8,912 new cases and 257 deaths have been reported in the state on Saturday. The case fatality rate in the state is 1.97%.Out of 39,312,920 laboratory samples 5,963,420 have tested positive (15.17 per cent) for Covid-19 until Saturday. Currently, 806,506 people are in home quarantine and 4,695 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-1-308-new-covid-cases-31-deaths-on-saturday-101624188213553.html
20-06-2021||Pune||Pune ZP identifies 406 destinations for tourism development in the district||Zilla parishad (ZP) has identified 406 tourist destinations in Pune district and will chalk out a comprehensive plan for tourism development at the conference to be held on July 3. In a meeting held on Saturday at zilla parishad office, Ajit Pawar, deputy chief minister and Pune guardian minister, instructed officials to identify the spots with tourism potential. Some of the possible places include Indapur-Madanwadi and Bigwan, boating spot and migratory bird watching site Junnar, Manikdoh , Manikdoh dam and leopard care centre, Kusur (Shivneri fort), Ozar (Vignaharta Ganpati, one of the eight Ashtavinayak, Purandar (Mahatma Jyotirao Phule Smarak, Khanwadi), Bhor, Bhatghar backwaters in Narhe. Plan to develop local tourism was initiated by MP Vandana Chavan when she had presented a proposal to start tourism locally within the district to help the locals in generating income. She had presented the plan for Pune district along with Anurag Kashyap, BN College of Architecture, Maharshi Karve Stree Shikshan Samstha, for themes for tourism development like ecology, agrotourism and adventure tourism, religious and spiritual tourism, heritage tourism, art, culture and culinary tourism, medical tourism. MP Supriya Sule, MP Vandana Chavan, MLA Ashok Pawar, MLA Sanjay Jagtap, MLA Sunil Tingre, MLA Sunil Shelke, MLA Chetan Tupe, MLA Siddharth Shirole, MLA Dilip Mohite, divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao, Pune municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar, Pimpri-Chinchwad municipal commissioner Rajesh Patil, PMRDA chief executive officer Suhas Divase, collector Rajesh Deshmukh, ZP chief executive officer (CEO) Ayush Prasad and other officers attended the meet chaired by Pawar. The places of tourist interest include 210 religious places, 34 dams, 24 scenic locations, 18 forts, 18 picnic spots, 13 waterfalls, 12 trekking points, 12 heritage sites, 2 forests and 41 other popular spots. Prasad said, “At the July 3 meet, all stakeholders will draft a “Tourism Development Plan” for Pune district with five-year ideation and perspective plan of 10 years. From the financial year 2022-23 onwards, we shall seek funds from Union, state and other authorities for tourism expenditures based on the plan.” “This kind of sustainable tourism will help benefit locals, getting them back on their feet, as well as help people understand their district better, with many places still to be explored,” said Chavan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-zp-identifies-406-destinations-for-tourism-development-in-the-district-101624188093472.html
20-06-2021||Pune||PCMC blacklists 6 schools for functioning without proper permits||The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) has blacklisted six schools and issued a circular alerting parents to not take admissions in these schools as they don’t have the required permits.These schools include Great Mira English Medium School, Kudalwadi; Master Care English Medium School, Bhosari; Dnyanraj Primary School, Kasarwadi (Marathi medium); Dnyansagar English School, Chikhali; Modern Public School, Rahatani (English medium) and MS School for Kids, Sangvi (English medium).The order issued by PCMC primary education department states that six private schools have continued to function without the authorisation of civic administration. Even after repetitive notices, schools have not taken any steps to take PCMC permit and continued functioning.The orders also state that parents should not take admissions in these schools and If they want to take admission then it will be the responsibility of parents if their children suffer in the academic year.The civic official from the education department who did not wish to be named, said, “Few of these schools have been functioning from the last three years. They have been informed several times about registration, but they did not come forward.”Out of six schools, none of them responded to calls or text messages by HT till the time of going to the press.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pcmc-blacklists-6-schools-for-functioning-without-proper-permits-101624187913008.html
20-06-2021||Pune||NEET: Amid date uncertainty, students left in the dark||The students appearing for the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) this year are again caught up in a fix. With various exams either postponing or getting cancelled, students fear the possibility that the NEET exam may get rescheduled due to the Covid-19 pandemic.As of now, NEET 2021 is scheduled to be conducted on August 1. However, so far the forms for the same are not yet issued. The registration for the same was expected to start from May 1.NEET 2021 will be conducted by National Testing Agency (NTA) for admission to MBBS/BDS courses and other undergraduate medical courses in approved/recognised medical/dental and other colleges/institutes in India.Milind Telawne, a parent of a student who will be appearing for the NEET exam for the second time, said that his daughter is anxious regarding the exams.“Due to the pandemic, there is so much uncertainty around the examinations. In such a case the forms for the same are not available yet. The registration process is long and if it does not start then there is a possibility that the exam may get postponed. My daughter is taking the NEET for the second time. And the uncertainty is harming her morale,” said Telawne.Another student from the Maharashtra State Board, Taranjyot Narula, a student of Class 12 said that first there was an uncertainty regarding the Class 12 board now NEET is an extension of the uncertainty in a students life.“I appeared for Class 10 examination from the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE). And to prepare for NEET, I switched to Maharashtra State Board. This year, the decision to cancel Class 12 by the Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Certificate (MSBSHSE) was delayed. In addition to this, so far the evaluation method for Class 12 is not declared yet,” said Narula.In addition to this, Narula said that it is likely that the NEET exam may get postponed.“There is a delay in registration. So it is likely that the exam may get postponed. I am studying for NEET for the last two years. Those who are attempting this exam for the second time are studying for the past three years. Some people are saying we have got plenty of time to study the paper may be difficult. Some say due to the pandemic, the question paper may be easy. It is very difficult to study with focus due to so much uncertainty,” said Narula.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/neet-amid-date-uncertainty-students-left-in-the-dark-101624187613520.html
20-06-2021||Pune||We can vaccinate 1.5 lakh beneficiaries daily, extend drive to housing societies in Pune if we have enough doses: Ajit Pawar||During the Covid-19 review meet on Saturday, Ajit Pawar, deputy chief minister and Pune district guardian minister, said, that if we have enough vaccine doses the administration can vaccinate about 1.5 lakh beneficiaries every day and extend the ‘vaccine on wheels’ initiative to larger housing societies.While Mumbai has already begun vaccination drive in large housing societies, Pune is yet to start the same. In early March this year, the administration had prepared to vaccinate over one lakh eligible beneficiaries daily which has now been raised to 1.5 lakh beneficiaries daily. However, due to the shortage of vaccines, the administration has not been able to reach its set target.Pawar said, “If we have enough vaccines with us we can vaccinate about 1.5 lakh beneficiaries every day and we could also extend the drive to larger housing societies. Even the administration does not want people to step out as much and crowd the vaccination centres but we await vaccines.”“The chief minister had said that the supply of vaccines would be streamlined by June 21. However, we are yet to receive the stock. Also, along with Pune as per the respective district’s population, we will increase the vaccination drive,” he said.Pawar also announced that a small village in Pune rural, Bahirwadi, in Purandar taluka has become the first village in the country to vaccinate its entire population.Ayush Prasad, chief executive officer, Zilla Parishad, said, “It is a small tribal village located on the foothills of the Purandar fort and the area MLA had tied up with Pune’s Bharati Medical College to vaccinate all eligible beneficiaries. The population is estimated to be about 500 out of which 38- are eligible for Covid-19 vaccination while remaining were children who were also given the influenza vaccine, anticipated to protect against Covid-19 as well.”Pawar, meanwhile, appealed to foreign education bound students and parents of such students to ensure that the students who have been fully vaccinated with Covaxin should not go for the Covishield shot again.He said, “As Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin awaits World Health Organisation (WHO) confirmation, many such students or people who want to travel abroad are asking whether they can get a Covishield dose after completing the Covaxin dosage. It is not recommended by health experts. Bharat biotech is ensuring that they get the approval soon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/we-can-vaccinate-1-5-lakh-beneficiaries-daily-extend-drive-to-housing-societies-in-pune-if-we-have-enough-doses-ajit-pawar-101624187433390.html
20-06-2021||City||Madhya Pradesh gets 94% excess rainfall in June||Bhopal, Jun 20 (PTI) Madhya Pradesh has received 94 per cent more rainfall than average so far since June 1 this year, an official of the India Meteorological Department said on Sunday. The south-west monsoon arrived in east Madhya Pradesh on June 10 – seven days ahead of its schedule -- and covered the entire state by Saturday, G D Mishra, senior meteorologist at the IMD's Bhopal office, told PTI. The state has received 94 per cent more rainfall than normal from June 1 till date, he said. Some parts of MP received heavy rains since the onset of the monsoon, but the state has not recorded extremely heavy showers so far, he said. As per the weather pattern prevailing right now, very heavy rainfall is unlikely in the state for a week, he said. All 20 districts in east MP have so far received more rainfall than normal, while 10 out of total 31 districts in west MP have received below normal downpour, he said. This month, Singrauli in east MP has received 441 per cent more rainfall than normal, while in west MP, Hoshangabad received 211 per cent more showers than normal, he said. Dhar in west MP recorded 69 per cent less rainfall than normal. The moderate showers that lasted for a long period helped farmers to sow their crops, the official said, adding that such rain water seeps into the ground and gets accumulated in reservoirs fast, as against the water from heavy downpour which gets washed away.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/madhya-pradesh-gets-94-excess-rainfall-in-june-101624186467742.html
20-06-2021||Pune||53% Covid deaths registered under less than 45-60 age group: PCMC data||A Covid-19 data analysis conducted by Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) about deaths related to infection shows that 53 per cent of deaths reported in twin cities were under the age group of 60 years.The data analysis was conducted about deaths that were reported in four Covid-19 dedicated hospitals – Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial hospital, Anna Saheb Magar Jumbo Hospital, Aditya Birla Memorial Hospital, Dr DY Patil Medical Hospital during in April and May this year.The analysis report was discussed during the review meeting conducted at Vidhan Bhavan, on Saturday.Ajit Pawar, Pune district guardian minister, said “Youths who are roaming out carelessly need to take norms seriously as the second saw the most number of deaths in the age group below 60 years.”“In the first wave, those above 60 years were most affected. Looking at the trend we are assuming that a possible third wave may hit the lower age group. I don’t want to raise fear among parents. We are preparing for the third wave,” he said.Pawar has ordered civic chief Vikram Kumar to conduct a similar analysis in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits.The positivity rate of PCMC is 5.1 per cent and the administration is undertaking preventive steps ahead of the possible third wave. PCMC administration has started 22 fever clinics, 21 testing centres in 32 wards and child dedicated ward in New Jija Mata Hospital.The analysis also showed that more men succumbed to Covid-19 than women. The trend was the same during the first wave.Also, 43 per cent of deaths occurred among the people who did not have any comorbidities.“The finding shows that even fit people should not have a casual attitude about Covid-19,” said Pawar.The analysis also reported that many deaths occurred due to late admission in the hospital and patients had received no treatment during earlier stages.“The analysis was conducted to bring awareness among the people as many take early symptoms lightly and it should not be the case. The person can be treated for Covid-19 if one consults doctors at the early stage,” said Rajesh Patil, civic chief PCMC.Rajendra Wable, dean of Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial Hospital, said, “In second wave the number of deaths was more in the age group below 60 years, unlike the first wave. People should not have a casual attitude toward earlier symptoms as many become victims of such attitudes in the second wave.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/53-covid-deaths-registered-under-less-than-45-60-age-group-pcmc-data-101624186473504.html
20-06-2021||Pune||Mahabaleshwar, Panchgani reopen for tourists; viewing points to remain close||After almost two months, the administration has allowed the entry of tourists into Mahabaleshwar and Panchgani from Monday (June 21). A negative report is a must, either Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) or RT-PCR Test if one is planning to stay at the hill station, said, officials.However, the administration has decided to keep all the viewing points closed for eight more days.The decision was taken during a meeting conducted at Hirda rest house, Mahabaleshwar, on Friday where representatives of traders and hoteliers were also present.“For tourists who are coming for a one-day visit carrying a negative report is not a must, but if you are planning to stay at a hotel then a negative report is a must. The market will be open from 8am to 4pm. Tourists can roam around the city, but they cannot visit the viewing points. The decision on opening these spots will be taken after eight days,” said Sangita Chougle Rajapurkar, sub-divisional officer, Wai.“Till now all the shops were closed and traders have welcomed the move to keep shops open till 4pm,” added Rajapurkar.The administration has also decided to conduct a rapid antigen test of every visitor at the Dandeghar naka (octroi) check post.“The decision was important for hotel business as in the last 15 months it had suffered a lot. We had presented our standard operating procedures (SOP’s) in a meeting with the administration. Every ten days we will conduct an RT-PCR test for staff and once the vaccines are available to complete staff will be vaccinated,” said Javed Sunesra, president, Panchgani Hotels and Welfare Association.“The positivity rate of the Satara is 8.6 per cent and bed occupancy is 37 per cent so we came under level 3 till last week we were in level 4. We are following all safety and preventive measures. In Mahabaleshwar and Panchgani we will decide on reopening of viewing points after eight days,” said Shekhar Singh, district collector of Satara.The visitors have already started visiting Mahabaleshwar as a decent crowd was noticed at the Venna lake on Saturday.“Today no tests were conducted at the Dandeghar naka (octroi). We will be returning today afternoon,” said, Vishal Gokhale, a resident of Kothrud.Meanwhile, the situation in Lonavla also remains the same for tourists as all sight-seeing destinations remain close.The Bhusi dam has overflowed after three days of heavy rains in Lonavala. The hill station received 400 mm rain in the last three days.15-day quarantine if norms not followed strictly: Ajit PawarIn the review meeting conducted on Friday, representatives from the police have informed the deputy chief minister of Maharashtra Ajit Pawar, about people visiting tourist designations in huge numbers during the weekend.“The administration had said over the weekend huge rush of people were noticed at the places like Lonavla, Khandala, Mahabaleshwar and a queue of vehicles were noticed at Khopoli bypass,” said Pawar, after the conclusion of a review meeting at Vidhan Bhavan, Pune.“Many are travelling out of Pune district for trekking or visiting religious spots or for outings. If such activities continue in large numbers we might have come out with the order of 15 days quarantine for whoever goes out of the Pune district. All need to follow norms and stay safe,” he said.“Although positivity rate is dropping in Pune city, places like Sindhudurg, Ratnagiri, Raigad, Beed, Osmanabad, Kolhapur, even in a few places in Pune district the positivity rate is higher so we have decided to impose weekend restrictions again,” said Pawar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/mahabaleshwar-panchgani-reopen-for-tourists-viewing-points-to-remain-close-101624185573360.html
20-06-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh follows Assam to raise concerns regarding rise in population||Uttar Pradesh Law Commission chairman Aditya Nath Mittal on Sunday expressed concern about the rise in population in the country and spoke about taking steps to control them.“Population is nearing an explosive stage. It is causing other issues too — related to hospitals, foodgrains, houses, or employment. We believe that there should be a check on population. Population control is different from family planning,” Mittal was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Mittal further said that his statements are not targeted towards any community nor does he want to challenge human rights’ of citizens. “We don't want to give a message in Uttar Pradesh that we are against any particular religion or anyone's human rights. We just want to see to it that the government resources and facilities are available to those who are helping in and contributing towards population control,” Mittal further added.Earlier on June 10, Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma also stressed on the need of controlling population to reduce poverty. Sarma asked the stakeholders of the minority community to speak to the members to work towards effective population control measures.“The government is the guardian of all poor people but the government also requires the support of the government in reducing poverty and tackling the issue of population growth, which is the primary cause of poverty, illiteracy and leads to lack of proper family planning,” the chief minister said.The chief minister on Saturday batted for a two-child policy for people using benefits under the government scheme. “If a housing scheme is launched by the state government, the two-child norm can be introduced. Slowly in later stages, the population norm will come in every state government scheme,” Sarma was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-follows-assam-to-raise-concerns-regarding-rise-in-population-101624181925721.html
20-06-2021||Jaipur||Political turmoil in Rajasthan as independents, BSP MLAs join hands against Sachin Pilot camp||The political turmoil in Rajasthan seems to be unending, as the independents and BSP-turned-Congress MLAs have joined hands against the Sachin Pilot camp, which is demanding cabinet expansion and political appointment, HT has learnt.“We stood with the ruling government and still do. In the meeting after discussions with the other independents and six of BSP, who joined Congress, we will pass a proposal reminding the Congress party of their promise,” an independent MLA, considered close to CM Ashok Gehlot, said.Sachin Pilot loyalist Congress MLA: ‘No one is bargaining for posts merely asking for what is due’The six BSP MLAs, who joined Congress in September 2019, are already mounting pressure on the high command claiming that the government was saved because of them during the political crisis last year. Now, the 13 independent MLAs and these six MLAs are jointly holding a meeting on June 23 to claim their stake in the cabinet and the political appointments.The move comes after AICC general secretary and in-charge Rajasthan, Ajay Maken on Friday made a statement that the central party leadership is in touch with former deputy CM Sachin Pilot, who is a star campaigner and asset to the party.Tensions resurface among Pilot camp, CM Gehlot in Rajasthan: ReportThe MLA said that the central leaders camping in Rajasthan assured of accommodating the independents in the cabinet and political appointments within a month. “It has been close to a year but nothing has been done, and now Maken’s statement in favour of Pilot camp has put us all in dilemma,” he said.Another independent MLA, supporting the agenda of the meeting said, “We were there with the Congress in crisis and deserve to be given what was promised. But I have my reservations on inviting BSP MLAs in the meeting as they are now members of the Congress party.”The political turmoil, which started with the MLAs of the Pilot camp hammering the government daily with the demand of cabinet expansion and political appointments, and later with charges of phone tapping and spying, now seems to be turning into Pilot camp versus non-Congress MLAs.Though Maken claims ‘all is well’ in Rajasthan Congress but the war of words between the Pilot's MLAs and the Gehlot camp on media and social media suggests otherwise.Political analyst Manish Godha said the joint meeting looks like a counter to the Pilot faction, though BSP MLAs did come in open recently against the Pilot camp but seems that they are now coming as a bigger front with more numbers. Though the MLAs are independents, most of them are former Congressmen and supporters of Gehlot.He said this new faction is to balance and counter the pressure mounted by the Pilot camp, and also to remind the Congress leadership of their promises made to them during the crisis last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/political-turmoil-in-rajasthan-as-independents-bsp-mlas-join-hands-against-pilot-camp-101624182572885.html
20-06-2021||Other||Farmers protest in Karnal ahead of OP Dhankar’s visit||Ahead of Haryana BJP president OP Dhankar’s visit to Karnal, hundreds of farmers protesting under the banner of Snyukt Kisan Morcha gathered near the event venue in Karnal’s Salaru village, HT has learnt.The farmers claimed that they received the information that Dhankar, sports minister and local MLA will be visiting for this program. “Soon after we got the information about the program, the message was circulated on the social media and the call was given to the farmers to reach in large numbers ahead of the programme to protest the visit,” said Jagdip Singh Aulakh, a local leader of BKU (Charuni).He said the organisers of the blood donation camp had also reached them, urging not to disrupt the programme.“We have told them that we are also ready to donate blood and join this camp if they require but the agitation will continue and we will protest the visit of all ruling party leaders until the agriculture laws are repealed,” he added.As per the available information, Haryana minister of state for sports and youth affairs Sandeep Singh and BJP MLA Ramkumar Kashyap were likely to inaugurate a blood donation camp organised by the Jain temple.The protesting farmers, carrying black flags, said that they were holding this protest on the call of Snyukt Kisan Morcha as they have got instructions to oppose the visit of all leaders of the ruling parties in support of their ongoing agitation against three farm laws.Heavy police deployment has been set up near the venue. Karnal Superintendent of Police Ganga Ram Punia said that as of now they did not have any official communication regarding the timing of the visit but elaborate security arrangements have been made and the cops are keeping a close eye on any development.He said that everybody has a right to protest peacefully but nobody will be allowed to disrupt the and order.Officials from Karnal BJP unit were not available for a comment and said that they didn’t get any information or schedule about Dhankar’s visit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/farmers-protest-in-karnal-ahead-of-op-dhankar-s-visit-101624177352835.html
20-06-2021||Patna||Land sought from air force for instant upgradation of Darbhanga airport||Airport Authority of India said efforts were on to get 2.43 acres of land from the Indian Air Force to upgrade the existing infrastructure at Darbhanga airport in Bihar in the interim while preparation for a wider expansion of a more permanent nature continues.The airport currently functions from an interim terminal building on IAF land measuring 2.3 acres. However, a sharp increase in footfall at the airport--made operational on November 8 last year under Centre’s RCS-UDAN project for building regional air connectivity infrastructure-- has put pressure on the existing facilities resulting in the need for another 2.43 acre of land adjacent to the current terminal building for the purpose of an immediate expansion.A passenger’s footfall data showed that a total of 2,139 flyers in as many as 16 flights travelled to and from Darbhanga airport in a day on Friday, June 19, indicating its popularity as a destination on India’s aviation map.An airport official said on condition of anonymity that a passenger’s shade outside the main airport gate, vehicles access to civil enclave from the main road, a shelter between the main gate and the civil enclave apart from extended parking space are some pressing requirements from the passengers’ point of view that the upgrade was likely to resolve.Apart from SpiceJet, which connected Darbhanga to Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru, Ahmedabad and Kolkata, IndiGo airlines was all set to start flights on Hyderabad and Kolkata routes beginning July 5, which was likely to put more pressure on the existing facilities.Recently, two AAI staff from Gaya airport were brought to Darbhanga to deal with the rising volume of traffic, taking the total to 9 staff members, which was far less than what is required to man the affairs at this airport, an AAI official said. Darbhanga airport director Biplab Kumar Mondal could not be reached for his comments.AAI chairman Sanjiv Kumar said the authority has been seeking 54 acres of land from the Bihar government for construction of a big terminal to house the civil enclave and parking space apart from 24 acres of land for establishing CAT-I precision approach lighting system. It has already prepared a master plan for the expansion. The AAI chairman added that the state government had already identified a suitable chunk of land on the city side near NH-57 and now the required land needs to be allotted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/land-sought-from-air-force-for-instant-upgradation-of-darbhanga-airport-101624176334080.html
20-06-2021||Delhi||Sputnik V rollout delayed in Delhi, hospitals point to supply issues||The rollout of Russia-made Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccine has been delayed. The vaccine was meant to be available at Indraprastha Apollo and Madhukar Rainbow Children's Hospital, but the officials said that supply issue led to the delay."We are expecting (roll out) next week," the spokesperson of Madhukar Rainbow Children's Hospital said. Apollo Hospitals, meanwhile, said the facility will tentatively start administering the two-dose vaccine by June 25.Fortis Healthcare, which had said it would make Sputnik V available at its Gurugram and Mohali hospitals from Saturday, also has not started administering the Russian vaccine so far."The rollout did not happen on Saturday. We expect there will be some clarity on Monday," an official said.Gurugram will be the first district in Haryana to begin the inoculation of Sputnik on a pilot basis. Doses will be initially administered to the hospital staff, according to health officials.Fortis has procured the vaccine directly from Dr Reddy’s Laboratories.Sputnik V is the third vaccine to get emergency use approval from India's drugs regulator DCGI. The other two vaccines are AstraZeneca's Covishield and Bharat Biotech's Covaxin.The Centre has fixed the price of the vaccine at ₹1,145 per dose. The maximum price of Covishield for private Covid-19 Vaccination Centres (CVCs) has been fixed at ₹780 per dose, while that of Covaxin is ₹1,410 per dose.Sputnik V has been developed by Russia's Gamaleya National Research Institute of Epidemiology and Microbiology and its marketing is being handled by Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF).The RDIF said on Thursday that it will offer a booster shot (second dose of Sputnik V) to other vaccine manufacturers. This booster shot, the RDIF said, has been adjusted to work against the Delta Covid-19 variant, which was first detected in India.Hyderabad-based Dr Reddy's Laboratories, the marketing partner for the vaccine in the country, has been importing vials of Sputnik V from Russia. Over a period of time, the vaccine is expected to be manufactured in India.Sputnik V uses two different viruses that cause the common cold (adenovirus) in humans. It employs a different vector for each of the two shots, given 21 days apart.According to Gamaleya and the RDIF, Sputnik V has demonstrated an efficacy rate of 92 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sputnik-v-rollout-delayed-in-delhi-hospitals-point-to-supply-issues-101624175352083.html
20-06-2021||Jaipur||4 cubs born 2-yrs ago to Ranthambore tigress discovered, bring joy||Four tiger cubs were spotted for the first time at Rajasthan’s Ranthambore Tiger Reserve (RTR) on Saturday, taking the big cat population to 69 in the reserve located at Sawai Madhopur. The reserve now has 21 tigers, 30 tigresses and 18 cubs apart from 4 tigers each in Keladevi range and Dholpur range of the reserve.The 4 cubs were spotted on Saturday morning in Aadi dagar naala in Lakkarda region of Kundera range in the reserve by field biologist Hari Mohan Meena, said TC Verma, chief conservator of forest, wildlife and field director of Ranthambore reserve.Verma said the cubs were initially sighted without their mother T-111 but were seen in her company later in the evening. The discovery was even more joyous for forest officials who had suspected for a long time that T-111 had given birth to cubs but couldn’t locate them.The cubs are 2 years old. Presently camera traps are being installed in the tiger reserve for monitoring.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/4-cubs-born-2-yrs-ago-to-ranthambore-tigress-discovered-bring-joy-101624175372564.html
20-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi unlocks: Bars, public parks, gardens allowed to open; DDMA issues order||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Sunday relaxed coronavirus disease (Covid-19) restrictions in the national capital, allowing bars with 50% seating capacity, public parks, gardens, golf clubs, and outdoor yoga activities to operate once again from Monday, according to an official order. The development comes as part of a phased easing of restrictions that were imposed due to the more infectious second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic in Delhi.Also Read: Delhi eases lockdown curbs, bars to operate with 50% capacity; gyms, schools to remain shutBars will be allowed to reopen with 50% seating capacity from 12pm to 10pm from Monday, while owners are responsible for ensuring strict adherence to Covid-19 appropriate behaviour, according to all official guidelines and norms, in their premises.“Public parks, gardens, golf clubs, and outdoor yoga activities will be allowed. Apart from the individual, parks/gardens owning agencies (MCDs, DDA, NDMC, DCB, etc.) as well as the concerned RWA, owners/directors of golf clubs, yoga instructors shall be responsible for ensuring strict compliance of Covid appropriate behaviour,” the order stated.On the occasion of International Yoga Day on Monday, the DDMA has also permitted outdoor yoga activities even as it said that yoga centres will continue to remain shut.Also Read: DDMA allows outdoor yoga activities on International Yoga Day“Bars are allowed up to 50% of the seating capacity from 12 noon to 10 pm. The owners of the restaurants and bars shall be responsible for strict adherence to the prescribed SOPs and all instructions/guidelines issued by GOI/GNCTD from time to time as well as compliance with Covid-19 appropriate behaviour (wearing of masks, maintain social distancing, regular hand washing, use of hand sanitisers etc.) to contain the spread of Covid-19. In case any violation is found, strict penal criminal action shall be taken against the owner of the restaurant/bar,” read the order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-unlocks-bars-public-parks-gardens-allowed-to-open-ddma-issues-order-101624175090720.html
20-06-2021||Delhi||DDMA allows outdoor yoga activities on International Yoga Day||The District Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Sunday permitted outdoor yoga activities even as it said that yoga centres will continue to remain shut.“Public parks, gardens, golf clubs, and outdoor yoga activities will be allowed. Apart from the individual, parks/gardens owning agencies (MCDs, DDA, NDMC, DCB etc.) as well as the concerned RWA, owners/directors of golf clubs, yoga instructors shall be responsible for ensuring strict compliance of Covid appropriate behaviour,” the order stated.Delhi announced a week-long lockdown on April 19. It was then extended every week for a total of 6 weeks.After cases of coronavirus started falling and the positivity rate came to around 1% in the last week of March, a gradual unlock process began, with construction activities and factories allowed to reopen. This was followed by markets and malls on an odd-even basis the week after that. Last week, restaurants at 50% capacity, markets at full capacity were allowed.International Yoga Day is celebrated across the world to highlight the importance of yoga and how it has been beneficial in keeping the body and mind in sound health.According to the United Nations, the theme for this year's International Yoga Day is 'Yoga for well-being', -- how the practice of yoga can promote the holistic health of every individual.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ddma-allows-outdoor-yoga-activities-on-international-yoga-day-101624174936566.html
20-06-2021||Other||‘2 Maoists killed in encounters in Narayanpur district of Bastar region’: Chhattisgarh police||Two Maoists were killed in two different encounters with security forces in Narayanpur district of Bastar region, Chhattisgarh police said on Sunday. Police said that they have recovered two rifles and a huge amount of camping materials from the encounter spots. “On Saturday, based on a specific input about the presence of Maoist cadres of Local Organization Squad and Area Committee Members of Maad division of CPI (Maoist), an operation was launched by the district reserve guard (DRG) Narayanpur,” said Inspector General of Police (IG), Bastar range, Sunderaj P. The first exchange of fire took place between the DRG team near Itul jungles, which comes under Orcha police station of the district. “During the search operation, the dead body of one male Maoist cadre, along with one .303 rifle and a huge amount of camping materials, was recovered from the spot,” the IG said. Police said that the operation continued in the jungles till the evening. “During further search operation near Korawaya jungle, another exchange of fire took place. After the second encounter, another male Maoist cadre’s dead body was found along with a rifle and country-made weapon,” said the IG. The identity of both the Maoists recovered from the spots are yet to be established, he added. Search operations have intensified in the adjoining areas to apprehend other Naxal cadres who fled away from the spot after the encounters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/2-maoists-killed-in-encounters-in-narayanpur-district-of-bastar-region-chhattisgarh-police-101624171892376.html
20-06-2021||Patna||Patna to get 10 public transport stands under smart city project by August||In a bid to organise the chaotic operation of small and medium transport in the city, Patna Smart City Project Limited (PSCPL) has decided to set up intermediate public transport (IPT) stands at 10 congested traffic spots by August.“The number of auto rickshaws and e-rickshaws has increased in recent years. Abrupt breaking for loading and unloading of passengers often causes accidents. Establishment of the IPT stands will make pedestrians and private vehicle commuters’ lives easy,” PSCPL’s public relation officer Harshita said.IPT stands will fix stoppages for small and medium public transport vehicles and end the dangerous and unruly practice of stopping anywhere on the road to pick up passengers, disrupting traffic and also inviting accidents. According to All India Road Transport and Workers Federation, there are around 30,000 auto-rickshaws running in Patna along with 5,000 CNG-driven and battery-operated rickshaws.As per PSPCL, the 10 identified congested spots include the General Post Office (GPO) roundabout, Chiryantand flyover, Planetarium, Veerchand Patel road, Bans Ghat, Gandhi Maidan gate no. 5 and Jamal road.Harshita added that all stands will have shades and seating arrangements for passengers along with basic amenities like dustbins, digital display board and a LED screen. “We are also planning to install CCTV cameras and WiFi facilities in future,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/patna-to-get-10-public-transport-stands-under-smart-city-project-by-august-101624171532666.html
20-06-2021||Mumbai||Thane civic body holds Covid-19 vaccination camp for transgender community||The Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) on Saturday organised a special vaccination camp for the transgender community despite many of them not possessing proper documents for their registration at the Covid-19 vaccination centre.Bhawana, a transgender speaking to ANI said, "We have been battling this pandemic since two years now. We also required vaccination but many of us don't have an Aadhar card. Due to this reason we were not being able to get vaccinated. So we requested Thane administration to organise a separate camp for our community. We are thankful to the Thane Municipal Corporation for organising this camp.""We are very thankful to the administration who have organised this camp. They not only helped us with vaccination, but also in our documentation, They provided us with forms for getting our basic documents prepared. I would urge all the people to not fear vaccination and step forward to get vaccinated because it would save their lives," said Kamini, another transgender community member.Dr Aayaz Sheikh, medical officer at the centre said, "We always wanted to help the selected population which is unable to get vaccinated either due to inadequate documentation or financial restraints. This was the idea of the Mayor and the Municipal Commissioner to organise various camps for the selected population like we organised a camp for the differently-abled on Friday and then this camp for transgenders today."Responding to question that there are over 100 transgenders but only 20-25 have come to participate in the camp, Sheikh said, "There is fear among them regarding its side effects. We have a team who are counselling people. Even after vaccination, we conduct counselling of beneficiaries.""We have organised such a drive for the transgenders because they need special attention, specifically in the time of Covid-19. We want to make sure that everybody gets vaccinated. This is the only vaccination centre where a camp for transgenders has been organised. Our aim is to vaccinate each and everybody in the society," informed Dr Sukesh Thakur, MS, Vaccination centre."Thane Municipal Corporation has come forward with this idea of special vaccination camp for the transgender community. A special Nodal Officer has been appointed to co-ordinate with the community and if they don't have their proper address or identity proof even then they will be considered for vaccination through this Nodal Officer under special category," he added.Meanwhile, Maharashtra recorded 8,912 new coronavirus cases on Saturday, said the state health bulletin. The state recorded 257 deaths due to the virus yesterday. The total Covid-19 case tally in Maharashtra now stands at 59,63,420, while 1,17,356 patients in the state have lost their lives to the pandemic so far.The case recovery rate of Maharashtra now stands at 95.76 per cent while the fatality rate is 1.97 per cent, as per the state health bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/thane-civic-body-holds-covid-19-vaccination-camp-for-transgender-community-101624166197059.html
20-06-2021||Patna||Bihar poll body requisitioning EVMs for panchayat polls likely in October||Almost two months after the deferment of the panchayat polls, the Bihar state election commission (SEC) has started requisitioning electronic voting machines (EVMs) from different states to conduct the rural local body polls tentatively from October onwards. Right now, all panchayats are being run through advisory committees following the expiry of the term of the three tier local bodies on June 15 due to the deferment of the polls-- scheduled to be held in March and April—due to factors like non- availability of EVMs and the second wave of the coronavirus. Officials aware of the developments said the election commission foresees a requirement of 850,000 EVMs for conducting multi-phased polls in about 115,000 booths to fill 250,000 posts in the three tier local bodies and gram kutcheries. The state commission has also got the Election Commission of India’s (ECI) approval to use single post EVMs (M2 model) for the exercise. The M1 and M2 are the older models that are less sophisticated than the latest M3 model.“By our estimate, 850,000 EVMs will be required. The assessment of requirement of EVMs based on the number of booths in each district is being done. Once it is done, we will send our people to get the EVMs from different states across India. It will be completed in the next few months,” said SEC secretary Yogendra Ram. State poll officials said the poll exercise will likely begin from October after the end of the rainy season in September and results will be announced by the end of November or by December. “We are keen to complete the poll exercise by November or early December so that all rural local bodies are constituted, preventing further legal or constitutional complications,” said another SEC officer, seeking anonymity. However, the possibility of a third wave of coronavirus in the coming months had the potential to impede poll preparations. The use of single post EVMs or the M2 model instead of multi post EVMs also presents challenges such as requirement of large space inside the booths to keep the voting machines and longer time taken to cast each vote. “Six EVMs and six control units have to be placed in each booth on an average. If the candidates are more than 15, two sets of EVMs have to be used. This will consume large space in polling stations. Besides, voters would take at least two to three minutes to cast each vote. In that case, the voting percentage will be less because large crowds will not be allowed to gather at booths due to Covid-19 containment protocols,” said one poll body officer. However, SEC officials added that preparations were in full swing and all logistical problems will be sorted out in time. There is a chance that the panchayat polls could be held in more than 10 phases in case the poll panel does not get as many EVMs as required, said the secretary, SEC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-poll-body-requisitioning-evms-for-panchayat-polls-likely-in-october-101624167272290.html
20-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai mega block today: Check local train lines where services are disrupted||The Central Railway is observing a mega block on some local train lines of the Mumbai suburban network on Sunday to carry out maintenance work.The Central Railway has been giving update on its Twitter handle about the service disruption on various lines of Mumbai local trains. It has clarified that the mega block won't be observed on the main line.The maintenance work is being carried out on harbour and trans-harbour lines, according to Central Railway.Mega Block on 20.6.2021 pic.twitter.com/nlYhh2WmuQHere is the scheduled of mega block and lines which are affected by it:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-mega-block-today-check-local-train-lines-where-services-are-disrupted-101624166782576.html
20-06-2021||Kolkata||West Bengal aims to 'reverse' gender ratio, allot more Covid beds for women ahead of third wave||The West Bengal government is planning to allot more hospital beds for women as it prepares to deal with the possible third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, a senior health official said on Sunday.The state is planning to reverse the gender ratio in the 26,000 Covid-19 beds at state-run and private hospitals, director of health services Ajay Chakraborty told PTI."The gender ratio for Covid-19 beds in West Bengal at present is around 60:40 for males. We are planning to reverse this by reducing the number of beds for male patients and increasing those for the females and make it 40:60," he said.The plan is being formulated to cope up with a possible increase in the demand for beds for children during the third wave, Chakraborty said."The new Covid-19 variant (Delta) is affecting all in a family. So, there will be high possibilities of children getting infected as well as their mothers. We have planned to keep them together even in case the mothers are negative or they have recovered," he said.The government is consulting health experts to chalk out the plan, the official said."We have set a September deadline to be battle-ready for the possible third wave," he added."The admission rate of children was much less compared to the adults since the outbreak of the pandemic. But, it went up during the second wave and going by the warnings of the doctors and scientists, we presume that it will go up by two-fold in the coming months," Chakraborty said.In view of this, the state government has decided to reserve at least 5 per cent of the critical care unit beds and another 10 per cent of the high dependency unit (HDU) beds, he said.Chakraborty said the health department is planning to scale up paediatric intensive care unit (PICU) beds to 500 and HDU beds to 1,000.Six new PICUs are being set up in Jalpaiguri, Cooch Behar, North Dinajpur, Purulia, Rampurhat and Diamond Harbour, he said.For infants, aged below a month, the Health Department has decided to set up Covid-19 beds at 68 special newborn care units (SNCUs) and newborn intensive care units (NICUs) in different parts of the state, he said.The Health Department is also planning to procure paediatric oximeters and send paediatricians and nurses of the SNCUs and NICUs to different facilities to train healthcare workers, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/west-bengal-aims-to-reverse-gender-ratio-allot-more-covid-beds-for-women-ahead-of-third-wave-101624165416455.html
20-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi Police to set up committees to combat 3rd wave of Covid-19||With a strong possibility of the emergence of a third wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic in the country, Delhi Police commissioner SN Shrivastava on Saturday announced the formation of district and thana-level committees for public healthcare management in order to prevent the wave in the national capital.According to a release issued by the Delhi Police, Shrivastava said on Saturday these committees will provide professional response to various situations which arise out of public health emergencies, movement of migrant workers, care for senior citizens, women and the destitute, food and ration for the needy and maintaining essential supplies.Also Read| Capital to prep for 45k+ daily cases, says new state government reportSrivastava added that one of the important objectives of these committees will be working towards public acceptance of Covid-appropriate behaviour and placing measures for systemic and voluntary adoption with a view to minimise the need for coercive enforcement.He pointed out that adherence to Covid-19 rules is voluntary, but it is also the duty of every citizen which cannot always be achieved through challans. “Police are to prosecute the violations which should be the minimum occurrence and not a norm,” the Delhi Police commissioner further said.Delhi has recorded 1,432,168 cases and 24,907 deaths due to the Covid-19 disease till now. On Saturday, the national capital saw 135 new cases and seven more deaths, according to the health department’s bulletin. This is the second time this week that the daily infections were below 150. The total recoveries have climbed to 1,404,889 while the active cases have come down to 2,372.Also Read| Delhi reports less than 150 new Covid-19 cases second time this weekChief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday held a meeting with lieutenant governor Anil Baijal regarding the action plan and road map for the third wave of the pandemic. Kejriwal told Baijal that his Aam Aadmi Party (AAP)-led government was preparing on a war footing to combat the wave, keeping in mind the worst case scenario of 45,000 Covid-19 cases on a daily basis.The government’s action plan comprises a state-level task force, more health care staff and also a special task force for treating children, who are most prone to the viral disease in the third wave. During Friday’s meeting, Kejriwal also gave details about the installation of cryogenic bottling plants, liquid medical oxygen storage plants and pressure swing adsorption (PSA) plants in multiple areas. The Delhi government will also train 5,000 youths to assist doctors and nurses on Covid-19 duty.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-police-to-set-up-committees-to-combat-3rd-wave-of-covid19-101624164883128.html
20-06-2021||Lucknow||UP govt relaxes night curfew by 2 hours from Monday||The Uttar Pradesh government has relaxed the night curfew by two hours from June 21, allowing opening of shops, malls and restaurants till 9 pm on weekdays.Saturday and Sunday will be weekly holidays, said the order issued by Chief Secretary R K Tiwari.According to the order, from Monday (June 21), the night curfew hours will be from 9 pm to 7 am.Earlier, the night curfew was imposed from 7 pm to 7 am.Various activities, including the opening of markets outside the containment zones, full attendance in government offices, opening of eateries with 50 per cent capacity and malls will be allowed.During marriages and other functions, a maximum of 50 people will be allowed at both open and closed venues and only 50 people will be allowed in a religious place at a time, the guidelines said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-govt-relaxes-night-curfew-by-2-hours-from-monday-101624157027488.html
20-06-2021||Patna||AIMIM demands 'special package' under Article 371 for Bihar's Seemanchal region||The Bihar Unit of the All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) has demanded a 'special package' under Article 371 of the Constitution for the Seemanchal region of Bihar.As per a statement, AIMIM president Asaduddin Owaisi will lead a delegation of the party and meet Union Ministers during the upcoming parliament monsoon session and represent other issues relating to Seemanchal.These include the setting up of a Patna High Court Bench in Purnia, the establishment of an Aligarh Muslim University centre in Kishangunj, Railways issues relating to Seemanchal Region especially Araria - Galgalia Railway project, and construction of New Airport in Purnia.During the virtual meeting, Owaisi also reviewed relief work taken up by party legislators during the Covid-19 pandemic and instructed units to reach out to the needy people.Owaisi also urged legislators to stress on providing proper MSP for farm produce especially for Maize and proper arrangements from the government to watermelon, banana, tea growers and providing better support to tea labourers and represent district authorities on flood control measures.Further, he instructed the strengthening of the party's political activities and organisation of district-wise and booth-level meetings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/aimim-demands-special-package-under-article-371-for-bihar-s-seemanchal-region-101624157046128.html
20-06-2021||Kolkata||Trinamool's Jayanta Naskar, MLA from Gosaba, dies after testing negative for Covid-19||Trinamool Congress MLA Jayanta Naskar, who had tested positive for Covid-19 in May, died at a hospital in Kolkata on Saturday, a health department official said. The 73-year-old legislator, however, had tested negative for the disease on Friday, a doctor of the medical facility said. The three-time MLA from Gosaba breathed his last at 8.20pm, he said.Naskar had tested positive for Covid-19 soon after the announcement of the assembly election results on May 2, the official said. The Gosaba MLA was initially treated at the state-run MR Bangur Hospital and shifted to the private medical facility a few days back, the official said, adding that he had comorbidities."Naskar tested negative for Covid-19 on Friday. But prolonged illness caused damage to his lung," the senior doctor of the private hospital told PTI.West Bengal chief minister and Trinamool Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee condoled the demise of Naskar. "Heartfelt condolences to the family & supporters of Jayanta Naskar. Deeply pained at this colossal loss. As a 3- time MLA from Gosaba, he had dedicated his life towards serving people and was always with us through our many struggles. He will be remembered dearly," Banerjee said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/trinamools-jayanta-naskar-mla-from-gosaba-dies-after-testing-negative-for-covid19-101624154681698.html
20-06-2021||Dehradun||Covid-19: No holy dip on Ganga Dussehra in Haridwar; district borders sealed||The celebrations for Ganga Dussehra festival, where the devotees take a dip in the holy Ganga river, have been cancelled in Haridwar in view of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, the police said. According to the police, the district borders will be sealed on Sunday and devotees coming from other states will not be allowed."After meeting with the officials of Shri Ganga Sabha including various religious institutions in Haridwar, it has been decided that Ganga Dussehra will be celebrated in a symbolic way," Superintendent of Police (SP), City of Haridwar Kamlesh Upadhyaya was quoted as saying by news agency ANI on Saturday.He urged the people to celebrate Ganga Dussehra at their houses and follow the standard oeprating precedures (SoPs) issued by the authorities. "Legal action will be taken against those who would not follow the guidelines issued for Covid-19 under the Disaster Management Act," said the top police official.Ganga Dussehra is celebrated on the tenth day (Dashami) of the waxing phase of the moon (Shukla Paksha) in the Hindu month Jyeshtha, which also marks the day when Goddess Ganga is believed to have descended from the heavens to Earth. The festival starts a day before Nirjala Ekadashi and goes on for a period of 10 days. Devotees worship the Goddess during this period. It is also known as Gangavataran.According to Hindu mythology, Goddess Ganga descended to the Earth on Dashami tithi of Jyeshtha month to free the souls of Bhagiratha’s ancestors from a curse. Thus, Ganga Dussehra falls in the month of Jyeshtha, during the Shukla Paksha or the full moon fortnight. Devotees believe that taking a dip in the river on this day will get them rid of their sins and also heal any physical ailments.It is believed to be an auspicious day for Griha Pravesh (housewarming) and buying expensive things like vehicles or starting new businesses. Every year, hundreds of devotees participate do Ganga Snan and participate in Ganga Aarti.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/covid19-no-holy-dip-on-ganga-dussehra-in-haridwar-district-borders-sealed-101624148883930.html
20-06-2021||Delhi||Water supply in Delhi to be affected today in these areas||The water supply to several areas in the national capital will be affected due to rise in ammonia pollution and algae in Yamuna river, according to Delhi Jal Board (DJB). The board said that this will hamper water production at its Wazirabad, Chandrawal and Okhla plants.“Due to increase in the Ammonia pollution and high algae in Yamuna River, water production has been curtailed from Water Treatment plants at Wazirabad, Chandrawal and Okhla and water supply shall be affected in the morning and evening of June 20, 2021, in the following areas and so on till the ammonia level in river reduces to treatable limit,” the DJB said in a release on Saturday.It has advised people to make judicious use of water and said that water tankers shall be available on demand in certain areas.According to the DJB, the areas that will be affected are Civil lines, Hindu Rao Hospital and adjoining areas, Kamla Nagar, Shakti Nagar and adjoining areas Karol Bagh, Pahar Ganj and NDMC areas Old and New Rajinder Nagar, Patel Nagar (East and West), Baljeet Nagar, Prem Nagar, Inderpuri and adjoining areas, Kalkaji, Govindpuri, Tugalkabad, Sangam Vihar, Ambedkar Nagar. Prahladpur and adjoining area, Ramleela Ground, Delhi Gate, Subhash Park, Model Town, Gulabi Bagh, Punjabi Bagh, Jahangirpuri, Moolchand, South Extension, Greater Kailash, Burari and adjoining areas, parts of Cantonment areas and South Delhi.Last month too, the water supply to parts of Delhi was affected twice - due to turbidity in raw water from Upper Ganga Canal and Haryana releasing less water into the Yamuna.The areas affected on May 12 due to high turbidity were Saket, Pushp Vihar, Katwaria Sarai, Lado Sarai, Khirki, Saidulajab, Gokulpuri, Sonia Vihar, Karawal Nagar, Babarpur, Tahirpur, Dilshad Garden, Nandnagari, Shahdara, Laxmi Nagar, Geeta Colony, Mayur Vihar, Kondli, Dallupura, Yamuna Vihar, Karawal Nagar, Jafrabad, Jhilmil, Mandawali, Laxmi Nagar, Shakarpur, Vivek Vihar, Karkardooma, Jagatpuri, Shalimar Park, Krishna Nagar,Patparganj, Preet Vihar, Vishwakarma Park, Lalita Park, Seelampur, Shastripark, Bhrampuri, Gandhi Nagar, Sarai Kale Khan, Okhla, Kalkaji, Batla House Ext., Kalindi Colony, Badarpur, Sarita Vihar, Vasant Kunj, Mehrauli, Greater Kailash, South Extn., Lajpat Nagar, Jal Vihar, Lodhi Road and Kaka Nagar.On May 6, DJB vice-chairman Raghav Chadha said that the supply from Wazirabad, Chandrawal and Okhla water treatment plants was hit due to a reduction in the release of raw water into Yamuna river by Haryana, which has consequently pulled down the water level at Wazirabad pond.Water supply to parts of central Delhi, north Delhi, south Delhi, west Delhi and Cantonment areas was affected for three days due to it.On average, the DJB supplies 900 MGD (million gallons daily) water, with demand peaking at 1,100 MGD in summer months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/water-supply-in-delhi-to-be-affected-today-in-these-areas-101624147046693.html
20-06-2021||Lucknow||Now, absconder linked to Ayodhya temple land deal||Controversy continues to hound the land dealings of the Ran Janmabhoomi Trust, with Harish Pathak, who (along with his family) sold 1.2 hectcres to Sultan Ansari and Ravi Mohan Tiwari for ₹2 crore on March 18 (which the buyers promptly sold to the trust for ₹18.5 crore), and another 1 hectare directly to the trust for ₹8 crore turning out to be a certified absconder.In other words, the seller who executed land deals with the trust that have since become controversial has evaded the law by simply dropping off the map — since 2016.Harish Pathak is wanted in several cases related to a company they promoted, Saket Goat farming, which is alleged to have cheated investors of around ₹50 crore.Babu Ram Shukla of Gonda district, one of the investors, lodged an FIR at Cantonment police station, Ayodhya, on April 9, 2016.In this FIR, managing director of the company Pratap Narain Pandey, chairman Harish Pathak and partner Firoz Alam were named.The police arrested Firoz Alam but Harish Pathak and Pratap Narain Pandey were declared absconders.They filed the charge sheet in court on September 18, 2018. following which a bailable warrant was issued for Pathak.On this chargesheet, additional chief judicial magistrate (first) on December 15, 2018, issued a bailable warrant against Pathak and Pandey. When they could not be arrested, the same court issued non-bailable warrant against them on January 17, 2019.Finally, on February 28, 2019, the court issued a showcause notice to station officer, Cantonment police station, Ayodhya for failure to arrest Pathak.Sub inspector Manoj Kumar Singh, investigating officer of the case, declared both of them absconders.Mahant Dharam Das, who has raised a question mark on land purchase deal of the Trust, has demanded action against Harish Pathak.“When Harish Pathak has been declared an absconder by the court then how come he is openly executing registry of land with the Trust? He should be arrested immediately,” said Mahant Dharam Das.Other saints of Ayodhya are also demanding action against Pathak.Former Samajwadi Party MLA from Ayodhya, Tej Narayan Pandey, and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh have alleged corruption in a land deal by the Ram Janmabhoomi Trust for the temple in Ayodhya. They have alleged that on March 18 this year, on March 18, Kusum Pathak sold the plot for ₹2 crore to Ansari and Ravi Tewari, who then sold the land to the trust for ₹18.5 crore 10 minutes later. The trust has rejected the allegations, stating that land for the temple was purchased at rates lower than market prices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/now-absconder-linked-to-ayodhya-temple-land-deal-101624143802109.html
20-06-2021||Delhi||Three held in Delhi for smuggling hashish||A 28-year-old man from south Delhi was arrested along with two others for allegedly smuggling hashish from Malana village in Himachal Pradesh, police said on Saturday.Ridhm Rana (28), a resident of Kalkaji, was arrested along with his accomplices Sarvesh Chaudhary (27) and Rakesh Kumar (36) from Vasant Kunj on June 12.Police said Rana sold the smuggled contraband for prices between ₹10,000-15,000 for 10 grams in the “posh areas of Delhi”.B K Singh, joint commissioner of crime branch, said police had received a tip off about a “Malana module” of illegal drugs making inroads into the national capital.On June 12, police laid a trap near Fortis Flt Lt Rajan Dhall hospital in Vasant Kunj and intercepted Rana and Chaudhary, who were receiving the smuggled contraband from Kumar.“We recovered 1,206gm of fine-quality hashish (Malana cream) from their possession,” said Singh.Singh said Rana, who hails from a business family, had allegedly started smuggling “Malana cream” to make money as he was struggling to pay for his drug habit. Chaudhary too joined him in the illegal activity.“The two men had met while studying engineering at a college in Faridabad. Kumar, a truck driver, helped transport the drug after procuring it from Rana’s contact in Malana village,” the officer added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/three-held-in-delhi-for-smuggling-hashish-101624141503028.html
20-06-2021||Patna||67-yr-old woman administered two jabs of different vaccines in Bihar||A 67-year-old woman, who was given a shot each of Covaxin and Covishied in a short interval of time at a vaccination camp in Bihar recently, was doing fine, said the health department on Saturday.On June 16, Sunila Devi, wife of Ravindra Mahto, was administered shots of the two vaccines in a space of five minutes at the Utkramit Vidyalaya, a rural camp in Patna district’s Beldarichak village.“My grandmother first stood in the queue meant for her age group and was administered Covaxin. After taking the jab, the auxiliary nursing midwife (ANM) asked her to sit on a chair. After five minutes, another ANM, giving shots to the 18-45 years age group, administered her a dose of Covishield. My grandmother did not know that the two shots should not be taken on the same day,” said Akash Kumar, Devi’s grandson, adding that Devi was running a high fever till Friday.Akash also claimed that the two queues for vaccinating the 18-45 years age group and those above 45 years of age were held in one room. “The doctors are enquiring only over the phone. We got medicines for the high fever my grandmother had till yesterday, but she’s feeling weak today,” he added.Manoj Kumar, executive director, State Health Society, has assured action against the guilty. “We have issued show-cause notices to our officials and expect their response on Monday. We will definitely take action against the guilty because we had specifically instructed officials not to have two different vaccines at one session site to avoid mixing of vaccines.”The camp was headed by Dr Sanjay Kumar, medical officer-in-charge of the Punpun primary health centre.The State Health Society, Bihar, meanwhile, tweeted on Saturday night that the woman is doing fine right now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/67yrold-woman-administered-two-jabs-of-different-vaccines-in-bihar-101624141143566.html
20-06-2021||Delhi||13 injured in cylinder blast in outer Delhi||Thirteen people suffered burn injuries in a cylinder blast in outer Delhi’s Mangolpuri, police said on Sunday.Police said while most of the injured were rushed to the Sanjay Gandhi hospital, four people, who suffered major burns, were taken to Safdarjung hospital.Police said five more people were also shifted to Safdarjung hospital later.According to police, residents of Mangolpuri’s N-block heard a loud sound and saw a house on fire, following which they received a distress call about the cylinder blast around around 6.30pm.“The police team from Mangolpuri and two fire tenders were rushed to the spot. The house belongs to a man named Ganesh and his wife Savitri. They were reportedly changing the gas cylinder when it burst. Preliminary enquiry suggests gas leaked while changing the gas cylinder, which caused the blast,” said deputy commissioner of police (outer) Parvinder Singh.He added that all the injured persons lived in the same N-block neighbourhood. “They lived in 25 square yard houses in the area,” said DCP Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/13-injured-in-cylinder-blast-in-outer-delhi-101624140845357.html
20-06-2021||Kolkata||TMC: Jagdeep Dhankhar trying to malign people of Bengal||The Trinamool Congress on Saturday said that West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar was trying to malign the people of the state for voting their party to power by raising the post-poll violence issue in Delhi and demanded that he should be removed from his post.TMC chief whip in the Rajya Sabha, Sukhendu Sekhar Roy, also alleged that it is a deep-rooted political conspiracy that Dhankhar is exaggerating “stray incidents” as post-poll violence and meeting Union Home Minister Amit Shah and other central leaders in Delhi.Dhankhar met Shah twice, on Thursday and on Saturday.“The governor has been making rounds in Delhi durbar of Shah. This is his effort to malign the state and its people who have elected Mamata Banerjee,” Roy told reporters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/tmc-jagdeep-dhankhar-trying-to-malign-people-of-bengal-101624140088724.html
20-06-2021||Delhi||Curb Covid complacency, orders Arvind Kejriwal||A day after the Delhi high court observed that Covid-19 protocols are rampantly being flouted in markets across the national capital, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s office on Saturday directed the authorities concerned to follow the “strictest measures” to ensure adherence of the rules laid down by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority.“Instructions have been given to follow the strictest measures against those flouting norms. It is in the welfare of our own people that Covid norms are followed by all means,” said a government spokesperson.Following the instructions, the Delhi Police on Saturday formed committees in every police station to conduct localised campaigns on wearing masks, social distancing and hand hygiene.The step follows a a meeting held on Saturday by Delhi Police chief SN Shrivastava who directed all district deputy commissioners of police (DCPs) to take the help of market and residents’ welfare associations.An order, a copy of which HT has seen, was also issued on Saturday for the formation of police station and district level committees chaired by the district DCP.It will include health professionals, notable residents under the police station limits, NGOs, and representatives of public lodging facilities in the area, in addition to members of residents’ and market welfare associationsDCP Chinmoy Biswal said, “The police chief asked the field officers to enlist the cooperation of citizens... noting that it is not possible to ensure 100% compliance only though coercive challans. Covid compliance can be ensured only when citizens voluntarily observe it. Prosecuting people for violations should be the exception, not the norm,” he said.The functioning of the committees will be monitored by a Public Health Management Cell, headed by a special commissioner of police at the police headquarters.Similarly, Delhi government officials said they have also ramped up enforcement while keeping up with the strategy of testing, tracking and treatment of Covid-19 cases.In the past six days, district administrations have collectively issued 4,673 challans on an average every day. Till 5pm on Saturday, 2,280 challans were issued.Records showed that so far, 20,702,001 samples have been tested which translates to 1,089,579 Covid-19 tests per million population.“Under the leadership of CM Arvind Kejriwal, the Delhi government is persistently working on a war footing and preparing an extensive road map to curb the effects of an impending third wave,” said the government spokesperson.Traders say working with policeMeanwhile, traders across the city said they are working with police to ensure compliance, adding that shoppers also need to cooperate to prevent the spread. Rakesh Kumar Yadav, president of the Federation of Sadar Bazaar Traders Association, said they surveyed the market in the presence of police to check compliance. “We have asked shopkeepers to ensure that there is no crowding. They are also handing out masks to people without one. We are also encouraging both shopkeepers and visitors to get vaccinated,” said Yadav.In Sarojini Nagar, police used drones to monitor those who were moving without masks and, using the attached loudspeakers, warned people of fines. Ashok Randhawa, president of the Sarojini Nagar Mini Market Traders’ Association, said both police and volunteers appointed by the association were keeping an eye on the enforcement of protocols.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/curb-covid-complacency-orders-arvind-kejriwal-101624138008107.html
20-06-2021||Delhi||Driving drunk, cop rams cab on Barapullah; 35-yr-old driver killed||A 35-year-old cab driver died when his vehicle was hit from the rear by a speeding car allegedly driven by a drunk police constable on the Barapullah elevated corridor on Friday night, police said. The constable has been arrested and a medical examination has shown alcohol in his blood, investigators said on Saturday.The accident was reported to the police around 10.40pm by eyewitnesses.Police said cab driver Prem Pal was driving his Swift Dzire car towards Sarai Kale Khan when an allegedly speeding Mahindra KUV 100 being driven by constable Mohit Bhardwaj rammed it from behind. Pal was not carrying any passengers at the time of the accident.The impact of the crash was such that the rear portion of the Dzire car was completely damaged. Pal suffered critical injuries in his head and chest. A police team rushed Pal to a nearby hospital but the doctors declared him dead on arrival. Police said Pal was a resident of Agra, and it was not known where he was headed when the accident took place. Officers said his brother, who lives in Jaipur, was informed about the incident.Deputy commissioner of police (southeast) RP Meena confirmed Bhardwaj (35) was drunk at the time of the incident. Bhardwaj is posted in the motor transport unit of the Delhi police’s north district. “At the time of the accident, he was returning to his home in Greater Noida’s Jewar. He too suffered minor injuries in the crash. He has been arrested and a case has been registered,” DCP Meena said.Police said Bhardwaj has been serving in the police since 2009. His father is a sub-inspector in the force.Investigators said Bhardwaj confessed to have had two pegs before leaving for home. His medical examination showed an alcohol level of 63 mg per 100 ml. In India, motorists are not allowed to drive if the alcohol content is found to be over 30ml per 100ml of blood.The accident also led to a traffic snarl on the busy road corridor that connects Sarai Kale Khan with AIIMS.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/driving-drunk-cop-rams-cab-on-barapullah-35-yr-old-driver-killed-101624137613339.html
20-06-2021||Delhi||295k doses available for 18-44 age group: Atishi||With Delhi receiving fresh stock of 167,000 Covishield doses for people in the 18-44 age group, the total vaccines available for the group has now gone up to 295,000, senior AAP leader and MLA Atishi said on Saturday.Presenting the Delhi government’s daily vaccination bulletin, the MLA from Kalkaji said Delhi now has 258,000 doses of Covishield and 37,000 doses of Covaxin available for the 18-44 age group.“We have seen that the speed of the vaccination drive goes up with the availability of vaccines for the 18-44 age group, and goes down as soon as the centres are on the verge of running out of stock. Here, we are happy to share that Delhi on Friday received 167,000 Covishield doses for the 18-44 age group,” said Atishi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/295k-doses-available-for-18-44-age-group-atishi-101624137330332.html
20-06-2021||Delhi||₹1 crore compensation each to kin of six who died on duty||Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Saturday announced that the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government will provide ex gratia of ₹1 crore to the families of six security forces personnel who lost their lives in the line of duty.“The Delhi government respects and honours the bravery of every soldier in uniform. Honouring the bravery of our personnel, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal initiated this ex-gratia compensation scheme to honour security personnels who risk their lives to protect our nation. Although we cannot compensate for the huge loss every family has to bear, we can, at the very least, pay our respect and ensure the families of these personnel live a life of dignity,” said Sisodia while addressing a digital press briefing.Of the six, three were Indian Air Force (IAF) personnel, two from Delhi Police personnel and one from civil defence.Squadron leader Meet Kumar, who died in a MiG 21 crash in Himachal Pradesh and Flight Lieutenant Sunit Mohanty whose plane crashed in Jorhat, Assam are among the air force personnel whose families will receive the compensation.Among the police personnel, assistant commissioner of police Satish Kaushik — who was run over by a truck at Rajokri flyover — has been chosen for the ex-gratia relief.The family of civil defence volunteer Pravesh Kumar, who was run over by a truck when he was deployed on the Mangolpuri flyover, will also receive the ₹1 crore compensation, the deputy chief minister announced||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/1-crore-compensation-each-to-kin-of-six-who-died-on-duty-101624136962275.html
20-06-2021||Chandigarh||Wildbuzz: The timid kakar||Jungle lore has it that the rarely seen barking deer or ‘kakar’ is an inordinately timid creature. Taking to its heels at the slightest sign of danger or a perceived threat, perhaps, accounts for its survival in a jungle where poachers particularly savour its flesh and natural predators such as leopards are forever on the prowl. Fascinating evidence of the Kakar’s jittery nerves comes from a camera trap installed at an artificial waterhole atop a Shivaliks ridge at Karaundiawallah village, Mohali. The camera was placed by Chandigarh-based farmer and orchardist Narbir S Kahlon, a member of the state wildlife advisory boards of Chandigarh and Punjab.The kakars, including a pregnant female, come regularly to Kahlon’s water hole. Night-time footage revealed that one of the kakars jumped back in fright when nearing the water. On closer examination of the footage, it transpired that the kakar had been rattled by a creature many, many times smaller in size: an Indian bullfrog! The pugnacious bullfrog, perhaps wary of the kakar drinking up the water in which the amphibian was dwelling, jumped to the edge of the water, squarely faced the approaching kakar and snorted loudly. The nervous kakar swallowed its pride and thirst and slunk away leaving the David-like bullfrog not only dominant over the precious pool but possibly also chuckling at having impelled the Goliath to beat an unceremonious retreat!“Footage further revealed that the kakar would not dare drink water even when a peacock was quenching its thirst at the water point that the deer was habituated to. The kakar would retreat and return only after the peacock had departed,” Kahlon told this writer.Apart from umpteen birds, insects, bees and moths, sambars, porcupines and an Asian palm civet regularly drink water from Kahlon’s benevolent provision. What has thrown a spanner in the works is that, on Friday night, thieves filched the US-made camera trap recording the valuable proceedings at the water hole. “I will not give up. I will either track down the thieves or buy a new camera trap and install safeguards against theft,” said Kahlon. The mini-leopardNarbir S Kahlon has suffered just the first of his expensive camera traps being burgled. Imagine the plight of eminent zoologist, Rajiv S Kalsi, who has lost 24 camera traps (priced at ₹28,000 each) to such thefts at the Kalesar National Park (KNP),Yamunanagar, Haryana. The burglars included rifle-wielding poachers apprehensive about their nefarious nocturnal activities being caught on these stand-alone cameras. But the positive news is that Kalsi was not thwarted in his research effort by these thefts. The camera traps that escaped the burglars’ attention managed to record the hitherto unknown existence of the leopard cat at the KNP. A rare creature of north India, records of this species are scanty. Even at the iconic, sprawling Corbett National Park, this small but gorgeous cat is but rarely recorded. “As for the KNP, there were no previous records of the species until my camera traps captured three specimens at night. The reason for KNP records drawing a blank is that firstly, no one had conducted a techno-savvy research on the lesser cats here; secondly, lesser cats are small and inconspicuous, secretive and get active deep into the night. So, their presence can easily be missed by the human eye. However, camera traps finally unearthed them. The leopard cat can be described as a mini-leopard as it is an ace hunter of jungle rodents and a crucial species in the predator hierarchy,” Kalsi told this writer.The species was discovered during the course of a two-year research (2018-20) titled ‘Spatial ecology and prey base of lesser cats’, funded by the Government of India’s department of science and technology. Conducted by Kalsi — an author, associate professor and zoology head at MLN College, Yamunanagar — the research revealed the presence of four species at KNP — the leopard cat, rusty-spotted cat, jungle cat and Asiatic wildcat. The first two did not exist in the KNP records till Kalsi’s intrepid cameras nailed them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/wildbuzz-the-timid-kakar-101624136731597.html
20-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi government announces policy to support kids in distress||In a first, the Delhi government on Friday issued the standard operating procedure (SOP) for family-based sponsorship of children who have either lost their parents or their guardians are not in a position to support them financially. Delhi has now formally opened the system of child foster care or sponsorship, which was pending for nearly six years despite it being mandated under the Juvenile Justice (Care & Protection of Children) Act, 2015.The new “guidelines for family-based sponsorship in Delhi” will also allow corporates (under Corporate Social Responsibility) and individuals to sponsor for the education, health, and basic sustenance of children through a proper government channel. Till now, such activities were limited to a few NGOs, which also meant that the Delhi government was neither able to maintain a proper database of children receiving such help nor were they able to track the all-round development of the children.The state department of Women and Children Development (WCD), along with the Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights (DCPCR) and other experts, has formulated the guidelines to provide supplementary support, financial or otherwise, to the families to meet the medical, educational and developmental needs of the children who are either orphaned and living with their extended family, or their parents are incapable of providing for them. Children up to the age of 18 years will be eligible to receive family-based sponsorship.The sponsorship programme has been notified in the backdrop of several children losing either both parents or at least one parent to Covid-19. As per the recent data collected by the DCPCR, at least 1,436 children lost either one or both their parents to Covid-19 in Delhi. Of them, 59 children lost both parents, 467 lost their mother while 910 lost their father.Dr. Rashmi Singh, director of the WCD department, said, “We have issued the guidelines for sponsorship and foster care of children in need. Finally, foster care will be possible in Delhi, but it will be strictly on a case to case basis. It will be imperative for the child welfare committee to do the due diligence and decide foster care for such children based on the social investigation report of each case. A family will be considered eligible for foster care only if we find it meets all the criteria after inspection and thorough investigation.”The SOP, seen by HT, states families keeping foster children will get a monthly financial supplementary assistance of ₹2,000 per child. Each family will not be allowed foster care of maximum two children. This incentive will initially be for a period of six months, extendable to the period ordinarily not exceeding three years or till the child attains the age of 18 years whichever is earlier, the document said, adding that there will be a physical verification and review of the progress of the child by the District Child Protection Unit after every six months to continue the sponsorship.“While this monthly allowance will go directly through the Sponsorship & Foster Care Fund of the Delhi government, the SOP has also made a provision where individuals or organisations can directly provide sponsorship to the children through the government’s child welfare committee. The WCD department will create a list of empanelled sponsors, which will be updated from time to time. So, the moment the police or the DCPCR or district child protection unit, NGOs or even schools identify such children, they will get care and support through the list of empanelled sponsors after completing all the investigation,” said Dr. Singh.The foster care scheme, a non-institutional family care programme for children till 18 years, was pending with Delhi’s WCD department for years. But an exception was made in this case once in October 2013 when the CWC allowed a couple to take in four siblings who were rescued from a factory in Punjab’s Jalandhar.According to the SOPs, a child in need of sponsorship support may be referred by the district childline workers, police, DCPCR, district-level legal services authorities, a district task force of the WCD department, and special juvenile police, among others to the district child welfare committees or Juvenile Justice Board. The committee or the board will conduct extensive background checks before passing the order for putting the child under foster care.The children covered under the sponsorship will be assisted for his/ her immunization, health check-up, growth monitoring, age-appropriate education, higher education, skill development and pre-employment training.The department also issued rules for the guardians or parents who opt for the scheme. “They shall ensure that the child aged between five and 16 years has at least 75% attendance in schools. Those less than five years and not attending school shall be mandatorily enrolled in an anganwadi or a playschool. The child in the 16-18 age group shall either attend the school for at least 75% of the days or a vocation course, as the case may be,” the SoPs added.DCPCR chairperson Anurag Kundu, who co-chaired the committee that formulated the SoPs, said the sponsorship programme also allows private individuals and organisations to donate for the purpose as per the provisions of the Juvenile Justice Act. “There are so many people who want to donate to help children in need and with this, the government has created a mechanism through which they can do that. We will soon launch a bank account link on our website for this,” he said.Experts say such a scheme is required across the country. Sudarshan Suchi, CEO of Save the Children said not only Delhi, but it is essential for all states to prepare a detailed comprehensive plan and guidelines on promoting and institutionalizing foster care in India.These guidelines need to go hand in hand with the capacity building and training of all the staff involved in child care to ensure adequate delivery. In absence of these detailed guidelines, it is critical for the child welfare committees to pay home visits and prepare a social investigation report for children who are in urgent need of care and protection.“Under the provision of the Juvenile Justice Act, we need to identify the most appropriate care-giving support that is created and delivered at an individual level, because the needs of children are of utmost importance and vary on a case to case basis,” said Suchi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-government-announces-policy-to-support-kids-in-distress-101624136101634.html
20-06-2021||Chandigarh||Guest Column: From callow to mellow – a roller-coaster ride||For as long as I can remember, my younger sister, Rashmi, has always chosen to march to the beat of her own drum. Those who know her describe her as a feisty, energetic, jubilant, happy-go-lucky, gem of a person, who has clear fundas in life and is content in being her own self. During her school days, she was a consummate tomboy. An outdoorsy person, she dabbled in select co-curricular activities and excelled in fields of her choice, rather than participating in the rank wars like her peers. Our parents did prod her to try and secure the top positions in class, but she simply refused to fall in tandem. She was content in academic mediocrity and after a lot of cajoling, settled on striving for a ‘decent score’. In the subsequent examination, she attempted the question paper only for 70% marks — the yard stick of decent — and kudos to her for securing exactly the desired marks. To her credit, whenever she studied, she did it thoroughly and with utmost focus. Clarity of fundamentals and mastery of basic concepts was her forte. During her graduation, she acquired a knack of predicting the expected questions. She would decipher the syllabus unit wise, dissect the previous papers and compile a probable question bank. She was so confident that she would start filling in her answer sheet, while the invigilator was yet to distribute the question paper. To all her classmates’ surprise, she always hit the bullseye. She always sat on the last bench, securing her reputation as the quintessential back bencher. Slowly but surely, a competitive spirit seeped into her during her post graduation. She opted for mathematics as well as econometrics as electives — very scoring but equally taxing as well. She standardised her modus operandi: make notes and solve exercises daily. Before burning the midnight oil (literally as her study hours initiated after dinner), she would spread her duvet precisely ( bunker was the term), set up the morning alarm and place the clock under her pillow. No family member dared ask her when she slept. She would determinedly put up her queries for resolution in the subsequent lecture. Her perseverance bore fruits and her name is etched on the honour board of her alma matter. She went on to pursue her PhD and is well settled in her career. Both of us ventured into driving when scooters were a prized possession in middle-class families and subsequently acquired a driving license as well. When our paternal uncle bought a Maruti, she was keen on learning. He agreed to give her driving lessons at 4am only. She arrived dot on the appointed time daily and swiftly picking up the nuances of driving, happily ferried everyone around. As my little sister enters her golden years, nostalgia engulfs me as I recall numerous anecdotes of our shared childhood. As we moved on in life – career, matrimony, maternity — the storehouse of our memories give us solace and brings a smile. The prevailing pandemic has put restrictions on physical movement but emotions are boundless. Here’s wishing you dear sister loads of happiness and prosperity. May your golden years be as enriching and fulfilling as your tender ones. My callow girl transitions to a mellow woman. The writer teaches English at Hindu Girls College, Jagadhri||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/guest-column-from-callow-to-mellow-a-roller-coaster-ride-101624136431829.html
20-06-2021||Chandigarh||Random forays: Retirement is truly a new beginning||The thing about retirement is its inevitability. What is not as certain is the nature of the second act or second innings, as some like to call post retirement lives.Some retirees live life anew, with renewed fire and enthusiasm, with passions aflame for new pastures and newer endeavours. Their age does not really matter to them, what matters is the pizzazz, the verve, the nerve!The bold retiree of today will thus not allow himself or herself to sit back and relax with a dozen newspapers, once breakfast is over. He or she will start up an enterprise or learn a new skill or even take up a practice such as law or teaching. He will be off to work at 9 o’clock just as he used to forever.There are of course those who have slogged so hard in their careers that they just want to hang up their boots and ‘chill’ in the sun or shade as the case may be. They are quite content to bask in the glory of their halcyon days and cuddle their grandchildren, whenever the latter choose to arrive.Both sorts of human beings who enter the portals of the retirement zone are entitled to their own perspective, of course. There is no universal answer to life’s choices. I know of a dozen retired government officers and CEOs who have taken up new consulting assignments after the age of 60. Still others have gone on to launch companies which have prospered by benefiting from their class and experience. Mentoring youngsters has also become one of the main roles of retired officers, and with heartening results. The youth of today is truly befuddled by the varying forces of pulls, pressures and expectations, and can certainly do with some mentorship from vastly experienced individuals.There are also those who take up creative pursuits like singing, painting, photography or writing, which were hitherto out of bounds due to the busy nature of their careers. Many a retired government officer has today shed the straightjacketed mode to flower as a multifaceted human being, post retirement. Even the apparel, which such an officer sports, usually undergoes a metamorphosis. There is more colour, less formality and much more effervescence in his persona today, than when he was the secretary sahib, or whatever.Some find it tough to get back to driving a car, having had the benefit of being chauffeur driven for over three decades. Parking one’s vehicle in a busy city is an even bigger pain, more often than not!VK Kapoor, a former IPS officer, has proved to be a torchbearer of sorts for several retired officers who might otherwise have felt that they had been ‘pushed off a cliff’ on superannuating from service. He peps up ex-colleagues on a regular basis and counsels them not to live in the past, but to adopt new-fangled ways to keep themselves busy. Sarban Singh, a retired IAS officer, has taken to writing his memoirs with meticulous detail these days. His sunny disposition and musical bent of mind have always made him a popular colleague among officers. Today, retired officers like them continue to cheer up their brethren even when the going seems tough.Aditya Prakash, former chief architect of Chandigarh, once performed a mono-act at the Tagore Theatre, an iconic building, which he himself had designed. The title was ‘Zindagi retire nahin hoti’ or ‘Life does not retire’ and I found it a very apt viewing for all those who feel a little morose at having crossed a certain age, which means that their active career days are over. Life, after all, does not have a use-by date. Until one has to depart. A career professional from any realm of endeavour will ultimately call it a day. But with life expectancy and general health levels going up dramatically in modern times, a new career can well begin after retirement. The best part is that expectations are fewer and the chances of taking an afternoon off to spend with those cuddly grandchildren are pretty high.There is every reason to dive deep within and discover a new you!||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/random-forays-retirement-is-truly-a-new-beginning-101624136010949.html
20-06-2021||Chandigarh||Roundabout: Kabir Bedi still in tune with the Punjabi within||It was while anchoring a session called ‘Punjabi by nature’ at the Jaipur Literature Festival (JLF) back in 2013 that I spotted Kabir Bedi sitting in the audience with his daughter Pooja. Among other things, there was a heated discussion on the pride of patriarchal society, including offensive Punjabi pop music. Listening to it all with a gentle smile, Kabir intervened, saying, “The Punjabi men may have a hard exterior, but actually they are quite soft hearted. To tell you the truth they are like teddy bears.”The remark brought back the general bonhomie and restored good humour. A few years earlier as wine flowed freely on the eve of the JLF, Kabir had quietly entered the lawn enclosure, as he was on the jury of that year’s literary prize, and a little high on Sula. I stood up and made a loud welcome speech. The actor who had wowed Europe and Hollywood as a star asked politely, “Was I?” When I said “nobody”, it was his turn to chuckle, obviously enjoying the improvisation, and say:“So, it was just like that!”Not quite just like thatWell, it was not really “just like that” for it was a short story penned by him in the Illustrated Weekly of India, edited by author Khushwant Singh, which had won a 14-year-old girl’s heart in the early sparkling 70s. Called ‘Ramblings on the Beach’, the story is about school races being held on the beach with students in brown uniforms lined up neatly in rows. It has been included in his recent memoirs.Witness to the race, he is more concerned by the girl who loses and writes: “In her eyes, I see shame. I see fear. I see despair at not knowing what to do next. I see the face of a child who has been bruised and humiliated. I see a soul that is being bruised and brutalised by comparison, by being forced to compete with the physically stronger on the beaches and playgrounds. In the classrooms, the same game will continue. She will be compared to the more intelligent, the ones with better memories and those who can write faster than her…I want to tell her that she is beautiful and sensitive, that this race does not matter, that it’s just a silly system that the grown-ups invented for their own reasons. I want to give her something to feel better. In my hand I have an orange. Impulsively, I reach forward, take the hand of this child and put the orange into it, “Take this,” I say. “It’s for coming second.”One does not know what the little girl’s reaction was to this act of empathy, but Kabir had found a forever fan in me as I was the hopeless failure in the playground as well as the classroom till then. But somewhere this story had given me a ray of hope and taught me to not wallow in inferiority.An eventful journeySo as one eagerly reads these tell-all memoirs of a long journey, starting with a scoop interview with the Beatles as a young reporter with the All India Radio, one of the odd jobs Kabir did through his St Stephen College years to support his college education, one moves easily through his Bombay advertising executive years to his theatre performances with Alyque Padamsee and onto the romance and subsequent marriage with yet another illuminated soul, Protima, the tall and dusky model, who shocked everyone with a streaking spree. Of course, she was to later find her real talent as a leading Odissi dancer of repute, trained by none other than Kelucharan Mohapatra. When I mentioned to a male friend that I was up most of the night reading Kabir’s stories and enjoying them every bit, pat comes the reply: “Kabir Bedi has always been lacking in intelligence and whatever little he had existed in his groin!” A harsh remark indeed but then intelligence is not all, he was never lacking in a generous soul that does a Punjabi proud.The second son of the idealistic couple Baba Bedi of Lahore and the British scholar Freda, who chose scholarship and philosophy as a way of life rather than wealth, Kabir sure had a stormy life. Married four times and father of three he saw pain, sorrow and the tragic death of his son Siddharth Bedi but took it all with hope and grace, bravely marrying Parveen Dusanj, the British-born Punjab girl, 28 years his junior, a day before he turned 70. In an interview with Preeti Gill of Majha House, Amritsar, he spoke proudly of his being a Punjabi by nature and thus most in tune with his fourth wife. Recalling his reading of Punjabi scriptures to his bhabhoji (paternal grandmother) for whom he had taken the trouble of learning Gurmukhi, he adds with conviction: “You can take a Punjabi out of Punjab but you can’t take Punjab out of a Punjabi!”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/roundabout-kabir-bedi-still-in-tune-with-the-punjabi-within-101624135651205.html
20-06-2021||Chandigarh||Milkha Singh cremated with full state honours in Chandigarh||Jeev Milkha Singh could not hold back and burst into tears as the mortal remains of India’s legendary sprinter and his father, Milkha Singh, were consigned to flames at the Sector 25 crematorium on Saturday evening. The 49-year-old golfer, along with his sisters, Dr Mona and Sonia, and wife Kudrat huddled in grief as Milkha was cremated with full state honours. Milkha’s grandchildren Harjai, Amaan and Amaanat were also present along with other relatives, but his third daughter, Aleeza, could not make it from the US. Jeev performed the last rites of father Milkha, an Asian Games and Commonwealth Games champion, whose fourth place finish at the 1960 Rome Olympics remains a benchmark for Indian athletics. A police contingent accorded the legendary track and field athlete the guard of honour. The contingent reversed arms and sounded the last post in the honour of the sprinter, who was also given a gun salute. The funeral procession started from Milkha’s residence in Sector 8. His body was carried in a bedecked vehicle as fans paid their respects with a heavy heart en route to the cremation ground. The 91-year-old Olympian died on Friday night after battling Covid for a month, five days after his wife, Nirmal Kaur, 85, also succumbed to the virus. Jeev also penned an emotional post for his late parents on Instagram, saying, “The relationship between a child and their parents never changes. It doesn’t matter how old you get or where in the world you end up living or how much you have accomplished in life. The relationship remains simple, it’s one of unconditional love.” “As parents, you have been the strength and backbone of our family since as far as I can remember. Together, you have nurtured and supported each one of us with so much love and care, while somehow inspiring an entire nation to dream big and believe that anything is possible if you work hard and dedicate yourself,” Jeev added. Milkha was dressed in a black suit with a white shirt and his trademark maroon turban and tie, with a photograph of his late wife tucked in his hands as he lay on the pyre. “You have touched so many lives over the years and the impact you have made on this nation will long be remembered. Being around you has taught me how to be a better father, brother, husband and has made me into a more compassionate and empathetic human being. I love you with all of my heart mom and dad. It’s not going to be easy without you, but I know you’ll be up there, together, protecting us as you have been all our lives,” wrote Jeev. ALSO READ: Milkha Singh: Asia’s most dominant runner at his peakThe Punjab government had declared a one-day state mourning and a holiday as a mark of respect to the legend. Milkha was bid a tearful adieu in the presence of his family members and several dignitaries, including Union sports minister Kiren Rijiju, who also paid homage to Milkha at his house, Punjab governor and Chandigarh administrator VP Singh Badnore, Punjab finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal and Haryana sports minister Sandeep Singh.Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh, state sports minister Rana Gurmit Singh, health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu and sports director DPS Kharbanda visited Milkha’s house and reached out to his son, Jeev, to share his grief. Aam Aadmi Party leader Raghav Chadha, former Punjab cabinet minister Bikram Majithia and former Punjab education minister Dr Daljit Cheema were among others who also offered their condolences at Milkha’s residence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/milkha-singh-cremated-with-full-state-honours-in-chandigarh-101624135471437.html
20-06-2021||Other||Man set ablaze at Tikri: Second accused held, SIT formed to probe case||The Jhajjar police on Saturday arrested a Jind resident in connection with the death of a 42-year-old man who succumbed to burn injuries after four men allegedly sprinkled inflammable substances on him and set him ablaze at the Tikri protest site on June 16.The victim was identified as Mukesh Kumar, a resident of Kasra village of Bahadurgarh. The man arrested on Saturday has been identified as Sandeep of Jind. Police had earlier arrested Krishan Kumar of Jind while two others are still on the run.Jhajjar superintendent of police (SP) Rajesh Duggal said a special investigation team (SIT) has been formed, under the supervision of Jhajjar DSP Naresh Kumar, to investigate the death of the 42-year-old.“A delegation of farmers met me today. I assured them of fair probe in the matter,” the SP added.Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) leader Dharshan Pal accused the Jhajjar police of registering fake cases against farmers in the matter.“The deceased had poured inflammable substances over himself as he was disturbed due to his domestic problems. Our leaders have submitted a video, in which he can be heard saying that he had taken the extreme step due to personal problems. Police are trying to turn the suicide case into that of a murder to defame the protesters,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/man-set-ablaze-at-tikri-second-accused-held-sit-formed-to-probe-case-101624135411146.html
20-06-2021||Other||Ludhiana traffic police chalks out plan to deal with monsoons||Ahead of the monsoons, traffic police have chalked out a special plan to avoid traffic jams due to waterlogging. Spots prone to water accumulation have been identified and they are looking to divert the traffic to other routes. They are also seeking the municipal corporation’s help to repair the roads.Assistant commissioner of police (ACP, traffic) Gurdev Singh said that they have identified 12 points– including Dholewal Road, Vishwakarma Chowk, Giaspura, Sherpur Chowk, Chandigarh Road, Samrala Chowk, Transport Nagar Cut, Shingar Cinema Road, Jalandhar Bypass, Gill road and Rahon Road which are worst-affected during rains.According to traffic police officials, faulty sewage covers are one of the main reasons behind the traffic mishaps during rainy days, as they are either above or below the level of roads or broken.“We have requested the MC to repair pit holes on roads and faulty sewage covers. We have also requested them to clean sewage lines using suction machines, so that there is no problem of water accumulation,” said the ACP.“The traffic police will serve the city no matter what the situation is. A special duty chart is being prepared for the monsoons,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-traffic-police-chalks-out-plan-to-deal-with-monsoons-101624135230837.html
20-06-2021||Lucknow||UP to withdraw corona curfew relaxations in districts where active Covid-19 cases cross 500||On a day when the Centre warned the states and the Union Territories to not grow complacent over Covid protocols as many states and UTs have begun easing restrictions, the Uttar Pradesh government announced that partial corona curfew relaxations will be immediately withdrawn in any district where the number of active Covid-19 cases crosses 500.Late last month, the state government had set the benchmark at 600 active cases for revoking relaxations in any district. “The benchmark has just turned stricter,” said a senior state government official.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath made the announcement while reviewing Covid-19 situation during a high-level meeting.“Keep a close watch on Covid infection in all the districts. If any district has active cases over 500, then suspend the corona curfew relaxations there immediately,” the chief minister said to the officers concerned. He also said the corona curfew relaxation hours would be increased from Monday across the state. The relaxation would be in force from am to 9pm (Monday to Friday). Earlier, it was allowed from 7am to 7pm.Apart from shops and markets, malls, restaurants and parks would reopen with Covid protocols on Monday, he said.Religious places, depending on the size of their premises, can have a maximum of 50 people at a time. Weddings will have a maximum of 50 people. Stadiums, gyms, clubs, and education institutions (for academics) will continue to stay closed. He reiterated that the night curfew will be from 9pm to 7am and weekend closure will be observed from Friday night (9pm) to Monday morning (7am). Among the state’s 75 districts, Lucknow has the highest number of active cases (370) at present and it is just 130 short of the 500-mark. Active cases refer to the number of patients under treatment. Meerut is next with 195 active cases. The state government had begun easing the corona curfew from June 1 in the districts where active Covid-19 cases dropped below 600. Gradually, all the districts introduced relaxations as and when the cases dropped below the 600-mark.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/upto-withdraw-corona-curfew-relaxations-in-districts-where-active-covid-19-cases-cross-500-101624134872567.html
20-06-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh PGIMER to resume physical OPDs from June 21||In view of the consistent drop in Covid-19 cases, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) on Saturday decided to provide physical consultations at its OPDs from June 21, but only with prior appointment. “Patients will have to contact doctors through tele-consultation numbers. After evaluating their medical condition, doctors will call the patients for physical consultation in OPDs from June 21 only if in-person examination is required,” said Dr Ashok Kumar, official spokesperson, PGIMER.The physical OPDs will be resumed across PGIMER, including at the New OPD building, Advanced Eye Centre, Advanced Cardiac Centre, Advanced Paediatrics Centre, Drug De-Addiction and Treatment Centre, and Oral Health Care of Children and Elderly Centre.The hospital authorities are also working on making one floor of the operation theatres functional for elective surgeries that were suspended in April after sudden spike in Covid-19 infections.“Physical distancing among patients and attendants visiting the OPDs will be maintained. As overcrowding can lead to outbreak of Covid among this susceptible population, physical OPDs will be run through appointment system only and those walking in without one will not be entertained,” Dr Ashok said. The institute also requested the patients to ensure that they are accompanied by only one attendant. Meanwhile, PGIMER will continue to provide emergency outpatient services round the clock during the pandemic. The institute is also providing regular elective outpatient services through tele-consultation and in person for cancer patients, obstetrics and those requiring semi-urgent medical or surgical care.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-pgimer-to-resume-physical-opds-from-june-21-101624134870812.html
20-06-2021||Chandigarh||Navjot Kaur Sidhu flays Punjab govt over move to give jobs to Cong MLAs’ sons||Former legislator Navjot Kaur Sidhu on Saturday criticised the Punjab government’s decision of giving government jobs to sons of two ruling party legislators, saying only merit should be the criteria. Her statement came a day after the Punjab government decided to appoint sons of two Congress MLAs as a police inspector and a naib tehsildar as a “special case”. The decision to appoint sons of two Congress MLAs Fateh Jung Singh Bajwa and Rakesh Pandey on the “compassionate” ground was taken in a cabinet meeting. Arjun Pratap Singh Bajwa was appointed as an inspector in the Punjab Police and Bhisham Pandey as a naib tehsildar in the state’s revenue department. Talking to reporters at Chaura village in Sanaur constituency in Patiala, Navjot Kaur Sidhu said no post should be given to anyone without merit, especially those who were already financially well off. Rather jobs could have been given to a sportsperson or ward of a freedom fighter, said the wife of Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu. “I do not think that without passing any test you can join as a tehsildar or join the police,” she said. To a question on Navjot Singh Sidhu, she said the party has asked him to wait. “After their (party high command) decision comes, then he will take a decision that is in the interest of Punjab,” she added. He had even refused to join Kapil Sharma’s show and rejected a ₹10 crore contract for a cricket tournament, she said. To a question on contesting from Patiala in the upcoming state assembly polls, she said she would fight from wherever the party decides.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/navjot-kaur-sidhu-flays-punjab-govt-over-move-to-give-jobs-to-cong-mlas-sons-101624134752111.html
20-06-2021||Chandigarh||Khattar condoles Milkha Singh’s demise||Haryana chief minister (CM) Manohar Lal Khattar has condoled the demise of the great sprinter, Milkha Singh. In a condolence, the CM said the country has lost a sporting icon who inspired generations. Deputy chief minister, Dushyant Chautala and home minister, Anil Vij also expressed condolences.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/khattar-condoles-milkha-singh-s-demise-101624134750891.html
20-06-2021||Chandigarh||Covid jabs cross million milestone in Ludhiana||The district has successfully administered vaccines against the coronavirus disease to one million residents in five months. With this, Ludhiana has become the first district in Punjab to have achieved the feat. Hailing doctors, paramedics, non governmental organisations and other stakeholders engaged in the inoculation drive, which was launched on January 16, MLA Surinder Dawar, deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma and municipal corporation councillor Mamta Ashu reached the civil hospital and congratulated the frontline workers.“Notwithstanding the harsh winter or scorching heat, frontline workers have inoculated people in every nook and corner of the district,” the leaders said. The DC said the administration had scaled up the vaccination drive as they intend to vaccinate another million people over the next two months. “The administration has a stock of 55,000 Covid vaccines and all eligible people should get the jab. As per experts, the third wave can be prevented by building herd immunity. This is possible only with speedy coverage of all beneficiaries,” he said. Sharma said people should not doubt the efficacy of either vaccine — Covishield or Covaxin — as they are both effective and safe. Meanwhile, MC councillor Mamta Ashu appealed to all councillors, sarpanches, and resident welfare committees to encourage people to get vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-jabs-cross-million-milestone-in-ludhiana-101624134691139.html
20-06-2021||Chandigarh||33 succumb, 400 recover from Covid in Haryana||Haryana reported 170 Covid-19 cases, 400 recoveries and 33 deaths on Saturday. The number of active cases further reduced to 2,677, from 2,940 the day before. There were 1,658 persons in home isolation as on Saturday. As per a medical bulletin, the day’s positivity rate was 0.57%, recovery rate was 98.45% and the fatality rate was 1.20%. Gurugram, with 277 active cases, has the highest number of active infections followed by Hisar (271), Panipat (226), Sirsa (222) and Faridabad (200).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/33-succumb-400-recover-from-covid-in-haryana-101624134571216.html
20-06-2021||Chandigarh||No Covid death in Mohali after 84 days, Chandigarh cases down to lowest in 120 days||The long-awaited milestone of zero Covid-19 deaths arrived in Mohali on Saturday, even as Chandigarh also recorded its lowest cases in 120 days, with just 23 people testing positive.Worst-hit by the pandemic in the tricity, Mohali has seen a swift downturn in fatalities in June after a deadly May that claimed 373 lives, highest since the pandemic broke out last year and accounting for 36% of the 1,037 fatalities so far. Since hitting the peak of 20 on May 20, the district’s casualties started declining, falling below 10 on May 24 and staying so ever since, until no death was reported on Saturday.While it was a milestone the district was awaiting after tiding over the devastating second wave, health authorities have warned that zero deaths don’t mean zero caution. Further, the easing of lockdown restrictions may also spur another spike in infections with increased public movement, as more people were streaming into public places like malls and markets.“With the decline in numbers, there also comes a greater need to strictly adhere to safety protocols so they continue to remain low. Vaccination is also crucial to check the severity of disease. Those still not inoculated should come forward,” said Dr Adarshpal Kaur, civil surgeon, Mohali, adding that from June 21, anyone over the age of 18 could walk into any government facility offering vaccination and get registered on the spot for the jab. A similar drive will begin in Chandigarh on the same day.PGIMER Dr Jagat Ram also cautioned that not following Covid-appropriate behaviour will lead to a third wave as the pandemic was still not over.“The daily cases and deaths are coming down in the tricity as well as across the country. This is a positive sign, but if people don’t adhere to safety protocols, the third wave may arrive in six to eight weeks, with another surge in September. However, since vaccination is underway, and many people have developed antibodies after recovering from Covid, the magnitude of the third wave is expected to be low,” he added.“Also, all age groups will be equally vulnerable to getting infected in the third wave. Hospitals are advised to arrange oxygen supply and check functionality of life support systems, which will help control the death rate in the third wave,” Dr Ram said.Tricity’s cases drop to 55, three deadIn a new low since the second wave, the tricity logged only 55 Covid cases, a first since 50 cases on February 21, and three deaths, a number it had last recorded on April 12.Apart from Chandigarh’s 23 cases, lowest since February 21, 28 people were found positive in Mohali and four in Panchkula.Among those who died, two were from Chandigarh, a 91-year-old man from Sector 8 and a 52-year-old man from Manimajra, and one from Panchkula.Tricity’s active cases also dropped to 1,000 against the all-time high of 24,201 on May 12. A total of 489 people are still infected in Mohali, 396 in Chandigarh and 115 in Panchkula. The daily positivity rate also came down to less than 2% across the tricity – lowest in Panchkula at 0.5%.During the peak of the pandemic last month, tricity had clocked a record 2,612 cases on May 10 and 38 deaths on May 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/no-covid-death-in-mohali-after-84-days-chandigarh-cases-down-to-lowest-in-120-days-101624134452771.html
20-06-2021||Chandigarh||Brazen disregard for Covid protocols witnessed across protest sites in Ludhiana||Abandoning caution amid warnings of an impending third wave of coronavirus infections, political parties are mustering large gatherings to stage protests in different parts of the city. Party workers could be seen flouting all pandemic protocols with impunity. On Saturday alone, disregarding the ban on political gatherings, around 200-300 people gathered for protests called by the Aam Aadmi Party and Youth Akali Dal over different issues. Similarly, a large number of BJP workers had gathered outside the four MC zonal offices to protest against the water-sewer tariff on Thursday. Participants were seen huddling together without masks just four days after Covid relaxations were announced across the state. The district administration and police department were silent bystanders. As per reports, All India Institute of Medical Sciences chief Dr Randeep Guleria has said that a third wave of Covid infections is “inevitable” in India and is likely hit the country within the next six to eight weeks. Social activist Amandeep Singh Bains said strict action should be taken against politicians as their activities are likely to increase the state’s Covid count. “It seems the political parties have failed to learn anything from the deadly second wave of the pandemic. Politicians should not put residents’ lives at stake for their vested political interests,” said Bains. Meanwhile, leaders said limited gatherings had been arranged in light of the pandemic. YAD president, Parambans Singh Bunty Romana said, “We would have gathered a larger number of protesters if not for the pandemic.” AAP’s state joint secretary Aman Mohie said, “Raising our voice against the wrongdoings of the government is important and our protest was organised against the multi-crore post-matric scam, due to which the future of around two lakh students is at stake. A limited gathering was arranged with social distancing and the use of face masks.” Meanwhile, commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal said, “It is the responsibility of every citizen, more so of political leaders, to observe Covid appropriate behaviour. Police will take appropriate action.”YAD’s protest causes traffic snarls Heavy traffic jams were witnessed at Jagraon Bridge for around an hour as the traffic moved at snail’s pace after the YAD staged a protest against the state government. Despite deployment of police force, the leaders and workers parked their vehicles along the bridge, creating bottlenecks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/brazen-disregard-for-covid-protocols-witnessed-across-protest-sites-101624134332373.html
20-06-2021||Other||Farm labourer kidnapped, hung upside down in Karnal, 4 booked||Four farmers have been booked for allegedly kidnapping a 34-year-old farm labourer and thrashing him after hanging him upside down from a tree in Rana Majra village of Gharaunda subdivision in Karnal.Police swung into action after a video of the incident started doing the rounds of social media. Karnal superintendent of police Ganga Ram Punia said during investigation, it was found that the incident took place on Friday. An FIR has been registered under Sections 307 (attempt to murder), 365 (kidnapping), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 34 (criminal act done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code against Aarif Khan, Nawab, Ikram, and Raju.He said two people have already been arrested and police teams are working to arrest the remaining two.Gharaunda police station in-charge Mohan Lal said the victim’s brother, Taiyab, told the police that the accused Nawab and Aarif had forcibly taken Iqbal to the fields and tied his legs with a rope and hanged him upside down from a tree. After that they had thrashed him till he fell unconscious. The victim’s brother said that as soon as he came to know about the incident, he rushed to the spot and took Iqbal to the hospital.Police officials associated with the investigation said the actual reason behind the incident is yet to be ascertained, but in the preliminary investigation it was found that the accused had suspected him of theft in their fields.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/farm-labourer-kidnapped-hung-upside-down-in-karnal-4-booked-101624134151040.html
20-06-2021||Chandigarh||Scholarship scam: AAP will continue stir till Dharamsot is expelled, says Mann||Even as Aam Aadmi Party leaders ended their hunger strike after the Punjab government announced the release of 40% of the arrears due under the post-matric scholarship scheme for scheduled caste students, the party’s state president, Bhagwant Mann, said they will continue to agitate until an FIR is registered against minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot and he is expelled from the Punjab Cabinet. AAP leaders, including deputy leader of opposition Sarvjit Kaur Manuke, Manwinder Singh Giaspura,Dharminder Singh Fauji, and Amanchain Singh had been staging a hunger strike against the alleged multi-crore post-matric SC scholarship scam since June 15 at the Jalandhar bypass. Mann, who was in the city, chalked up the release of the arrears to the AAP leaders’ hunger strike. “Chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh should immediately dismiss minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot who embezzled ₹64 crore and jeopardised the future of Dalit students. If no action is taken against the corrupt minister, AAP will raise an agitation across the state.”The decision to release the funds indicates that only the Centre’s share is pending and the state government had dilly-dallied in releasing ₹200 crore to colleges, he said. “Now, that the Congress, SAD and BJP have been exposed thanks to their anti-people decisions, and multi-crore frauds committed by their leaders. People will choose AAP in the upcoming Vidhan Sabha elections,” added Mann.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/scholarship-scam-aap-will-continue-stir-till-dharamsot-is-expelled-says-mann-101624134030657.html
20-06-2021||Chandigarh||Amarinder defends jobs to Cong MLAs’ sons, says it’s recognition of their grandfathers’ sacrifices||Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Saturday defended his government’s decision to give jobs to sons of two Congress MLAs by terming it “a recognition of the sacrifices made by their grandfathers for the country”. In an interaction with mediapersons outside the residence of legendary athlete Milkha Singh, who died of post-Covid complications in Chandigarh, the CM said those who made sacrifices for the nation should never be forgotten. “Their families deserve to be compensated for the loss,” he added. Taking a dig at the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), which have criticised the government’s move, he said if these parties provide names of any youth whose father or grandfather made similar sacrifice, they will also be provided jobs in the state government. “In fact, I tried to find such persons in these parties but could not,” he remarked.“Punjab has been through tough times in the dark days of terrorism when 35,000 innocent lives were lost to senseless violence. As many as 1,700 police personnel had also died. It is not sufficient to pay tributes to these people at their memorials and the state needs to do something more to compensate their families,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amarinder-defends-jobs-to-cong-mlas-sons-says-it-s-recognition-of-their-grandfathers-sacrifices-101624133971701.html
20-06-2021||Chandigarh||Thrashing’ of Dalit woman: SC panel issues notice to Punjab govt, Mansa district admn||The National Commission for Schedules Castes (NCSC) has issued notices to the Punjab government and the Mansa district administration in connection with case of alleged thrashing of a Dalit woman farm labourer in the district over demand of wage for paddy transplantation.According to information, Gurpreet Kaur was allegedly beaten up by an upper-caste landowner at Matti village of Mansa district on June 15. The alleged incident took place when sarpanch Sukhwinder Kaur had invited a meeting of farmers and farm labourers to resolve an ongoing village-level tussle over fixing of wages for paddy sowing.The Matti panchayat had unofficially resolved not to pay more than ₹2,900 per acre whereas the local farmhands were demanding ₹3,500 per acre for sowing, it is learnt. After the incident, activists of the Mazdoor Mukti Morcha, an affiliate of the Communist Party of India (Marxist-Leninist) Liberation, held a protest at the village on Thursday.In its communiqué, the NCSC has asked the chief secretary, the director general of police, the Mansa deputy commissioner and the senior superintendent of police (SSP) to submit an action taken report within seven days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/thrashing-of-dalit-woman-sc-panel-issues-notice-to-punjab-govt-mansa-district-admn-101624133970636.html
20-06-2021||Chandigarh||YAD hits out at Capt for providing jobs to sons of Cong MLAs in Ludhiana||Terming the Punjab Cabinet’s approval of jobs for the sons of two Congress MLAs — Fateh Jung Singh Bajwa and Rakesh Pandey —as ‘unconstitutional’, the Youth Akali Dal slammed the state government for backstabbing the youth of Punjab on Saturday. Taking a dig at the Captain Amarinder Singh-led state government, YAD president Parambans Singh Bunty Romana and other Akali leaders distributed sweets among the youth at Jagraon Bridge. They alleged that the CM had tweaked rules as a bribe to save his chair amid a feud in the Congress. Romana said, “The MLAs’ net worth is in crores as per the affidavits submitted during the 2017 vidhan sabha elections. The state government has overlooked thousands of unemployed youngsters, many of whom are on the brink of ending their lives thanks to the policies of the Congress government.” Pointing out incongruities in the appointment of Arjun Partap Singh Bajwa as a Group B inspector in the Punjab Police, and Bhisham Pandey as naib tehsildar, Romana said, “The jobs have been approved by the state cabinet on compassionate grounds in recognition of the sacrifices made by their grandfathers, who laid down their lives for the country. However, as per the rules set by the Supreme Court, the beneficiary in these cases should be a dependent person.” “The CM had himself written to Congress chief Sonia Gandhi in 2014 saying that Bajwa’s father Satnam Singh did not die in a terrorist attack, but had died due to smugglers’ inter-gang rivalry in 1987.” “Even if the MLAs’ sons have been granted jobs on compassionate grounds, then why have the sons of farmers who have committed suicide during their tenure and the families of farmers who died during farmer agitation been ignored,” said Romana. “The Captain had promised to provide jobs to the youth during the last assembly elections but only three jobs have been provided so far. The first to former CM Beant Singh’s grandson Guriqbal Singh — who was made DSP in 2017 — and now to the sons of the MLAs. SAD and BSP will challenge this appointment in court and jobs will be terminated once our alliance comes to power in 2022,” said Romana, while urging the public to gherao the Congress leaders over the issue when they seek votes in the upcoming elections. During the protests, Covid norms were flouted as a large number of leaders gathered at the protest giving social distancing and masks a miss.AAP will terminate the jobs after coming to power: Mann In the city to protest against the alleged multi-crore post-matric SC scholarship scam, Aam Aadmi Party’s state president and MP Bhagwant Mann also slammed the state government for approving jobs for the sons of Congress MLAs. Mann said the AAP will terminate the services approved for the MLAs sons and the grandson of former CM Beant Singh. The jobs will be given to unemployed youth who are struggling to make ends meet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/yad-hits-out-at-capt-for-providing-jobs-to-sons-of-cong-mlas-in-ludhiana-101624133851074.html
20-06-2021||Mumbai||Uddhav Thackeray slams ‘party-centric talk’ of fighting elections alone||hMaharashtra chief minister and Shiv Sena president Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday took a veiled swipe at state Congress leaders, saying that people would “beat with footwear” those who talk about contesting elections alone without offering solutions to their problems.“If we do not offer solutions to people’s problems but only talked about going it alone in politics, people will beat us with footwear. They will not listen to our party-centric, ambitious talk of contesting elections alone,” said Thackerey, addressing the Sena’s 55th foundation day.The CM’s statement comes days after Mumbai Congress chief Bhai Jagtap said he was ready to contest the next year’s Mumbai civic polls without allying with the Sena. The Sena and Congress, along with the NCP, formed a government in Maharashtra after the Uddhav Thackeray-led party’s alliance with the BJP fell out in 2019.Thackeray also asserted that the Sena’s primary aim is not obtaining power and it would not compromise for that. “Sena will never become desperate for power and compromise for it. We would not play second fiddle to anybody for the sake of power. We will tread our path with self esteem and pride and strongly. That is the strength of our party...”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/uddhav-thackeray-slams-party-centric-talk-of-fighting-elections-alone-101624133601674.html
20-06-2021||Lucknow||UP govt asks state’s power regulator to make changes in tariff structure||At a time when the UP Electricity Regulatory Commission (UPERC) was giving the final touches to its tariff order for 2021-22, the state government has directed it to make certain changes in the existing tariff structure. The government has also convened a meeting in this regard here on June 21, asking the power regulator to attend it.The move, according to people aware of the issue, may spark off a controversy with the UPERC, a quasi-judicial body, already feeling miffed with the government holding a meeting on the issue related to tariff revision which is supposed to be the regulator’s exclusive jurisdiction.The government has issued directions to the UPERC exercising its powers under Section 108 of the Electricity Act 2003 that empowers the state government to issue directions to the electricity regulator in matters of policy involving “the public interest”.The directions came through a letter written and signed by under-secretary, energy, Anand Kumar Tripathi on June 15. “I am directed to convey that a meeting has been convened under the chairmanship of additional chief secretary, energy, here on June 21 to discuss government directions to the UPERC under the section 108 of the Electricity Act, 2003 to discuss classification of sub-tariff slabs under the LMV-2 and the LMV-6 categories,” the letter says.The LMV-2 and the LMV-6 categories pertain to the power looms and the commercial consumers, respectively.Apart from the UPERC secretary, others who have been invited to the meeting are additional chief secretary, handloom development, the UP Power Corporation Ltd (UPPCL) chairman and the UPPCL managing director. “The UPERC has taken exception to the government issuing directions to it under section 108, asking it not only to make changes in the tariff structure but also attend the meeting on the subject,” a commission official said, adding, “The UPERC may not send any of its official(s) to attend the meeting.”The date and timing of the government’s proposed meeting coincides with the date and timing of the State Advisory Committee’s (SAC) meeting called by the UPERC to discuss the annual revenue requirement (ARR) proposal before issuing the tariff order by June end. SAC member Awadhesh Kumar Verma said the additional chief secretary (energy), the UPPCL chairman/MD were among the SAC members. “They could have discussed the issue in the SAC meeting instead of convening a separate meeting the same day and thus avoided the unnecessary controversy,” he said. “The section 108 cannot be invoked for things like calling meetings,” he added.Section 108 of the Electricity Act, 2003, however, gives supremacy to the government when it comes to decide whether a matter on which it has issued directions to the regulator is of “public interest” or not. The clause 1 of section 108 says, “In the discharge of its functions, the State Commission shall be guided by such directions in matters of policy involving public interest as the state government may give to it in writing.”And the sub-clause of the same section adds, “If any question arises as to whether any such direction relates to a matter of policy involving public interest, the decision of the state government thereon shall be final.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-govt-asks-state-s-power-regulator-to-make-changes-in-tariff-structure-101624133734267.html
20-06-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s PGIMER finds use of leprosy drug effective for severely ill Covid patients||The Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) has found an effective use for Mycobacterium w (Mw) leprosy drug in treating Covid-19 infected patients as the drug was found to be leaving no adverse events in the patients’ bodies.After assessing the safety of Mw drug in severely infected Covid-19 patients, PGIMER concluded that preliminarily, improvement in clinical and radiological conditions of all the patients after the use of the drug was observed.As per the study published on April 12, 2021, PGIMER researchers said that Mw drug, when combined with standard care in severely infected Covid patients, resulted in better clinical status on days 14 and 21, than those receiving routine care alone.The immunomodulator Mw is a drug being evaluated by medical experts on Covid-19 patients like many other treatments, including remdesivir and tocilizumab. As per medical experts, Mw decreases mortality in patients with severe sepsis and thus, the research was conducted to check its use among Covid patients.Researchers said that the Mw drug could potentially decrease cytokine storm in patients with Covid-19, and may thus be of effective use in decreasing mortality. It was also found that the severely infected Covid-19 patients, who were also suffering from co-morbidities, could be successfully managed without the need for mechanical ventilation.Also, no adverse events of the drug were observed. On the basis of preliminary findings, the institute will conduct larger trials in various institutes and will recommend the use of the Mw drug to other institutes for treating severely ill Covid patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhs-pgimer-finds-use-of-leprosy-drug-effective-for-severely-ill-covid-patients-101624133673236.html
20-06-2021||Chandigarh||Residents of Panchkula and around complain of erratic drinking water supply||At a time when mercury has touched 40 degrees, people living in Panchkula and adjoining villages have been complaining of erratic water supply since the beginning of June.SK Nayar, president of the Citizens Welfare Association (CWA), said: “First, the drinking water supply is quite irregular. The timings are from 4am to 9am, but at times water comes late and only for a few hours. And even when there is supply, the pressure is too low.”People living on the first and second floors are the worst sufferers, who are not able to fill their tanks. “People living on the ground floor are getting water but at very low pressure. However, those living on the first floor hardly get drinking water for about 15 to 30 minutes and those living on the second floor are totally deprived of the fresh drinking-water supply since the beginning of the month, when summer is at peak,” he said.Nayar said that he was receiving complaints from residents on the daily. They approached the authorities concerned, but the situation had only worsened, he added. “For the last two days, I have been getting complaints from people getting worms in their tap water in Sector 15,” he said.“In one of the pictures shared with me, a black thread-like creature was seen floating in drinking water. In another picture, the residents claimed a worm came out from the tap of the bathroom. This is a health hazard and residents should be cautious as the authorities are sitting silent,” Nayar said.Problem persists even in villagesA woman from Bhudanpur said that they had not been getting drinking water for the last many weeks and people had to walk a long distance to get some.When contacted, the official concerned did not revert.Panchkula MLA Gian Chand Gupta said: “There was a problem in a few sectors as one of the motors was dysfunctional after the storm last week. But it was repaired and there is no such problem now.” He added, “When I went to Budhanpur and asked the people to tell me where exactly was the problem, They didn’t tell me.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/residents-of-panchkula-and-around-complain-of-erratic-drinking-water-supply-101624133610741.html
20-06-2021||Other||Four players selected in India’s hockey squad for Olympics belong to K’shetra||Four out of the 11 hockey players selected from Haryana for the men’s and women’s hockey teams for Tokyo Olympics 2020 belong to Kurukshetra district.Three women players, including skipper Rani Rampal, Navjot Kaur and Navneet Kaur belong to the small town of Shahbad, which is emerging as the hockey hub of the state. Surender Pallar, who has been selected for the men’s hockey team for Olympics, belongs to Kurukshetra. “Looking forward to representing our country at Tokyo 2020 (Olympics). I am honoured to be a part of the Indian team for the second time in the Olympics,” Rani Rampal tweeted after being selected to lead the women’s hockey team. “The focus will be on winning the gold medal and all players of the women’s hockey team having been sweating it out during practice sessions. The players have got extra time for practice due to the pandemic, and this will give a boost to our victory,” she said in a statement. Navjot Kaur, who will be playing her second Olympics, said the women’s hockey team is very strong. “I am confident that we will win the gold for our country,” she said.Striker Navneet Kaur of Shahbad was also excited about her selection in the women’s hockey team. She said her hard work and practice will help her perform better in the Olympics. Surender Kumar, who also comes from Kurukshetra will be playing in the Olympics for the first time. “It’s like a dream come true. It is a matter of great pride to play for the country in the Olympics,” said Surender.Haryana sports minister and ex-captain of the Indian national hockey team Sandeep Singh has congratulated the hockey players from Kurukhsetra and wished them good luck. “These players have given a new identity to Kurukshetra and Haryana. I have a strong belief that they will return with medals from Tokyo,” he said in a statement.He said that a total of 30 players from the state had secured berths in the Indian hockey, wrestling, boxing, shooting and athletic teams and this is a proud moment for Haryana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/four-players-selected-in-india-s-hockey-squad-for-olympics-belong-to-kshetra-101624133552342.html
20-06-2021||Chandigarh||Land of 50 villages to be acquired for Ambala ring road project||The land acquisition process for the ₹1,500-crore Ambala Ring Road project has started and the Union government has marked 41 villages in Ambala and nine in Mohali, Punjab. The central and state governments had approved the project earlier this month.As per an official document issued on June 11 by the ministry of road transport and highways, the proposed highway will cover 10 villages in Ambala, 29 in Cantonment, two in Saha and nine in Dera Bassi, Mohali. Virender Singh, project director of NHAI Ambala, said, “The acquisition process will take up to six months.”The 40-km long ring road project will be spread across 177.75 hectares of land and connect five national highways and work as a bypass to ease traffic congestion in the twin city.Vehicles coming from Hisar, Chandigarh, Amritsar, bound for Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Uttarakhand or Himachal, will have an option to bypass Ambala. Similarly, traffic coming from Delhi or Yamunanagar going towards Punjab or Chandigarh will need not enter urban areas of Cantt or City.The ring road will start from NH-152 (Ambala-Chandigarh Highway) and link with NH-72 (Ambala-Roorkee Highway, now NH-344). Further, it will lead to NH-444A (Ambala-Saha Highway) that will link with NH-44 (Delhi-Amritsar highway or GT Road). Then, GT Road will finally connect with NH-65 (Ambala-Hisar Highway).A digital display board will be installed at toll plazas showing the project cost, the amount recovered through toll collection and the period of levy of toll for the project cost, read an initial notification. Local MP Rattan Lal Kataria had met Union minister Nitin Gadkari and Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar earlier this month to thank them for approving the project and invited them for the Bhoomi Poojan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/land-of-50-villages-to-be-acquired-for-ambala-ring-road-project-101624133550889.html
20-06-2021||Chandigarh||Two AFPI Mohali cadets commissioned as flying officers||Two cadets from the Maharaja Ranjit Singh Armed Forces Preparatory Institute (AFPI), Mohali, were commissioned as Flying Officers in the Indian Air Force during the Combined Graduation Parade (CGP) at the Air Force Academy in Dundigal, Hyderabad, on Saturday. The parade was reviewed by the Chief of Air Staff, Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria. A total of 152 cadets, including 24 women, graduated as flying officers during the parade. However, their parents were not invited amid Covid restrictions. Sehaj Sharma had joined the AFPI in 2014 has been commissioned into the helicopter stream. He had joined the National Defence Academy as an Air Force cadet. His father, Dharvinder Sharma, is a senior assistant at the Indian Red Cross Society in Amritsar. His mother, Geeta Sharma, is a housewife. Cadet Preetinder Pal Singh Bath of Pathankot joined AFPI in 2015 and went to NDA in 2017. His father, Rajinder Singh Bath, is a lecturer and mother, Amanpreet Kaur, a teacher. He has joined the fighter stream of the IAF. Since 2013, AFPI has sent 162 cadets to NDA and other military training academies. Of these, 85 have already become officers in the armed forces. As many as 68 have joined the army; eight the navy and nine the air force. Currently, 92 cadets of the 10th and 11th AFPI courses are under training in Mohali. Amid the pandemic, all training has been held online.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/two-afpi-mohali-cadets-commissioned-as-flying-officers-101624133493555.html
20-06-2021||Chandigarh||17-km green corridor created to ferry critical Covid patient to Ludhiana airport||A green corridor was created between the Hero DMC Heart Institute and the Sahnewal Airport, within 30 minutes of intimation, to ferry a critical Covid patient who was to be airlifted to Hyderabad for specialised treatment on Saturday. With time being of the essence, the traffic police cleared the 17-km route between the hospital and airport and provided police escort to the ambulance so that the 30-minute journey took only 15 minutes, said assistant commissioner of police (ACP, traffic) Gurdev Singh.  The lungs of the patient, Vipul Jindal, 39, of Tagore Nagar, a businessman, had been severely damaged after he contracted Covid, following which his family arranged an air ambulance to ferry him to a hospital in Hyderabad. “Soon after receiving directions from commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal we cleared the roads within 30 minutes. It was a challenge to bring the ambulance to the main road from the narrow roads of the city. An escort vehicle in front of the ambulance cleared the roads. The vehicles sped at 100km/hr and reached the airport within 15 minutes,” Jindal said. Motorists to be sensitised The traffic police will initiate a special drive in the city next week to sensitise people about the importance of providing passage to emergency vehicles such as ambulances, fire brigades and police vehicles .The ACP said, “It has been observed that some people do not give way to emergency vehicles, which causes delay in reaching the destination for rescue proceedings. If people are sensitised, we will not need to create green corridors for shifting patients.” As per the Motor Vehicles (Amendment) Bill, a driver can be fined ₹10,000 for not giving way to emergency vehicles such as ambulances and fire brigades.On June 12, the traffic police had created a green corridor to clear the path for an accident victim, who had been referred to a private hospital in Ludhiana from Faridkot. Police had helped the ambulance reach Satguru Partap Singh Hospital, Sherpur Chowk, from Baddowal (32 km) in just 12 minutes and on May 22, a green corridor was created for a Covid patient who was being shifted to a local hospital from Jalandhar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/17km-green-corridor-created-to-ferry-critical-covid-patient-to-ludhiana-airport-101624133492554.html
20-06-2021||Dehradun||SIT not enough, need judicial probe: Trivendra Singh Rawat||Former chief minister of Uttarakhand, Trivendra Singh Rawat, on Saturday demanded a judicial inquiry into the allegations of fake Covid testing during the Kumbh Mela in Haridwar, asserting that his successor Tirath Singh Rawat’s decision to form a Special Investigation Team (SIT) was not enough for an “interstate matter”.“The Chief Minister (Tirath Singh Rawat) has formed a Special Investigation Team (SIT), but a judicial inquiry is necessary in this matter because it is an interstate matter. People can doubt whether the inquiry will be accurate or not,” said Rawat.The former CM added that he asked for a judicial inquiry as it will be more credible. “I am not against the special investigation team (SIT) but it is a question of public perception. People have more faith in the court. In this year’s Kumbh mela, people from all over the world came to Haridwar. In such a situation, it would be better if a trusted investigative agency probes the matter.”Trivendra Singh Rawat’s statement comes days after chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat alleged that the fake testing case did not happen during his tenure. “I came in March and this is an old issue. When we got information about this, we immediately instituted an inquiry... Strict action will be taken against the guilty,” he said on June 17.On the same day, the former CM had called the case “a serious crime, not negligence”, and sought an investigation.Tirath Singh Rawat replaced Trivendra Singh Rawat in March this year, weeks before the mega holy event was to kick off in Haridwar. One of the CM’s first decisions was to approve a full-scale Kumbh mela despite experts warning that social distancing and adequate testing will be impossible amid a raging second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/sit-not-enough-need-judicial-probe-trivendra-singh-rawat-101624133216389.html
20-06-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University freshers lament missing out on campus life||Even as the academic session draws to a close, 17-year-old Manvi Agnihotri, a first-year student of Panjab University (PU), has not been on campus even once as classes have been held online amid the pandemic.Manvi, the native of Hamirpur, Himachal Pradesh, said, “I have seen the PU campus in pictures only. We even missed our freshers.”As many as 13,856 students were admitted in various undergraduate and postgraduate courses for the 2020-21 academic session. From physical classes to fests, they have missed out on aspects of college life which students look forward to the most.PU had suspended entrance tests last year and admissions were conducted on merit basis. Even the counselling was conducted online.Anoop Raj Tiwari, 18, a native of Solan, Himachal Pradesh, said he is lucky as he got to visit the campus once during his admission last year, but he has not seen his department yet.Aditi Monga, 20, A first-year PG student from Bathinda, Punjab, said, “After getting admission, we were hoping that university opens soon. But, we are in second semester, now and I haven’t even met my classmates in person.”Students lamented not getting access to libraries and practical labs and also expresses disappointment over missing out on extra-curricular activities which are the most cherished aspects of college life for most.Anureet Kaur,19, who hails from Punjab’s Gurdaspur, said, “Due to lockdown, we missed the opportunity to experience campus life. We could not even meet our teachers and classmates in person.”Anureet recalled visiting the campus once when she was in school. “When we were in school, we had imagined the experiences which university life has to offer. But now, we are just opening our laptop and studying from PPTs,” she said.PU’s dean student welfare (DSW) SK Tomar, said, “Apart from curriculum learning, students missed out on the all-round exposure which they get on campus. Interactions with the professors and academia were missing. They also couldn’t meet students from other disciplines. We will try to compensate for the loss once the pandemic ends,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panjab-university-freshers-lament-missing-out-on-campus-life-101624133430742.html
20-06-2021||Chandigarh||In Chandigarh, the Flying Sikh was also a neighbour par excellence||After the Flying Sikh, Milkha Singh, passed away from post-Covid complications on Friday night, within five days of his wife passing away, residents of Sector 8, where the couple used to live, fondly remembered their neighbours, who always extended a helping hand.As per those living next to his house in Sector 8, there was no big fuss in being neighbours with the legendary sprinter who had bought the house in the 80s.Captain Gursharan Singh (retd), one of his neighbours, had known Milkha ever since he had shifted to this house from his government quarters in Sector 7: “As a neighbour, Milkha was very humble. His wife, Nirmal Kaur, helped my wife with her arthritis and tended to the garden. Milkha would greet us very cordially and every morning a queue of poor people would form outside his house and he would try to help them all. He also had many admirers in the police and in the armed forces who would drop in to meet him. His son, Jeev Milkha Singh, threw the best parties in the city.”ALSO READ: Flying Sikh together with his sweetheart againMilkha was also close to his immediate neighbour Colonel SS Bedi (retd), who also passed away due to Covid in April this year. The Colonel’s wife, Vijay Bedi, was good friends with Milkha and his wife. “There was a couple’s kitty in which we used to participate and we have very fond memories of them. When my husband died, Milkha Singh and his wife offered to help me. I will miss them dearly,” she said.‘Was in the best of health’Milkha was an avid golfer and many residents of Sector 8 recalled running into him at the Chandigarh Golf Club. General secretary of the Sector 8 Resident Welfare Association, Captain GS Ghuman (retd) said, “We would regularly spot him at the Chandigarh Golf Club; he had only stopped coming a couple of months back. Milkha was in the best of health and after playing his shot, he would run towards the ball to play the next shot. He was also fond of going for walks in the sector. I would run into him at the park behind the Sector 8 dispensary. He was very proud of his health and often at the park he would tell me he didn’t take any medicines even after turning 90. We will miss his energy.”Local area councillor and senior deputy mayor Maheshinder Singh Sidhu, who also lives in Sector 8, recalled that Milkha was active at the Central Club in Sector 9: “It’s a place for senior citizens to socialise and he would go there almost daily with his wife to play cards. They were passionate about Sector 8, too. Nirmal Kaur wanted to see badminton courts built in a Sector 8 park and I was working with her on this.”The Sector 8 House Holder Welfare Association, of which Singh was a part, will shortly hold a meeting to honour the late Olympian’s memory. President RS Gill said, “Due to Covid restrictions we didn’t organise anything on Saturday, but it will be done soon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/in-chandigarh-the-flying-sikh-was-also-a-neighbour-par-excellence-101624133370673.html
20-06-2021||Other||Ludhiana police chief extends ban on ‘VIP’ tags on vehicles||Commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal on Saturday extended the ban on writing ‘police’, ‘army’ and other such VIP tags on vehicles without authorisation. According to the police chief, anti-social elements and criminals can take advantage of such tags and threaten law and order.Keep record of sale of army uniformsThe commissioner of police also issued orders to the shopkeepers, who sell army print clothes and uniforms, to keep a record of their sales and the identity of the buyers under Section 144 of the CrPC. Anti-social elements can misuse the same and commit crime in the city, he said. He ordered the shopkeepers to keep pictures, copies of identity proof, and phone numbers of the buyers. He also asked them to keep a record of the stock and submit it at the concerned police stations. Ownership of second-hand vehiclesThe commissioner also ordered that the ownership of second-hand vehicles be transferred to the new buyers within 30 days of purchase. Miscreants often buy old vehicles and do not get them transferred in their name, only to use them for criminal activities later, he said. Agrawal also banned the pasting of black films on windows of vehicles.Ban on modified auto carts Agrawal banned modified auto-carts, which are used to ferry goods, vegetables, fruits, and garbage. He said such vehicles are difficult to trace in case of mishaps or crimes as they don’t have number plates. The police chief further said stern action will be taken against violators and the order will remain in effect for the next two months. He also banned the modification of silencers of Royal Enfield Bullet motorcycles. Ban on sale of sub-standard helmetsAgrawal also banned the sale of sub-standard helmets in the city. He asked the sellers to sell helmets with ISI marks only.Ban on sale, storage of plastic kite stringThe police chief also banned the storage and sale of plastic kite string under Section 144 of the CrPC, terming it dangerous for humans as well as animals. He said that violators will face stern police action.Keep record of guestsHe also ordered all owners of hotels, guest houses, and other service apartments to maintain a record of visitors. He said Ludhiana, being the industrial hub of Punjab, sees the arrival of thousands of businessmen daily, who stay in such premises, but their owners usually do not maintain a record of guests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-police-chief-extends-ban-on-vip-tags-on-vehicles-101624133252400.html
20-06-2021||Other||Ludhiana-origin man appointed as official in Canadian govt||Angad Singh Dhillon has been appointed as director of operations in the ministry of transport, the Federal Government of Canada.Belonging to Ghungrana village, Ludhiana, he is from one of the illustrious families of Punjab that served people of the region for almost a century. His great grand father Gurnam Singh Ghungrana was one of the pioneer members of the SGPC in the early 1930s followed by his grandfather Jagjit Singh Ghungrana, who was a progressive farmer and farm leader. After completing his graduation in international relations from Mount Allison, Sackville, New Brunswick, Angad joined the Liberal Party in 2015. He started his career as a field organiser and was responsible for the Peel region, which has 11 parliamentary ridings (constituencies). It was during this period that his hard work and organising skills were recognized by the party as it won all the 11 ridings. Later, he moved to Ottawa and joined as assistant, outreach, and operations, with Liberal Research Bureau. From there, he was seconded to the Ministry of Canadian Heritage as special assistant, policy. In 2017, he joined as director of outreach at the LRB, from where he was picked up to join the Ontario Regional Desk in the PMO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhianaorigin-man-appointed-as-official-in-canadian-govt-101624133250663.html
20-06-2021||Other||Ludhiana girl secures fifth rank in PCS judicial exam||Navkiran Kaur, 26, has secured the fifth rank in the Punjab Civil Services (judicial) examination, results for which were declared by the Punjab Public Service Commission (PPSC) on Friday evening. A resident of Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar, Pakhowal Road, she cleared the exam in her first attempt and attributed her success to her parents. She scored 851 marks out of a total of 1,350.Navkiran has completed her bachelor’s in physics from St Stephen’s College, Delhi University, and master’s in physics from Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi. She said that she devoted eight to nine hours daily to her studies and consistent hard work is the key to success.“My childhood dream has come true, and my father was my inspiration. I am the first in my family to clear the judicial exam and my parents are very happy,” she added.An avid reader, Navkiran says that while preparing for the exam, she even took out time to read books, cook and bake.An alumna of DAV Public School, Pakhowal Road, Navkiran is ready to serve the state. Her father, Tarsem Singh, is a deputy general manager in the Central Bank of India, and, mother Sarabjit Kaur is a lecturer in English at Government Senior Secondary School, Moga.DAV Public School principal Satwant Kaur Bhullar shared that Navkiran had always been a humble and intelligent student who was clear about her goals since her school days. She congratulated Navkiran and her family for the achievement.Abhishek Sharma from Khanna and Sachin Pathak from Sahnewal clinched the second and third ranks in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-girl-secures-fifth-rank-in-pcs-judicial-exam-101624133190654.html
20-06-2021||Chandigarh||Roll back ‘ill-advised’ move to give jobs to Cong MLAs’ sons: Sunil Jakhar to Amarinder||Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar and two party MLAs on Saturday questioned the Capt Amarinder Singh-led government’s decision of giving jobs to sons of two legislators and urged chief minister to rollback the “ill-advised” move.Their statements came despite Amarinder defending the decision of appointing Arjun Fateh Jung Bajwa’s son Arjun Pratap Singh Bajwa as an inspector in the Punjab Police and Ludhiana legislator Rakesh Pandey’s son Bhisham Pandey as a naib tehsildar on “compassionate” grounds.Besides Jakhar, Congress legislators Kuljit Nagra and Amrinder Singh Raja Warring also expressed displeasure over the move.In a cabinet meeting on Friday, five ministers-–Sukhjinder Randhawa, Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, Razia Sultana, Charanjit Singh Channi and Sukhbinder Sarkaria--were learnt to have also opposed this move.Jakhar, in a press statement, said certain elected representatives tending to their own families do not deserve the same consideration as is due to those who make the supreme sacrifice for the nation. “Chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh must reverse the ill-advised decision”, Jakhar said, cautioning against potential charges of nepotism and political expediency.“The decision is also in my view against the ethos and culture of neutrality followed by Amarinder Singh and the Congress as a whole,” he said.Congress MLAs Kuljit Nagra said he was not in favour of this decision. “I urge the cabinet and the CM that this decision should be rolled back keeping in mind the future of youth and the CM should again call a cabinet meeting to reverse this move,” said Nagra. Gidderbaha MLA Amrinder Singh Raja Warring appealed to Fateh Jung Bajwa and Rakesh Pandey not to accept these jobs for their sons.Later, in a tweet, the CM’s media adviser said,“’No question of rescinding #PunjabCabinet decision on jobs for sons of 2 @INCPunjab MLAs. It is just a small token of gratitude & compensation for the sacrifices of their families. It’s shameful that some people are giving political colour to this decision.’:@capt_amarinder.”“’I fail to see any reason for removing any officer in my govt under political pressure. Each one of them is doing excellent work for the state, and I need them to continue helping my govt fulfill all the pending promises we’d made to the people of Punjab’: @capt_amarinder,” read another tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/roll-back-ill-advised-move-to-give-jobs-to-cong-mlas-sons-sunil-jakhar-to-amarinder-101624132891564.html
20-06-2021||Chandigarh||Two Punjab-origin politicians join cabinet in Canada’s Ontario province||Two Punjab-origin politicians — Prabhmeet Sarkariya (30) and Parm Gill (47) — have been appointed as ministers in a cabinet reshuffle in Canada’s Ontario province, taking the representation of the community members in the Executive Council to three. Ontario premier Doug Ford on Friday reshuffled his cabinet, with former finance minister Rod Phillips — who resigned from his post following a Caribbean vacation during the Covid-19 pandemic — returning as the new minister of long-term care.The reshuffle comes just under a year before next June’s provincial election.In the previous ministry, there was one Indo-Canadian - Sarkariya, who was the associate minister of small business and red tape reduction. Sarkariya has now been promoted to take over as president of the Treasury Board. He is the first turban-wearing Sikh cabinet minister in Ontario. “It is an honour to be sworn in as #Ontario’s President of the Treasury Board. I am dedicated to working hard with Premier @fordnation and my colleagues to support Ontarians as we continue to tackle the #COVID19 pandemic & work towards our recovery! ,” Sarkariya tweeted taking over the new role.Sarkaria’s parents immigrated from Punjab in the 1980s. Parm Gill, 47, took on the new portfolio of citizenship and multiculturalism. Gill was born in Moga, Punjab. He moved to Canada at a young age. “Thank you Premier @fordnation for this great honour and thank you to my community of Milton for allowing me to represent you each and every day as part of this Provincial Government,” he tweeted after his appointment.“Who would have thought a young boy who immigrated from India to Canada at a young age, raised by a single mother, would today be sworn in as minister of citizenship and multiculturalism for the province of Ontario,” Gill added. Nina Tangri was appointed associate minister of small business and red tape.“Excited to be sworn in as the associate minister of small business & red tape reduction. Thank you to Premier @fordnation for his confidence in me and to my family and staff for their continuous support,” she tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/two-punjab-origin-politicians-join-cabinet-in-canada-s-ontario-province-101624132890603.html
20-06-2021||Chandigarh||Akalis, AAP mount attack on Amarinder govt over jobs to Cong MLAs’ sons||The opposition parties — Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) — on Saturday took on the Capt Amarinder Singh-led government over the state cabinet’s approval to provide jobs to the sons of two Congress MLAs. The cabinet on Friday okayed the appointment of sons of ruling party legislators Fateh Jang Bajwa and Rakesh Pandey as inspector and naib tehsildar even as five cabinet ministers opposed the move. The SAD termed the move “open horse trading by Amarinder to save his chair” amid an intense infighting among the party leaders. Addressing a press conference in Chandigarh, party leaders Bikram Singh Majithia and Daljeet Singh Cheema said the Punjab governor should take a note of the manner in which the cabinet legalised corruption by doling out jobs to wards of Congressmen on compassionate grounds even though they were not eligible for the same. “In case the governor does not take action in the matter, the President should take note of the unconstitutional appointments and dismiss the Amarinder Singh government immediately,” said the former ministers. Majithia said after coming to power, the SAD and its alliance partner Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) would quash all illegal appointments made on compassionate grounds and also register cases against those responsible for the wrongdoings. “Amarinder took an oath to provide jobs to each and every household. But jobs are being given to ‘crorepati’ Congressmen. Also, the son-in-law of cabinet minister Gurpreet Kangar was given out-of-turn appointment as an assistant excise and taxation officer (ETO),” said Majithia. ‘Cong govt’s anti-peopleface stands exposed’ Leader of opposition and AAP legislator Harpal Singh Cheema said the anti-people face of the Congress government has been exposed with the cabinet giving nod to the MLAs’ sons. In a press statement, Cheema said they condemn the decision as the beneficiaries’ families are well off. “Amarinder Singh’s ‘ghar-ghar rozgar’ has turned out to be ‘Congressiyan de ghar rozgar’. On the one hand, the wards of martyrs and common people are being humiliated in the name of job fairs, the sons of select Congress leaders are being appointed as inspector and naib tehsildar on the other,” he said. The Captain government circumvented the rules in 2017 by directly appointing former CM Beant Singh’s grandson as a DSP, he added. “The ETT-TET pass youths are sitting on dharnas for jobs. Also, contractual employees waiting for regularisation and fulfillment of other demands are cane-charged, beaten up and harassed,” said Cheema.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/akalis-aap-mount-attack-on-amarinder-govt-over-jobs-to-cong-mlas-sons-101624132771037.html
20-06-2021||Lucknow||Jitin Prasada calls on Yogi Adityanath, says he will serve BJP as a worker||Former Congress leader Jitin Prasada visited the state BJP office for the first time in Lucknow on Saturday, 10 days after he joined the party in Delhi on June 9, to meet senior party functionaries. He also called on chief minister Yogi Adityanath and claimed he would work in the party as a “karyakarta” (cadre). “I don’t want to say anything at the moment. In times to come, my work will speak,” Prasada said when asked about his likely role.There is a buzz that Prasada could be accommodated in either the Union council of ministers or the Yogi Adityanath ministry that has seven vacancies at the moment.A few spots in the UP legislative council are to be filled by July and Prasada could be one of the party picks, some BJP leaders suggested. However, some others feel that Prasada could get to contest the 2022 UP assembly polls when the party would look to capitalise on his Brahmin appeal. “It’s an either/or call. The final decision would be in the public domain shortly,” a BJP leader said. Prasada’s supporters arrived in large numbers at the state BJP office even as he appeared at ease in his new party. He met senior party functionaries, met media persons with the party’s state chief Swatantra Dev Singh, hailed the BJP leadership, profusely praising Prime Minister Narendra Modi and then chief minister Yogi Adityanath from whom he also took “ashirwad” (blessings).“Since I joined BJP, this is my first visit to UP, my home state, and hence I met party leaders, took ‘ashirwad’ from the chief minister,” he said, adding he would help strengthen the BJP even further.“There is great joy among my cadres, especially from the place I represent. My decision to switch to the BJP was done following public sentiments,” he said. Jitin Prasada, a two-time Congress MP had twice been defeated in the Modi wave, first in the 2014 Lok Sabha polls and then in 2019 parliamentary polls, from Dhaurahra spread over Lakhimpur Kheri and Sitapur districts.“The BJP has a strong organisation, strong leadership and clear vision. Policies and their implementation are done with consensus and where cadres have the opportunity to aim higher,” he said. Prasada played down the role that his Brahmin Chetna Parishad would have now following his switch to the BJP. He had floated the Parishad while being in the Congress in 2020.“My Brahmin Chetna Parishad never had a political purpose and hence should not be seen as such,” he said when reminded of his previous attacks on BJP government over the perceived neglect of the key upper caste community. “I would help popularise all the schemes of the Yogi Adityanath government among the people,” he said. He said the BJP was the only true national party with a democratic set-up where any ordinary cadre can aspire to become the party’s top leader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/jitin-prasada-calls-on-yogi-says-he-will-serve-bjp-as-a-worker-101624132110796.html
20-06-2021||Other||Punjab cancels Class 12 exams, to follow CBSE pattern to declare results||Chandigarh Punjab has decided to cancel Class-12 examinations due to the Covid-19 pandemic and will follow the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) formulae of 30:30:40 weightage to Classes 10, 11, 12 to declare the result. School education minister Vijay Inder Singla said the Punjab School Education Board would declare the results as per the pattern of the CBSE. “Over 3 lakh students are enrolled in Class 12 in in government, aided and private schools under the PSEB in 2020-21 academic session. Details on the actual execution of the parameters would be made public on the PSEB website and schools,” he said. He added that school heads would be responsible for uploading marks of Classes 10th, 11th and 12th on the portal and the result is expected to be declared on or before July 31. “Students not be satisfied with their result as per the above formula, have the option of taking examination, when the situation becomes conducive,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-cancels-class-12-exams-to-follow-cbse-pattern-to-declare-results-101624131510648.html
20-06-2021||Lucknow||BJP MLA writes to home dept for FIR against indicted sub-inspector||Bharatiya Janata Party MLA Neeraj Bora has written a letter to the UP home department to register an FIR against a sub-inspector who was found guilty of creating fake evidence against a man to harass him, said senior home department officials here on Saturday. The MLA has said the Rae Bareli police officials were reluctant registering FIR against him. The MLA confirmed that he had written the letter to the additional chief secretary (ACS), Home, on Saturday in connection with the harassment of one Kunwar Mohit Singh of Rae Bareli. He said he had asked the officials concerned to take cognizance of the victim’s complaint and register a criminal case against sub-inspector Sanjay Kumar Singh for creating fake evidence after registering a fake criminal case against him. Sharing details, the complainant Kunwar Mohit Singh said the local officials of Rae Bareli district were reluctant in registering FIR against the sub-inspector even after he was found guilty in departmental enquiry conducted by an additional SP rank officer. He said the sub-inspector was recently transferred to Bareilly zone citing the same reason. He said the sub-inspector was a repeated offender as he was also a key accused in fake encounter of four youths in Badohi in which cops had claimed to gun down mafioso Dhananjay Singh on October 17, 1998 before he joined politics. He said the sub-inspector was even charge-sheeted in the matter and the case was pending in court. The complainant said the sub-inspector had registered the fake case of criminal breach of trust and fraud against him in December 2016 at the behest of a land mafia who wanted to grab his parental property. He said the sub-inspector had been harassing him for the past six years and helped the land mafia to get register several cases against him but every time he was given a clean chit on the basis of evidence. Rae Bareli superintendent of police (SP) Shlok Kumar said the sub-inspector had been relieved from Rae Bareli after he was transferred to Bareilly on June 4 on the same complaint of harassing the complainant by creating fake evidence against him in a case of criminal breach of trust and fraud. The SP said he was not aware whether or not the complainant had given any written complaint to register FIR against the sub-inspector. Another Rae Bareli police official confirmed receiving the complaint to register FIR against the sub-inspector and said senior officials had sought legal opinion in the matter. He said the senior officials were initially reluctant in registering an FIR against the sub-inspector citing his act as negligence and not a criminal offence. Sub-inspector Sanjay Kumar Singh, however, denied all allegations and said that his investigation was based entirely on land revenue records made available to him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bjp-mla-writes-to-home-dept-for-fir-against-indicted-subinspector-101624131270039.html
20-06-2021||Other||‘Green fungus’ diagnosed in Jalandhar covid survivor||Jalandhar A 62-year-old covid survivor has been diagnosed with ‘Green fungus’ infection at Sacred Heart hospital, Jalandhar. The man had reported to the private hospital on June 12 with acute cough. He had tested covid-19 positive around three months ago, and received treatment at a Ludhiana hospital for three weeks.This could be the first case of its kind in the state. The hospital authorities conducted biopsy and reports confirmed that the patient had the infection, technically called Invasive Pulmonary Aspergillosis.SYMPTOMS OF THE DISEASEAmong the symptoms of allergic Aspergillus sinusitis are stuffiness, runny nose, headache and reduced ability to smell. Symptoms of an aspergilloma or “fungus ball” include cough, coughing up blood and shortness of breath, fatigue etc.Jalandhar civil surgeon Dr Balwant Singh and district family planning and welfare officer Dr Raman Gupta confirmed the diagnosis, but added it was not as dangerous as ‘Black fungus’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/green-fungus-diagnosed-in-jalandhar-covid-survivor-101624130910574.html
20-06-2021||Delhi||Rain likely today in Delhi, temp may dip, says IMD||Delhi is expected to receive light rain on Sunday, which is likely to bring down temperatures in the city, India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Saturday.Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said light rainfall is expected across the city starting early Sunday. However, after a brief respite, temperatures may start rising again from next week.“Some parts of NCR received light rain on Saturday too, but Delhi was not impacted. On Sunday, the maximum temperature will remain around 35°C,” Srivastava said.On Saturday, the maximum temperature at the Safdarjung observatory, which is the official marker for the city, was 35.1°C, four degrees below what is considered normal for this time of year. The minimum temperature here was 25.3°C, three degrees below normal.At the Palam observatory, the maximum temperature was 35.2°C, while the minimum temperature was 24.9°C.IMD forecast said that under the impact of Sunday’s rains, temperature will reduce, but it will start rising from next week. It will, however, continue to remain below the 40 degree-mark.After announcing the advancement of monsoon over northwest India, including Delhi, last week, IMD has refrained from giving out a fresh date of monsoon arrival in the Capital.“Monsoon has covered most parts of western Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan, but we will have to wait longer before it arrives in Delhi. We are not giving a date yet,” a senior Met official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/rain-likely-today-in-delhi-temp-may-dip-says-imd-101624130454099.html
20-06-2021||Lucknow||Heavy rain warning for many districts in east UP & Rohilkhand||: Over 28 districts of eastern Uttar Pradesh (UP) and Rohilkhand regions have been put on alert for heavy to very heavy monsoon rains over the next 24 hours, as per Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast on Saturday. The alert has been issued for Bahraich, Shravasti, Siddharthnagar, Maharajganj, Kushinagar, Deoria, Gorakhpur, Santkabir Nagar, Basti Gonda, Ballia, Bareilly, Pilibhit, Shahjahanpur, Moradabad, Rampur, Amroha and Mau along with some parts of adjoining districts. “The district administrations in these districts have been asked to stay alert and make arrangements to check damage due to heavy rainfall. Members of district and state disaster management committees have been kept in standby in the districts for which alert has been sounded,” said JP Gupta, director of state IMD “We are closely monitoring the weather conditions in the area which are being communicated to the districts authorities on an hourly basis,” he added. Post alert, the districts administration have set up flood relief outposts across the districts to monitor river water levels and provide assistance to people in need. Over 300 flood relief outposts have been set up in the districts, especially in the low laying areas to monitor the flood situation. “People of districts disaster management committees are stationed in these outposts. They have inflatable boats and dry ration and communication equipments with them,” officials said. Meanwhile, other parts of the state are expected to witness normal rains in coming days. Uttar Pradesh recorded average rainfall of 5mm across the state on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/heavy-rain-warning-for-many-districts-in-east-up-rohilkhand-101624130490066.html
20-06-2021||Other||Despite decline in Maharashtra’s Covid-19 cases, districts wary about easing curbs||After Mumbai, several other districts that qualified for level one of unlocking, are adopting a cautious stand, and are unlikely to ease the lockdown rules significantly, fearing a surge in Covid-19 cases. The downward trend in new Covid-19 cases in the state continued on Saturday too, with the state recording 8,912 cases, which included Mumbai’s 676.Though Mumbai graduated to level one on the basis of the oxygen bed occupancy and positively rate, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has refused to ease restrictions, insisting that the situation would not be fully in control till the new cases reach to a minimum. Thane, too, adopted a similar cautious approach. Though it qualified for level one from level two, Thane has continued with restrictions, with malls, restaurants, gymnasiums, salons and wellness centres allowed to operate only at 50 % capacity. Jalgaon, Buldhana and Washim districts, which saw significant drop in positivity rate and bed occupancy also continued with the ongoing restrictions, instead of relaxing them further.Dr Subhash Salunkhe, advisor, Maharashtra government on Covid-19 management, opined that the restrictions should not be eased. “The districts may graduate to higher levels, but these are just parameters. The local administration is the best to assess the situation, or else we’ll slip down to a lethal third wave,” said Dr Salunkhe.Pune, which is in level 3, has imposed a weekend lockdown. Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar also hinted that those travelling out of Pune district will have to quarantine themselves for 15 days once they are back.Dr Amin Kaba, who practises in several private hospitals, said reopening at this stage would spell disaster. “We should learn from the first wave and understand that reopening at this stage will lead to surge in the cases. We need to open only when a substantial amount of people get vaccinated,” said Dr Kaba. There are 36 districts in Maharashtra, of which 25 are in level one, eight in level three and three (Kolhapur, Raigad and Ratnagiri) in level four. As per a state government notification issued earlier this month, level one means shops can operate at regular timings, restaurants, malls and theatres will be reopened and allowed to operate during regular timings with full capacity. Workplaces will be allowed to have 100% attendance and both marriages and funerals will not have restrictions on the number of attendees. However, the Maharashtra government is adopting a cautious approach and is reluctant about unfettered access. On Saturday, 234,379 tests were conducted in the state, while 10,373 recoveries were recorded. The total number of active patients in Maharashtra currently stands at 132,597, with Mumbai having the highest count of 18,788 patients, followed by Pune (18,108). The total number of Covid-19 recoveries from the outbreak has now reached 5,963,420, while the toll stands at 117,356, with Pune leading with 15,994 deaths. Mumbai has recorded the second-highest death toll (15,279) after Saturday’s 13 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/despite-decline-in-maharashtra-s-covid-19-cases-districts-wary-about-easing-curbs-101624130310086.html
20-06-2021||Other||Mumbai man booked for cheating MEA, Congo government||The foreign regional registration office (FRRO) of Mumbai Police’s special branch-2 has registered an offence of cheating against an Andheri resident who was functioning as an honorary consultant of the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) in India, despite the fact that the DRC government and the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) had withdrawn his name from the post four years ago. The accused, Amit Agarwal, allegedly misused the position of honorary consultant of DRC for four years and cheated the governments of the two countries, the police said. DRC officials, through an email, requested FRRO to initiate appropriate action against Agarwal so that he does not cheat any person by misusing the said post. Police inspector Ravindra Katkar, on behalf of FRRO, recently filed a criminal complaint against Agarwal at Azad Maidan police station. Acting on the complaint, the FRRO in a preliminary inquiry, found a cognisable offense and registered a first information report (FIR) against Agarwal a few days ago. Katkar stated in the complaint that Kasongo Musenga, the first advocate for the DRC government in India, in an email dated May 21 to FRRO informed that the authority concerned of DRC government on September 27, 2017, had requested MEA to withdraw Agarwal’s appointment from the honorary consultant post. MEA approved the request on October 30, 2017. Following this, DRC’s advocate in India informed Agarwal about the withdrawal of his appointment on December 4, 2017, and also requested him to stop using the post with immediate effect. However, despite this, Agarwal kept on misusing the post and allegedly enjoyed many privileges and took direct and indirect benefits by attending government and social functions and contacting organisations under the state and Central governments, the FRRO officer stated in the complaint. “Agarwal has been booked under sections 419 (cheating by impersonation) and 420 (cheating) of Indian Penal Code. The investigators may soon summon him for questioning,” said an officer from Azad Maidan police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mumbai-man-booked-for-cheating-mea-congo-government-101624130189977.html
20-06-2021||Other||Maharashtra CM snubs ally Congress, says won’t play second fiddle||Maharashtra chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday has snubbed ruling partner Congress over the latter’s recent announcement to go solo in the forthcoming elections and said that people would not approve such “power aspiring” political move in the challenging post-Covid pandemic times.In a tacit warning to his ruling ally Congress, he also said that his party would not play second fiddle to anybody or not carry the palanquin for the sake of power.Thackeray, who also heads the Shiv Sena, virtually addressed his workers on the occasion of the party’s 55th foundation day on Saturday. During the speech, he said his party would not get dragged behind anybody for power. Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole had recently said that the party will fight the local bodies and Assembly polls on its own. He has also said that if his party leadership opted to, he does not mind becoming the CM face in the next Assembly polls. Sena leader Sanjay Raut had reacted sharply to it. He said that in such a scenario, Sena and NCP would have to join hands in the interest of people. CM said parties should come together during the pandemic by keeping differences aside. Amid this backdrop, all eyes were set on CM’s speech.Thackeray also took indirect pot shots at BJP leaders, including former CM and leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis. He said that some people have become desperate for power and cannot survive without it. “They have been suffering from stomach ache and keep dreaming about power. I don’t care about them and can treat them politically, if need be. After 55 years of existence, we have learnt to read them and their minds thoroughly. We also saw the distortion and disfigurement of the politics. They keep defaming us by spreading lies about us, but they should first check their mirror image to see if they are clean,” he said, hinting at BJP.CM said Sena has its own stand but its primary aim is not obtaining power. “Sena will never become desperate for power and compromise for it. We’ll not play second fiddle to anybody for the sake of power. We’ll tread our path strongly with self-esteem and pride. That’s the strength of our party and that’s the reason why it has survived for 55 years,” he said.He attacked the Congress without naming it. CM said that even Sena can declare to go solo, but people will not approve of it at this difficult time of the pandemic. “This is not the time to run behind power and judge political might. People are also facing financial crisis. If we talk about claiming power, they will ask us to speak about their livelihood. We can get power by adjudging our political strength, but it’ll be of no use if people are left in the lurch,” he said.CM also justified the act of Shiv Saniks who had resorted clashed with BJP workers near the Sena Bhavan this week over the issue of the alleged Ram Janmabhoomi land scam. He said that it was the teachings of party founder (and his late father) Bal Thackeray to “treat detractors with tit-for-tat approach”. He lauded West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee for putting up a strong and successful fight against BJP in the Assembly polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/maharashtra-cm-snubs-ally-congress-says-won-t-play-second-fiddle-101624130070479.html
20-06-2021||Other||Mumbai housing society vax scam: BMC to seek details of vials from SII||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has decided to write to Covishield vaccine manufacturer Serum Institute of India (SII), seeking details of the vials used by the accused in the immunisation drive conducted at Hiranandani Heritage, Kandivli, on May 30. The civic body is trying to identify the supply chain of the vials through the batch number printed on them. The preliminary report submitted by BMC on Friday night has found the vaccination drive to be ‘unauthorised and illegal’.“We need to find out from where the accused got the vials. This can be tracked from the batch number printed on the surface of the bottles of the vials. We will write to SII seeking details about those vials that had been used in the immunisation drive,” said BMC additional commissioner Suresh Kakani.The civic body stated that the investigation into the matter would continue. It is also coordinating with the police. “If the vials have been procured from outside the state, then we also have to verify how they were supplied in the city,” he added.Late on Friday, Sanjay Kurhade, assistant municipal commissioner of R-South ward, submitted the preliminary report of the internal investigation to Kakani. Following this, BMC on Saturday issued an official statement saying that no legal protocols were followed in the immunisation drive. “There were several loopholes in the drive. Our investigation shows that none of the hospitals/vaccination centres signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the society to conduct the drive. In fact, the local health officer and ward office weren’t informed about it. The drive was completely illegal and is considered a criminal act. The police are already investigating the matter,” said Kakani.According to police sources, the residents had allegedly approached Rajesh Pandey, a former employee of Kokilaben Dhirubhai Ambani Hospital, to inquire about the vaccination drive at their residential complex. Pandey, then allegedly approached the mastermind, Mahendra Pratap Singh, 39, who got in touch with his aide, Sanjay Gupta, 29, and organised the vaccination drive.On May 7, BMC issued a circular stating the guidelines, according to which, it is mandatory to sign an MoU with the hospital before conducting vaccination drive in societies and corporate offices. Also, as per the rules, nodal officers, who would be responsible for registering the beneficiaries on the Co-WIN portal at the spot, should be present for the immunisation drive. However, no nodal officer was present during the vaccination drive at the society. “The drive was conducted without any device to register beneficiaries on the portal. The accused took the beneficiaries’ details, such as Aadhaar card number, on paper. No authorised doctor was present at the drive, which is a clear violation of BMC guidelines for vaccination drives at residential complexes,” said Kakani.Also, the vials for the vaccination were procured through illegal means. “The accused logged into the Co-WIN portal by forging details of employees of other hospitals to create vaccination certificates for the beneficiaries,” read the BMC statement.The incident came into the light after residents became suspicious as seven-eight days following the inoculation, they started getting vaccination certificates from three different hospitals and vaccination centres— Nanavati Max Super Speciality and Lifeline hospitals and the civic-run NESCO jumbo centre — that were not even involved in the drive. Out of the 390 beneficiaries who were administered with the first dose of Covishield, 120 received the vaccination certificates. Later, all these three vaccination centres denied their involvement in the immunisation drive. Kandivli police arrested five accused on Friday in connection to the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mumbai-housing-society-vax-scam-bmc-to-seek-details-of-vials-from-sii-101624129829951.html
20-06-2021||Other||Mumbai society vax fraud: Hunt on for doctor who trained accused||Kandivli police are on the lookout for a doctor, who owns a nursing institute at Borivli, for allegedly training one of the men arrested in the Hiranandani Heritage society vaccination scam. The police had on Friday arrested five men for allegedly conducting an unauthorised vaccination camp at the society, located at Kandivli (West). One of the accused, Karim Ali, had revealed that the doctor had recruited him and other ward boys who had been working in the vaccination drive at hospitals and possessed the login IDs and passwords of the government portal for vaccine registration. According to the police, the doctor had asked Ali and others to approach societies and other organisations to conduct vaccination camps. After administering the vaccination, the accused used to feed the identification documents of the beneficiaries and print the certificates. “When we went to the institute owned by the doctor, we found it closed,” said a police officer.After the society members of Hiranandani Heritage approached the police reporting about the vaccination scam, Aditya College located at Saibaba Nagar, Borivli (West), also lodged a complaint about a similar unauthorised drive on their campus. According to a statement issued by the college, on June 3, a vaccination camp was organised by an event management company, allegedly managed by Rajesh Pandey, chief manager (sales) of Kokilaben Hospital. Pandey had assured the college that the camp will be supervised by the hospital. He also said that the event management firm will organise the camp and procure all the necessary permissions and complete legal formalities and the college management will only have to make the payment.The college decided to hold a vaccination camp for its students, staff and their family members as well as college trustees. However after the camp, when the management did not receive the certificates, they suspected foul play. They came across the vaccination scam at Hiranandani Heritage in the newspapers and approached Borivli police. Pandey had allegedly conducted the immunisation drive at Hiranandani Heritage too on May 30. He has now been suspended.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mumbai-society-vax-fraud-hunt-on-for-doctor-who-trained-accused-101624129709983.html
20-06-2021||Other||MP Rita Joshi provides 29 O2 concentrators to hosps, CHCs in Prayagrjaj and Lucknow||With an aim to help upgrade medical facilities in the hinterland and help them gear up to meet the challenges of the predicted third wave of Covid-19, Allahabad MP Rita Bahuguna Joshi sent off 19 oxygen concentrators meant for the community health centres (CHCs) located in trans-Yamuna region of the district from her home on Minto Road on Saturday. CMO-Prayagraj Dr Prabhakar Rai was also present on the occasion. The MP informed that to help medical facilities to upgrade available resources for the forthcoming challenges, she had received 29 oxygen concentrators for Lucknow and Prayagraj through the support of Singapore citizens. She said that 10 of these oxygen concentrators had been provided to Railway Hospital located at Alambagh and Cantonment Hospital in Lucknow while the remaining 19 were on Saturday sent to Covid-19 treatment centres in the trans-Yamuna area of Prayagraj including Ram Nagar, Manda, Chaka, Kaundhiara, Karchana, Koraon, Shankargarh and Jasra. “The oxygen contractors are of different capacities including 15 litres, 10 litres and 7.5 litres. Most of these have double nozzles and so two patients can be benefitted from each machine,” she explained. The CHCs of Ram Nagar and Manda have been provided two oxygen concentrators each (One 15 litre capacity and another of 10-litre capacity) while the CHC at Meja has been provided two oxygen concentrators of 7.5-litre capacity each. Koraon, Jasra and Shankargarh CHCs each have been given two oxygen concentrators (one of 10 litres and another of 7.5-litre capacity) while the CHC at Chaka has also been provided two oxygen concentrators (one of 15-litre capacity and other of 7.5-litre capacity) even as Kaundiara CHC has got one 10 litre and two 7.5 litre oxygen concentrators, the MP shared. One oxygen concentrator would remain with the CMO for use as per need, she added. The MP said that she had adopted the Karchana CHC and for which she has given ₹25 lakh for its up-gradation from her MP fund. The MP said that she planned to further develop the CHCs and PHCs of her constituency area with help of CSR initiatives of various firms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mp-rita-joshi-provides-29-o2-concentrators-to-hosps-chcs-in-prayagrjaj-and-lucknow-101624129650737.html
20-06-2021||Lucknow||Assistant teachers recruitment: Merit list for 6000 vacant posts to be declared on June 26||The merit list for the vacant post of 69,000 assistant teachers recruitment for government-run primary and upper primary schools will be announced on June 26 while the appointment letters will be issued on June 30.Nearly 6000 vacant posts will be filled and the documents of the selected candidates will be verified on June 28 and 29.Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday said instructions have been issued to complete the process of recruitment on 69,000 vacant posts of assistant teachers for scheduled tribe candidates in a time-bound manner.He said previous vacant posts should also be filled at the earliest. He said in four years four lakh youth were appointed.It took the state government two years to wrap up the appointment of 69,000 assistant teachers in government primary and upper primary schools across the state. The posts were advertised in December 2018 and the state government could complete the appointment only in December 2020, after a long-drawn legal battle in the high court and Supreme Court after candidates filed a lawsuit.Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath had distributed appointment letters to select recruits in October and December and even interacted with them while others received them from local MLAs, MPs and ministers in the Yogi government in their respective districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/assistant-teachers-recruitment-merit-list-for-6000-vacant-posts-to-be-declared-on-june-26-101624129469899.html
20-06-2021||Mumbai||Fewer ICU, ventilator beds vacant in Mumbai||A steady decrease in the number of Covid-19 cases in Mumbai over the past two weeks has lifted the oxygen-bed availability to 82%. However, fewer intensive care unit (ICU) and ventilator beds are vacant in comparison, at 45% and 36% respectively. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) and experts have attributed this to the nature of infections in the devastating second wave, with critical patients taking longer to recover. The higher ICU and ventilator bed occupancy is behind the BMC’s decision to stick to its level-three unlock status, even though Mumbai now qualifies for level one. For any city to qualify for level one, it needs to have a positivity rate of less than 5% and oxygen-bed occupancy less than 25%. However, municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal said on Friday evening that Mumbai may continue to remain in level three. The civic body will take a call on easing restrictions in the city next week, authorities had said on Friday. As of Saturday morning, Mumbai has 9,007 of 10,933 oxygen beds vacant, but only 1,185 of 2,633 ICU beds and 527 of 1,450 ventilator beds vacant. When asked if the higher occupancy of ICU and ventilator beds is a matter of concern, Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, in-charge of BMC’s public health department, said on Friday night, “Even though the lower vacancy of ICU and ventilator beds is not a concerning factor at present, if restrictions are eased immediately, and cases increase rapidly, we don’t want to be in a difficult situation.” Experts have attributed the higher occupancy of ICU and ventilator beds to longer recovery time in critical patients who got infected during the second wave. Some Covid-19 patients who were admitted into critical care at the peak of the second wave, last month, remain on critical care still, experts said. Dr Harish Chafle, senior consultant, pulmonology and critical care at Global Hospitals in Parel, said, “Early development of fibrosis, intensity of the infection in critical patients, and new strands of the virus are mainly responsible for critical patients needing medical care longer. In such patients, we are also seeing that the final outcome is not too good.” In such a scenario, increased caseload in the near future can prove challenging, according to experts. “It is important to identify infection in patients with lower immunity in the early stages. We are also identifying patients in whom severity of the virus has chances of rapidly increasing, and treating them accordingly,” Dr Chafle said. On Saturday, Mumbai reported 676 cases, corresponding to 33,136 tests conducted in Mumbai, with a daily positivity rate of 2%. The city also reported 13 deaths. There are 18,788 active cases in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fewer-icu-ventilator-beds-vacant-in-mumbai-101624127909869.html
20-06-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19 impact: Mumbai’s poor have got poorer||A large-scale study in Mumbai’s M East Ward — one of the poorest in the financial capital — has found that the average income of its residents has decreased by as much as 47% due to the Covid-19 pandemic.The preliminary findings from the surveyed areas including Mankhurd, Govandi, Shivaji Nagar, Cheetah Camp, Trombay and Deonar, also revealed that unemployment increased from 7% to 12% and self-employed people like vendors, drivers, shop owners, and daily-wage earners were the hardest hit. At least 12.5% have not been able to find work even after economic activities resumed after the unlockdown last year.The Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS) surveyed 26,000 households in 26 bastis of M East ward, covering a total of 97,414 men, women and children to study the impact of the pandemic on health, education, livelihood, housing and education in what it refers to as the Community-Led Action Learning and Partnership (CLAP) project.TISS partnered with Tata Trusts and the Asian Development Bank to conduct the survey and the findings will be released in the first week of July.The findings from the livelihood part of the study, a copy of which Hindustan Times has seen, are in line with recent unemployment trends in the rest of the country: the national unemployment rate had reached a record high of 23.52% in April 2020 during the national lockdown. It improved to 6.52% in January 2021, in line with an economic recovery. But the second wave delivered another hit to the jobs market in April and May. The two months saw about 23 million job losses—both salaried and non-salaried, Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE) data revealed. To put things in perspective, a 7.97% unemployment rate in April erased some 7.35 million jobs, including 3.4 million salaried jobs.In M East ward, where many who work in the informal sector reside, the average monthly income is ₹12,050, which is ₹1,400 less than the minimum wage (as set under the minimum wages act) in the city. “The impact of the loss of income was grave, with many people struggling to pay rents or buy basic medications for pre-existing ailments such as hypertension,” said Shubham Kothari, program manager for the CLAP project. “A lot of people we surveyed could not even afford to pay for the community toilets.” The survey was carried out between November 26, 2020, and January 14, 2021, through a detailed questionnaire on a mobile app. “The M East is structurally vulnerable ward and has been neglected for long,” said Amita Bhide, professor and dean, School of Habitat Studies at TISS. “The pandemic and the lockdown unravelled worst of its issues, and it prompted us to conduct this detailed survey.” “The pandemic has been a prolonged disaster for the communities in M East,” she said.“Our findings show that the pandemic resulted in nearly 30% increase in healthcare expenses,” said Avinash Madhale, programme coordinator of CLAP. “Many people were unwilling to seek medical help for their ailments, while some borrowed money for treatments. There is also a section of people who have suffered from adverse impacts due to delaying medical help or not seeking medical help at all,” he said, citing a case of a domestic worker from the ward who died because she could not afford to buy high blood pressure medication.The survey also aims at compiling a detailed database of people in the ward, mainly the most vulnerable ones. Such data can be helpful to implement aid-related projects and other programmes in a better way. For instance, the database of people from the survey came in handy for the Covid-19 vaccination drive. “We were able to give basti-wise lists to the civic authorities, our volunteers helped in transporting people to the centers and we even helped fighting vaccine hesitancy by recording video testimonies of people who have taken the vaccine,” said Madhale.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid19-impact-mumbai-s-poor-have-got-poorer-101624127789821.html
20-06-2021||Patna||Chirag Paswan calls on Lok Sabha Speaker, Paras disbands all LJP units||The Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) faction, headed by Pashupati Kumar Paras, on Saturday disbanded all bodies and state units affiliated with the party and announced a new national executive, while Jamui MP Chirag Paswan, along with his aides, called on Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla in New Delhi. The decision comes a day ahead of the national executive meeting called by the Paswan faction.With Paras as its president, all four other MPs figure in the executive – Chowdhary Mehbob Ali Kaiser and Veena Devi have been made the national vice-president while Chandan Singh and Prince Raj have been appointed as national general secretaries. In a letter, Paras said the other state committees and cells would be formed in due course.Later in the evening, Paswan met Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla to present his case against the decision to accept the claim of the other faction declaring Paras as the leader of the party in the Lok Sabha.“I told the Speaker why he needs to review the decision. Our party’s constitution says the central parliamentary board has to clear all decisions. I am sure the Speaker was not aware of this party constitutional requirement. He can give them the status of a separate party, but Paras cannot be appointed as the party chief in the Lok Sabha,” Paswan said after the meeting.Earlier this week, Paras and four other MPs ostensibly ousted Paswan from the posts of party president and leader of the party in the Lok Sabha.On Friday, Paswan told the EC that the rebels had no locus standi to make the decisions that they had. He asked that they be barred from using the party symbol. “Only nine members elected Paras as the president of the party,” he had said and demanded a ban on the use of the party’s symbol and flag.During the meeting with EC officials, while the Paswan faction submitted the names of 77 members, the Paras faction is yet to submit its list.People familiar with the matter said that the list of members of the party’s National Executive Committee on each side is going to be an important evidence for the EC. “Both factions are claiming support of majority but nobody knows the exact number,” said an LJP leader who asked not to be named||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/paras-declares-new-team-paswan-faction-to-meet-today-101624122990418.html
20-06-2021||Ranchi||Congress leadership won’t change in Jharkhand: Rameshwar Oraon||State Congress chief and finance minister Rameshwar Oraon on Saturday ruled out possibilities of change in guard of the party in Jharkhand, saying that his recent meet with party leaders in the national capital was a “courtesy call”.Oraon has been stationed in New Delhi for past three days and has met senior Congress leaders, including K Venugopal, general secretary (organisation). Speaking to a news agency, Oraon said he met the senior leaders on account of his good relations with them.“It was a courtesy meet. If there is an agenda for a meeting, we will inform. If changing anyone makes the party stronger, then the high command can do it. I think there won’t be any change,” he said.The comment comes at a time when speculations were rife about a change of the party’s president in Jharkhand, on lines of some other states. A section of party workers has also been openly demanding that Oraon should make way for someone else, following the central leadership’s stated stance of “one person, one post” for the party workers.Oraon took charge of the faction-ridden Jharkhand unit of the party months before the Assembly elections in 2019 in the state. After the three-party alliance came to power, Oraon was also made the finance minister in the Hemant Soren government.After Oraon left for the national capital on Monday last, chief minister Hemant Soren also left for the city the same day, stoking speculations that the alliance parties could finalise filling the only vacant berth in the Hemant cabinet. Both JMM and Congress have staked claim to the position of 12th ministerial position in the state government.Though Oraon reiterated party’s claim to the ministerial berth, he played down reports that it was on the agenda as of now. “We will demand the remaining berth in the Cabinet, but it’s the prerogative of the chief minister to do that as per the Constitution. This time, neither I nor the chief minister have come to Delhi for the 12th minister,” Oraon was quoted saying by the aforementioned news agency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/party-leadership-won-t-change-in-jharkhand-oraon-101624120890378.html
20-06-2021||Kolkata||Bengal man killed 4 of his family, buried them in their house; arrested: Cops||19-year-old man was arrested in West Bengal’s Malda district on Saturday, four months after he allegedly murdered four of his family members and buried them inside the house, police said.According to the police, the incident came to light late on Friday when the elder brother of Mohammed Asif, the accused, filed a police complaint accusing his brother of killing all family members and burying them in a room at their Kaliachowk residence.Police said preliminary investigation has revealed that, on February 28, Asif offered his family members drinks laced with sedatives. “Once they fell asleep, he dragged them to a water tank and then allegedly drowned them. Arif (the elder brother), however, managed to escape after a fight,” said a police officer. Police said the accused even dug a tunnel to drag the four to the tank before burying them in two-foot-deep graves.“When the bodies were exhumed, they were in decomposed condition. Their hands were tied with ropes and mouths were taped. We also recovered the bottle in which they were offered drinks,” said the officer.Superintendent of police (Malda), Alok Rajoria, said: “We have arrested the accused. The involvement of the elder brother, who lodged the complaint, cannot be ruled out and he is also being interrogated.” “We have to verify a lot of things, including the motive, the role of the two brothers, why did the elder brother not inform the police earlier? Was there any involvement of a third person?”The neighbours said they had not seen the family for the last three to four months. “Asif told us that his parents had gone to Kolkata,” said Naushad Ali, a neighbour.Police said Asif needed a huge sum of money for his business and was forcing his family to transfer some properties in his name.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bengal-man-killed-4-of-his-family-buried-them-in-their-house-arrested-cops-101624106069509.html
20-06-2021||World||Biden to meet Afghanistan’s Ghani, Abdullah||US President Joe Biden will meet Afghanistan’s President Ashraf Ghani and Abdullah Abdullah, chairman of the country’s High Council for National Reconciliation on Friday, the White House has announced, to signal “enduring partnership” between the two countries as the drawdown of American troops continues with the September 11 deadline.As a crucial stakeholder and key player in Afghanistan’s reconstruction and reconciliation, India will be watching the meeting closely. New Delhi has been clear that while the US drawdown was inevitable, it doesn’t want to see the gains of the last 20 years squandered in the aftermath.Those gains remain a priority for the Biden administration as well, as it has said and reiterated it once again in the Sunday announcement of the visit. “The visit by President Ghani and Dr Abdullah will highlight the enduring partnership between the US and Afghanistan as the military drawdown continues,” the White House said, adding, “The US is committed to supporting the Afghan people by providing diplomatic, economic, and humanitarian assistance to support the Afghan people, including women, girls and minorities.”There have been concerns that US withdrawal could lead to the return of the Taliban and their repressive practices and support of al-Qaeda and other terrorist organisations, many of whom never left Afghanistan.The Biden administration has said it plans to withdraw all American troops from Afghanistan before September 11, 2021, the 20th anniversary of the 9/11 attacks that brought them to the country, along with international partners, in search of al-Qaeda.The White House added: “We will remain deeply engaged with the Government of Afghanistan to ensure the country never again becomes a safe haven for terrorist groups who pose a threat to the US homeland.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-to-meet-afghanistan-s-ghani-abdullah-101624211013804.html
20-06-2021||World||9 children among 10 killed in Alabama crash caused 'likely' by storm||Tropical Depression Claudette claimed 12 lives in Alabama as the storm swept across the southeastern U.S., causing flash flooding and spurring tornadoes that destroyed dozens of homes.Ten people, including nine children, were killed Saturday in a 15-vehicle crash about 35 miles (55 kilometers) south of Montgomery on Interstate 65, according to Butler County Coroner Wayne Garlock.He said the vehicles likely hydroplaned on wet roads, with eight children, ages 4 to 17, killed in a van belonging to a youth ranch operated by the Alabama Sheriffs Association for abused or neglected children. A man and a 9-month-old baby died in a separate vehicle. Multiple people were also injured.Meanwhile, a 24-year-old man and a 3-year-old boy were killed when a tree fell on their house just outside the Tuscaloosa city limits Saturday, Capt. Marty Sellers of the Tuscaloosa Violent Crimes Unit told The Tuscaloosa News.The deaths occurred as drenching rains pelted northern Alabama and Georgia late Saturday. As much as 12 inches (30 centimeters) of rain was reported earlier from Claudette along the Mississippi Gulf Coast.Flash flood watches were posted Sunday for northern Georgia, most of South Carolina, the North Carolina coast and parts of southeast Alabama and the Florida Panhandle. A tropical storm warning was in effect in North Carolina from the Little River Inlet to the town of Duck on the Outer Banks. A tropical storm watch was issued from South Santee River, South Carolina, to the Little River Inlet, forecasters said.The eight girls killed in the van were returning to a youth ranch operated by the Alabama Sheriffs Association near Camp Hill, northeast of Montgomery, from a week at the beach in Gulf Shores, youth ranches CEO Michael Smith told The Associated Press. He said the director of the Tallapoosa County ranch survived the crash and was hospitalized in Montgomery. At least one of the dead was a child of the director, Smith said.“This is the worst tragedy I've been a part of in my life,” said Smith, who was driving Sunday to Camp Hill to talk to the remaining residents, who had returned from Gulf Shores in a separate van and did not see the wreck.“Words cannot explain what I saw,” Smith said of the accident site, which he visited Saturday. “We love these girls like they're our own children.”Garlock said the location of the wreck is “notorious" for hydroplaning, as the northbound highway curves down a hill to a small creek. Traffic on that stretch of I-65 is usually filled with vacationers driving to and from Gulf of Mexico beaches on summer weekends.“Butler County has had one of the most terrible traffic accidents," county Sheriff Danny Bond wrote on Facebook, adding: “I believe is the worst ever in our county."The Tallapoosa County school system said counselors would be available Sunday at Reeltown High School, where some of the ranch residents were students. Smith said the ranch, which is Christian-based, would likely have a memorial service later, asking for prayers as he began to cry.Top winds remained near 30 mph (45 kph) on Sunday. National Hurricane Center forecasters predicted Claudette would strengthen back to tropical storm status Monday over eastern North Carolina before heading out to sea in the Atlantic Ocean.More than 20 people were rescued Saturday by boat due to flooding in Northport, Alabama, WVUA-TV reported. The Tuscaloosa County Emergency Management Agency tweeted that local Red Cross volunteers were on hand to help those who were affected. A shelter was opened in Northport.The center of Claudette's disorganized circulation was located about 15 miles (20 kilometers) east-northeast of Atlanta on Sunday morning. It was moving east-northeast at 17 mph (28 kph), the National Hurricane Center said.Claudette was declared organized enough to qualify as a named tropical storm early Saturday morning, after the storm’s center of circulation had come ashore southwest of New Orleans.Shortly after landfall, a suspected tornado spurred by the storm demolished or badly damaged at least 50 homes in a small town in Alabama, just north of the Florida border.Sheriff Heath Jackson in Escambia County said a suspected tornado “pretty much leveled” a mobile home park, toppled trees onto houses and ripped the roof off of a high school gym. Most of the damage was done in or near the towns of Brewton and East Brewton, about 48 miles (77 kilometers) north of Pensacola, Florida.“It kind of affected everybody,” Jackson said. “But with those mobile homes being built so close together it can take a toll on them a lot more than it can on houses that are spread apart.”Tornadoes were also reported in southwest Georgia.Damage from the storm was also felt in north Florida, where winds — in some cases reaching 85 mph (137 kph) — caused an 18-wheeler to flip on its side.The storm also dumped flooding rains north of Lake Pontchartrain in Louisiana and along the Mississippi coast, inundating streets and, in some areas, pushing water into homes. Later, the storm was drenching the Florida Panhandle and, well inland, a broad expanse of Alabama.Forecasters said the system could still dump 2 to 4 inches (5 to 10 centimeters) of rain in the region, with isolated accumulations of 8 inches (20 centimeters) possible.Separately, Tropical Storm Dolores made landfall on Mexico’s west coast with near-hurricane force. As of Sunday morning, it had dissipated over Mexico. Its remnants had maximum sustained winds of 25 mph (35 kph), and it was centered about 170 miles (275 kilometers) east of Mazatlan, Mexico.Heavy rainfall totals up to 15 inches (38 centimeters) were expected across the southwest and western coastal areas of Mexico throughout the weekend. Forecasters were warning of the potential for flash flooding and mudslides.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/9-children-among-10-killed-in-alabama-crash-caused-likely-by-storm-101624205812136.html
20-06-2021||World||South African 'diamond rush' unearths only quartz crystals, officials say||Unidentified stones that lured thousands of fortune seekers to a rural South African village to mine the land with picks and shovels were not diamonds as hoped, officials said on Sunday, but quartz stones with relatively low, if any, value.People from across South Africa travelled to KwaHlathi in the country's eastern KwaZulu-Natal province where villagers had been digging since June 12 after a herder discovered the first stone in an open field and put out the word.Provincial executive council member for economic development and tourism, Ravi Pillay, told a media briefing on Sunday he had counted some 3,000 there during a visit to the site, where samples were taken to identify the stones."The tests conducted conclusively revealed that the stones discovered in the area are not diamonds as some had hoped," he said, adding they were in fact quartz crystals."The value, if any, of the quartz crystals is yet to be established but it must be mentioned that the value of quartz crystals is very low compared to that of diamonds."The event had highlighted the socio-economic challenges faced by local people, he continued. Like many areas in South Africa, high levels of unemployment and poverty have left communities living hand to mouth.People in the area had also raised concerns specifically around roads and water during the visit, which officials at the briefing said they would address.Meanwhile, the number of people mining the land had dwindled to less than 500, Pillay continued, though significant damage had already been done with an area of around 50 hectares covered in holes of up to one metre, posing a danger to cattle.He said those that continue to mine in the area, a situation that also risks the spread of Covid-19, would be encouraged to leave, though law enforcement could be drawn upon if necessary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/south-african-diamond-rush-unearths-only-quartz-crystals-officials-say-101624204371146.html
20-06-2021||World||Biden to meet Afghanistan's Ghani, Abdullah Abdullah amid US troop withdrawal||US President Joe Biden will meet at the White House with Afghan President Ashraf Ghani and Abdullah Abdullah, chairman of Afghanistan's High Council for National Reconciliation, on June 25, the White House said on Sunday.The meeting comes at a critical time when fighting between Afghan security forces and Taliban militants has surged, since Biden announced in April that all US troops in Afghanistan would be withdrawn before Sept. 11, ending America's longest war after nearly 20 years of conflict."The visit by President Ghani and Dr. Abdullah will highlight the enduring partnership between the United States and Afghanistan as the military drawdown continues," the White House said in a statement.It added that Washington was committed to supporting the Afghan people by providing diplomatic, economic and humanitarian assistance."The United States will remain deeply engaged with the Government of Afghanistan to ensure the country never again becomes a safe haven for terrorist groups who pose a threat to the US homeland," it said.However, the Taliban has staged a months-long campaign to expand its influence across the country as the United States has begun withdrawing troops and closed some bases and handed them over to the Afghan government. The troop withdrawal started on May 1.Since the United States announced plans in April to pull out all of troops, at least 30 districts have been seized by the Taliban.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-to-meet-with-afghanistan-s-ghani-and-abdullah-abdullah-101624203478983.html
20-06-2021||World||Biden admin sees North Korea’s Kim Jong Un comments as ‘interesting signal'||The United States on Sunday said that it regards North Korean leader Kim Jong Un’s “dialogue and confrontation” remark as an “interesting signal” but would wait for direct communication from Pyongyang for any potential talks."His comments this week we regard as an interesting signal and we will wait to see whether they are followed up with any kind of more direct communication to us about a potential path forward," US national security adviser Jake Sullivan told ABC News.North Korea’s state media reported on Friday that Kim ordered his government to prepare for both “dialogue and confrontation” with Washington, in his first reaction to the Biden administration’s new policy for Pyongyang. Kim also stressed the need to get “fully prepared for confrontation” to guarantee the “peaceful environment” and security of North Korea."What President Biden has communicated is that the United States is prepared to engage in principled negotiations with North Korea to deal with the challenge of North Korea's nuclear program towards the ultimate objective of the complete denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula," Sullivan said in the interview.Also Read | ‘Even North Korea is not this nuts’: Defector after graduating from American universityLast month, US President Joe Biden rejected his predecessor’s approach to North Korea and its nuclear program, saying he would not give Kim Jong Un any “international recognition”. Former US president Donald Trump met the North Korean leader in June 2018 during the Singapore summit but no mutually acceptable term for nuclear negotiations have been achieved so far.“If he made any commitment, then I would meet with him,” said Biden during a joint press conference with South Korean President Moon Jae-in.“But what I would not do is..what had been done in the recent past. I would not give him all that he’s looking for - international recognition...and give [North Korea] what allowed [Kim Jong Un] to move in the direction of appearing to be more...serious about what he wasn’t at all serious about,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-admin-sees-north-korea-s-kim-jong-un-comments-as-interesting-signal-101624202594907.html
20-06-2021||World||Pakistan NSA rules out meeting with Indian counterpart on margins of SCO meeting||Pakistan National Security Adviser Moeed Yusuf has ruled out the possibility of a meeting with his Indian counterpart Ajit Doval on the margins of a meeting of top security officials of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) states in Tajikistan this week. Doval and Yusuf are set to attend the in-person meeting of the secretaries of the security council of the eight SCO member states in Dushanbe during June 22-23, and this had triggered speculation about a meeting between the two officials against the backdrop of back-channel contacts between India and Pakistan. “There is absolutely no possibility of any bilateral meeting with Indian counterpart at SCO,” Yusuf was quoted as saying by Pakistan’s Dawn newspaper. At the last virtual meeting of NSAs of SCO member states in September 2020, Doval walked out after Yusuf projected a map that inaccurately depicted the borders of the two countries and included several Indian regions within Pakistan. At the time, Yusuf was special adviser to Pakistan’s prime minister on national security. He was formally appointed the NSA earlier this year. Yusuf said he would meet his counterparts from Russia, China, Tajikistan, Uzbekistan, Kyrgyzstan and Kazakhstan in Dushanbe. External affairs minister S Jaishankar and his Pakistani counterpart Shah Mahmood Qureshi have been in the same country at the same time twice in recent months, including the Heart of Asia conference on Afghanistan in Dushanbe in March, but did not hold a bilateral meeting. In April, Jaishankar and Qureshi had visited the United Arab Emirates at the same time. Following a series of back-channel contacts between Indian and Pakistani security officials, the two countries recommitted themselves to the 2003 ceasefire on the Line of Control (LoC) in February. The truce has largely held, helping to ease bilateral tensions, though recent reports have suggested the back-channel contacts have stalled. The SCO meet in Dushanbe will conclude a day before Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s planned meeting with political leaders from Jammu and Kashmir on June 24 – the first such gathering since the government scrapped the region’s special status in August 2019. Pakistan has also issued several strong statements in recent weeks about what it claims were the Indian government’s plans to carry out more changes in Jammu and Kashmir. India has rejected these statements, noting that Kashmir is an integral part of the country and Pakistan’s comments amounted to interference in internal affairs. There was no official word on the possibility of a meeting between the Indian and Chinese NSAs at Dushanbe. The military standoff between the two countries at the Line of Actual Control has continued for more than a year despite several rounds of military and diplomatic talks. The meeting of the NSAs of SCO states is expected to focus on the rapidly evolving security situation in Afghanistan ahead of the drawdown of US forces and cooperation under the Regional Anti-Terror Structure (RATS). Besides India, Pakistan and China, SCO includes Russia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistan-nsa-rules-out-meeting-with-indian-counterpart-on-margins-of-sco-meeting-101624201473588.html
20-06-2021||World||Covid vaccinations in China cross 1bn mark||More than one billion doses of Covid-19 vaccines have been administered across China by the weekend, making it a major milestone for a country that continues to roll out the world’s largest inoculation drive against the deadly disease.China’s vaccination programme has picked up speed in recent months as it tries to protect itself from new variants of the infection coming from abroad.The country’s national health commission (NHC) announced the milestone on Sunday, saying the last 100 million doses were given in just five days. The NHC, however, did not say how many people had been fully vaccinated, with most of the vaccines given in two doses.“China accelerated its pace of free Covid-19 vaccinations for the whole nation since late March. It took China 25 days to climb from 100 million doses to 200 million doses, 16 days to increase from 200 million to 300 million, and six days from 800 million to 900 million,” Xinhua news agency reported, quoting updates from the NHC.China’s state media called the government’s effort the largest “vaccination drive in the history of New China”, referring to the start of the Communist Party of China’s governance in 1949.Globally, more than 2.59 billion doses have been administered across 180 countries, according to data collected by Bloomberg. Earlier this month, China’s foreign ministry had said that more than 200,000 foreigners in the country have been vaccinated.At least 70% of the target population in China is expected to be vaccinated against Covid-19 by the end of this year, said Zeng Yixin, deputy head of the NHC. The large-scale vaccination campaign carried out across China has also shown that Chinese-made Covid-19 vaccines are safe, Zeng claimed. A total of 21 Covid-19 vaccines entered clinical trials in China since last year.“So far, four vaccines have been granted conditional marketing approval and three have been authorised for emergency use within the country,” the Xinhua report said. Chinese regulators haven’t approved any non-Chinese vaccines so far.Also, China has given vaccine aid to nearly 90 countries and four international organisations besides exporting jabs to at least 40 countries. China has already provided more than 350 million doses of its Covid-19 vaccines overseas, according to Mao Junfeng, an official from the industry and IT ministry had said earlier this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-vaccinations-in-china-cross-1bn-mark-101624193913785.html
20-06-2021||World||Australia accused of becoming one of world’s most secretive democracies||Australia’s suppression of information seen as pivotal to a free and open media is at the center of accusations that the country has become one of the world’s most secretive democracies.Last week, a former Australian spy was convicted over his unconfirmed role as a whistleblower who revealed an espionage operation against the government of East Timor.It’s the latest high-profile case in a national system in which secrecy laws, some dating back to the colonial era, are routinely used to suppress information. Police have also threatened to charge journalists who exposed war crime allegations against Australian special forces in Afghanistan, or bureaucrats’ plan to allow an intelligence agency to spy on Australian citizens.Australians don’t even know the name of the former spy convicted Friday. The Canberra court registry listed him as “Witness K.” His lawyer referred to him more respectfully as “Mr. K” in court.K spent the two-day hearing in a box constructed from black screens to hide his identity. The public and media were sent out of the courtroom when classified evidence was discussed, which was about half the time.The only sign that anyone was actually inside the box was when a voice said “guilty” after K was asked how he pleaded.The Australian government has refused to comment on allegations that K led an Australian Secret Intelligence Service operation that bugged government offices in the East Timorese capital in 2004, during negotiations on the sharing of oil and gas revenue from the seabed that separates the two countries.The government canceled K’s passport before he was to testify at the Permanent Court of Arbitration in The Hague in 2014 in support of the East Timorese, who argued the treaty was invalid because Australia failed to negotiate in good faith by engaging in espionage.There was no evidence heard in open court of a bugging operation, which media reported was conducted under the guise of a foreign aid program.K was given a three-month suspended sentence. If he’d been sent to prison, there were court orders designed to conceal his former espionage career by restricting what he could tell friends and associates to explain his predicament.He had faced up to two years in prison. Since his offense, Australia has continued to tighten controls on secrecy, increasing the maximum sentence to 10 years.As lacking in transparency as K’s prosecution was, it was a vast improvement on Australia’s treatment of another rogue intelligence officer known as Witness J.J has been described by the media as possibly the only person in Australian history to be tried, sentenced and imprisoned in secret. But no one seems to know for sure.As with K, it is illegal to reveal J’s identity.J pleaded guilty in a closed courtroom in the same Canberra court complex in 2018 to charges related to mishandling classified information and potentially revealing the identities of Australian agents. He spent 15 months in prison.The secret court hearing and imprisonment only became public in late 2019 because J took court action against the Australian Capital Territory government, claiming his human rights were violated by police who raided his prison cell in search of a memoir he was writing.Outraged lawyers then called for the first major review of the nation’s secrecy laws since 2010. Whistleblowers as well as journalists currently are under threat from more than 70 counterterrorism and security laws passed by Parliament since the 9/11 attacks in the U.S.Andrew Wilkie, a former government intelligence analyst whistleblower who’s now an independent federal lawmaker, is a vocal critic of national security being used as an excuse to pander to paranoia and shield embarrassment.Wilkie opposed the prosecution of K and his former lawyer Bernard Collaery. Collaery is fighting a charge that he conspired with K to reveal secrets to East Timor, and wants his trial to be open.“I am in no doubt that one of the reasons for the secrecy around the K and Collaery matter is the enormous political embarrassment that we were spying on one of the poorest countries in the world to get an upper hand in a business negotiation,” Wilkie said.Wilkie quit his intelligence job in the Office of National Assessments days before Australian troops joined U.S. and British forces in the 2003 Iraq invasion. He publicly argued that Iraq didn’t pose sufficient threat to warrant invasion and that there was no evidence linking Iraq’s government to al-Qaida.“I basically accused the government of lying,” Wilkie said.Although the government attempted to discredit him, Wilkie said he was never threatened with prosecution for revealing classified information.For many, Australian authorities took a step too far in June 2019 in their bid to chase down whistleblowers, intimidate journalists and protect government secrets.Police raided the home of News Corp. journalist Annika Smethurst, and the next day the headquarters of the Australian Broadcasting Corp. Both media outlets had used leaked government documents as the basis of public interest journalism.The search warrants were issued under Section 70 of the Crimes Act 1914, which prohibited a government employee from sharing information without a supervisor’s permission.That section has since been replaced under national security legislation that expanded the crime to include a government employee sharing opinions or reporting conversations between others.Media law experts Johan Lidberg and Denis Muller said Australia is the only country within the Five Eyes intelligence-sharing alliance – which includes the United States, Britain, Canada and New Zealand – that gives its security agencies the power to issue search warrants against journalists in the hunt for public interest whistleblowers in the name of national security.Police decided in May last year that they had insufficient evidence to charge Smethurst, the journalist, over an article published in April 2018. She had reported that two government department bosses planned to create new espionage powers that would allow an intelligence agency to legally spy on Australian citizens.Prosecutors also decided in October last year that the “public interest does not require a prosecution” of ABC reporter Dan Oakes over a television investigation broadcast in July 2017 that alleged Australian troops killed unarmed men and children in Afghanistan in potential war crimes.But David McBride, a former Australian army lawyer who admits leaking classified documents to the ABC, is fighting multiple charges. He calculates he faces up to 50 years in prison for being a whistleblower.There have been two parliamentary inquiries into press freedom since the police raids, but progress toward change has been criticized as slow and weak.The Parliamentary Joint Committee on Intelligence and Security, which has rubber-stamped many of the problem security laws, said many submissions for change warned that "the balance in legislation and culture within the Australian government has tipped away from transparency and engagement to excessive and unnecessary secrecy.”A Senate committee inquiry into press freedom last month made several recommendations, mostly for more government investigation. The committee asked whether secret information offenses should be amended to include a harm requirement, and whether journalists should still have to prove that an unauthorized disclosure was in the public interest.Wilkie, the lawmaker, argues Australia has drifted into becoming a “pre-police state” through its embrace of secrecy.“It’s now unremarkable when a government cloaks something in a national security need for secrecy,” Wilkie said. “We don’t bat an eyelid anymore. We should be outraged.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/australia-accused-of-becoming-one-of-world-s-most-secretive-democracies-101624191153930.html
20-06-2021||World||Nuclear talks to be adjourned for consultations in capitals, says Iran||Negotiators for Iran and six world powers will on Sunday adjourn talks on reviving their 2015 nuclear deal and return to respective capitals for consultations as remaining differences cannot be easily overcome, Tehran's delegation chief said."We are now closer than ever to an agreement but the distance that exists between us and an agreement remains and bridging it is not an easy job," Abbas Araqchi told Iranian state TV from Vienna. "We will return to Tehran tonight."Parties to the pact were holding a formal meeting in Vienna on Sunday from 2:30 p.m. (1230 GMT), the European Union said on Saturday.A hardliner, Ebrahim Raisi, won Iran's presidential election on Friday and will take office in early August, replacing pragmatist Hassan Rouhani. But this is unlikely to disrupt Iran's effort under Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, who has final say on all major policy, to restore the nuclear pact and be rid of tough US oil and financial sanctions.Negotiations have been going on in Vienna since April to work out the nature and sequencing of steps Iran and the United States must take on nuclear activities and sanctions to return to full compliance with the nuclear pact.Washington under then-President Donald Trump left the deal in 2018, branding it too flawed to remove the risk of Iran developing nuclear weapons capability, and reimposed sanctions on the Islamic Republic.Iran has since breached the deal's strict limits on uranium enrichment. It has said its moves would be reversed if the United States rescinded all sanctions."Bridging the gaps requires decisions that mainly the other party (Washington) has to take. I hope in the next round we will travel this short distance albeit a difficult one," Araqchi said.Israel: Don't Negotiate With 'Brutal' New GovernmentThe Islamic Republic's arch-enemy, Israel, on Sunday condemned Raisi's election. New Prime Minister Naftali Bennett said it would be a "regime of brutal hangmen" with which world powers should not negotiate a new nuclear accord."(His) election is, I would say, the last chance for world powers to wake up before returning to the nuclear agreement, and understand who they are doing business with," Bennett said in a statement.Raisi has never publicly addressed allegations around his role in what the United States and human rights groups have called the extrajudicial executions of thousands of political prisoners in 1988.Bennett, a nationalist atop a cross-partisan coalition, has hewed to the opposition of conservative predecessor Benjamin Netanyahu to the nuclear deal, whose caps on projects with atomic bomb-making potential Israel deemed too lax.Iran has always denied seeking nuclear weapons.Credit For A DealRaisi, like Khamenei, has supported the nuclear talks as a route to cancelling US sanctions that have laid waste to the Islamic Republic's oil-based economy and dramatically worsened economic hardships, stirring widespread discontent.The new government will hope to claim credit for any economic benefits arising from the revival of the accord, something the outgoing administration might clinch before Raisi takes office."If the deal is finalised when Rouhani is (still) president, Raisi cannot be criticised by hardline supporters for giving concessions to the West," a government official who is close to the talks told Reuters. "Also Rouhani, not Raisi, will be blamed for any future problems regarding the deal."Several Iranian officials told Reuters that the country's current negotiating team would remain intact at least for a few months under Raisi's presidency."Who Raisi picks as his foreign minister will reveal the new government's foreign policy approach," said another official. "But the establishment's nuclear policy is not decided by the government" but by Khamenei.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nuclear-talks-to-be-adjourned-for-consultations-in-capitals-says-iran-101624190322090.html
20-06-2021||World||Under-18s could be Delta variant driver, virologist sounds caution on UK vaccination plan||Amid the UK’s drive to vaccinate all individuals above the age of 18, a leading British virologist has warned that it could lead to the concentration of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in schoolchildren, according to The Observer. The United Kingdom is witnessing another surge in infections, which many deem as the country's third Covid wave, and, according to Public Health England, the Delta variant accounts for 99% of the total active cases.The UK government has been targeting to vaccinate the maximum number of individuals in the shortest possible time to avoid another wave. A senior Public Health England (PHE) said that it should be possible for 70 per cent of the adult population to receive both doses of the Covid vaccine before July 19, the date of the final stage of lockdown lifting.“We are definitely seeing some signs of slowing down…We are seeing rises and falls as people really go out and get tested and I think we are seeing the impact of vaccination and that is good news,” Dr Susan Hopkins, strategy director for Covid-19 at PHE, told the BBC.Also Read | Third wave of Covid-19 arrives in UK, says expert as Delta variant wreaks havocWhile the government officials have emphasised the need for maximum vaccination coverage among adults to avoid another deadly Covid wave, virologist Julian Tang, of Leicester University, has reportedly sounded a note of caution. Recent data on Covid-19 indicates that people under-30s, who have not been extensively vaccinated, were the ones largely infected by the virus and Tang suggested that the vaccination programme would drive the virus into under-18s, reported The Observer.“As a result, the virus will concentrate in school-age populations, which will eventually become a reservoir and driver of any ensuing Delta variant epidemic, as well as being a hotspot in which new mutations may arise,” the British weekly quoted Tang as saying.Such developments could pressurise the government to administer Covid vaccines to children and teenagers, a move strongly criticised by the World Health Organisation (WHO). Global health leaders have discouraged the vaccination of children at this stage when all healthcare workers and high-risk individuals in low and lower-middle-income countries are yet to be inoculated against Covid-19. In May, WHO director-general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus had criticised the move by rich countries to vaccinate lower risk groups, calling it a “moral catastrophe.”“In January, I spoke about the potential unfolding of a moral catastrophe. Unfortunately, we are now witnessing this play out,” the WHO chief told a press briefing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/under18s-could-be-delta-variant-driver-uk-virologist-on-vaccination-program-101624187769456.html
20-06-2021||World||‘Scale up, implement measures rigorously to prevent another Covid surge’: WHO||As more countries confirmed the prevalence of highly transmissible variants of Covid-19, the World Health Organisation (WHO) on Sunday issued an advisory for countries in the South-East Asia region to scale up and rigorously implement public health and social measures, along with efforts to accelerate vaccination for the Coronavirus disease (Covid-19), to prevent another surge.“We need to continuously strengthen our efforts to test, trace and isolate. Societal interventions such as physical distancing, hand hygiene and proper wearing of masks need to be stringently implemented. These measures should be in full force and for longer periods in areas reporting more transmissible variants of concerns,” said Dr Poonam Khetrapal Singh, regional director, WHO South-East Asia.Earlier this week, Maldives and Myanmar confirmed transmission of ‘variants of concern’ that have already been confirmed in Bangladesh, India, Indonesia, Nepal, Sri Lanka, Thailand and Timor-Leste so far.The ‘variants of concern’, along with the opening of economies and societies, contributed to the recent surge in cases globally.The public health and social measures are a wide range of nonpharmaceutical interventions, both individual and societal, and are cost-effective measures to reduce the spread of Sars-Cov-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, and save lives.In addition to personal protective measures, they include cleaning, disinfection, ventilation, surveillance, contact tracing, isolation and quarantine, according to the UN body.Physical distancing measures, such as limiting the size of gatherings, maintaining distance in public or workplaces, domestic movement restrictions; and international travel-related measures, should also be adhered to.“These measures are critical for preventing infections, reducing transmission and saving lives,” she said, adding that even as countries scale up vaccination against Covid-19, they would need to implement public health and social measures in a tailored and agile way.According to the UN body, a risk-based approach is needed for public health and social measures that should be implemented by the lowest administrative level and continuously adjusted to the intensity of transmission and the capacity of health systems.“The risk assessment should measure both the actual ability to deliver services and the performance of those services… Where more transmissible ‘variants of concern’ are spreading, these measures need to be applied more stringently and for longer periods,” said the regional director.“We must not forget that the pandemic is still around. We must guard against complacency, at any level. We must continue to implement combinations of public health and social measures until globally there is high Covid-19 vaccine coverage among health workers, and high-risk and vulnerable groups,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/scale-up-implement-measures-rigorously-to-prevent-another-covid-surge-who-101624184013395.html
20-06-2021||World||Taliban insists ‘genuine Islamic system’ only way to women rights. What does it mean?||The Taliban on Sunday insisted that a “genuine Islamic system” was the only way to end the decades-long war in Afghanistan and ensure women’s rights in line with cultural traditions and religious rules. Under the Taliban’s harsh version of Islamic law, girls were banned from school and women accused of crimes such as adultery were stoned to death in stadiums."We understand that the world and Afghans have queries and questions about the form of the system to be established following withdrawal of foreign troops," Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar, the head of the Taliban's political office, said in the statement."A genuine Islamic system is the best means for the solution of all issues of the Afghans," he added.The government officials have said that the hardline Islamic group is yet to submit a written peace proposal that could be used as a starting point for substantive peace talks. Amid slow progress on intra-Afghan negotiations in Qatar and withdrawal of US troops from Afghanistan, many fear that the Taliban’s interpretation of rights will clash with changes that have happened in the country since 2001.Also Read | ‘Ignorant or accomplice’: Afghan NSA hits out at Pak FM over ties with Taliban; Islamabad repliesWhile Baradar assured the rights of all Afghans, including women and minorities, would be protected according to "the glorious religion of Islam" and Afghan traditions, it was not clear whether women would be allowed to carry out public roles and no gender-based segregation would be enforced at workplaces and schools."We take it on ourselves as a commitment to accommodate all rights of citizens of our country, whether they are male or female, in the light of the rules of the glorious religion of Islam and the noble traditions of the Afghan society," Baradar said, adding that 'facilities would be provided' for women to work and be educated.In May, a US intelligence report said if the Taliban were again Afghanistan’s dominant power, it “would roll back much” of the progress made on the women's rights front in the country. The report cautioned that though some Taliban officials publicly say that the group will respect women’s rights, they caveat that these protections must align with Taliban interpretations of sharia. According to the report, the Taliban “remains broadly consistent in its restrictive approach” to women’s rights and enforces strict social constraints in areas that it already controls.“Since the current peace process started in 2019, Taliban officials have issued statements opposing “alien-culture clothes worn by women” and have accused women’s rights advocates of promoting immorality, indecency, and non-Islamic culture,” the report highlighted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taliban-insists-islamic-system-only-way-to-women-rights-what-does-it-mean-101624181875381.html
20-06-2021||World||Afghanistan violence: Pakistan defends Taliban, blames ISIS instead||As the Taliban resumes attacks on Afghan security forces and civilians, Pakistan extended support to the terrorist group, saying it would be an "exaggeration" to hold them responsible for violence in Afghanistan.Islamabad has been accused of aiding the Taliban and using them as proxies for its own benefit.Pakistan foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi defended the Taliban for an increase in violence in Afghanistan and shifted the blame on Daesh, another word for ISIS (another word for Islamic State in Iraq and Syria).Talking to Tolo News in an exclusive interview at his office in Islamabad last week, Pakistan Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi said, "If you try and create this impression that the violence is high because of Taliban, again, that would be an exaggeration. Why do I say that? Aren't there other elements over there who are playing the role of a spoiler?""Daesh. Like forces within Afghanistan - who came from the war economy. Who want to perpetuate their power, who are not seeing beyond their nose and just want to hang on to power."Qureshi rejected Taliban sanctuaries in Pakistan and said most of their leaders "are in Afghanistan".Asked whether Taliban are "funded in Pakistan", Qureshi said: "These are very--those many things that have been going on for years. You're stuck in the old groove. Get of out that groove, please. Get out of that groove. Now, listen, if you remain stuck in this, believe me, you will not be able to travel far. And we want you to travel far. We want reconciliation and peace."Qureshi, seemingly skeptical about further progress in the peace process under the current circumstances, said President Ghani has "a very important responsibility on his shoulders" and he must "show the leadership and the flexibility" necessary to achieve progress in the peace process.Qureshi mentioned Doha as the best place for engaging in talks with the Taliban--even between the leaders of both sides--but said this will not happen unless there is willingness from both sides.According to Qureshi, the world's approach has changed as it does not hold the view that peace can be achieved through a military solution.In response to a question on what type of a government Pakistan would favour as an outcome of the peace process, Qureshi said it is a decision to be made by Afghans."That's for the people of Afghanistan to decide--who governs them and what kind of a political dispensation Afghanistan wants," he said. "What we're saying is you are all Afghans. Peace can only come to Afghanistan if you sit and reconcile. When you sit and reconcile, when you sit and talk, you will determine what kind of constitution we want, what kind of, you know, the system should be in place."When asked about the status of the Afghan peace process and progress in this respect, Qureshi said it should be asked of Afghans."The peace process has to come to its logical conclusion through an intra-Afghan negotiation. We're not sitting at the table with them. Wherever required, we've facilitated. We cannot decide for you. It's the Afghans that will sit and decide what they want," he said.Referring to Taliban leaders, he said, they're in Afghanistan and the Afghans "need to engage with them.""We're only engaging with them to facilitate the peace process. We're trying to be helpful. We're trying to be constructive."The minister said that violence has to go down and the process of peace and negotiations has to accelerate.In response to a question about whether the country is moving toward civil war, Qureshi said it depends on the Afghan leadership."It depends on you, depends on the Afghan leadership, depends on the ability of the Afghan leadership to carve a way forward. If you fail, if the Afghan leadership fail, then yes, we are heading for a civil war," he added.Reacting to Qureshi's remarks, Afghan National Security Adviser Hamadullah Mohib accused Islamabad of enabling a violent offensive by the terror group in Afghanistan.The Afghan NSA had tweeted that Qureshi's interview "comes as Taliban launches violent offensives against Afghan people across the country, we know how & why they continue to be enabled to do this. Quraishi is either uninformed, ignorant, or accomplice. Maybe he also rejects that, Osama was found next to Pakistani Military HQ."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/afghanistan-violence-pakistan-defends-taliban-blames-isis-instead-101624178949958.html
20-06-2021||World||With a hardline president in Iran, ties with Saudi may hinge on nuclear pact||Gulf Arab states are unlikely to be deterred from dialogue to improve ties with Iran after a hardline judge won the presidency but their talks with Tehran might become tougher, analysts said.Prospects for better relations between Muslim Shi'ite Iran and Sunni Gulf Arab monarchies could ultimately hinge on progress to revive Tehran's 2015 nuclear accord with world powers, they said, after Ebrahim Raisi won Friday's election.The Iranian judge and cleric, who is subject to US sanctions, takes office in August, while nuclear talks in Vienna under outgoing President Hassan Rouhani, a more pragmatic cleric, are ongoing.Saudi Arabia and Iran, longtime foes, began direct talks in April to contain tensions at the same time as global powers have been embroiled in nuclear negotiations."Iran has now sent a clear message that they are tilting to a more radical, more conservative position," said Abdulkhaleq Abdulla, a UAE political analyst, adding that Raisi's election might make improving Gulf ties a tougher challenge."Nevertheless, Iran is not in a position to become more radical ... because the region is becoming very difficult and very dangerous," he added.The United Arab Emirates, whose commercial hub Dubai has been a trade gateway for Iran, and Oman, which has often played a regional mediation role, were swift to congratulate Raisi.Saudi Arabia and Bahrain are the only Gulf states yet to comment."The faces may change but the leader is (Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali) Khamenei," columnist Khaled al-Suleiman wrote in Saudi newspaper Okaz.Raisi, an implacable critic of the West and an ally of Khamenei, who holds ultimate power in Iran, has voiced support for continuing the nuclear negotiations."If the Vienna talks succeed and there is a better situation with America, then (with) hardliners in power, who are close to the supreme leader, the situation may improve," said Abdulaziz Sager, chairman of Gulf Research Center.LeverageA revived nuclear deal and the lifting of US sanctions on the Islamic Republic would boost Raisi, easing Iran's economic crisis and offering leverage in Gulf talks, said Jean-Marc Rickli, an analyst at Geneva Centre for Security Policy.Neither Iran nor Gulf Arabs want a return to tensions of 2019 which saw attacks on tankers in Gulf waters and on Saudi oil installations, then the 2020 US killing, under former President Donald Trump, of top Iranian general Qassem Soleimani.A perception that Washington was now disengaging militarily from the area under US President Joe Biden has prompted a more pragmatic Gulf approach, analysts said.Nevertheless, Biden has demanded Iran rein in its missile programme and end its support for proxies in the region including in Yemen, which are key demands of Gulf Arab nations."The Saudis have realised they can no longer rely on the Americans for their security ... and have seen that Iran has the means to really put pressure on the kingdom through direct attacks and also with the quagmire of Yemen," Rickli said.Saudi-Iran talks have focused mainly on Yemen, where a military campaign led by Riyadh against the Iran-aligned Houthi movement for over six years no longer has US backing.The UAE has maintained contacts with Tehran since 2019, while also forging ties with Israel, Iran's arch regional foe.Sanam Vakil, an analyst at Britain's Chatham House, wrote last week that regional conversations, particularly on maritime security, were expected to continue but "can only gain momentum if Tehran demonstrates meaningful goodwill".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/with-a-hardline-president-in-iran-ties-with-saudi-may-hinge-on-nuclear-pact-101624168561441.html
20-06-2021||World||A second 'Statue of Liberty' is on its way to US, courtesy of France||France is sending what it calls the "little sister" of the famous Statue of Liberty in New York, which the country once sent as a gift to the United States. The new statue, being loaned by a Paris museum to cement Franco-American friendship, will be a scaled-down replica of the original and will first be displayed on Ellis Island, later moving on to Washinton DC, where it will stay for ten years, reported news agency Reuters earlier last week.France will send the U.S. a smaller replica of the Statue of Liberty to celebrate the two countries’ shared history on the liberty of the people pic.twitter.com/LkDjAMAIHYThe 'second' Statue of Liberty, as it is being called, is currently on its way from Paris to New York City, retracing the steps of its "big sister", a colossal neoclassical sculpture that now stands guard on Liberty Island in New York Harbor, within the New York City. The new statue is expected to arrive ahead of the Fourth of July, Independence Day in the United States.The new replica of the Statue of Liberty measures 2.83 meters (or 9.3 feet) in height. It was gently lifted off its plinth on the back of a crane by workers in Paris two weeks ago and situated on the back of a truck, covered with plastic film for protection and wedged in with foam blocks. It was then embarked upon a ship, its destination being the United States of America.The replica was designed in 1878 by French sculptor Frédéric Auguste Bartholdi, the same person who - with help from engineer Gustave Eiffel - created the larger version now in New York. The larger version of the Statue of Liberty was given by France to the United States as a gift, and was completed and assembled in 1886.(With inputs from Reuters)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/a-second-statue-of-liberty-is-on-its-way-to-us-courtesy-of-france-101624166512227.html
20-06-2021||World||At least 15 dead in multiple gun attacks near US-Mexico border: Report||Gunmen aboard a number of vehicles staged attacks in several neighborhoods in the Mexican border city of Reynosa on Saturday, and at least 15 people died in clashes that caused widespread panic, according to local law enforcement.The Tamaulipas state agency coordinating security forces said in a statement that the attacks began in the early afternoon in several neighborhoods in the eastern part of the city, which borders McAllen, Texas.The agency said one person died during an attack on police near a border bridge, but it was not clear if the others were shot in random attacks or were targeted.The shootings mobilized the army, National Guard, state police and other agencies. Authorities said they detained a person who had two women, apparently kidnapped, in the trunk of his car, and said they seized three vehicles.Reynosa Mayor Maki Esther Ortiz Domínguez sent a tweet demanding the attack be clarified and that the citizenry be protected.The area's criminal activity has long been dominated by the Gulf Cartel, but there have been fractures within the gang.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/at-least-15-dead-in-multiple-gun-attacks-near-us-mexico-border-report-101624166184185.html
20-06-2021||World||China fumes after Nepal's media exposes Sinopharm vaccine procurement price||China, which is reportedly selling Nepal vaccines against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) at a price of $10 per dose, conveyed its displeasure with Kathmandu after some regional media publications disclosed the procurement price, reported news agency ANI on Sunday morning. It was earlier reported that Nepal had had to sign a non-disclosure agreement with the makers of China’s Sinopharm Covid-19 vaccine in order to gain access to doses amid questions about the legality of such an undertaking.Also Read | Nepal signed non-disclosure agreement for Sinopharm jabs: ReportAlthough a non-disclosure agreement was reportedly in place, an article published by The Kathmandu Post revealed the price of the Sinopharm vaccine dose that China was selling to Nepal to help the Himalayan nation tackle the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. The report mentioned that Nepal was purchasing four million doses of the Chinese Sinopharm vaccine at an estimated cost of $10 or around ₹741 per dose. Although the report acknowledged that the final price is yet to be confirmed given the nature of the agreement, it could be around $10 per dose.After the article was published, multiple Chinese officials visibly communicated their displeasure with Nepal, reported ANI. Sinopharm had communicated its displeasure at the publicisation of vaccine procurement by the government of Nepal, officials told The Kathmandu Post. The Chinese embassy in Kathmandu had also reminded Nepal's ministry of foreign affairs of the nature of the deal, according to the officials.Nepal's officials, too, expressed concern over the media report. "The way the media quoted the price of the vaccine and other logistical issues were concerning because these are very sensitive issues," Dr Krishna Prasad Paudel, spokesperson for the health ministry, was quoted as saying.The Kathmandu Post backed its reportage, citing confirmation from two ministers and two government secretaries who were present at the cabinet meeting where the decision to procure four million vaccines from China was taken.The development comes as an awkward snag in diplomatic relations between the countries. Nepal has been desperately looking for alternate sources of vaccines after India temporarily halted the export of jabs in late March to cope with a devastating second wave. It was only after China agreed to sell its Sinopharm vaccines that Kathmandu saw a way to vaccinate the million-odd people who received the first dose of Covishield and were waiting for their second dose after the passage of more than two months. However, China's condition was that the imposition of a non-disclosure agreement, an unusual predicament for Nepal as the country's laws don’t have a provision for non-disclosure agreements in public procurement, according to reports.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-fumes-after-nepal-s-media-exposes-sinopharm-vaccine-procurement-price-101624161782822.html
20-06-2021||World||Truck driver crashes into South Florida Pride parade; mayor says 1 killed||A driver slammed into spectators Saturday evening at the start of a Pride parade in South Florida, and an official says one person was killed and another seriously injured.The pickup driver acted like he was part of the Wilton Manors Stonewall Pride Parade but then suddenly accelerated when he was told he was next, crashing into the victims, Fort Lauderdale Mayor Dean Trantalis said, according to WSVN-TV. Wilton Manors is just north of Fort Lauderdale.One of the victims later succumbed to their injuries, Trantalis said.News outlets reported that the driver of the pickup truck was taken into custody. Authorities did not immediately give details about the victims or say whether they believe the crash was intentional.“This is a terrorist attack against the LGBT community,” Trantalis told reporters. “This is exactly what it is. Hardly an accident.”Photos and video from the scene showed Democratic US Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz in tears while in a convertible at the parade. A spokesperson for Wasserman Schultz did not immediately return an email seeking comment.Spectator Christina Currie told the South Florida SunSentinel that she was with her family at the start of the parade.“All of a sudden there was a loud revving of a truck and a crash through a fence,” Currie said. "It was definitely an intentional act right across the lanes of traffic.”Wilton Manors police tweeted Saturday night that the public is not in danger.“A tragic incident occurred at today’s Stonewall event," Wilton Manors Mayor Scott Newton said in a statement, according to WPLG-TV. "Out of respect for everyone involved, the parade has been canceled and a thorough investigation is being conducted.”June is Pride Month, commemorating the June 1969 police raid targeting gay patrons at the Stonewall Inn in New York that led to an uprising of LGBTQ Americans and served as a catalyst for the gay rights movement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/truck-driver-crashes-into-south-florida-pride-parade-mayor-says-1-killed-101624155290712.html
20-06-2021||World||China's daily Covid-19 cases fall to 23; tally at 91,587||China reported 23 new confirmed Covid-19 cases in the mainland for June 19, down from 30 infections a day earlier, the country's health authority said on Sunday.All new cases were imported infections from overseas, with 12 reported in the southern province Guangdong, the National Health Commission said.The number of new asymptomatic infections fell to 20 from 42 a day earlier. China does not classify them as confirmed cases.The total number of confirmed Covid-19 cases in mainland China reached 91,587 by the end of June 19, with the death toll unchanged at 4,636.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinas-daily-covid-19-cases-fall-to-23-tally-at-91587-101624154835322.html
20-06-2021||World||'Meeting between Vladimir Putin, Boris Johnson is possible if...': Kremlin||Kremlin Spokesman Dmitry Peskov has said that a meeting between Russian President Vladimir Putin and British Prime Minister Boris Johnson is possible if the British authorities have "political will.""No, such a meeting is not being prepared, but it is potentially possible. It is possible if political will prevails in London to mend our bilateral relations, which have been damaged badly at the initiative of London," he said on Saturday, reported TASS news.British Secretary of State for Defense Ben Wallace earlier said that Johnson and Putin could meet after the Russia-US summit held on June 16. On Friday, he noted an interview with the Sky News TV channel that the prime minister was ready to discuss normalization of relations with Russia, if Moscow changed its behavior.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/meeting-between-vladimir-putin-boris-johnson-is-possible-if-kremlin-101624154389713.html
20-06-2021||World||French far-right tests voters' appetite in regional elections||French voters go to the polls on Sunday in regional elections that will test the appeal of far-right leader Marine Le Pen's softened image less than a year before the next presidential election.Coming after a gruelling year and a half of lockdowns, curfews and restrictions, Sunday's first round is likely to prove dire for President Emmanuel Macron, whose party is projected to win none of mainland France's 13 regions.Boosted by a resurgence of law-and-order issues during the campaign, despite the fact French regions have no police powers, Le Pen is hoping to capitalise on a rebrand that has seen her ditch promises of "Frexit" and inflammatory rhetoric."She appears less extreme in the eyes of the French, less dangerous for democracy, than she did a decade ago," Brice Teinturier, an analyst with pollster IPSOS told Reuters.Her best chance is in the south of France, the region around Marseille and Nice, where one of her lieutenants, a former conservative minister, is projected by one opinion poll as winning the race even if all parties rally against him.Gaining one region, for the first time ever, would give Le Pen a major boost less than a year before presidential elections, and would be a slap in the face for Macron, who has painted himself as a bulwark against the far-right.The far-right is also likely to do well in two other regions, around Calais in the north and in Burgundy, helped by low turnout in a country whose attention is shifting to summer holidays to forget the pandemic.In the deindustrialised north, the incumbent and frontrunner to become the conservatives' candidate in the presidential election, Xavier Bertrand, is facing Le Pen's party spokesman and Macron's justice minister.Whether Macron's party reaches the 10% threshold will determine if it can force Bertrand into an alliance to defeat the far-right, which would undermine his pitch as Macron's opponent-in-chief in 2022.However, a win for Bertrand would bolster his chances of becoming the conservatives' presidential candidate. Macron aides see the one-time health minister as a rival who would erode the president's centre-right voting base.Results of Sunday's first round will send parties into frantic backroom dealing for two days to strike alliances ahead of June 27's final round.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/french-far-right-tests-voters-appetite-in-regional-elections-101624151511488.html
20-06-2021||World||World Refugee Day 2021: Significance, history and theme||World Refugee Day is observed every year on June 20 to respect and honour the courage and resilience of refugees across the world. The United Nations observes this day to honour the refugees who have been forced outside of their homes. The day aims to build understanding and empathy for refugees building their lives in countries new to them.According to the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), 82.4 million people worldwide were forcibly displaced by the end of 2020 as a result of persecution, conflict, violence, human rights violations or events seriously disturbing public order.According to the latest UNHCR report on forced displacement, Turkey currently hosts 3.6 million refugees, the largest by a single country, followed by Columbia that shelters 1.8 million people, including people who fled Venezuela in the last few years.History of World Refugee DayWorld Refugee Day was celebrated for the first time on June 20, 2001, on the 50th anniversary of the 1951 Refugee Convention.Significance of World Refugee DayThe day is observed around the world to draw attention to the plight of refugees and mobilise political will and resources to urgently help the people rebuild their lives. The United Nations General Assembly officially designated June 20 as World Refugee Day in December 2000.World Refugee Day themeThis year the theme for World Refugee Day is 'Together we heal, learn and shine'. The United Nations has stated that the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic has made it evident that we can only succeed by standing together. The UN has called for the greater inclusion of refugees in the healthcare system across the world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/world-refugee-day-2021-significance-history-and-theme-101624150283490.html
20-06-2021||World||Kim Jong Un sets North Korea for both dialogue and confrontation with US||North Korean leader Kim Jong Un has ordered his officials to prepare for both dialogue and confrontation with the United States, reported the Associated Press on Saturday, adding that the four-day meeting of the country ruling party, the Worker's Party of Korea (WPK) finally came to an end with a host of issues on the table. Among the major affairs that were discussed in the plenary meeting are deepening economic hardships, that Kim Jong Un "solemnly swore" to navigate his country out of.Also Read | A packet of coffee in Kim Jong Un's North Korea costs $100: ReportThe United States has been urging North Korea to abandon its nuclear ambition and return to diplomatic talks, which remain stalled amid economic crises made worse by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.Kim Jong Un, for his part, has hinted that North Korea has no plans to abandon its nuclear ambitions unless the US abandons what it calls "hostile" policies. Much of the future of renewed US-North Korea relations will depend on how president Joe Biden decides to walk the path of diplomacy. While several experts have suggested Biden is more likely to take the middle ground between his predecessor's direct aggression and Barack Obama's "strategic patience", others think the United States will not even consider any meaningful relief to sanctions against North Korea unless Kim Jong Un takes concrete denuclearisation steps first.Also Read | ‘Even North Korea is not this nuts’: Defector after graduating from American universityBiden's special representative for North Korea, Sung Kim, arrived in South Korea on Saturday to continue talks over the United States' stalled nuclear diplomacy with the North, reported the Associated Press. During his stay in South Korea, Sung Kim will meet with South Korean senior diplomats and participate in a trilateral meeting that includes Japanese nuclear envoy Takehiro Funakoshi on Monday. His travel emphasises the importance of global three-way cooperation in working toward complete denuclearisation of the Korean Peninsula, the US state department said.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/kim-jong-un-sets-north-korea-for-both-dialogue-and-confrontation-with-us-101624146522808.html
20-06-2021||World||US regrets Iranians denied 'free and fair electoral process' in Raisi win||The United States said Saturday it regretted Iranians were not able to participate in a "free and fair electoral process" in the country's presidential election.In the first reaction from Washington to ultraconservative cleric Ebrahim Raisi's election win, a State Department spokesperson said "Iranians were denied their right to choose their own leaders in a free and fair electoral process."The United States will nonetheless continue indirect talks with Iran on the US rejoining the 2015 nuclear accord that Donald Trump abandoned, the spokesperson also said.In Iran's election, many political heavyweights were barred from running. Raisi is seen as close to 81-year-old supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, who holds ultimate political power in Iran.Many voters chose to stay away after the field of some 600 hopefuls, including 40 women, had been winnowed down to seven candidates, all men, excluding an ex-president and a former parliament speaker.Three of the vetted candidates dropped out two days before Friday's vote.On the Iran nuclear accord, the State Department spokesperson said indirect talks in Vienna between the US and Iran had made "meaningful progress" and that Washington wanted to build on this."We will continue discussions along with our allies and partners on a mutual return to compliance with the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action," the spokesperson said.The discussions in Vienna, brokered by European diplomats, have been locked in dispute on which sanctions imposed on Iran would be lifted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-regrets-iranians-denied-free-and-fair-electoral-process-in-raisi-win-101624147352095.html
20-06-2021||World||Joe Biden goes to church a day after challenge from bishops on abortion||President Joe Biden went to church Saturday in his hometown a day after US Roman Catholic bishops issued a challenge to him over his support for abortion rights.Biden and first lady Jill Biden spent time at St. Joseph on the Brandywine church in Wilmington. They also visited the church graveyard where the president's first wife Neilia, son Beau and infant daughter Naomi are buried.Biden, 78, is a devout Catholic who attends mass at least once a week, and he supports the landmark 1973 US Supreme Court decision affirming a woman's right to an abortion.On Friday US bishops agreed to draft a statement on the meaning of holy communion which could potentially be used to deny that sacrament to the American leader.The eucharist, also known as holy communion, is among the most sacred rituals in the Catholic Church and there have been calls from some conservative church leaders to deny the sacrament to politicians who support abortion rights.Biden on Friday seemed to dismiss the possibility that he could be denied communion."That's a private matter and I don't think that's going to happen," he told reporters.It is up to each local bishop to decide who receives communion in their diocese.In 2019, a priest at a Catholic church in South Carolina refused holy communion to Biden because of his stance on abortion.The Catholic News Service reported in May that the Vatican had warned US bishops to proceed cautiously with policies designed "to address the situation of Catholics in public office who support legislation allowing abortion, euthanasia or other moral evils."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-goes-to-church-a-day-after-challenge-from-bishops-on-abortion-101624146078477.html
20-06-2021||World||Brazilians protest Bolsonaro's role in half a million Covid-19 deaths||Thousands took to the streets across Brazil on Saturday to protest against President Jair Bolsonaro's pandemic response, blasting the leader for not acquiring vaccines fast enough and for questioning the need for mask-wearing.Brazil surpassed 500,000 deaths from Covid-19 on Saturday, according to the Health Ministry, the world's highest death toll after the United States.The government faces fierce criticism for passing up early opportunities to buy vaccines. Pharmaceutical maker Pfizer said it got no response to offers to sell vaccines to the government between August and November last year."We are protesting against the genocidal Bolsonaro government that did not buy vaccines and has done nothing to take care of its people in the last year," said 36-year-old Aline Rabelo, while protesting on the national mall in Brasilia.Bolsonaro's press office did not respond to request for comment. Only 11% of Brazilians are fully vaccinated and 29% have received a first dose, Health Ministry data shows.Brazilian media reported that protests had been held in all 26 states as well as the capital Brasilia.Many demonstrators called the 500,000 dead a form of genocide carried out by the government on the Brazilian people. They chanted, beat drums and held up signs demanding Bolsonaro be removed for office."Half a million reasons to oust Bolsonaro," read one protestor's sign in downtown Sao Paulo.While organizers promised the largest demonstrations yet in more than 300 cities, gatherings in Rio de Janeiro and Brasilia on Saturday morning did not appear to be larger than the last major protests on May 29.Protests in Sao Paulo, Brazil's largest city and financial center, blocked major downtown thoroughfares, where protesters unfurled a banner the size of a city block demanding "Life, Bread, Vaccines and Education." It was unclear how the crowd compared to May 29 protest there.A special Senate committee is probing the Bolsonaro administration's pandemic response, highlighting delayed efforts to acquire vaccines while prioritizing unproven treatments for Covid-19.Last month, a poll showed Bolsonaro's popularity has sunk to new lows with only 24% of Brazilians saying his administration is "good" or "great." The same poll showed Bolsonaro's left wing rival, former President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva, would win in a run-off vote if the 2022 elections were held today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/brazilians-protest-bolsonaro-s-role-in-half-a-million-covid-19-deaths-101624145429447.html
20-06-2021||World||UK's Sunak considers cap to annual pension rise: Report||British finance minister Rishi Sunak is considering blocking a near 6% rise in old-age pension payments as part of a wider effort to rein in the cost of Prime Minister Boris Johnson's spending, the Sunday Times newspaper said.Under a pension promise in the Conservative Party's 2019 election campaign, state pensions are meant to rise each year by the highest of the annual inflation rate, wage growth or 2.5%.Due partly to distortions from the coronavirus pandemic, annual wages in the three months to April grew by an annual 5.6% - creating an extra 4 billion pound ($5.5 billion) annual cost for future pensions.The Sunday Times said the finance ministry wanted to break the link between pensions and wages for a year."Pensioners are going to be doing extremely well. It's not politically that difficult a thing to smooth it out for a year," the newspaper quoted an unnamed minister as saying.The Sunday Times said Sunak was worried too about a potential 5 billion pound annual cost for a plan on social care for the elderly due to be discussed later this week, plus extra for a new government yacht to promote British exports.An unnamed official was quoted as describing funding for the yacht as "a complete and utter shitshow".Asked about the report, a British government spokesperson said: "The Prime Minister and Chancellor work closely together, and have been in lockstep throughout the most challenging period any government has faced since the Second World War.""We always ensure that all government spending provides value for money for the taxpayer."Sunak said in a television interview on Wednesday that pensions would be reviewed later in the year.Britain's government borrowed 300 billion pounds last year - equivalent to 14% of gross domestic product and the most since World War Two.Sunak has repeatedly said he wants to put the public finances in a more sustainable position when the economy recovers, due to concerns about higher interest rates.The Sunday Times said Sunak opposed raising capital gains tax. The government has already promised not to raise the main rates of income tax, national insurance or value-added tax, limiting its ability to boost revenue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uks-sunak-considers-cap-to-annual-pension-rise-report-101624145451676.html
20-06-2021||World||Student held for threatening to kill classmates, bomb school campus in US||A student in Arizona was arrested after threatening to kill some of their classmates and bomb the school campus, a Police statement said.Citing Glendale Police statement, CNN reported that the student faces four felony counts of computer tampering by using a computer in a course of conduct that threatened, terrorised or tormented specific individuals.However, it is unclear if she has legal representation.The dean of Midwestern University at Glendale contacted authorities in April and reported that the student had sent a message from their phone threatening to bomb the campus. When the dean confronted the student, she denied sending the message, the statement said.The dean said the student was not doing well in school and was set to take her third medical board test after failing the first two, adding that if she failed the last test, she would be removed from the school, according to the court documents, CNN reported.Earlier this month, a mass email was sent to about 200 students that named victims the author wanted to kill, according to police and the probable cause statement."Several more emails were sent in group messages threatening death and involving the families of the students," police added. The student was arrested on Wednesday after she was linked to the email addresses, social media accounts and electronic devices that were involved in the threatening messages, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/student-held-for-threatening-to-kill-classmates-bomb-school-campus-in-us-101624144161342.html
20-06-2021||World||Driver rams cyclists in Arizona race, critically injuring 6||A driver in a pickup truck plowed into bicyclists competing in a community road race in Arizona on Saturday, critically injuring several riders before police chased down the driver and shot him outside a nearby hardware store, police said.Six cyclists were taken to a hospital in critical condition after the crash in the mountain town of Show Low, about a three-hour drive northeast of Phoenix, police said. At least two others went to the hospital themselves.The suspect, a 35-year-old man, also was hospitalized in critical but stable condition. The identities of the suspect and victims were not immediately released.A Ford pickup truck struck the bicyclists about 7:25 a.m. in downtown Show Low during the annual 58-mile (93-kilometer) Bike the Bluff race, then fled, police said. Officers pursued the driver and tried to stop him before he was shot, authorities said.The circumstances of the shooting were not immediately released.“Our community is shocked at this incident and our hearts and prayers are with the injured and their families at this time,” police spokeswoman Kristine Sleighter said in a statement.Officials said the Navajo County sheriff’s office and the Arizona Department of Public Safety were helping investigate. U.S. 60, the main street in the town tucked in the White Mountains, was closed in the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/driver-rams-cyclists-in-arizona-race-critically-injuring-6-101624133544307.html
20-06-2021||World||Covid-19 batters Russia as daily cases soar; Moscow hard hit||Russia's national coronavirus taskforce on Saturday reported 17,906 new infections, more than double the daily tally from early June.More than half of the new infections are in Moscow, where cases have tripled this month. The soaring case count has caused alarm among officials, who have increased measures to obstruct the spread.Moscow, its outlying area and two other Russian regions this week ordered mandatory vaccinations for workers in retail, education and other service sectors. Moscow has closed food courts in shopping centers and restricted restaurants and bars in the capital to takeout orders from 11 p.m. to 6 a.m.Russians are widely resistant to vaccinations and only about 12% of the population has received a shot. Nearly 5.3 million cases have been reported in the country of 146 million, with 128,911 deaths, but experts consider both numbers undercounts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-batters-russia-as-daily-cases-soar-moscow-hard-hit-101624129863246.html
20-06-2021||World||Dubai eases travel curbs for fully vaccinated Indian travellers||Authorities in Dubai have eased travel restrictions for its residents from certain countries, including India, if they have received two doses of a UAE-approved Covid-19 vaccine, according to a media report.The Supreme Committee of Crisis and Disaster Management in Dubai, headed by Sheikh Mansoor bin Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, announced updates to Dubai’s travel protocols for inbound passengers from South Africa, Nigeria and India, effective from June 23, the Gulf News reported.With regard to travel from India, only passengers with a valid residence visa who have received two doses of a UAE-approved vaccine, are allowed to travel to Dubai. There are four vaccines approved by the UAE government — Sinopharm, Pfizer-BioNTech, Sputnik V and Oxford-AstraZeneca, the report added.However, from South Africa and Nigeria, non-residence passengers are also allowed to travel subject to the vaccination and PCR test conditions.A negative test certificate from a PCR test taken 48 hours before departure is required, the report said.The UAE nationals are exempted from this requirement. Only QR-coded negative PCR test certificates are accepted, it said.Furthermore, passengers from India are required to undergo a rapid PCR test four hours prior to departure to Dubai. They must also undergo another PCR test on arrival in Dubai. In addition, following arrival, passengers from India should undergo institutional quarantine until they receive their PCR test result, which is expected within 24 hours, the report added.In late April, the UAE closed its borders for travellers from India due to a surge in the number of Covid-19 cases in the country during the second wave of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/dubai-eases-travel-curbs-for-fully-vaccinated-indian-travellers-101624128106609.html
20-06-2021||World||On new 'Juneteenth' national holiday, US marks slavery's end||With marches, music and speeches, Americans on Saturday celebrated "Juneteenth", the newly declared national holiday that marks the end of slavery and which comes a year after George Floyd's murder sparked anti-racism protests.Hundreds of events were planned across the country, from New York to Los Angeles, and most notably in Galveston, Texas, the symbolic heart of the Juneteenth commemoration.For on June 19, 1865, it was in that Texas coastal area that the Union army -- victorious after the bitterly fought Civil War -- announced to African Americans that, even if some in Texas were trying to ignore it, enslaved people were now free.Slavery was formally abolished in December 1865, with the adoption of the 13th amendment to the US Constitution, but Juneteenth has remained the emblematic date marking the freeing of enslaved Americans.This year's Juneteenth celebrations will be all the more celebratory, coming just days after President Joe Biden signed legislation making it a national holiday, and also at a time when pandemic-imposed restrictions on public gatherings are steadily being eased."It was a long time coming," said 68-year-old Cheryl Green. She was attending the unveiling in Brooklyn of a bust of George Floyd, the Black man killed by a white policeman in Minneapolis in May 2020."It's good that people get to recognize what happened," said Green, an African-American resident of the Flatbush neighborhood. "Changes are being made slowly, but surely we'll get there."Floyd's killing touched off a sweeping protest movement, in the United States and around the globe, against racism and police violence toward minorities.That movement helped boost the visibility of Juneteenth -- a date that many Americans, including many African-Americans, had not heard of even two years ago.An opinion survey published Tuesday by the Gallup institute found that 28 percent of Americans knew "nothing at all" about the anniversary."I didn't learn about Juneteenth until I got to high school," said Farah Louis, a Black city official in New York, who was attending the Floyd unveiling in Brooklyn.She said Juneteenth should be used to "educate our young people" about the daunting conditions facing Black people through American history.- 'While the iron is hot' -Celebrating Juneteenth now seems "a bit surreal" at a time legislators in many Republican-led states are passing laws that will suppress the vote and "most acutely affect communities of color," tweeted Sharif Street, a Black state legislator from Pennsylvania.From January through May, 14 states, notably Georgia and Florida, passed laws limiting opportunities to vote -- measures seen as aimed at reducing the influence of minority voters, particularly African-Americans.To Sharif Street, it is "a reminder that our wins are not permanent, even with powerful symbols of progress," like the right to vote.Draft legislation to guarantee wider access to the vote is currently being debated in the US Senate, but with many Republicans opposing it, its fate appears uncertain.To Farah Louis, the proclamation of Juneteenth as a national holiday, coupled with the impetus created by the George Floyd movement, offer "an opportunity" for the Black community."You have to strike while the iron is hot," she said, citing among other issues the idea of government-paid reparations to compensate the descendants of enslaved people.On Friday, the mayors of 11 American cities, including Los Angeles and Denver, vowed to pursue the question of how best to carry out reparations. They invited the Congress and the US government to follow their example."We see change" in the country, said Terrence Floyd at the unveiling of the bust honoring his brother.Terrence Floyd, who lives in New York, recently created a group called "We Are Floyd" to help "keep the change going," he told AFP."Because right now, it's not a moment. It's a movement.tu/bbk/jm||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/on-new-juneteenth-national-holiday-us-marks-slavery-s-end-101624127867534.html
20-06-2021||World||Iran's Ebrahim Raisi extreme, committed to nuclear programme, says Israel||Israel on Saturday condemned Iran's newly-elected president Ebrahim Raisi, saying he was its most extreme president yet and committed to quickly advancing Tehran's nuclear programme."Iran’s new president, known as the Butcher of Tehran, is an extremist responsible for the deaths of thousands of Iranians. He is committed to the regime's nuclear ambitions and to its campaign of global terror," Foreign Minister Yair Lapid said on Twitter.A separate statement from the Israeli Foreign Ministry said Raisi's election should "prompt grave concern among the international community."Israel's new government, sworn in on Sunday, has said it would object to the revival of a 2015 nuclear deal between world powers and its arch-foe, Iran.Israel sees a nuclear-armed Iran as an existential threat. Tehran denies seeking nuclear weapons.Toeing the policy line set by the administration of Israel's former prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, the foreign ministry said: "More than ever, Iran’s nuclear program must be halted immediately, rolled back entirely and stopped indefinitely.""Iran’s ballistic missile program must be dismantled and its global terror campaign vigorously countered by a broad international coalition."Raisi, a hardline judge who is under US sanctions for human rights abuses, secured victory as expected on Saturday in Iran's presidential election after a contest marked by voter apathy over economic hardships and political restrictions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/irans-ebrahim-raisi-extreme-committed-to-nuclear-programme-says-israel-101624127215638.html
20-06-2021||India||City bars can open till 10pm at 50% capacity||Bars can reopen with 50% seating capacity from Monday and so can public parks, gardens, golf clubs and outdoor yoga activities, the Delhi government said on Sunday as it withdrew lockdown restrictions for the fourth consecutive week to revive the city’s economy hit by the second wave of the pandemic.The order also said that cinema halls, gymnasiums, spas, schools, colleges and all educational institutes, swimming pools, auditoriums and banquet halls will remain closed for at least another week, till 5am on June 28.The relaxations have been permitted at a time when courts and public health experts have warned states and Union territories against reopening too fast and triggering another outbreak. A third national wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, they warn, may be even deadlier than the previous one as the virus may evolve.Delhi enforced a strict lockdown, largely allowing only essential activities and services to continue, from April 19. The government began a phased withdrawal of curbs from June, starting with resuming factory operations and construction work and eventually allowing most businesses to reopen.“Bars are allowed up to 50% of the seating capacity from 12 noon to 10pm,” the order by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority said on Sunday. The statement underscored that the owners of the restaurants and the bars will be held responsible for strict adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour and guidelines. “In case any violation is found, strict penal criminal action shall be taken against the owner of the restaurant/bar,” it added.Other than that, “public parks, gardens, golf clubs, and outdoor yoga activities will be allowed. Apart from the individual, parks/gardens owning agencies (MCDs, DDA, NDMC, DCB etc.) as well as the concerned RWA, owners/directors of golf clubs, yoga instructors shall be responsible for ensuring strict compliance of Covid appropriate behaviour,” the order said.The DDMA statement also permitted outdoor yoga activities from Monday, but it said yoga centres will remain shut for now. It also specified operating hours for dine-in at restaurants, which opened last week with 50% seating capacity, from 8am to 10pm. The other existing norms remain the same.All shops and salons in markets, multiplexes and malls had completely reopened from June 14, but weekly markets will continue to operate in a restricted manner. Public buses and Delhi Metro services will run as usual at 50% seating capacity, and cabs and auto-rickshaws can carry two passengers per vehicle.Additionally, the cap of 20 guests for weddings, which can only be held at courts or inside personal residences, will remain. Funerals can be held with up to 20 people in attendance. All gatherings — social, religious, political and sports — are barred, and the prohibition of visitors in places of worship will continue, the order said.The second national wave of infections — dominated by a more transmissible “Delta” variant of the virus — was also the world’s worst outbreak between March and May this year. India recorded over 400,000 cases in a single day several times in early May — the highest any country has ever seen in more than a year of the pandemic.The national capital took a particularly hard hit during this time. The city’s health infrastructure collapsed under the massive caseload, and in April, residents of the Capital ran pillar to post for hospital beds, essential life-saving drugs and even medical oxygen. The dire situation eased only in May after a flurry of directions by the courts. Weeks later, markets and public places in Delhi are back to seeing high footfalls, with people crowding the area with little or no regard for social distancing and mask hygiene. Last week, the Delhi high court took note of the rules being flouted and warned authorities that the Capital will be in “great trouble” if this continues.The Union home ministry on Saturday also warned all states/UTs not to become complacent about reopening and be on the guard against another potential outbreak.An official of the Aam Aadmi Party-led Delhi government said on Sunday that the lockdown has been eased keeping in mind the city’s economy. Gym owners said were disappointed with the continued ban. “Thousands of gym owners are now forced to shut their gyms... As a mark of our protest against this order, will are announcing a complete boycott of the Yoga day,” said Chirag Sethi, vice-president, Delhi Gym Association. Experts say it is crucial that authorities balance economic revival with caution about a potential third wave. Dr Jacob John, former head of the clinical virology department at Christian Medical College in Vellore, said: “People have to be responsible and there should be strict and intense enforcement drives. Vaccination numbers also need to be increased gradually. The government should keep a close watch on Covid-19 trends and take its time in lifting restrictions from closed spaces such as gyms, cinema halls, etc.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/city-bars-can-open-till-10pm-at-50-capacity-101624213714006.html
20-06-2021||India||Centre rules out ₹4 lakh ex-gratia for deaths due to Covid-19||The Centre has ruled out an ex-gratia compensation of ₹four lakh for each of the nearly 3.85 lakh people who died due to Covid-19 in the country.In an affidavit filed late on Saturday in the Supreme Court, the Centre said that the finances of both Centre and State are under severe strain due to reduced tax revenues and increased expenditure on health infrastructure on account of the pandemic. Looking at the scale of deaths caused by the pandemic that is still not over, the Centre felt it won’t be wise to spend the scarce financial resources for granting ex-gratia.“Already the finances of State Governments and the Central Government are under severe strain, due to the reduction in tax revenues and increase in health expenses on account of the pandemic. Thus, utilization of scarce resources for giving ex-gratia, may have unfortunate consequences of affecting the pandemic response and health expenditure in other aspects and hence cause more damage than good,” stated the affidavit filed by Govind Mohan, Additional Secretary, Ministry of Home Affairs.The Centre also warned Courts from interfering in policy decisions. It said, “It is well settled through numerous judgments of the Supreme Court that this is a matter which should be performed by the authority (National Disaster Management Authority), to whom it has been entrusted and not one where the Court will substitute its own judgment for the decision to be taken by the Executive. Any attempt to second guess may create unintended and unfortunate Constitutional and administrative ramifications.”The affidavit came in response to two PILs listed before the Supreme Court on Monday. The PILs filed by two lawyers – Gaurav Kumar Bansal and Reepak Kansal – referred to two notifications of the Central Government, one issued on March 14, 2020 declaring Covid-19 as a notified disaster under the National Disaster Management Act 2005 (DMA) and the other issued on April 8, 2015 quantifying ex-gratia compensation of ₹4 lakh to victims killed in a notified disaster.As per Section 12(iii) of DMA, this money is to be paid from the National Disaster Response Fund (NDRF) and the State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF). In addition, Bansal’s petition raised the issue of compensation for health care workers who have died while performing Covid-19 duties.The Centre stated that Public Health is a state subject and the burden would fall on the SDRF to pay the compensation. For all states combined, the total budget allocated to SDRF this year comes to ₹22,184 crore. “If the entire SDRF funds get consumed on ex-gratia for Covid-19 victims, the States may not have sufficient funds for organizing Covid-19 response, for provision of various essential medical and other supplies, or to take care of other disasters like cyclones, floods, etc,” the Centre submitted.As regards healthcare workers, the Centre informed about its scheme under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Package (PMGKP) offering a comprehensive personal accident cover of Rs. 50 lakh to 22.12 lakh for healthcare providers. The government has so far settled 477 claims of healthcare workers under this scheme by releasing ₹442.4 crore to the insurance company.The claim for compensation was further denied on the ground that there existed no precedent for granting ex-gratia for an ongoing disease or for a disaster event extending into several months or years. “Granting ex-gratia for one disease, while denying the same for those accounting for larger share of mortality, would not be fair or proper,” the reply stated.The affidavit also explained the context for declaring Covid-19 as a notified disaster in March 2020. While states were provided funds to deal with Covid-19 under the National Health Mission, in order to supplement efforts of the State governments, the Centre decided to declare Covid-19 as a disaster by way of a “special one-time dispensation”. This was done to facilitate use of funds under SDRF towards measures for quarantining, sample collection, screening, and procurement of essential equipment or labs for response to Covid-19, the Centre told the Court.The response of the Centre will be taken up by a bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and MR Shah on Monday.The petitions also raised an underlying issue about hospitals and municipal authorities not citing Covid-19 as cause of death in their records. Kansal’s petition specifically pointed out that many of these deaths were shown as failed heart or lung condition even though the root cause was Covid-19. The petition wanted to fix this situation to enable kin of Covid-19 victims to receive compensation.Addressing this issue, the Centre cited its October 9, 2020 letter issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Affairs (MoHFW) to all states and union territories. Reproducing the text from the letter, the affidavit said, “All deaths with a diagnosis of Covid-19, irrespective of co-morbidities, are to be classified as deaths due to Covid-19.” This rule was not to apply to a death due to accidental trauma, poisoning, acute myocardial infarction where Covid-19 was an incidental finding. These were part of Death Certification guidelines issued by Centre to States/UTs.The Centre stated that anybody who failed to register Covid-19 deaths (even certifying doctor) will suffer penal consequences under Section 188 of Indian Penal Code which punishes acts in breach of public servant’s order. Such offences are punishable with an imprisonment ranging between one to six months or fine.What was envisaged under DMA was a catastrophe or calamity such as earthquake, flood which is a one-time incident or few periodic incidents. “Due to its scale and impact, it would not be appropriate to apply the scheme of assistance, eligible for natural disasters, to the epidemic,” the Centre said.The Government gave statistics of its spending under various central schemes linked with Covid-19 relief to show its continued spending for Covid-19 mitigation. It even shared budget estimate for 2021-22 for mass vaccination to the tune of ₹35,000 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-rules-out-rs-4-lakh-ex-gratia-for-deaths-due-to-covid19-101624213235654.html
20-06-2021||India||CBI probes aid fraud, quizzes man ‘killed’ in train accident||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has begun a probe into the compensation granted to the family of a purported victim of the 2010 Gyaneswari Express accident after an investigation by the vigilance department of the South-Eastern Railway found that the man was alive.The alleged victim, Amritava Chaudhury, a resident of Jorabagan area of central Kolkata, was declared dead along with 147 others in the aftermath of the accident that claimed 148 lives and left nearly 200 people injured.His sister, Mahua Gupta, was granted a government job and his family received the monetary compensation, CBI officials said.On May 28, 2010, a goods train hit five compartments of the Mumbai-bound Gyaneswari Express that landed on the adjacent railway tracks after 13 of the compartments derailed in West Midnapore district of West Bengal. The accident happened during a four-day strike of the Communist Party of India (Maoist) and it was suspected that members of the banned outfit removed a portion of the tracks, leading to the derailment. A probe was conducted by the state Criminal Investigation Department (CID) and a few arrests were made.Many bodies of the victims were damaged beyond recognition. While the identification process went on for years which included DNA tests, families of the many of the victims alleged that the bodies of their relatives were claimed and cremated by others.According to a CBI official, the people involved in the fraud produced DNA samples that matched with the members of Chaudhury’s family to claim the compensation of ₹2 lakh and a government job announced by then Prime Minister Manmohan Singh. Mamata Banerjee, who was then the Union railway minister, also announced ₹5 lakh each for these families while the state government announced a compensation of ₹3 lakh.“Efforts are on to ascertain whose body was handed over to the Chaudhury family,” another official said. It wasn’t immediately clear if Chaudhury was travelling on the train at the time of the accident.Chaudhury, along with his father Mihir Chaudhury, were questioned by the CBI at Nizam Palace on Sunday afternoon.Following his interrogation, Chaudhury said he is ready to return the compensation and his sister would resign from the government job. “I have been framed,” he told reporters.CBI officials suspect that railway employees were also involved in the fraud and have filed a case.On receiving a complaint that the man is alive, the vigilance department of the railways conducted a probe and finding substance in the allegation, referred the matter to the CBI, an official said, according to news agency PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-probes-aid-fraud-quizzes-man-killed-in-train-accident-101624212933425.html
20-06-2021||India||CBI questions Kolkata man declared ‘dead’ in Gyaneswari Express accident in 2010||Eleven years after he was declared dead in the Gyaneswari Express accident along with 147 other passengers, Amritava Chaudhury, a resident of Jorabagan area in north Kolkata, was interrogated for hours by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Sunday, in connection with a scam that allegedly helped the man’s sister get a government job. His family, too, was paid monetary compensation by the state and the Centre, officials said.The suspect’s father, Mihir Chaudhury, was also questioned. The Chaudhurys were summoned to the anti-corruption branch of the CBI at Nizam Palace on Sunday afternoon. They have been asked to appear again. Amritava Chaudhury told the media that he is ready to return the monetary compensation along with interest and his sister would resign from the job she was given. “I have been framed,” he said.CBI officials said Amritava Chaudhury invested the money in his business.Thirteen compartments of the Mumbai-bound Gyaneswari Express got derailed in West Midnapore district on May 28, 2010, and five of these landed on the adjacent railway tracks. The five compartments were hit by a goods train coming from the opposite direction. As many as 148 passengers were killed and around 200 were injured. The compartments were completely mangled. Many bodies were crushed beyond recognition and could not be identified. Several families alleged that the remains of what they suspected to be bodies of their relatives were taken away by others and cremated. The identification process went on for several years and DNA tests were done.The accident took place during a four-day strike called by the Communist Party of India (Maoist) and it was suspected that the guerrillas, who were operating in the region at that time, removed a portion of the railway track that led to the derailment.The then Prime Minister Manmohan Singh announced a compensation of ₹2 lakh each for the kin of the deceased as well as a government job. Mamata Banerjee, who was then the Union railway minister, announced a compensation of ₹5 lakh each for these families while the state government announced a compensation of ₹3 lakh.CBI officials, who did not want to be quoted, said Chaudhury was declared dead and people involved in the scam produced DNA samples claiming that it belonged to him and matched with members of his family. The matter came to light during a probe by the vigilance department of the South-Eastern Railway and the CBI filed a case on June 9. CBI officials suspect the involvement of some railway employees.CBI officials are trying to find out whose body was handed over to the Chaudhurys and who fudged the DNA reports.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-questions-kolkata-man-declared-dead-in-gyaneswari-express-accident-in-2010-101624209214081.html
20-06-2021||India||International Yoga Day: PM Modi writes to Lankan, Brazilian presidents||Prime Minister Narendra Modi wrote to Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro and Sri Lankan President Gotabaya Rajapaksa last month and thanked them for their cooperation in celebrating the International Day of Yoga.In his letter to President Rajapaksa, Modi expressed his gratitude for making Yoga Day celebrations in Sri Lanka a resounding success every year.The prime minister, in the letter dated May 25, noted that the 'Yoga For Wellness' theme this year reflected the concern for the good health and wellbeing of people across the globe, according to a tweet by the Indian mission in Lanka.In his letter to Brazilian President Bolsanaro dated May 14, Modi said in 2014, the overwhelming response of the United Nations General Assembly to recognise June 21 as International Day of Yoga underlined the universal appeal of Yoga that transcends all barriers.Since then, the International Day of Yoga has been marked globally with great fervour, he noted.The Missions of India abroad have been coordinating activities in the run-up to International Day of Yoga on June 21 in their respective countries, and as per reports, Yoga Day will be observed in about 190 nations globally, the Ayush Ministry had said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/international-yoga-day-pm-modi-writes-to-lankan-brazilian-presidents-101624207749482.html
20-06-2021||India||Covid-19: Metro, bus services to resume services in Chennai starting Monday||Metro services in Chennai will resume with 50 per cent capacity after the Tamil Nadu government announced more relaxations in lockdown norms for 27 districts starting Monday. Similarly, intra and inter-district bus (non-airconditioned) services will also become operational in four districts including Chennai with 50 per cent seat occupancy, the government announced in a statement on Sunday.This comes after a gap of 42 days of lockdown-like restrictions that were imposed to control the Covid-19 outbreak during the second wave of the pandemic.Meanwhile, the state government has retained the lockdown in the state for another week, till June 28. In the latest order, the state government categorised 38 districts into three separate groups for the purpose of easing curbs. The government allowed more relaxations for 23 districts in the second category and four districts in the third slot got the most relaxations that include the resumption of bus services.Meanwhile, schools, colleges and universities will remain closed for regular classes.With a spike in daily cases of Covid-19, the state government clamped a lockdown from May 10 and most services including public transportation came to a halt.On May 21, Tamil Nadu recorded its highest single-day spike of daily cases as 36,184 cases contracted the disease in 24 hours. Since then the cases began to gradually decrease. In view of this, the government has been reopening economic activities in a phased manner.Continuing the declining trend, Tamil Nadu logged 7,817 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday, pushing the caseload to 2.42 million, while 182 deaths took the toll to 31,197.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-metro-bus-services-to-resume-services-in-chennai-starting-monday-101624208076684.html
20-06-2021||India||Free Covid-19 vaccination from tomorrow: List of dos and don'ts||India will enter a significant phase of the vaccination drive against Covid-19 from June 21 where everybody above the age of 18 will be provided free vaccination from the Centre. From tomorrow, prior registration on Co-Win will not remain mandatory which is likely to increase the number of daily vaccination. In this phase, starting from tomorrow, the government is aiming to inoculate 50 lakh people per day. As of now, the daily number is below 40 lakh.The government has taken additional measures to make the private sector a part of this phase by keeping 25 per cent of vaccines for private hospitals to procure. But they will not be above to overcharge as the price has been capped.Though prior registration is not required, all vaccination will be documented on Co-Win portal. Hence, beneficiaries must ensure that they are registered on the site before vaccination.If you are going to a government hospital> Vaccination will be free.> Prior registration on Co-Win is not mandatory, as the government allows on-spot registration starting from tomorrow.If you are going to a private hospital> Prior registration on Co-Win is not needed.> Do not pay more than ₹1,410 for Covaxin, ₹790 for Covishield and ₹1,145 for Sputnik V, as the Centre has capped the maximum price of these vaccines at private hospitals.How to verify a vaccination certificateAs several cases of vaccine scams are being reported, it is important to check the authenticity of the vaccine certificate.> Go to verify.cowin.gov.in which has an option for Scan QR code.> Click on that button.> A notification will prompt you to activate your device’s camera.> Point the camera to the QR code on the certificate issued and scan> After verification, it will show the name, age, gender, certificate ID, date of issuance, the name of the vaccination facility etc.> If the certificate is not genuine, a 'certificate invalid' message will be displayed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/free-covid-19-vaccination-from-tomorrow-list-of-dos-and-donts-101624205149875.html
20-06-2021||India||Lakshadweep admin moots proposal to shift HC jurisdiction from Kerala to Karnataka||The Lakshadweep administration, which has been facing widespread protests from the islands' people over some of its policies, has mooted a proposal to shift its legal jurisdiction from the Kerala High Court to the Karnataka High Court, officials said.The proposal was initiated by the administration after several litigations were moved before the Kerala High Court against the decisions taken by the islands' new administrator Praful Khoda Patel.These decisions included revising standard operating procedures for Covid appropriate behaviour, introduction of the "goonda act" and demolishing hutments of fishermen for widening of roads.Patel, who is the administrator of Daman and Diu, was given the additional charge of the Union Territory of Lakshadweep in the first week of December last year, when the former administrator Dineshwar Sharma died after a brief illness.This year, as many as 23 applications, including 11 writ petitions, have been filed against the administrator of Lakshadweep and also against the alleged high-handedness of either the police or the local government of the islands.However, for reasons best known to the island's administration, which is under the spotlight over its handling of these issues, it has made a proposal for shifting its legal jurisdiction from the high court of Kerala to Karnataka.Efforts to seek comments from the advisor of the administrator, A Anbarasu, and Collector of Lakshadweep S Asker Ali did not fructify.Mails to their official e-mails and WhatsApp messages did not elicit any response to a question asking the rationale behind mooting of the proposal for shifting of legal jurisdiction.The jurisdiction of a high court can be shifted only through an act of Parliament, according to the law."Parliament may by law constitute a high court for a Union Territory or declare any court in any such territory to be a high court for all or any of the purposes of this Constitution," according to Article 241 of the Constitution.Section 4 of the same article mentions that "nothing in this article derogates from the power of Parliament to extend or exclude the jurisdiction of a high court for a state to, or from, any Union Territory or part thereof".Talking to PTI over phone, Lok Sabha member Mohammed Faizal P P said, "This was his (Patel) first attempt to shift the judicial jurisdiction from Kerala to Karnataka.""Why was he so particular to transfer it... it's totally a misappropriation of the post. The mother tongue of the people on these islands is Malayalam," he said."One should not forget the name of the high court is Kerala and Lakshadweep High Court. This proposal was conceived during his first visit to the islands," Faizal said and asked was there a need for this and how could he justify the proposal.Faizal said there have been 36 administrators before Patel and no one had this kind of an idea."However, if this proposal will see any light of the day, we will oppose it tooth and nail on the floor of Parliament as well as with the judiciary," the Lok Sabha member from Nationalist Congress Party said.He said the Save Lakshadweep Front (SLF) has been making appeals to the Centre for changing the administrator at the earliest."The SLF is a non-violent people's movement which has been requesting the central leadership to change Patel with someone who can be people's administrator," he added.Legal experts from Lakshadweep said that Malayalam is the spoken as well as the written language both in Kerala and Lakshadweep and, therefore, the process could be streamlined.Shifting of the jurisdiction of the high court will change the entire judicial system of the islands as all the judicial officers are sent from the Kerala High Court because of the common language and script.Prominent lawyer from Lakshadweep, C N Noorul Hidya, said that she had heard about the issue of changing jurisdiction."But that is not the right move. How can they change the jurisdiction when we share the bond of language and the court documents are accepted in Malayalam language only," Hidya told PTI over phone from Lakshadweep.She said that most of the people will be opposing any such move as that would virtually lead them to denial of justice."One has to understand that the high court in Kerala is just 400 kms away whereas that of Karnataka is over 1,000 kms with no direct connectivity as well," Hidya said.Legal experts also opined that changing of high court would also mean extra-burden on the exchequer as all the cases, at present under trial, would have to be heard again afresh. PTI SKL ANB ANB||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakshadweep-admin-moots-proposal-to-shift-hc-jurisdiction-from-kerala-101624204658399.html
20-06-2021||India||RSS offshoot wants WTO to relax provisions for patent free access to make vaccines||The Swadeshi Jagran Manch (SJM), an offshoot of the RSS has urged the World Trade Organization (WTO) to relax the provisions of its Trade Related Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS) agreement for patent free access to manufacture Covid-19 vaccines and medicines.SJM’s national co-convenor, Ashwani Mahajan on Sunday said there is a need to scale up the production of vaccines to protect people against new Covid-19 infections. “To protect people from Coronavirus, the world needs about 14 billion vaccine doses, whereas in the last 6 months, only 200 crore doses of vaccines could be produced by all eight pharma companies,” Mahajan said.To meet the gap in production, the SJM has suggested that global pharmaceutical companies should voluntarily transfer technology, raw material sources and trade secrets, to other pharma companies to facilitate production of vaccines and medicines free from patents. It has also called for governments to use their sovereign rights to licence more pharmaceutical firms to make vaccines.India, which has recorded 386,713 Covid-19 deaths so far has administered more than 27 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses since it began the vaccination drive on January 16, data from the Union health ministry shows. In October 2020, India and South Africa at the WTO had jointly proposed a waiver on intellectual property on medicinal tools for vaccines.Mahajan cautioned that unless the restrictions on manufacture of vaccines are lifted, the immunization programme will be hampered. “At the current rate, it may take another 2-3 years for the world’s eligible population to be vaccinated. It is imperative to vaccinate all the people all over the globe at a much faster pace, because ‘no one will be safe until everyone is safe’,” Mahajan said.The SJM has been pushing for relaxing patent laws even if it is for a limited period, to increase the production of vaccines and medicines. An online signature campaign for ‘Universal Access to Vaccine and Medicines’ started by the SJM, which has so far got support of 14 lakh people from India and abroad will be submitted to WTO, governments of different countries and to the companies that produce the vaccines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rss-offshoot-wants-wto-to-relax-provisions-for-patent-free-access-to-make-vaccines-101624204113610.html
20-06-2021||India||News updates from HT: WHO chief scientist's take on Covid-19 booster shot and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Will a Covid-19 booster shot be required? Here's what WHO's chief scientist saysAs the Delta variant is emerging as new reason for concerns, many countries and pharmaceuticals are thinking of an additional shot of vaccine after complete vaccination. Read more here.Amitabh Bachchan’s family priest beaten up by police at Vindhyachal templeThe clashes erupted after policemen escorted the Chandauli district magistrate and his family to the temple and performed prayers despite the weekend lockdown. Read more here. The politics of foreign aid in IndiaRecent Covid-19 aid to India has stirred a debate. But India neither stopped accepting aid after 2004, nor is accepting aid a sign of weakness. Read more here.Jackie Shroff on going bankrupt after Boom failed: 'My wife didn't want the house back'After the Ayesha Shroff produced Boom flopped at the box office, Jackie Shroff and his family found themselves in a erratic financial position. The actor opened up about the impact of the failure. Read more here. New Zealand's Kyle Jamieson bags second five-wicket haul in Tests against India, surpasses Ashwin for new WTC recordNew Zealand pacer Kyle Jamieson played a crucial part in helping his side bundle out India for 217 in their first innings by claiming a record-breaking five-wicket haul in Southampton. Read more here. 'Mission Impossible': Harsh Goenka shares clip of monkeys climbing down buildingBusiness tycoon Harsh Goenka recently took to Twitter to share an incredible clip of two monkey coming down from the top of a high building with utter ease. The video has now grabbed netizens’ attention and may leave you stunned at the monkeys’ skills. See here. Watch: Monkey inside Metro train in Delhi; sits next to passengers, climbs pole||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-who-chief-scientist-s-take-on-covid-19-booster-shot-and-101624202463035.html
20-06-2021||India||Will a Covid-19 booster shot be required? Here's what WHO's chief scientist says||World Health Organization's chief scientists Soumya Swaminathan has recently said that there is not enough information to either confirm or dismiss the requirement of a booster shot after the Covid-19 vaccination. The United Kingdom has launched a countrywide study to explore whether a third shot of the same vaccine will provide greater coverage to people who have already been fully vaccinated. Chances of reinfections are less but breakthrough infections have taken place all over the world.The Russian Direct Investment Fund, which marketed Sputnik V, said it will offer a booster shot, which has high potential to work against the Delta variant of coronavirus, first detected in India, to other vaccine manufacturers. This is because Sputnik V is more effective against the Delta variant than other vaccine makers, RDIF said.What is a booster shot?All the present vaccines comprise two doses. It is not clearly known how long the effect of vaccination stays and so many countries are thinking of an annual shot.Too premature, says WHOSoumya Swaminathan said it is premature to consider this as many high-risk individuals in most of the world have not yet got their full vaccination. Data from countries introducing precautionary extra inoculations later this year -- particularly for vulnerable people whose immunity to SARS-CoV-2 may wane faster -- will inform WHO’s guidance, she said.Delta variant, first detected in India, is seen as the reason behind fresh Covid-19 outbreaks in the UK and many other European countries. Meanwhile, another mutation of Delta variant, Delta Plus, has been reported in India which, the government said, is not yet a variant of concern. India is looking forward to the first three-dose vaccine ZyCov-D which will come to the Drug Controller General of India for approval in a few days. WHO earlier expressed concern over how Delta variant is becoming the dominant variant because of its significantly increased transmissibility. "We need more data, again from well-designed studies on the efficacy of the different vaccines that are in use in different countries against the different variants. So what this means is that there has to be in place, a study that uses a good design," Swaminathan said earlier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-a-covid-19-booster-shot-be-required-here-s-what-who-s-chief-scientist-says-101624199846966.html
20-06-2021||India||In major milestone, Andhra Pradesh vaccinates over a million people in a day||In a major milestone for Andhra Pradesh, health officials vaccinated more than a million people in a single day against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Sunday. As of 6pm today, a total of 1,256,215 people were administered the coronavirus vaccine. The number is expected to rise further as the drive is still underway in several parts of the state.According to a report by PTI, 11 million people in the state have received the first dose of the jab, while 2.729 million people have been administered the second dose since the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination programme began on January 16 nationwide.The mega vaccination drive, with a focus on people above the age of 45 years and mothers with children under five years, began at 6 am in more than 2,200 locations in all 13 districts of the state. By 2 pm, the authorities inoculated 902,308 people, according to the figures by the state health department. By 3.30 pm, the number crossed a million mark.The authorities are aiming to administer 1.4 million doses by the end of the day.The two Godavari districts, East and West, topped the list with 0.148 million and 0.143 million vaccinations so far on Sunday. Krishna, Visakhapatnam and Guntur also crossed 100,000-mark each. In the previous single-day jump, 628,961 people were vaccinated in Andhra Pradesh on April 14.Meanwhile, the state reported 5,646 fresh Covid-19 cases over the last 24 hours. While 7,772 people recovered and another 50 succumbed to the viral disease. The death toll in the state now stands at 12,319 and the active caseload has now reduced to 63,068, according to the daily health bulletin released on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-major-milestone-andhra-pradesh-vaccinates-over-a-million-people-in-a-day-101624199909137.html
20-06-2021||India||International Yoga Day: Will address Yoga Day programme tomorrow, PM Modi tweets||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the 7th Yoga Day programme on the occasion of the International Yoga Day on June 21 at around 6.30am, he tweeted. The theme of this year's Yoga Day is Yoga for wellness, which focuses on practising Yoga for both physical and mental well being."Tomorrow, 21st June, we will mark the 7th Yoga Day. The theme this year is ‘Yoga For Wellness’, which focuses on practising Yoga for physical and mental well-being. At around 6:30 AM tomorrow, will be addressing the Yoga Day programme," PM Modi tweeted. The event will be live telecast on all Doordarshan channels.Tomorrow, 21st June, we will mark the 7th Yoga Day. The theme this year is ‘Yoga For Wellness’, which focusses on practising Yoga for physical and mental well-being. At around 6:30 AM tomorrow, will be addressing the Yoga Day programme.The main event of the day will be a televised programme as there are restrictions on congregations amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The event will also include an address by the minister of state for Ayush, Kiren Rijiju, and a live Yoga demonstration by the Morarji Desai National Institute of Yoga.In a statement issued by the Ayush ministry, throughout the tough times of the pandemic, the ministry took up several digital initiatives to make the practice of Yoga accessible to maximum people. The Missions of India abroad are coordinating various activities in the run-up to the day in their respective countries, and as per reports, Yoga Day will be observed in about 190 countries globally, the ministry said.The culture minister will celebrate the day through events at 75 cultural places in the country. Four cities in Maharashtra have been selected for this campaign which are - Aga Khan Palace, Pune, Kanheri Caves, Mumbai, Ellora Caves, Aurangabad, and Old High Court Building, Nagpur.The United Nations recognised June 21 as the International Day of Yoga in 2014 after PM Modi took the initiative, the Ayush ministry said. Since 2015, the day has evolved into a mass movement for health, around the world, the ministry added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/international-yoga-day-pm-modi-to-address-the-7th-yoga-day-programme-at-630am-101624192569034.html
20-06-2021||India||AIIMS professor lists factors determining Covid-19 third wave||Amid concerns over a possible third wave of coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic, an All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) professor listed out factors that could determine waves of the viral disease. "One is virus-related and second is human-related factors," Neeraj Nischal, assistant professor of the department of medicine in AIIMS said on Sunday, ANI reported."The mutation of the virus is beyond our control. Through Covid-appropriate behaviour one can stop these waves," he said, as per the news agency.Underlining the importance of vaccination, Nischal said that it will "help in preventing you from getting an infection." "Even if u get infected then it will ensure that you don't get a severe form of the disease," Nischal added.This comes as the health officials are rallying to prepare for the Covid-19 third wave, predicted by many researchers and doctors. On Saturday, AIIMS director Randeep Guleria warned against the third wave of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and said that it can strike the country in the next six to eight weeks."If Covid-appropriate behaviour is not followed, the third wave can happen in six to eight weeks. We need to work aggressively to prevent another large wave till vaccination kicks in," the news agency PTI quoted the senior doctor as saying.Earlier, Dr MV Padma Srivastava, head of the department of neurology at AIIMS also predicted the same. "Everybody is saying not to let your guard down. Otherwise, we will hit the third wave," she said."We have the history of a hundred years ago that even the Spanish flu pandemic did have a third wave, so history is repeating itself. This is being said because of the number of variants and inappropriate behaviour among other things," she also said.Meanwhile, the Delta variant of Covid-19 is infecting people in the United Kingdom in an exponential number as authorities were planning to reopen the economy. According to reports, the highly transmissible variant first identified in India is now making 99 per cent of fresh Covid-19 cases in the UK.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aiims-professor-lists-factors-determining-covid-19-third-wave-101624191290621.html
20-06-2021||India||Chennai Police bring back ex-AIADMK minister arrested from Bengaluru||The Chennai police on Sunday arrested former AIADMK IT minister M Manikandan from Bengaluru on a slew of charges filed by a Malaysian-Tamil woman, including rape and criminal intimidation, HT has learnt. “He was taken to the Anekal police station in Bengaluru first and now we are on-route to Chennai to conduct further investigations,” said an investigating officer who did not wish to be identified. Two special teams were formed to nab him after he had evaded arrest.The politician’s anticipatory bail plea was rejected by the Madras high court on June 16 to prevent the accused from tampering with evidence given his past powerful position and under circumstances where the charges are grave. The police had booked Manikandan under sections 417 (punishment for cheating), 376 (rape), 313 (causing miscarriage without woman’s consent), 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt) & 506(i) (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code read with section 67A of the Information Technology Act.According to the submissions made in court, the complainant, a Malaysian citizen working in the Malaysian Tourism Development Organisation, was introduced to Manikandan by one Bharani, a second accused in the case, in May 2017. Manikandan was the Information Technology minister at that time.The two were in a relationship for a few years having stayed and travelled together. The complainant says Manikandan promised to marry her after divorcing his wife. The complainant charged the politician with rape, forcing her to abort three pregnancies, hitting her and issuing death threats to her.Manikandan’s counsel told the court that there was not ‘an iota of truth’ to the complaints and that she was 27-years old at that time and consented to sexual intercourse. The counsel said that her motive was to extort money from him, adding that the complaint comes after a change in government.“On a prima facie consideration, we cannot rule out the perpetration of fraud by the petitioner (the accused) by falsely promising the defacto complainant that he will marry her in order to quench his lust for sex,” the court said in its orders passed last Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chennai-police-bring-back-ex-aiadmk-minister-arrested-from-bengaluru-101624191514869.html
20-06-2021||India||IMD issues heavy rainfall, thunderstorm warning for these states. Check list||Uttar Pradesh and Bihar are likely to witness heavy to very heavy rainfall during the next 24 hours, the Indian Meteorological Department said on Sunday in its afternoon bulletin. This is not because of the progression of the southwest monsoon, the weather department said as the progress of the monsoon has now become slow. A low-pressure area has been formed over southeast Uttar Pradesh and its neighbourhood.Here are the rainfall prediction for states> Fairly widespread to widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy falls is very likely over East Uttar Pradesh and Bihar during the next 24 hours. After that, there will be a significant reduction in rainfall. This is under the influence of a low-pressure area.> Moderate to severe thunderstorms accompanied by frequent cloud to ground lightning is very likely over East Uttar Pradesh and Bihar during the next 24 hours. "This may cause injuries leading to casualties to people and animals staying outdoors," the weather department has warned.> Uttarakhand is also likely to receive widespread rainfall with isolated heavy falls during the next 24 hours under the influence of a Western Disturbance as a trough in mid-tropospheric levels and monsoonal easterlies.> The southwest monsoon is yet to enter the remaining parts of Rajasthan, west Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi and Punjab and the advancement is likely to be slow as "large scale features are not favourable and the forecast wind pattern by the numerical models do not indicate any favourable condition for sustained rainfall over the region during the forecast period," the IMD said.> Thunderstorm with light to moderate intensity rain would occur over and adjoining areas of Narnaul (Haryana) Viratnagar, Kotputli, Rajgarh, Alwar, Dholpur, Bayana (Rajasthan) during next 2 hours.> Heavy rainfall has been predicted at isolated places over Uttarakhand, Jharkhand, West Bengal and Sikkim, Assam and Meghalaya, Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram and Tripura, Gujarat, the ghat areas of Maharashtra, Konkan and Goa, Coastal and South Interior Karnataka and Kerala and Mahe, IMD's evening bulletin said. > Thunderstorm with lightning and gusty winds (speed reaching 30-40 kmph) are very likely at isolated places over Uttarakhand, Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi with lightning at isolated places over Himachal Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Vidarbha, Chhattisgarh, Bihar, Jharkhand, Gangetic West Bengal, Arunachal Pradesh, Assam and Meghalaya, Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram and Tripura, Coastal & North Interior Karnataka and Tamilnadu, Puducherry and Karaikal, the bulletin said. > Rajasthan may witness dust storm or thunderstorm with lightning and gusty winds (speed reaching 30-40 kmph). > Strong winds (speed 40-50 kmph gusting to 60 kmph) are very likely over Southwest, West central and adjoining East central Arabian Sea. Squally weather (speed 50-60 kmph) is likely over North Bay of Bengal; (speed50-60kmph) along & off Kerala-Karnataka-Goa-south Maharashtra-Gujarat coasts and Lakshadweep area. Fishermen in these areas have been advised not to venture into the seas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imd-predicts-heavy-rainfall-thunderstorm-in-24-hours-in-these-states-check-list-101624188828129.html
20-06-2021||India||News updates from HT: Shiv Sena MLA suggests CM Thackeray to 'come close to PM Modi' and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.A Shiv Sena MLA has a suggestion for Uddhav Thackeray: 'Better if you get closer to PM Modi'As not all seems well between the Shiv Sena and the Congress in the three-party Maha Vikas Aghadi government of Maharashtra, a Shiv Sena MLA has written a letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray offering a suggestion. Political turmoil in Rajasthan as independents, BSP MLAs join hands against Sachin Pilot campThe political turmoil in Rajasthan seems to be unending, as the independents and BSP-turned-Congress MLAs have joined hands against the Sachin Pilot camp, which is demanding cabinet expansion and political appointment, HT has learnt. Free Covid-19 vaccines from tomorrow, pre-registration on Co-Win not mandatoryThe next phase of India's vaccination drive in which the Central government will provide free Covid-19 vaccines to everyone above the age of 18 years will begin from June 21, Monday, marking a significant shift from its earlier 'liberalised and accelerated' vaccination policy. Taliban insists ‘genuine Islamic system’ only way to women rights. What does it mean?The Taliban on Sunday insisted that a “genuine Islamic system” was the only way to end the decades-long war in Afghanistan and ensure women’s rights in line with cultural traditions and religious rules. 'They might knock Australia off the mantle': Brad Hogg says India women's team might be 'team to beat in four years'Former Australia spinner Brad Hogg made a bold prediction for India women's Test team saying that he sees them becoming a dominant force in about four years' time. Anushka Sharma shares unseen pic from pregnancy days in Father's Day post for Virat Kohli and her dadAnushka Sharma has shared a gallery of pictures with her husband, cricketer Virat Kohli and her father, colonel (retd) Ajay Kumar Sharma to mark Father's Day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-shiv-sena-mla-suggests-cm-thackeray-to-come-close-to-pm-101624188105726.html
20-06-2021||India||Uttarakhand extends Covid-19 lockdown till June 29. Check what is allowed||The Uttarakhand government on Sunday announced the extension of Covid-19 restrictions in place to check the spread of the infection since the onset of the second wave of the pandemic. The lockdown-like restrictions will now continue till June 29, cabinet minister Subodh Uniyal announced.Informing about the decision, Uniyal also announced certain relaxations to the curfew and allowed pilgrimage to Badrinath and Kedarnath. However, this will only be restricted to locals.The state government also gave a nod to restaurants and hotels to resume dine-in services with 50% capacity. However, they will only be allowed to invite customers from 6am to 10pm. The revised guidelines will come into effect from June 22.Uniyal also informed that the bars will also be allowed to operate with 50% capacity.The local markets can also open for three days a week, while the sweet shops have been allowed to open for five days. Autos are also allowed to operate in cities. Revenue courts can also begin work, the state government said in the latest advisory.Uttarakhand announced a statewide curfew in the first week of May along with various other states in view of the explosion in daily Covid-19 cases, Since the cases are now falling steadily it has also started the unlocking process. On April 29, the state government put the yatra, which was scheduled for May 14, on hold amid a spike in Covid cases.The active cases in the state are 3,220, while the cumulative deaths and cumulative recoveries in the state were recorded to be 7026 and 328262 respectively, as per the data of the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-extends-covid-19-lockdown-till-june-29-check-what-is-allowed-101624185459536.html
20-06-2021||India||Tamil Nadu extends Covid lockdown till June 28; allows certain relaxations||The ongoing lockdown imposed in Tamil Nadu to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has been extended till June 28, the state government said on Sunday. However, several relaxations have been provided as per the latest guidelines in order to begin the unlocking process.The state government has divided all districts into three categories- Tier 1, Tier 2 and Tier 3 and different guidelines have been issued for them.Tier 1:Eleven districts including Coimbatore, Nilgiris, Salem and Erode fall under Tier 1. No additional relaxations have been provided in these districts as their active cases are high and the existing Covid-19 restrictions have been retained.Tier 2:Tier 2 comprises 24 districts including Madurai, Tiruchi, Thoothukudi, Perambalur etc.> Shops selling groceries and provisions are allowed to open for more number of hours.> E-registration is needed to travel in Cabs and autos.> Private offices can function with 33% attendance.Tier 3:Tier 3 includes state capital Chennai, Kanchipuram, Tiruvallur and Chengalpet. These districts get additional relaxations other than those given to Tier 2 districts.> Public transport has been reopened in these districts. Metro services can resume with 50% capacity. E registration is not needed to travel in cabs and autos.> Government offices can function with full capacity whereas private offices can only allow 50% attendance.> Sports and outdoor training is allowed from 6am to 7pm. However, no spectators are allowed.> Shooting of films and TV serials is permitted and only 100 people are allowed who have to be tested for Covid-19.Tamil Nadu has so far logged over 2.41 million cases and 31,015 deaths till now. On Saturday, 8,183 fresh cases were reported and 180 more people succumbed to the viral disease. The total recoveries have climbed to 2,304,885 and the active cases have dropped to 78,780, according to the state health department's bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-extends-covid-lockdown-till-june-28-allows-certain-relaxations-101624182696414.html
20-06-2021||India||Punjab becomes second state after MP to report first case of green fungus||Punjab on Saturday reported its first case of green fungus from Jalandhar, becoming the second state after Madhya Pradesh to record the infection.According to the District Epidemiologist at Civil Hospital, Dr Paramvir Singh, this is the first confirmed case of green fungus or aspergillosis in Punjab."The patient is around 60-years in age and has suffered from the Covid-19 infection. He is under observation. There was another case before, but it was unconfirmed," Dr Singh told ANI.The epidemiologist further said, "The person diagnosed with green fungus has the same symptoms as the Black fungus.""We do not need to panic but we should take precautions," he added.Earlier on June 14, a 34-year-old patient has been airlifted from a private hospital in Indore to Mumbai's Hinduja hospital after being detected with a green fungus infection.Ahead of this, several cases of black, yellow and white fungus were reported in different parts of the country. An outbreak of black fungus cases was reported in the state after the second wave of Covid swept through the state killing thousands.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-becomes-second-state-after-mp-to-report-first-case-of-green-fungus-101624181950666.html
20-06-2021||India||AEEE 2021 Phase 2 results to be declared today. All you need to know||Amrita Vishwa Vidyapeetham will announce the results of the Amrita Engineering Entrance Examination (AEEE) Test 2021 on Sunday. The results of the AEEE 2021 can be accessed at Amrita Online Admissions Portal at the following address aoap.amrita.edu. Candidates can follow the instructions to access their results:After the completion of all phases of AEEE 2021, the admission and counselling process for candidates will start. The last phase of AEEE 2021 will begin from July 11 to July 14. The last phase i.e. Phase III will be remotely held.The last date for sending applications for Phase III is July 5. The applications for the AEEE 2021 are available at amrita.edu. Candidates who have applied for the first two phases can also apply for the upcoming phase after submitting the willingness submission process which starts at 9am Monday.The AEEE 2021 slot booking process will begin from July 7 to July 9. Mock tests will be held before the actual exam from July 8 to July 10 between 10am to 5pm. The exams for Phase III will be held from July 11 to July 14. The exams will be held in two sessions - 10am– 11.30am, 2pm – 3.30pm. Amrita University also has allowed candidates to take a retest in case they fail in the first attempt. The retest is on July 16.Amrita University will select the best score out of all the attempts in case of a candidate who has appeared in all three phases of the AEEE 2021 while preparing the merit list. Candidates will be allotted seats based on their AEEE 2021 rank.After the declaration of the results, successful candidates will register for the Amrita University’s B.Tech Centralised Seat Allotment process (CSAP). The rank/scores of PUEE Score / JEE Mains score / SAT Score / AEEE rank is needed to apply for the CSAP. The most preferred branch will be allotted according to the rank/score.Amrita University’s campuses located in Amritapuri, Bengaluru, Coimbatore and Chennai will hold the common counselling to the candidates in all B.Tech courses. Each branch on each campus has 60 seats. Amrita University has 4 campuses in Coimbatore, Amravati, Bengaluru, and Chennai which offers undergraduate, postgraduate, and doctoral programs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aeee-2021-phase-2-results-to-be-declared-today-all-you-need-to-know-101624185667580.html
20-06-2021||India||A Shiv Sena MLA has a suggestion for Uddhav Thackeray: 'Better if you get closer to PM Modi'||As not all seems well between the Shiv Sena and the Congress in the three-party Maha Vikas Aghadi government of Maharashtra, a Shiv Sena MLA has written a letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray offering a suggestion. "I believe it will be better if you get closer to PM Modi...if we come together once again, it will be beneficial to the party and workers," Shiv Sena MLA Pratap Sarmaik has written. news agency ANI reported. In his letter, he mentioned that Congress and the NCP are trying to weaken the coalition and there seems to be veiled support from the Centre, as no central agency is behind any NCP leader, he said.'Overconfidence': Shiv Sena replies to Nana Patole's 'will go solo' commentSarnaik has recently been accused in a money laundering case. "Central agencies are targeting us for no fault of our, if you come close to PM Modi, sufferings of leaders like Ravindra Waikar, Anil Parab, Pratap Sarnaik and their families will end," he wrote.Reacting to the letter, Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut said if the letter is authentic, then it raises an important issue that MLAs of Maha Vikash Aghadi are being harassed. "An MLA has written to the chief minister. What should I say about this? However, he has, if the letter is authentic, raised a very important issue that MLAs of Maha Vikas Aghadi are being harassed," Raut told ANI.Congress wants to go solo in MaharashtraMaharashtra Congress has recently announced that it will go solo in all forthcoming local elections starting with the Brihanmumbai Municipal election. In the next assembly election too, Congress wants to elect alone.People will beat with footwear: UddhavShiv Sena in its mouthpiece Saamana slammed Congress' "overconfidence" and said there is no point in saying such things when one does not have the majority figure on its side. It also said Sena will continue the alliance with NCP if Congress wants to go alone. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday said people would beat with footwear those who only talk about contesting elections alone without offering solutions to people's problems. He, however, did not take any party's name, as he was addressing on the occasion of Shiv Sena's 55th foundation day.‘PM Modi top leader of country and BJP’: Shiv Sena’s Sanjay RautReacting to that, Nana Patole on Sunday said it is not clear whom Uddhav referred to but the three-party alliance is only for five years and is not a permanent fixture, Patole said.As Maharashtra is gradually coming out of the Covid-19 pandemic, rumours are doing the rounds that the CM post will not remain with the Sena. Uddhav Thackeray recently held a one-on-one meeting with PM Modi in Delhi. But Shiv Sena has refuted such rumours and said when three parties formed the government, they all agreed that Uddhav Thackeray will be the chief minister for five years.In 2019, the Sena and Congress, adversaries for decades, formed government in Maharashtra along with the NCP after Sena's fall-out with the BJP in 2019.(With Agency Inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-shiv-sena-mla-has-a-suggestion-for-uddhav-thackeray-better-if-you-get-closer-to-pm-modi-101624184511703.html
20-06-2021||India||Tripura man assaulted over weight of meat dies a week later||A meat seller in Tripura died on Saturday from injuries received in an assault by one of his customers on June 12 over the weight of meat and the accused is absconding.The incident took place at Kalikapur area in West District when Samiran Das (45) was thrashed inside his meat shop with a wooden plank used as a base to cut meat by one Shimul Das, a customer. Samiran had recently switched to selling meat since he could no longer earn a living pulling a rickshaw during Covid-19 lockdown, police said.Samiran’s wife Basanti Das lodged a complaint four days after the incident on June 16, following which, a case under Section 325 (voluntarily causing grievous hurt) of the Indian Penal Code IPC was registered. According to the complaint, Samiran fell sick a day after the assault and was admitted to Indira Gandhi Memorial hospital in Agartala. After three days of treatment, he was referred to Govind Ballabh Pant hospital, where he died on Saturday.“The deceased might have sustained internal head injuries due to the assault. The accused is absconding. We will register a murder case now. We hope to arrest him soon,” said Biswajit Das, officer in charge of Ramnagar police outpost.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-man-assaulted-over-weight-of-meat-dies-a-week-later-101624184552992.html
20-06-2021||India||Free Covid-19 vaccines from tomorrow, pre-registration on Co-Win not mandatory||The next phase of India's vaccination drive in which the Central government will provide free Covid-19 vaccines to everyone above the age of 18 years will begin from June 21, Monday, marking a significant shift from its earlier 'liberalised and accelerated' vaccination policy. As Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced on June 7, the states won't have to procure vaccines from the manufacturers. The Centre will buy 75 per cent of the vaccines and will distribute them among the states and the Union territories free of cost.Decentralised versus centralised vaccinationThe vaccination drive in India began on January 16 From January 16 to April 30, the Centre followed a policy in which it procured 100% vaccine doses from the manufacturers and provided them to states and UTs at no cost. Frontline workers and people above the age of 45 years were the target beneficiaries during this period. From May 1, the government introduced the liberalised policy under which the Centre procured 50 per cent of the vaccines while states and private hospitals procured the rest directly from the manufacturers. Explaining the shift from this policy in a month, the health ministry said, "Many states have now communicated that they are facing difficulties in managing the funding, procurement and logistics of vaccines, impacting the pace of the National Covid Vaccination Programme. It has also been noted that smaller and remoter private hospitals are also facing constraints."What will states do now?States will administer the vaccine doses given by the Centre free of cost to everyone above the age of 18 years. The priority population group will be health care workers, frontline workers, citizens with 45 years of age, and then citizens whose second dose is due, followed by citizens 18 years and above. Within the population group of citizens more than 18 years of age, states/UTs may decide their own prioritisation factoring in the vaccine supply schedule, the Centre said.Which state will get how many doses of vaccinesPopulation, Covid-19 caseload, vaccination wastage are some of the factors on which the Centre will decide the supply.What will private hospitals do?Private hospitals can procure the rest 25 per cent of the vaccine production. States/UTs would aggregate the demand of private hospitals so that all hospitals in the state get an equitable share. Private hospitals can be charged for the vaccines, but the Centre has capped the upper limit.Co-Win registration not mandatoryFrom tomorrow, pre-registration on Cowin.gov.in will not be mandatory as all government and private vaccination centres would provide onsite registration facility.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/free-covid-19-vaccines-from-tomorrow-pre-registration-on-co-win-not-mandatory-101624180501823.html
20-06-2021||India||Salman Khurshid slams G-23 leaders seeking reforms in Congress||Senior Congress leader Salman Khurshid on Sunday hit out at some of the G-23 leaders who renewed their call for reforms in the party. Speaking to news agency PTI, Khurshid asked whether those who were calling for organisational polls within the Congress have got to where they are in the party in the same manner.The G-23 leaders include former Kapil Sibal, former leader of opposition in Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad, Anand Sharma, Milind Deora etc who have sought a major organisational revamp of the Congress.The calls for reforms and re-organisational polls come at a time when the Congress is fighting an internal crisis on several issues. Several leaders of the party defected to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the latest one being Jitin Prasada.Prasada, who jumped ship to the BJP on June 9 ahead of the crucial assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh in 2022, faced severe backlash from his former colleagues.Salman Khurshid, who is close to the Gandhis, asserted that reforms can only be achieved by sacrificing and not by suddenly questioning something which one has taken advantage of over the years.“Reform comes when you give up what you have received...say that I need to make a sacrifice because I want some change to happen. Therefore, the first thing that I will do is to give up what I have received to make an example to people, otherwise people think you are being hypocritical,” the senior Congress leader told PTI, adding the leaders who want reforms should have spoken to other leaders too.This remark of Khurshid can be seen as an indirect attack towards his colleague Kapil Sibal, who said the party needs reforms at central and state levels in order to show it is no longer in a state of inertia.Right after Prasasda’s exit on June 9, another veteran Congressman Veerappa Moily said the party needs to undergo ‘major surgery’. Labelling Prasada as a ‘suspect’, Moily said responsibility should be given to people who are committed to the party ideology.To this, Khurshid said, “I am quite happy for the major surgery but what do you want to remove -- my liver, kidney, just somebody tell me what surgery you want to do.” He asserted that a phrase such as surgery is not the answer and one needs to get to the bottom of the problem. “We need to get to the inside, before surgery, we need to do X-rays, ultrasounds”.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/salman-khurshid-slams-g-23-leaders-seeking-reforms-in-congress-101624180783004.html
20-06-2021||India||Over 3.06 cr Covid-19 vaccine doses available with states and UTs||More than 3.06 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses are still available with states and union territories and over 24.53 lakh doses will be received by them in the next three days, the Union health ministry said on Sunday.It said that 29,10,54,050 vaccine doses have been provided to states and union territories (UTs) so far through the government of India's free of cost channel and the direct state procurement category.Of this, the total consumption, including wastage, is 26,04,19,412 doses, according to data available at 8 am on Sunday, the ministry said.It said that "3,06,34,638 Covid-19 vaccine doses are still available with the states and UTs to be administered.""Furthermore, more than 24,53,080 vaccine doses are in the pipeline and will be received by them within the next three days," the ministry said.It said that as part of the nationwide vaccination drive, the government of India has been supporting states and UTs by providing them Covid vaccines free of cost. In addition, the Centre has also been facilitating direct procurement of vaccines by states and UTs.Vaccination is an integral pillar of the comprehensive strategy of the government for containment and management of the pandemic, along with 'test, track, treat' and Covid appropriate behaviour, the ministry said.Implementation of the liberalized and accelerated Phase-3 strategy of Covid vaccination started from May 1.Under the strategy, in every month 50 per cent of the total Central Drugs Laboratory (CDL) cleared vaccine doses of any manufacturer would be procured by the Centre. It would continue to make these doses available to state governments totally free of cost as was being done earlier, the ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-3-06-cr-covid-19-vaccine-doses-available-with-states-and-uts-101624179399806.html
20-06-2021||India||Odisha aims to vaccinate 300,000 people daily beginning Monday||Odisha health department targets to administer 300,000 doses of Covid-19 vaccines daily beginning Monday with the aim to cover 30.9 million eligible residents in the shortest possible time, officials saidAll district collectors and municipal bodies have been instructed by the state health department’s additional chief secretary, PK Mohapatra, to plan at least 5 vaccination sessions in each block and notified area councils (NAC), 10 sessions in each municipality and at least 20 sessions in five specified municipal corporations so that the target of 300,000 doses can be achieved daily.“The vaccination drive for those in 18-44 years and above 45 years should be run in a campaign mode so as to completely consume the available stock within the shortest possible time,” Mohapatra said.Presently, less than 150,000 doses are administered daily on an average across the state, directly impacting the number of doses supplied by the Centre, based on its consumption and wastage rate, he added.“Districts can plan for both online and on-site sessions based on feasibility. At the same time, the beneficiaries already due for their 2nd dose shall be mobilised to ensure timely vaccination,” said Mohapatra in his letter.Since the beginning of Covid vaccination drive on January 16, Odisha has administered 9.677 million doses including 3.706 million double doses given to 1.853 million residents.Odisha has 30.9 million eligible residents, requiring 61.8 million doses for complete vaccination. However, the state has only managed to fully vaccinate nearly 0.05% of the eligible population so far. As per the available data, over 4.266 million men and 3.01m women have received at least one out of the two jabs.Though the vaccination drive picked up pace in June, officials said doubling the average daily vaccinations to 300,000 will be a challenging task.“The last time we undertook such a major vaccination drive was in 2018, when over 11.2m children in the age group of 9 months and 15 years were jabbed with Measles Rubella vaccine. We have also done oral polio vaccination in huge numbers. But never have we done vaccination at such a massive scale for a prolonged period. The Covid vaccination campaign is going to test the skills and tenacity of the health workers across the state like no other in the recent past,” said Dr Bijay Panigrahi, nodal officer of Covid vaccination in Odisha.The enormity of the challenge is underscored by the fact that 197,000 healthcare and frontline workers in the state are yet to get themselves vaccinated despite registering on the CoWIN application, prompting the government to set June 20 deadline for them.Meanwhile, Odisha on Sunday reported 3,577 new Covid cases in the previous 24 hours with 42 deaths pushing the state’s Covid death toll to 3,590. The state has 38,727 active cases, the sixth highest in the country after Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh.The test positivity rate, an indicator of spread of infection, in the week ending June 20 was high in 5 districts with Bhadrak topping the list with 17% followed by Jajpur at 15.7% and Khurda at 15.5%. It was also on the rise in western Odisha’s Nuapada district (11.45), after declining for some time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-aims-to-vaccinate-300-000-people-daily-beginning-monday-101624179457328.html
20-06-2021||India||From Srinagar to Anantnag: All 15 stations in Kashmir now WiFi-ready, announces Railways||All 15 train stations in the Kashmir valley, from Srinagar to Anantnag to Budgam, have been integrated with the Railwire WiFi network, the Indian Railways announced in a statement on Sunday. Union railway minister Piyush Goyal made the announcement on the occasion of World Wifi Day on June 20, and said that all 15 stations in Kashmir, including Srinagar, have now become part of the "largest integrated public Wifi networks in the world"."Today, on World Wifi Day, I am delighted to announce that Srinagar and 14 stations of the Kashmir Valley have become a part of one the largest integrated public Wifi networks in the world, connecting 6,000 plus stations across the country," announced railway minister Piyush Goyal.According to the Indian Railways statement, the 15 stations in Kashmir valley which are now Wifi-ready are -- Baramula, Hamre, Pattan, Mazhom, Budgam, Srinagar, Pampore, Kakapora, Avantipura, Panzgam, Bijbehara, Anantnag, Sadura, Qazigund, and Banihal. With this step, all the stations of the Kashmir valley now have public Wifi."It is a crucial step for the Digital India mission and will go a long way in connecting the unconnected. I convey my appreciation to the team Indian Railways and RailTel, which has worked tirelessly to achieve this remarkable feat," the minister said.Before this, WiFi service in Jammu and Kashmir was only limited to the Jammu, Kathua, Budhi, Chhan Arorian, Hira Nagar, Ghagwal, Samba, Vijaypur, Bari Brahman, Jammu Tawi, Bajalta, Sangar, Manwal, Ram Nagar stations. RailTel is the official WiFi service authorised the Union ministry of railways to integrate train stations in India with high-speed internet."The Indian Railways, in association with its RailTel Corporation of India Ltd, is playing a key role in bringing high-speed Wifi to every corner of the country," Goyal said, adding, "The vision was to convert the platforms into platforms for digital inclusion. Today, the Wifi network is spread over 6,000 stations across the country and this is one of the largest integrated Wifi networks in the world."(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-srinagar-to-anantnag-all-15-stations-in-kashmir-now-wifi-ready-railways-101624173214017.html
20-06-2021||India||IRCTC introduces major changes for online railway booking. Check here||In a major relief, passengers who were booking train tickets online on the IRCTC website or the app and then cancelling it will not have to wait for two-three days to get their refund. According to a report by Hindustan Times' sister publication Livehindustan, passengers who book tickets through IRCTC’s payment gateway IRCTC-ipay, will get their refund immediately after they cancel it. IRCTC-ipay was launched in 2019 as a part of the central government’s Digital India Campaign. The IRCTC has also upgraded its website in this regard.Speaking to Livehindustan, an IRCTC spokesperson said the new arrangements will allow passengers to book tatkal and regular tickets easily apart from cancelling them. The official also added that keeping in view the increasing number of railway passengers, the IRCTC has upgraded its user interface along with the IRCTC-ipay feature because of which it is taking less time to book tickets.Here is how you can book tickets through IRCTC-ipay:> Open the IRCTC website (www.irctc.co.in)> Fill all journey related details> Select the train as per your route> Log into the website using your credentials.> Enter passenger details> Select mode of payment. Here passengers will have to choose the IRCTC ipay option> Click on Pay and Book.> Enter credit card/debit card/prepaid card/UPI details> After payment, the ticket will be immediately booked and the confirmation will be sent through an SMS and email.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/irctc-introduces-major-changes-for-online-railway-booking-check-here-101624176460693.html
20-06-2021||India||PM Modi congratulates Iran's new president Ebrahim Raisi on poll victory||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday congratulated Iran's new president Ebrahim Raisi and vowed to work with him to strengthen diplomatic ties between the two countries. "Congratulations to Ebrahim Raisi on his election as President of Iran. I look forward to working with him to further strengthen the warm ties between India and Iran," Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted from his official handle on the social networking site.Congratulations to His Excellency Ebrahim Raisi on his election as President of the Islamic Republic of Iran. I look forward to working with him to further strengthen the warm ties between India and Iran.Raisi, the 60-year-old hardliner judge touted as an "ultraconservative champion of the poor", was named the winner of the Islamic republic's presidential election on Saturday. He is set to take over from moderate Hassan Rouhani in August. The Iranian interior ministry confirmed on Saturday that Raisi won 61.95% of the vote on a voter turnout of 48.8% - the lowest turnout for a presidential election since the 1979 revolution.Raisi got 28,933,004 votes, while former Revolutionary Guard commander Mohsen Rezaei finished third with 3,412,712 votes and was followed by moderate candidate Abdolnasswer Hemmati with 2,427,201 votes, and conservative Amir Hossein Ghazizadeh Hashemi with 999,718 votes.Critics charge the election was skewed in his favour as strong rivals were disqualified, but to his loyal supporters, he is Iran's best hope for standing up to the West and bringing relief from a deep economic crisis. Raisi is not renowned for great charisma but, as head of the judiciary, has driven a popular campaign to prosecute corrupt officials.On the other hand, Israel's recently-elected prime minister Naftali Bennett called the election of Ebrahim Raisi as Iran's president a "final wake-up call" for the world, according to reports. He pointed out that Raisi is a hardline judge who is under US sanctions for human rights abuses, noting that world powers should reconsider talks on a new Iranian nuclear deal.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-congratulates-iran-s-new-president-ebrahim-raisi-on-poll-victory-101624176365273.html
20-06-2021||India||International Yoga Day: MP plans to inoculate 10 lakh people against Covid-19||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said on Sunday that his government will start a 'Vaccination Maha abhiyan (grand campaign)' from Monday, on the occasion on International Yoga Day. The initiative is yet another bid by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government to increase the vaccination coverage in the state where daily cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) are on a downward slide.Chouhan further said that his government will attempt to inoculate 10 lakh people in a single day (on Monday) as part of the grand campaign on International Yoga Day."We have decided to start a 'Vaccination Mahaabhiyan' tomorrow, on the occasion of International Yoga Day. 7000 centres have been set up, an effort will be made to vaccinate over 10 lakh people at these centres tomorrow itself," the chief minister was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Madhya Pradesh on Saturday recorded 110 new cases of Covid-19 and 30 related fatalities that took the tally of infections to 7,89,174 and death toll to 8,737, according to state health department.At least 365 patients were discharged from hospitals in 24-hour span, taking the count of recoveries to 7,77,995.The toll in Bhopal stands at 972, while Indore has recorded 1,375 fatalities so far. With this, Indore has 438 active cases, while Bhopal has 851 patients undergoing treatment, an official of the health department said, adding that Madhya Pradesh now has 2,442 active cases.Of 52 districts in the state, 22 districts did not record a single new case in the last 24 hours, according to the health department.With the addition of 71,543 swab samples tested during the day, the total number of tests conducted in Madhya Pradesh has reached over 1.13 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/international-yoga-day-mp-plans-to-inoculate-10-lakh-people-against-covid19-101624176207907.html
20-06-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 1 pm: UP to ease night curfew by 2 hours and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 1 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.UP to ease Covid-19 curfew from Monday, new guidelines issued.The Yogi Adityanath-led government in Uttar Pradesh on Sunday decided to grant two more hours of relaxation in the statewide night curfew that currently remains imposed in all its 75 districts due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation. Read morePatna to get 10 public transport stands under smart city project by AugustIn a bid to organise the chaotic operation of small and medium transport in the city, Patna Smart City Project Limited (PSCPL) has decided to set up intermediate public transport (IPT) stands at 10 congested traffic spots by August. Read moreInternational Yoga Day: Madhuri Dixit does Adho Mukha Svanasana to tone the coreMadhuri Dixit Nene is back with another yoga pose to inspire her followers to get on the fitness bandwagon. The actor recently began a yoga series to kickstart the week leading up to the International Day of Yoga. Read moreAlcazar base variant costlier than rivals. Hyundai betting big on featuresHyundai Motor India Limited has introduced its latest offering Alcazar SUV at a price range of ₹16.30-20 lakh (ex-showroom). The three-row seater SUV competes with rivals like Tata Safari and MG Hector Plus. Read moreFather’s Day 2021: Fevicol to Zomato to Delhi Airport: Posts celebrating the special day are super sweetFather’s Day 2021 is being celebrated today on June 20 across different parts of the world. Read moreIndia legend Sachin Tendulkar pips Kumar Sangakkara to be voted 'Greatest Men's Test Batsman' of 21st centuryThe legendary Sachin Tendulkar was voted as the greatest Test men's batsman of the 21st century by a panel of commentators and fans on Star Sports, piping former Sri Lanka captain Kumar Sangakkara, who gave the Master Blaster a close fight. Read moreJai Bajrangbali the new God? Sanjay Singh on Ayodhya, scam & AAP as BJP’s B teamAam Aadmi Party leader Sanjay Singh speaks about alleged land scam in Ayodhya. Speaking to Hindustan Times’ Kumkum Chadha, Singh explains how and when he learned about the alleged land scam by Ram Janmbhoomi Trust. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-1-pm-up-to-ease-night-curfew-by-2-hours-and-all-the-latest-news-101624171756995.html
20-06-2021||India||Can't pay ₹4 lakh to kins of Covid-19 victims: Centre to SC||The Centre filed an affidavit before the Supreme Court in response to petitions seeking compensation of ₹4 lakh to family members of those who died of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), reports news agency ANI.The Centre filed the affidavit that it cannot pay the compensation amount to the next of kin of the deceased as it would entail a huge financial liability.The Centre, however, made clear that it had already made payments and a slew of government measures have been introduced for the needy persons.The Centre also further submitted to the apex court in its affidavit that the Union and all the state governments have spent huge amounts for needy persons, to deal with the Covid-19 pandemic and that their finances are overstretched.The Centre’s affidavit came in response to a PIL seeking 'minimum standards of relief' and ex-gratia payment to Covid-19 deceased.A report in Bar and Bench said that the petition was filed by advocates Gaurav Kumar Bansal and Reepal Kansal had referred to Section 12 of the Disaster Management Act 2005, according to which, the national authority shall recommend guidelines for the minimum standards of relief to be provided to persons affected by disaster, which shall include ex-gratia assistance.The Supreme Court, earlier on May 24 had issued a notice to the Centre, on hearing petitions seeking direction to the concerned authorities to provide ex gratia compensation of ₹4 lakhs to the family members of those who have succumbed to the Covid-19 pandemic, as per the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) letter in view of Section 12 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cant-pay-rs-4-lakh-to-kins-of-covid-19-victims-centre-to-sc-101624166994964.html
20-06-2021||India||‘Punjab wants change’: AAP says Delhi CM Kejriwal will visit Amritsar on Monday||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) announced on Sunday that its national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal will be visiting Punjab’s Amritsar city on Monday. This will be his second visit to Punjab this year, where assembly elections are due in 2022.“AAP National Convenor & Delhi CM Shri Arvind Kejriwal to visit Punjab tomorrow. Punjab wants Change!,” the AAP tweeted.Former inspector general Kunwar Vijay Partap Singh is likely to join the AAP in Kejriwal’s presence, people aware of the party’s plans told Hindustan Times.Kejriwal’s visit on Monday comes as his party suffered a massive setback after Punjab Ekta Party, led by former AAP leader Sukhpal Singh Khaira, decided to join hands with the Congress on June 17. Khaira had been a member of the Congress and switched to the AAP in 2015.ਪੰਜਾਬ ਬਦਲਾਓ ਚਾਹੁੰਦਾ ਹੈ। ਸਿਰਫ਼ ਆਮ ਆਦਮੀ ਪਾਰਟੀ ਹੀ ਉਮੀਦ ਹੈ।ਕੱਲ੍ਹ ਅੰਮ੍ਰਿਤਸਰ ਵਿਖੇ ਮਿਲਦੇ ਹਾਂSpeaking to reporters on June 17, Khaira claimed the AAP is a one man show and there is nothing beyond Arvind Kejriwal. He also targeted the AAP for being undemocratic and said there was no system of internal democracy or dialogue within the party.Arvind Kejriwal had earlier visited Punjab in March this year, when the farmers’ agitation against the Centre’s three new farm laws was at its peak. Addressing a Maha Kisan Panchayat in Moga, Kejriwal accused the Congress-led government in Punjab of not fulfilling any of the poll promises it had made before the 2017 elections.“In the run-up of the 2017 assembly polls, Capt Amarinder Singh had made several promises. But after assuming power for over four years, the chief minister is unable to deliver on announcements including debt waiver for farmers, jobs, providing smartphones and unemployment allowance,” Kejriwal said.The Delhi CM also pointed out during the kisan panchayat that his party was an alternative to both the Congress and BJP and Punjab’s public should be ready for revenge from the Congress in the upcoming elections.In the last assembly elections in 2017, the AAP was a first timer in Punjab but it still managed to win 20 seats out of the total 117. The Congress won 77 seats and formed the government in Punjab. While the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) managed to win only 18 seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-to-visit-punjab-on-monday-101624168417987.html
20-06-2021||India||27th price hike since May 4 makes petrol costlier by ₹6.82, diesel by ₹7.24 a litre||Petrol and diesel prices rallied again on Sunday by 29 and 28 paise a litre respectively, the 27th hike in 48 days that made a litre of petrol costlier by ₹6.82 and diesel by ₹7.24 since May 4, a day after results of five assembly polls were declared. Petrol in Delhi will now be priced at ₹97.22 per litre and diesel at ₹87.97 a litre. While fuel rates in Delhi are the benchmark for the entire country, retail prices of the two fuels differ from place to place because of variations in state taxes and local levies. Both petrol and diesel prices have crossed the ₹100 mark in several cities with Rajasthan’s Ganganagar, where petrol is sold at ₹108.37 per litre and diesel at ₹101.12 a litre on Sunday, registering the highest retail prices. Mumbai, where petrol is currently sold at ₹103.36 per litre and diesel at ₹95.44 a litre, has the highest fuel rates among five metros The upward movement since May 4 saw petrol breaching the ₹100 mark in various cities across the country, including Mumbai, Ratnagiri, Parbhani, Aurangabad, Jaisalmer, Ganganagar, Banswara, Indore, Bhopal, Gwalior, Guntur, Kakinada, Chikmagalur, Shivamogga, Hyderabad and Leh. Surging international oil rates and exorbitant domestic tax structure are two key reasons for high rates of petrol and diesel in pumps. International oil prices that moved downward on Thursday, gained in the closing session of this week on Friday. Benchmark Brent crude fell by 1.76% at $73.08 per barrel on Thursday before jumping to 0.59% to close at $73.51 a barrel on Friday. Domestic fuel retailers align pump prices of petrol and diesel with respective international benchmarks of previous day, which often move in tandem with crude oil rates. Pump prices of fuels are also high because of taxes. In Delhi, central levies account for 34.8% of petrol’s price and state taxes constitute 23.08%, according to an official data of June 1. On diesel, central taxes are over 37.24% while state taxes are about 14.64%. Through 2020, as global crude prices fell, the Central government raised excise duty on the fuel to shore up its finances. States too followed suit -- with revenues hit on account of the pandemic. Even as international oil prices saw volatility since May 4, pump rates of auto fuels in India moved only in the upward direction. For instance, despite Brent crude plunging to $65.11 on May 20, the lowest in these 46 days; petrol and diesel rates went up the next day by 19 and 29 paise a litre respectively. According to executives working in state-run oil marketing companies, pump prices are also high because companies were recovering their past revenue losses like the one suffered for 66 days since February 27 when rates were not raised because of assembly elections in four states and one Union territory. During the 66-day pause on rate hike, state-run retailers also reduced petrol and diesel rates by 77 and 74 paise a litre, respectively in four small steps. But, the entire gains to the consumers were quickly reversed in the first four consecutive rounds of rate hikes starting May 4. The government deregulated the pricing of petrol on June 26, 2010 and diesel on October 19, 2014. Accordingly, state-run retailers are free to change pump prices every day. Public sector retailers such as the Indian Oil Corporation (IOC), Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd (BPCL) and Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd (HPCL) control almost 90% of the domestic fuel retail market.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/27th-price-hike-since-may-4-makes-petrol-costlier-by-rs-6-82-diesel-by-rs-7-24-a-litre-101624164812223.html
20-06-2021||India||Meghalaya’s vaccination drive hit by hesitancy hurdle||The progress of vaccination drive in Meghalaya has been tardy with the state ranked 31st out of the 37 states and UTs as per the Union health ministry’s data. Local officials have cited vaccine hesitancy as one of the biggest hurdles.Close to 14.6 % or 469,938 Meghalaya residents have received at least one shot of the vaccine, well below the national average of 16.2 % and the state is ranked only above West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Jharkhand, Assam, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, which is at the bottom of the pile with only 9% vaccinations done, Central government data revealed on Thursday. Lakshadweep tops the chart with 62.9% of the population vaccinated.As of 9 pm on Friday, only 74,988 residents had received two shots, adding to 149,976 doses out of the total 577,546 administered in Meghalaya so far. The state has a population of about 3.22 million.East Khasi Hills district is the worst affected with a total of 24,711 positive cases including 586 deaths and 1,583 active cases registered so far.Government officials have identified vaccine hesitancy, particularly among the elderly, as the main reason for the slow pace of vaccination.“Initially vaccines were available only for the age group 45 and above. Once it was opened up for the 18-44 years age group, it has picked up substantially,” chief secretary MS Rao said and added, “We are addressing vaccine hesitancy on priority through extensive awareness programmes by addressing various misconceptions about vaccination.”District administrations have come up with innovative initiatives to draw people to vaccination centres including conduct of Raffle Draws (a kind of lottery) by the West Khasi Hills district administration, offering those getting vaccinated a chance to win ₹10,000.Some groups like The Khasi Students’ Union have been encouraging people to get vaccinated.“We will assist the government in this aspect and sensitise people on the basic knowledge of the vaccine but it will not be done by us… we are not medical experts so we will do so through proper medical professionals,” KSU general secretary Donald Thabah said.He said the group will also show people photos to prove that their leaders had also got themselves vaccinated. “We need the vaccine, but not by coercion, force or threats, it should be totally voluntary,” Thabah added.Meghalaya principal secretary of health & family welfare department Sampath Kumar introducing any new interventions require “behavioural changes”, which happens gradually when residents are mobilised and made to see the results for greater acceptance among the communities.He added that indigenous population tends to honour popular beliefs within their communities and have a strong sense of freedom, which makes it important that the communities are taken into confidence to implement any new intervention. Initially, they were hesitant due to fear and misconceptions fed by lack of credible information on vaccination outcome.“However, after we presented the data that out of 345 deaths in EKH district, 319 were not vaccinated and 26 had only taken a single dose of the vaccine, the uptake of vaccines among people shot up to 5 times more than in the previous weeks,” a happy sounding Kumar said“Our community Covid management committees, along with active cooperation from headmen, religious and community leaders, have helped increase vaccination coverage drastically,” he added.He pointed out that Meghalaya was earlier ranked at the bottom for full immunization coverage for children programme till the year 2019. “However, in a span of only 6 months during 2020, the whole state was mobilised and the state now ranks 2nd alongside Kerala, only after Telangana,” Kumar said.Meghalaya has received 613,490 free Covid vaccine doses from the Centre since January while procuring 108,850 doses of Covishield from the Serum Institute of India, at its own cost. Meanwhile, in a related development, 38-year old Donlad Shylla, who made disparaging and sexist remarks on Facebook against district magistrate Isawanda Laloo over her appeals to people to get vaccinated, was arrested early Sunday morning by the special cell of East Khasi Hills police.“He will be produced in court and further investigation is being made to ensure that the case reaches its logical conclusion,” said Silvester Nongtnger, East Khasi Hills superintendent of police||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/meghalayas-vaccination-drive-hit-by-hesitancy-hurdle-101624162292190.html
20-06-2021||India||Covid-19: States with highest and lowest number of active cases||The number of daily coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases have been coming down in India in the last few weeks. From a peak of 4 lakh cases in a day, the nationwide tally has dropped to around 60,000.On Sunday, India recorded 58,419 new Covid-19 cases in a span of 24 hours, which pushed the nationwide tally to 29,881,965. As many as 3,86,713 people have succumbed to the Covid infection so far, while the cumulative recoveries reached 2,87,66,009.The Union health ministry said on Saturday that the daily positivity rate in the country has dropped to 2.98 per cent. But, there are a few states where the number of active cases of the disease is still high.On Saturday, the Centre asked joined experts and courts in warning states and Union Territories not to become “complacent” about a decline in Covid-19 infections. It urged the states to ensure that protocol is followed and asked them to monitor signs of a potential spike in cases as they lift lockdown restrictions across regions.The warning comes as the number of active cases in a some states remain a cause of concern. Here's a list of those states:Maharashtra:The western state of Maharashtra has been the worst-hit by Covid-19 pandemic since it first struck India. The state has reported highest number of cases, and still leads in terms of active cases of the infection.On Saturday, Maharashtra reported 8,912 fresh Covid-19 cases and 257 fatalities, taking the tally to 59,63,420 and the toll to 1,17,356, the state health department said.According to Maharashtra health department, the state has 1,32,597 active cases of Covid-19.Karnataka:Several districts in Karnataka are seeing a significant decline in Covid-19 cases over the past few weeks, due to which the state government has relaxed the lockdown-like curbs imposed to check the spread of the disease. In an order, the government has allowed shops, hotels, clubs and restaurants in districts that have a positivity rate of less than five per cent to operate till 5pm from Monday.In the last 24 hours, as many as 5,815 new Covid-19 cases, 11,832 discharges and 161 deaths were reported in the state. There are currently 1,30,872 active cases in the state, according to state health department data.Kerala:Kerala logged 12,443 fresh Covid-19 cases on Saturday, taking the tally to 27,97,747, while 115 deaths pushed the toll to 11,948.Recoveries continued to outnumber fresh cases with 13,145 people being cured of the disease, taking the total number of those who have recuperated to 26,78,499. Active cases touched 1,06,861, the state health department data showed.Tamil Nadu:Tamil Nadu recorded 8,183 fresh Covid-19 cases on Saturday, which pushed the state's caseload to 24.14 lakh. Though the number of new cases have been dropping in the state, it still has 78,780 active cases of the infection.Tamil Nadu recorded its highest daily cases at 36,184 on May 21. The daily case count dropped below 10,000 on June 17.Andhra Pradesh:For the first time in more than two months, the number of daily Covid-19 fatalities in Andhra Pradesh fell below 50 as 45 people succumbed in a span of 24 hours, data released by the government showed on Saturday.The state registered 5,674 fresh cases from 1.03 lakh tests in 24 hours, at the rate of 5.5 per cent, a drastic drop from the high of 25 per cent a month ago.The number of active cases in Andhra Pradesh has come down to 65,244, according to state health department.There are also some states where the active cases have been considerably low. Here's a look at a few of them:Jharkhand:Jharkhand's Covid-19 tally rose to 3,44,270 on Saturday as 141 more people tested positive for the infection, while two fresh fatalities pushed the state's coronavirus death toll to 5,097, a health bulletin said.The state now has 1,811 active cases, according to Union health ministry.Nagaland:Nagaland on Saturday reported 94 new Covid-19 cases, which pushed the tally in the state to 24,191. At least 171 people were cured of the disease during the day, taking the total number of recoveries to 21,058.Nagaland currently has 1,979 active cases.Delhi:The national capital recorded seven deaths due to Covid-19, the lowest since April 1, and 135 fresh cases of coronavirus infection on Saturday.The number of active cases decreased to 2,372 on Saturday from 2,444 a day before, according to the bulletin.Madhya Pradesh:Madhya Pradesh on Saturday recorded 110 new cases of Covid-19 and 30 casualties that raised the tally of infections to 7,89,174 and took the toll to 8,737, an official from the state health department said.The state now has 2,442 active cases.Uttarakhand:The last in the list is Uttarakhand which has 3,231 active cases of Covid-19.India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19 last year. The tally crossed the 2-crore mark on May 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-states-with-highest-and-lowest-number-of-active-cases-101624160764669.html
20-06-2021||India||Covid-19 cases in India drop to 58,419, lowest since March 30||India’s single-day tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) dropped below the 60,000-mark on Sunday after 58,419 cases were reported in the previous 24 hours, taking the caseload to 29,881,965, according to the Union health ministry. Sunday’s cases are the lowest since March 30, when 56,211 people were detected Covid-19 positive.As many as 1,576 succumbed to the viral disease in the 24-hour-span and 87,619 recovered, taking the death toll and total recoveries to 386,713 and 28,766,009, respectively. The daily recoveries continued to outnumber the new cases for the 38th consecutive day.Also Read| Covid-19: States with highest and lowest number of active casesThe active cases dipped to 729,243 and constitute 2.55% of the caseload.Sunday’s case count is 2,334 less than that of Saturday’s when 60,753 infections were recorded. On the other hand, the deaths on Sunday are 71 less than that of Saturday’s when 1,647 people succumbed to the viral disease.The cumulative Covid-19 testing figures stand at 391,019,083, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said on Sunday, adding 1,811,446 samples were tested in the previous 24 hours.COVID-19 Testing Update. For more details visit: https://t.co/dI1pqvXAsZ @MoHFW_INDIA @DeptHealthRes @PIB_India @mygovindia @COVIDNewsByMIB #ICMRFIGHTSCOVID19 #IndiaFightsCOVID19 #CoronaUpdatesInIndia #COVID19 #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/v03wtk45FNAs the daily Covid-19 tally in India has been coming down since May 7, when the country saw a peak of over 414,000 cases, states and Union territories (UTs) have begun easing their lockdown or lockdown-like restrictions to revive their economies.However, Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla on Saturday advised states and UTs to follow “calibrated” process carefully while opening up activities amid a fall in their cases.“While opening up, it would be extremely important to follow the fivefold strategy of Covid appropriate behaviour, test-track-treat and vaccination. Regular monitoring of Covid appropriate behaviour is required to prevent relapse. To reiterate, Covid appropriate behaviour includes mandatory use of masks, hand hygiene, social distancing and also proper ventilation of closed spaces,” Bhalla said in a letter to states and UTs.Also Read| ‘Monitor signs of spike’: Centre warns states against lowering guardHe also told chief secretaries of states and UTs to order all concerned authorities to ensure that Covid-19 testing rate does not fall and a close watch should be kept on early signs of a surge in active cases or higher positivity rates.Telangana, Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh became the latest states who have further eased Covid-19 related restrictions. Telangana is completely lifting its lockdown from today amid an improvement in the overall situation but the state government urged residents to not lower their guard against Covid-19.In Karnataka, the lockdown-like restrictions have been eased in 16 districts including the capital city of Bengaluru. As per the new guidelines, restaurants can open at 50% capacity in these 16 districts and shops can remain open till 5pm. Government and private offices can function with 50% capacity.The Uttar Pradesh government, meanwhile, relaxed the night curfew by two hours from Monday, allowing opening of shops, malls and restaurants till 9pm on weekdays. The curfew will now be from 9pm to 7am.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-daily-covid-19-tally-drops-below-60-000-mark-with-58-419-new-cases-101624159888146.html
20-06-2021||India||News updates from HT: Chirag Paswan calls LJP national executive meet in Delhi today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Chirag Paswan calls LJP national executive meeting in power tussle with uncle Pashupati ParasThe Chirag Paswan led faction of the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) has called a national executive meeting in national capital Delhi on Sunday. Amid a feud with his uncle Pashupati Paras over the control of the party, Paswan has asserted that more than 90 per cent of the national executive members are with him. Read moreCovid-19 curbs in Goa extended till June 28. Check what's allowed, what's notThe Goa government on Saturday extended of restrictions imposed in the state to check the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) till June 28. The announcement was made by chief minister Pramod Sawant. Read morePM Modi to address lead event of International Yoga Day on MondayPrime Minister Narendra Modi will address the lead event of the Seventh International Yoga Day on Monday. In view of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, the lead event of the International Yoga Day, 2021 will be a televised programme and is scheduled to start at 6.30am on all Doordarshan channels. Read moreTruck driver crashes into South Florida Pride parade; mayor says 1 killedA driver slammed into spectators Saturday evening at the start of a Pride parade in South Florida, and an official says one person was killed and another seriously injured. Read more'Funny umpiring': Sehwag reacts after catch appeal against Kohli goes to third umpire despite NZ not opting for DRSFormer India opener Virender Sehwag reacted after the on-field umpires referred a catch appeal against Virat Kohli to the third umpire despite the New Zealand players not opting for a review in the inaugural World Test Championship final at the Ageas Bowl in Southampton. Read moreAndroid's Find My Device network might be crowd-sourcedApple's Find My network is one of its most efficient services. This is what Apple uses to find lost devices including Macbooks, iPhones, iPods, etc. This is also the tech Apple uses for its recently launched Bluetooth trackers AirTags. Read moreFather’s Day 2021: Google shares sweet animated doodle for the special dayFather’s Day is a special day to thank those who are always there for us to support us and help us grow – our dads. Since morning, social media is abuzz with all sorts of posts celebrating fatherhood and paternal bonds. Read moreNeena Gupta's biggest reveals: Going 5 years without talking to Vivian Richards, Satish Kaushik's offer to marryNeena Gupta recently launched her autobiography Sach Kahun Toh and gave fans a close look at her life. The actor, who was a single mother to daughter Masaba Gupta, opened up about her first marriage, spoke about her relationship with Vivian Richards and her struggle in the film industry. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-chirag-calls-ljp-national-executive-meet-in-delhi-today-101624158887745.html
20-06-2021||India||Ex-AIADMK minister M Manikandan arrested for allegedly raping Malaysian woman: Report||Former AIADMK minister M Manikandan was arrested in Bengaluru by the Chennai city police for allegedly raping a Malaysian woman, causing miscarriage as well as for criminal intimidation, news agency ANI reported on Sunday morning, citing a statement by the Tamil Nadu police. The ex-state minister was evading arrest after the Madras high court refused to grant him anticipatory bail in the case on Wednesday, noting that the charges against him were grave and he could tamper with evidence given the powerful position he held in the past.Also Read: No arrest shield for AIADMK’s ex-minister accused of rape by Malaysian nationalM Manikandan, a former minister of the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) in Tamil Nadu, faces allegations that he lured an actor, a Malaysian citizen, into a relationship for five years on the pretext of marriage, forced her to abort and threatened her. The 44-year-old politician has been accused of cheating, rape, causing miscarriage, hurt and criminal intimidation under the Indian Penal Code apart from section 67 (a) of the Information Technology Act that relates to publishing sexually explicit acts online.Manikandan was allegedly introduced to the Malaysian actor in May 2017 while the latter was working with the Malaysian Tourism Development Organisation. According to the prosecution's complaints, the then state minister had offered to marry the Malaysian actor after divorcing his wife. The two even stayed together, travelling across Chennai and Delhi, the prosecution said, adding that the accused impregnated the woman thrice, forced her to abort and continued to have sexual intercourse with her in a forceful and brutal manner.Manikandan, on his part, has denied to allegations and said that the complaint against him was only filed after “several attempts for compromise” did not succeed since he didn’t accept what he described as her “extortionist demands”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/exaiadmk-minister-m-manikandan-arrested-for-allegedly-raping-malaysian-woman-report-101624158901718.html
20-06-2021||India||IMD issues rainfall alert for Delhi-NCR, UP; thunderstorms likely||Rainfall alerts for Delhi and adjoining areas in the national capital region (NCR) were issued on Sunday morning by the India Meteorological Department (IMD). Light to moderate intensity rainfall, accompanied by thunderstorms and lightning, has been predicted by the met department in isolated regions over Delhi, Ghaziabad, Noida, Aligarh, and surrounding regions in the next two hours."Thunderstorm with light to moderate intensity rain would occur over isolated places of South, East, Northeast Delhi, Ghaziabad, Hindon AF, Indrapuram, Chapraula, Noida, Greater Noida, Dadri, Sikandrabad, Bulandshahar, Aligarh, Khurja, Narora, Kasganj, Atrauli, Nazibabad, Sikander Rao, and Etah during next 2 hours," posted the India Meteorological Department at 7:41am on Sunday, issuing an alert for the aforementioned regions.Kasganj, Atrauli, Nazibabad, Sikander rao, Etah during next 2 hours. pic.twitter.com/ZeiY5SATleThe met department has said that light rainfall in Delhi on Sunday is likely to bring down the temperatures in the national capital. However, the mercury may continue to rise once again from next week, said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting center.On Saturday, the maximum temperature at the Safdarjung observatory, which is the official marker for the city, was 35.1°C, four degrees below what is considered normal for this time of year. The minimum temperature here was 25.3°C, three degrees below normal. It will continue to dip, according to IMD's predictions, following the light rainfall but will rise once again from next week, although staying below the 40-degree mark.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imd-issues-rainfall-alert-for-delhi-ncr-up-thunderstorms-likely-101624155939330.html
20-06-2021||India||Covid-19 curbs in Goa extended till June 28. Check what's allowed, what's not||The Goa government on Saturday extended of restrictions imposed in the state to check the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) till June 28. The announcement was made by chief minister Pramod Sawant."State Level Curfew will be extended till 7AM, 28 June 2021. Shops in Shoping malls, except cinema halls, theatres, multiplexes, entertainment zones allowed to be open between 7 am to 3 PM. Fish market may also open," Sawant said in a Twitter post.State Level Curfew will be extended till 7AM, 28 June 2021. Shops in Shoping malls, except cinema halls, theatres, multiplexes, entertainment zones allowed to be open between 7 am to 3 PM. Fish market may also open.Though the number of daily Covid-19 cases have gone down in Goa, like many other states, the number is still high. On Saturday, the state recorded 302 new Covid-19 cases and nine related fatalities, according to the health department. The overall tally of Covid positive cases in the state stands at 1,64,229, while 2,984 have so far died.Goa saw its positivity rate going up to 51 per cent during the second wave of the pandemic, which has now ebbed. On Friday, Sawant said the Covid-19 situation is improving in Goa and the positivity rate is nearly 8 per cent.He added that Goa has a recovery rate of approximately 95 per cent, with a death rate of nearly 6 per cent.Thanking Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the Customized Crash Course programme for Covid-19 frontline workers, the chief minister said that Goa's Sai Nursing Institute, affiliated with the Skill Development Ministry and the Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana 3.0 (PMKBY), will start the course soon.Sawant also mentioned that Goa has a target of training 1000 Covid warriors in the state.The chief minister had announced on Thursday that Goa will not open for tourism until the state had administered at least the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine to its population in the age group of 18-44. The government has set the deadline of July 31 for the same.The current lockdown-like curbs in the state were first imposed on May 9 and have been extended a number of times.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-curbs-in-goa-extended-till-june-28-check-what-s-allowed-what-s-not-101624154835452.html
20-06-2021||India||PM Modi to address lead event of International Yoga Day on Monday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the lead event of the Seventh International Yoga Day on Monday. In view of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, the lead event of the International Yoga Day, 2021 will be a televised programme and is scheduled to start at 6.30am on all Doordarshan channels.The event will also include an address by Minister of State for Ayush Kiren Rijiju and a live yoga demonstration by the Morarji Desai National Institute of Yoga, according to a government release.This live yoga demonstration will be further followed by messages from 15 spiritual leaders and Yoga Gurus namely - Gurudev Sri Sri Ravishankar, Sadhguru Jaggi Vasudev, Dr HR Nagendra, Kamlesh Patel, Dr Veerendra Hegde, Dr Hamsaji Jayadeva, OP Tiwari, Swami Chidanand Saraswati, Dr Chinmay Pandey, Muni Shri Sagar Maharaj, Swami Bharat Bhushan, Dr Vishwas Mandalik, Sister BK Shivani, S Sridharan and Antoinette Rozi, the release further said.As per the United Nation's website, the theme for this year's International Yoga Day is 'Yoga for Well-Being' and how the practice of yoga can promote the holistic health of every individual.Numerous digital initiatives have been taken by the Ayush ministry, along with nearly 1,000 other stake-holding institutions, to make the practice of yoga accessible to the public, despite the restrictions imposed by Covid-19. The Indian missions in other countries are coordinating various activities in the run-up to the International Yoga Day in their respective countries.This year's event will consist of individuals participating in large numbers in the harmonious demonstration/performance of yoga at 7am.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-address-lead-event-of-international-yoga-day-on-monday-101624150423470.html
20-06-2021||India||Back-to-back earthquakes rock Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur; no casualties reported||Back-to-back earthquakes were reported from the northeastern part of India on Sunday morning, as the National Centre for Seismology (NCS) notified of a series of tremors, all ranging from magnitude 3.1-3.6 on the Richter Scale, hitting two regions in Manipur Arunachal Pradesh. No casualties or damage to property, however, have yet been reported in the incidents.According to alerts issued by NCS, the first earthquake, measuring magnitude 3.1 on the Richter Scale, occurred near Arunachal Pradesh's Pangin at around 1:02am. This was followed shortly by another earthquake, measuring magnitude 3.6 on the Richter Scale, near Shirui village in Manipur's Ukrul district.According to the National Centre for Seismology, the first earthquake hit 95 kilometres north-northwest of Pangin in Arunachal Pradesh at 1:02am at a depth of 17 kilometres. The second quake hit 20 kilometres northwest of Shirui in Manipur at 1:22am at a depth of 30 kilometres.Earthquake of Magnitude:3.1, Occurred on 20-06-2021, 01:02:07 IST, Lat: 28.89 & Long: 94.79, Depth: 17 Km ,Location: 95km NNW of Pangin, Arunachal Pradesh, India for more information download the BhooKamp App https://t.co/yt59fSXYZQ pic.twitter.com/tq4N2fi99XEarthquake of Magnitude:3.6, Occurred on 20-06-2021, 01:22:50 IST, Lat: 25.28 & Long: 94.30, Depth: 30 Km ,Location: 20km NW of Shirui, Manipur, India for more information download the BhooKamp App https://t.co/WttKoIzits pic.twitter.com/rlAxojEqEkA bit later, around 5:41am, another mild earthquake, measuring magnitude 3.1 on the Richter Scale, was reported 62km north of Uttarkashi in Uttarakhand, at a depth of 15km, the NCS reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/backtoback-earthquakes-rock-arunachal-pradesh-manipur-no-casualties-reported-101624152223640.html
20-06-2021||India||Yoga significantly reduces psychosomatic symptoms, severe arthritis: Study||As India gears up for International Yoga Day 2021, a research paper released by an expert at All India Institute of Medical Scienses (AIIMS) has highlighted the benefits of the ancient discipline practiced by the people of the country. Dr Rima Dada, Prof Lab for Molecular Reproduction and Genetics, Department of Anatomy at AIIMS, has said in her research paper that yoga can be used as an adjunct therapy in the management of severe arthritis.Dr Dada also made an observation that practicing yoga regularly can help in reducing the psychosomatic symptoms, pain perception, disability quotient, and help in improving joint flexibility, range of motion, posture, muscle strength and coordination.The research paper titled 'Yoga impact on autoimmune arthritis' is based on a study Dr Dada conducted in collaboration with Dr Uma Kumar, Professor and Head of the Department of Rheumatology.It states that yoga tackles both the articular and extra-articular symptoms and also decrease the severity of comorbid depression. The study reads that yoga improves clinical outcome in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and decreases systemic inflammation by its beneficial effects on the psycho-neuro-immune axis and normalisation of dysregulated transcripts."The most significant finding is that rheumatoid arthritis is a very severe progressive arthritis in which there are articular as well as extra-articular symptoms which involve the lung, the heart, the brain and the skin. Yoga can be used as an adjourned therapy in the management of severe arthritis because the factor which caused articular symptoms, inflammatory cytokine when you do yoga they decrease," Dr Dada told news agency ANI.In a significant observation, the doctor found improvement in the mitochondrial integrity (after damage) by yoga."In addition to that, we found that various transcripts including expression of various genes which promoted immune homeostasis also increased and gene which was helping, which were the antioxidant gene expression went up," Dr Dada observed.The finding stressed that yoga helps in decreasing stress hormones level and various factors which help in promoting neuroplasticity level increase.Dr Dada further said that in addition to the Disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARDs), yoga can reduce the severity of the disease. It helps in the reestablishment of immunological tolerance.(With inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yoga-significantly-reduces-psychosomatic-symptoms-severe-arthritis-study-101624150407453.html
20-06-2021||India||Don't lecture us on democracy: India to social media firms||Union information technology minister Ravi Shankar Prasad told social media platforms on Saturday not to lecture India on "freedom of speech" and "democracy". The Union minister said that if such "profit-making" companies want to make money in India, they will have to abide by the Indian Constitution and the law of the land.Addressing a lecture organised by the Symbiosis International University as part of the Symbiosis Golden Jubilee Lecture Series, Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said that the new information technology (IT) guidelines are not related to the use of social media but deal with "misuse" and "abuse" of social media platforms. The lecture was being held on the topic of 'Social Media and Social Security and Crime Justice System Reforms: An Incomplete Agenda'.Notably, the central government recently withdrew Twitter's 'intermediary platform' status due to non-compliance with new IT rulesElaborating on the matter, the Union minister said that India's new IT laws are aimed at regulating content on social media platforms such as Facebook, WhatsApp, and Twitter and make them more accountable by enabling a mechanism to swiftly remove posts on valid legal requests and share details on the originators of messages. He explained that the new rules require social media firms to appoint three officers based in the country for this purpose -- a grievance redressal officer, a compliance officer, and a nodal officer. No one is "asking for the moon" from these companies, the minister said."These are basic requirements," news agency PTI quoted Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad as saying. "Let me reiterate emphatically that India does not need a lecture on freedom of speech and democracy from a profit-making company that stays in America. India has free and fair elections, an independent judiciary, media, civil society. Here I am talking to students and taking questions, and this is true democracy. So these profit-making companies should not lecture us on democracy," he added."When Indian companies go to the US, do they not follow Indian law?" the Union minister asked. He pointed out that it is one thing to criticise the prime minister or any of the politicians, and it is another to not obey Indian laws at all. "If you want to do business in India, you have to follow India's Constitution and India's laws," the minister, who also holds the law and justice portfolio, said bluntly, adding that these social media firms have only three months to comply with the new IT rules.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dont-lecture-us-on-democracy-india-to-social-media-firms-101624150810739.html
20-06-2021||India||Chirag Paswan calls LJP national executive meeting in power tussle with uncle Pashupati Paras||The Chirag Paswan led faction of the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) has called a national executive meeting in national capital Delhi on Sunday. Amid a feud with his uncle Pashupati Paras over the control of the party, Paswan has asserted that more than 90 per cent of the national executive members are with him.The move is being seen as a show of strength in support of Chirag Paswan, the son of Lok Janshakti Party founder Ram Vilas Paswan, after all five other MPs of the party joined Paras to divest him of key positions. A leader of the LJP said that Paswan could also use the proceedings of the meeting on Sunday to back up its case before the Election Commission.Meanwhile, the LJP faction headed by Paras on Saturday disbanded all bodies and state units affiliated with the party and announced a new national executive. With Paras as its president, all four other MPs of the faction figure in the executive while a few of those party office-bearers who switched loyalty to him from Paswan have also been inducted.Chirag Paswan's claim:Chirag Paswan met Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla on Saturday to present his case against Birla's decision to accept the claim of the other faction declaring Paras as the leader of the party in Lok Sabha.Before meeting Birla, a delegation led by Paswan visited the Election Commission office on Friday urging the EC to seek its view before taking a decision on any claim over the party by the other faction headed by Paras.After submitting his memorandum to the Election Commission, Paswan told reporters that he was elected party president for five years in 2019 as he rejected his uncle Paras' election in his place."The EC has assured to hear us in case of any other contrary claim," he said.Paras faction's counter:Pashupati Kumar Paras has said that his election to the top post was completely valid under the party's constitution. "According to party's constitution, Chirag Paswan is neither LJP's national president nor the Leader of the parliamentary party now. Yesterday's election was completely valid under party's constitution, of which he is not aware," he said on Friday.On Thursday, the rebel faction of the LJP elected Paras as the new party president. Chirag Paswan reacted by saying that the election was illegal as it was conducted by members of the LJP who were suspended from the party.The genesis of the crisis:The crisis in the LJP began on Sunday, when five LJP Lok Sabha members replaced Chirag Paswan with Paras, the younger brother of LJP founder Ram Vilas Paswan. These MPs met Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla and handed over a letter to him seeking removal of Chirag Paswan as party chief and as the Lok Sabha Parliamentary party leader.On Monday, the Lok Sabha secretariat issued a notification recognising Paras as the parliamentary party chief. Paras blamed his nephew for the family feud.The fallout between Paras and Chirag Paswan has been attributed to a range of issues including the former's dissatisfaction with his nephew's decision to break away from the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) in the Bihar election.LJP was formed by former Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan in 2000. Paswan, a heavyweight leader in Bihar politics, passed away in October 2020.The battle over the party's ownership is now likely to be decided in the Election Commission as both groups fight for the legacy of the popular Dalit leader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ljp-feud-chirag-paswan-calls-party-s-national-executive-meet-on-sunday-101624151167717.html
20-06-2021||India||Ahead of PM Modi's Kashmir meet, Pakistan issues a warning for India||Ahead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's high-stakes meeting with political leaders of Jammu and Kashmir on June 24, Pakistan issued a warning on Saturday, saying that it will oppose any move by India to "divide" or change the demography of Kashmir. In an official statement issued by Pakistan's foreign office, the country's foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi said that India must refrain from taking any "further illegal steps" in Kashmir after its actions of August 5, 2019.The statement from Pakistan came on a day when Prime Minister Narendra Modi invited as many as 14 political leaders from Jammu and Kashmir for a high-level meeting in New Delhi next Thursday, which is expected to set the road map for holding assembly elections in the Union territory. Pakistan, which has a long history of rivalry with India, is determined to oppose the Indian government's political ambitions in Jammu and Kashmir. Qureshi, the country's foreign minister, said that Pakistan strongly opposes India's actions of August 5, 2019, and had spoken at several international conventions, including the United Nations Security Council (UNSC), on the same. True peace in South Asia, he said, can only be peacefully achieved when the Kashmir issue is resolved in accordance with the relevant UNSC resolutions and the wishes of the Kashmiri people.Pakistan has even apprised the UNSC president and the UN secretary-general over India's possible moves regarding Kashmir, Shah Mahmood Qureshi said, adding that the country won't tolerate any potential move by India that seeks to divide and bifurcate Jammu and Kashmir and change the demographic structure of the Union territory.It is to be noted that relations between India and Pakistan have deteriorated ever since the Narendra Modi-led government abolished Section 370 of the Constitution, thereby ending Jammu and Kashmir's special status. India also passed the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation Act, 2019, in the parliament, thereby dividing the erstwhile state into two Union territories - Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh.For its part, though, India has always maintained that abrogating Section 370 is its internal matter, with which Pakistan ought not to interfere. In international forums, India has highlighted that it is capable of dealing with the dispute involving Kashmir on its own and has, in turn, pressed on Pakistan, pointing out that decent relations with the neighbouring country will only be achieved once Islamabad takes stringent steps to curb the growing menace of terrorism.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-pm-modi-s-kashmir-meeting-pakistan-issues-a-warning-for-india-101624148284491.html
20-06-2021||India||Telangana lifts Covid-19 lockdown from today||The Telangana government has announced to completely lift lockdown in the state with effect from Sunday in view of the improvement in Covid-19 situation. The decision was taken at the state cabinet meeting held by chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao at his camp office Pragati Bhavan on Saturday.“The decision to lift the lockdown completely was taken after examining reports submitted by the state medical and health department officials, which said the number of Covid-19 cases in the State and the positivity rate had dropped significantly,” an official release said.The Covid-19 lockdown in Telangana has been in force since May 12 with the government giving periodical relaxations. On June 9, the state government announced a 12-hour relaxation in the lockdown from 6am to 6pm for 10 days and it will come to an end at 6am on Sunday.According to an official release from the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO), the cabinet has observed that the spread of the coronavirus in the state was completely under control.It said that the cabinet made a thorough review of the Covid-19 situation across the nation in general and the neighbouring states in particular and observed that the coronavirus spread was under significant control.The cabinet has directed the education department to reopen all educational institutions from July 1 in all aspects with total preparedness.The release further said that the decision to lift Covid-19 lockdown completely was taken to see that normal life and the livelihood of the common people should not be affected. The cabinet appealed to the people to cooperate with the government in containing the spread of the coronavirus.The cabinet stated that the people should not let their guards down because the lockdown was lifted. “The people should strictly follow the Covid-19 restrictions like wearing of a mask, maintenance of social distance and use of sanitisers which are compulsory,” the cabinet added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-lifts-covid-19-lockdown-from-today-101624147911904.html
20-06-2021||India||Filmmaker Aisha Sultana to appear before Lakshadweep Police today||Filmmaker Aisha Sultana, who is facing sedition charge over her remarks against Lakshadweep administrator Praful Khoda Patel, will appear before the police on Sunday. Sultana's plea for anticipatory bail in the case was accepted by the Kerala high court on Thursday, but she was asked to appear before the police on June 20.The single-bench of Justice Ashok Menon granted anticipatory bail to her for a week, reserving its final order.The case was registered against the filmmaker on June 10 when the Kavaratti Police booked her under various sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) on a complaint by Lakshadweep BJP president C Abdul Khadar Haji.Sultana was served a notice under Section 41A Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC), and the police asked her to appear at Lakshadweep Police headquarters in Kavaratti, in connection with the case.The controversy over remarks made by Aisha Sultana:In the complaint, Haji cited a debate on a Malayalam news channels, in which Sultana called the Union territory’s administrator, Praful Khoda Patel a "bio-weapon". Haji said her words were in bad taste and intended to create hatred and aversion in the minds of people.During the hearing before the high court, the filmmaker's counsel said that the words "bio-weapon" were used in the context of criticising the relaxations given in the Covid protocol in the island and was made to represent the aggrieved lot."She never knew that this word can have such implications. She apologised the next day. Covid restrictions were relaxed in Lakshadweep leading to spike in cases. The words bio-weapon were used in that context," Sultana's lawyer said.But the counsel for Lakshadweep administration opposed the bail plea, asserting that Sultana made a powerful, noxious assertion against the government of India.Sedition charge:The Kavaratti Police booked Sultana under sections 124 (A) (sedition) and 153 (B) (acts against national interests) of the IPC. The complainant, Lakshadweep BJP president Haji, said that Sultana generated hatred and opposition to the Union government by falsely and with ulterior motives.Many local BJP leaders protested against the slapping of sedition charge against Sultana. Over a dozen of them quit the party in protest.However, the BJP downplayed the resignations, claiming that the party is intact in the island.Uproar against Khoda:Over the last few days, there has been an uproar against Lakshadweep administrator Praful Khoda Patel over the new reforms introduced by him, which many allege are against the interest of the islanders.People are protesting against the draft legislations like Lakshadweep Prevention of Anti-Social Activities Regulation (Goonda Act), Lakshadweep Animal Preservation Regulation and Lakshadweep Panchayat Regulation, 2021 among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/filmmaker-aisha-sultana-to-appear-before-lakshadweep-police-today-101624148194607.html
20-06-2021||NA||Breaking news: Afghan President Ashraf Ghani to visit Washington on Friday||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks. Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Get latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.Follow all the updates here:US preparing new sanctions over situation with Navalny: NSA SullivanThe United States is preparing a new package of sanctions tackling the situation with jailed Russian opposition figure Alexey Navalny, national security advisor Jake Sullivan, local media reported.Afghan President Ashraf Ghani to visit Washington on FridayAfghan President Ashraf Ghani and the lead negotiator in talks with the Taliban will be received at the White House on Friday, as the planned American military withdrawal draws closer."The visit by President Ghani and Dr. Abdullah Abdullah will highlight the enduring partnership between the United States and Afghanistan as the military drawdown continues," spokeswoman Jen Psaki said in a statement on Sunday.Maharashtra records 9,361 fresh Covid-19 cases; death toll reaches 117,961Maharashtra's total tally increased to 5,972,781 after the state recorded more than 9,000 cases in a day. As per the latest health bulletin, 9,361 people were found to be infected over the last 24 hours, while 190 succumbed to the disease.Record 12.56 lakh people vaccinated against Covid-19 in AndhraAndhra Pradesh achieved a unique feat on Sunday, vaccinating over 12.56 lakh people under the Mega Covid vaccination drive that the health authorities hope could be a record in any one province in the world. In the process, the state also crossed the one crore mark in the administration of the first dose of coronavirus vaccine.‘Undertook broad consultations’: India’s response to UN on IT rulesThe Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology and Ministry of Information and Broadcasting undertook broad consultations in 2018 with various stakeholders before finalising the new Information Technology Rules, the government said in reply to concerns raised by the UN Special Rapporteurs. Read MoreHaryana govt extends Covid-19 restrictions for another weekHaryana government extends COVID guidelines for another week till June 28; modifies guidelines pic.twitter.com/PqV1EPWlW1Delhi reports 124 new Covid cases, 7 deathsDelhi reported 124 new Covid cases and 7 deaths over the last 24 hours. The number of active cases now stands at 2,091 and the death toll has increased to 24,914. The positivity rate has improved to 0.17%.Andhra Pradesh inoculates record number of beneficiariesAndhra Pradesh on Sunday inoculated 902,308 beneficiaries against the Covid-19 disease till 2pm, the highest ever since the beginning of the vaccination drive in the state. Officials told news agency PTI they are that the number could touch 1.2 million by the end of the drive at 6pm.Odisha aims to vaccinate 300,000 people daily beginning MondayOdisha health department targets to administer 300,000 doses of Covid-19 vaccines daily beginning Monday with the aim to cover 30.9 million eligible residents in the shortest possible time, officials said Read moreCovid-19 lockdown in Tamil Nadu extended till June 28The Tamil Nadu government on Sunday decided to extend the ongoing lockdown in the state till June 28 with further relaxations, news agency ANI reported.PM Modi congratulates Iran's new prez Ebrahim Raisi on poll winCongratulations to His Excellency Ebrahim Raisi on his election as President of the Islamic Republic of Iran. I look forward to working with him to further strengthen the warm ties between India and Iran.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday congratulated Iran's newly elected president Ebrahim Raisi on his election victory. "Congratulations to His Excellency Ebrahim Raisi on his election as President of the Islamic Republic of Iran. I look forward to working with him to further strengthen the warm ties between India and Iran," Modi tweeted. Read moreDelhi relaxes Covid curbs; Bars, public parks, gardens to reopenThe Department of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Sunday further relaxed the ongoing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) restrictions by allowing bars, public parks and gardens to reopen. Read moreEarthquake of 2.1 magnitude jolts Delhi's Punjabi Bagh areaThe National Center for Seismology (NCS) said on Sunday that an earthquake with a magnitude of 2.1 on the Richter scale hit the Punjabi Bagh area in the national capital at 12.02 pmLJP's Chirag Paswan holds meeting with party leaders in DelhiLok Janshakti Patry (LJP) leader Chirag Paswan holds a meeting with party leaders at their office in Delhi. pic.twitter.com/cvvh4MHsXALok Janshakti Party leader Chirag Paswan is currently holding a meeting with party leaders in the national capital, news agency ANI reported. The meeting comes amid Paswan's battle with his uncle Pashupati Paras for control over the LJP.Argentina reports first case of MucormycosisArgentina on Saturday reported its first case of Mucormycosis, also knows as black fungus, the country's health ministry said."The Ministry of Health of the Nation informs that the first notification was received by the National Health Surveillance System of a case of mucormycosis, known as "black fungus," associated with a patient from Formosa who had Covid-19," the ministry said.According to news agency ANI, the patient is a 47-year-old woman who has a history of high blood pressure and type II diabetes.'Punjab wants change': AAP says Delhi CM Kejriwal will visit Amritsar on MondayThe Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) announced on Sunday that its national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal will be visiting Punjab’s Amritsar city on Monday. This will be his second visit to Punjab this year, where assembly elections are due in 2022. Read moreOver 291 million vaccines given to states/UTs so far, says CentreOver 29.10 cr (29,10,54,050) vaccine doses have been provided to States/UTs so far through Govt of India (free of cost channel) & through direct state procurement category. Of this, total consumption, incl wastages is 26,04,19,412 doses (as per data at 8AM today): Health Ministry pic.twitter.com/b15ekLSJ5mThe Centre said on Sunday that over 291 million vaccine doses against the Covid-19 disease have been provided to states and Union Territories (UTs) till now through the free of cost channel and through the direct state procurement category.Renowned Odia playback singer Tapu Mishra dies due to post-Covid complicationsRenowned Odia playback singer Tapu Mishra died on Saturday while undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Bhubaneswar for post Covid-19 complications, news agency ANI reported.Maximum temperature in Delhi to to settle at 37 degree CelsiusThe India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Sunday the maximum temperature in the national capital is likely to settle at around 37 degree Celsius. The minimum temperature was at 25.2 degrees Celsius, four notches below the season's average.Covid-19 in India: States with highest and lowest number of active casesThe number of daily coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases have been coming down in India in the last few weeks. From a peak of 4 lakh cases in a day, the nationwide tally has dropped to around 60,000. Read moreIndia's daily Covid-19 tally drops below 60,000-mark with 58,419 new casesIndia's daily tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) dropped below the 60,000-mark on Sunday after 58,419 cases were reported in the last 24 hours, taking the caseload to 29,881,965, according to the Union health ministry. Sunday's cases are the lowest since March 30 this year, when 56,211 people were detected Covid-19 positive. Read moreFormer AIADMK minister arrested for allegedly raping a Malaysian woman: Tamil Nadu PoliceFormer AIADMK minister M Manikandan arrested in Bengaluru by Chennai City Police for allegedly raping a Malaysian woman, causing miscarriage as well as for criminal intimidation. He was evading arrest after Madras High Court had refused him anticipatory bail: Tamil Nadu PoliceThe Tamil Nadu Police told news agency ANI on Sunday that former AIADMK minister M Manikandan was arrested in Bengaluru by the Chennai City Police for allegedly raping a Malaysian woman. "He was evading arrest after Madras High Court had refused him anticipatory bail," the Tamil Nadu Police added. Read moreFresh hike in fuel prices pushes petrol to ₹97.22 per litre in Delhi; Patna rates near ₹100-markDelhi and Patna saw an increase in their petrol prices on Sunday due to a fresh hike in fuel prices. In Delhi, petrol is being sold at ₹97.22 per litre while in Patna, it is being sold at ₹99.28 per litre. Read moreTruck driver crashes into South Florida Pride parade; mayor says 1 killedA pickup truck driver slammed into spectators Saturday evening at the start of a Pride parade in South Florida, and an official said one person was killed and another seriously injured. Read moreDelhi-NCR to receive rainfall today, says IMDThunderstorm with light-moderate rain over isolated places of South, East, Northeast Delhi, Ghaziabad, Hindon, Indirapuram, Chapraula, Noida, Gr Noida, Dadri, Sikandrabad, Bulandshahr, Aligarh, Khurja, Narora, Kasganj, Atrauli, Nazibabad, Sikandra Rao, Etah during next 2 hrs: IMDThe India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Sunday that thunderstorm along with light to moderate rains will take place over isolated places of South, East, Northeast Delhi during the next two hours. Read moreEmirates to resume flights connecting India, 2 other nations to Dubai from June 23: ReportDubai based airline Emirates is set to resume flights connecting India, South Africa and Nigeria to Dubai from June 23, news agency ANI reported quoting Gulf news. Earthquake of 3.1 magnitude occurred today in Arunachal PradeshEarthquake of 3.1 magnitude occurred today around 01:02:07 IST in NNW of Pangin, Arunachal Pradesh: National Center for Seismology.China reports 23 new Covid-19 cases versus 30 the day beforeChina reported 23 new confirmed Covid-19 cases in the mainland for June 19, down from 30 infections a day earlier, the country's health authority said on Sunday.Third pandemic wave hits as Brazil surpasses half million Covid deathsBrazil on Saturday became the second country after the United States to surpass 500,000 Covid-19 deaths as the South American giant grapples with a third wave of the pandemic.19-year-old arrested for killing four family members in WB's MaldaThe West Bengal Police on Saturday arrested a 19-year old for allegedly killing four members of his family and burying them in a godown in his residential compound in West Bengal's Malda district.Earthquake of 3.6 magnitude occurred in ManipurEarthquake of 3.6 magnitude occurred at 01:22 hours in NW of Shirui village, Manipur: National Center for Seismology.Cuba encouraged by early trials of homegrown Covid-19 vaccineCuba's Soberana 2 vaccine candidate has shown 62% efficacy with just two of its three doses, state-run biopharmaceutical corporation BioCubaFarma said on Saturday, citing preliminary data from late phase trials.US student missing in Russia found deadA US student who was studying in Russia was found dead early Saturday morning, according to Russia's Investigative Committee, reported American media.Brazil's Covid-19 death toll tops 500,000Over 500,000 people in Brazil have died from Covid-19 since the start of the pandemic, informed Brazilian Health Minister Marcelo Queiroga on Saturday.Hyderabad Metro to operate from 7 am to 9 pm from June 21With the lifting of Covid-19 restrictions in Telangana, the Hyderabad Metro Rail will operate from 7 am to 9 pm from June 21 onwards.94 new cases take Nagaland's Covid-19 tally to 24,191Nagaland on Saturday reported 94 new Covid-19 cases, which pushed the tally in the state to 24,191, a health department official said.China Astronauts enter Space station, says reportThree astronauts have entered the space station that China is developing as they begin a three-month mission there, state-backed broadcaster CGTN reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-june-20-2021-101624145916539.html
20-06-2021||India||Govt calls for strict action against assault on doctors||The Centre on Saturday asked state governments to register cases and invoke the stringent action under the Epidemic Diseases (Amendment) Act, 2020 against those who assault doctors and health care professionals.The letter by Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla came after several incidents of attack on doctors and health care professionals were reported from different parts of the country amid the Covid-19 pandemic.“…any incident of threat or assault on doctors or healthcare professionals may dampen their morale and create a sense of insecurity amongst them. This may adversely affect the healthcare response system,” said the letter. Bhalla also asked the states to keep a close watch on any objectionable content on social media that may exacerbate such situations.On June 1, a doctor posted at a Covid Care Centre in Assam was assaulted by the relatives of a patient who succumbed to the virus. On April 26, relatives of a deceased patient vandalised the emergency ward and injured several employees of Delhi’s Indraprastha Apollo hospital.“Institutional FIRs should be registered against assaulters and such cases should be fast-tracked. You may also like to invoke provisions of the Epidemic Diseases (Amendment) Act, 2020, where applicable,” said the letter, and highlighted the Centre’s earlier advisories sent in this regard||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-calls-for-strict-action-against-assault-on-doctors-101624140520611.html
20-06-2021||India||Man arrested for killing sister who eloped in UP||A 22-year-old man was arrested in Uttar Pradesh’s Meerut district on Saturday on charges of killing his 16-year-old sister allegedly because she eloped with a man, police said.According to officials familiar with the matter, on June 13, the victim eloped to Mathura with a 19-year-old man from a neighbouring village, who then disappeared. Later, she approached the local police, who informed her parents in Meerut. When she returned on June 14, the accused shot her dead and fled the village, the official added.SP (rural) Keshav Mishra said that accused was arrested from Sardhana area on Saturday evening and the country-made pistols used for the murder has also been recovered.Last week, a man killed his daughter in Meerut and buried her body, weeks after she married a man against her family’s wishes. The woman’s body was later exhumed, and the autopsy revealed death by strangulation||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-arrested-for-killing-sister-who-eloped-in-up-101624134070880.html
20-06-2021||India||‘We are not against live-in relationships’: Allahabad HC grants protection to UP couple||The Allahabad high court has observed that it is not against live-in relationship but cannot give protection when one of the live-in partners is married.The court said this on Friday while granting police protection to petitioners who were of marriageable age and wanted a live-in relationship, and subsequently got married to each other.While partly allowing the writ petition of a woman and a man of Badaun district of Uttar Pradesh, a division bench of justices Kaushal Jayendra Thaker and Dinesh Pathak observed, “We are not against the live-in relation. Earlier, we rejected a matter seeking protection by a couple who wanted to live in. The reasons were that the protection to live-in relation was sought for by the petitioners during subsistence of marriage of one of the petitioners.”The petitioners granted protection on Friday were a young couple, who wanted a live-in relationship. Their marriage was solemnised during the pendency of the writ petition.The petitioners approached the court on the apprehension that they would be harassed and would not be permitted to live in peace by their family members.While directing the police to provide protection to petitioners, the court observed, “In this case, both the petitioners are at marriageable age. They wanted to live in but subsequently they have married each other. Hence, in view of the decision of the apex court in the Gian Devi case and as per the government order dated August 31, 2019, the police shall grant them protection after verifying all the documents.”The high court on June 15 dismissed the protection plea of a live-in couple in another case, noting that the woman was already married to another man.“We fail to understand how such a petition can be allowed, permitting illegality in society,” the court said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/not-against-live-in-relationship-says-allahabad-high-court-101624133070773.html
20-06-2021||India||Gandhi documentary wins top award at New York Indian Film Festival||A documentary on Mahatma Gandhi produced by internationally-renowned South African filmmaker Anant Singh has won the Best Documentary Feature Award at the 21st New York Indian Film Festival.The film, titled ‘Ahimsa – Gandhi: The Power of the Powerless’, written and directed by Ramesh Sharma, was produced by Singh’s company Videovision to commemorate the 150th anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi’s birth in 2019.Its release was delayed by the Covid-19 pandemic.“We are honoured to receive the Best Documentary Feature Award from the prestigious New York Indian Film Festival. For us, the award affirms the importance of Gandhi’s teachings and his impact on freedom struggles around the world which we capture in the film. We are also delighted to be perpetuating Gandhi’s legacy through our film,” said director Ramesh Sharma.Singh said he was “delighted” to have worked with Sharma on the project.“Whilst Gandhi has a global legacy, South Africa has a special connection with the Gandhi narrative as it was here, in South Africa, that he became sensitised to issues of human rights and equality,” Singh said.“Gandhi’s influence will continue to inspire and motivate other leaders to make a change, through non-violence, for peace,” Singh added.Singh announced the completion of the documentary on June 7 last year, the date on which in 1893 Gandhi was thrown off a train at Pietermaritzburg Station in South Africa because it was reserved for whites only. The incident sparked off his lifelong fight against discrimination.In the film, a host of historians and academics from across the globe share their views on the impact that Gandhi had on the world.Also participating are descendants of Gandhi, including his granddaughter Ela Gandhi in South Africa and US-based grandsons Arun Gandhi and Rajmohan Gandhi.“This film comes at a time when the world needs to be reminded of the Mahatma’s teachings of peace and non-violence,” Singh said.“It reminds us that we need to restore human rights and dignity on a universal level,” he said.The film also features the impact that Gandhi’s teachings had on the American Black Civil Rights movement, with a number of veterans of the movement recalling the history of racism in the US.Singh added that the film highlights the impact of the Gandhian message of non-violence worldwide; how it inspired Martin Luther King Jr., John Lewis, Barack Obama and the Civil Rights Movement in the United States; the Solidarity Movement in Poland as well as Nelson Mandela and the anti-apartheid struggle in South Africa.“The film speaks to the conscience of humanity as people globally grapple with intractable problems surrounding race, and as societies struggle to give the marginalised and underserved human dignity and restore fundamental human rights,” Singh said.“It deals with oppression and the denial of basic freedoms to people by those who are in positions of power and who fiercely protect their positions by inflicting violence on innocent people,” he said.The film features the song, ‘Ahimsa’ performed by U2 and AR Rahman, with the lyrics written by Bono and Rahman.The duo also announced that the film will have its United Kingdom premiere at the London Indian Film Festival on 20 June 2021 in the festival’s Extra-Ordinary Lives section.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gandhi-documentary-wins-top-award-at-new-york-indian-film-festival-101624130049654.html
20-06-2021||India||India abstains from vote on UNGA’s Myanmar resolution||India on Friday abstained from voting on United Nations General Assembly resolution, rebuking Myanmar for the five-month-old military takeover, saying it doesn’t believe the resolution, tabled hastily, is conducive to “aiding our joint efforts towards strengthening democratic process” in the country.The draft resolution ‘The situation in Myanmar’ was adopted on Friday with 119 member states, including Myanmar, voting in favour, while 36 nations, including Myanmar’s neighbours — India, Bangladesh, Bhutan, China, Laos, Nepal and Thailand abstained and so did Russia. Belarus was the only country voting against it.“This resolution was tabled... without adequate consultations with neighbours and regional countries. This is not only unhelpful but may also prove counter-productive to the efforts of the ASEAN to find a solution to the current situation in Myanmar,” India’s Permanent Representative to the UN Ambassador T S Tirumurti told PTI.The resolution expressed “grave concern” at the February 1 coup and called upon Myanmar’s military junta to immediately and unconditionally release President Win Myint, State Counsellor Aung San Suu Kyi and other government officials, politicians and those arbitrarily detained or arrested. It also called “upon all member states to prevent the flow of arms into Myanmar”.In the explanation of the vote in the General Assembly, Tirumurti said as Myanmar’s immediate neighbour and close friend of its people, India is cognizant of the “serious impact of political instability” and the potential of its spillover beyond Myanmar’s borders. India has been calling for greater engagement with the objective of peacefully resolving all issues. “We already have such an ongoing initiative under the aegis of ASEAN (Association of Southeast Asian Nations). It is important that we extend support to the ASEAN efforts,” he said, adding, “We had engaged in a spirit of finding a constructive and pragmatic way forward and had accordingly shared our suggestions to those who piloted this resolution.”“However, we find that our views have not been reflected in the draft being considered for adoption today. We would like to reiterate that a consultative and constructive approach involving the neighbouring countries and the region, remains important as the international community strives for the peaceful resolution of the issue,” Tirumurti said.China, another neighbour of Myanmar, was among those who abstained, as did ASEAN members Brunei, Cambodia, Laos and Thailand. The rest of the member nations voted for the resolution.With agency inputs||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-abstains-from-vote-on-unga-s-myanmar-resolution-101624129552897.html
20-06-2021||India||K’taka, Maha unite to supply water in drought-hit regions||Karnataka and Maharashtra on Saturday decided to work closely for coordination and communication regarding flood management and water supply in the drought-hit regions of both states.The decision was announced after Karnataka chief minister B S Yediyurappa and state home minister Basavaraj Bommai held a meeting with Maharashtra water resource minister Jayant Patil in Bengaluru on Saturday. Following the meeting, CM Yediyurappa said both the states have agreed to share real-time data on rainfall. He also added that water would be released from reservoirs both in Krishna and Bhima basin to manage the floods.“We discussed various issues regarding flood management in Krishna and Bheema river basins. The decision was taken to have better coordination and communication between two states at ministerial level, secretaries level and the field level,” said Yediyurappa. It was resolved that a technical team will work towards getting four TMC water from Maharashtra, and in return, release water to the drought-hit areas of the western state, the chief minister said.The two states also agreed to complete the Dudhganga dam project, at the earliest, and Maharashtra will also fund it. “Maharashtra will also supply enough funds for completion of Dudhganga dam,” Patil said in the press conference.Pointing to the shortage of water during April and May in the Krishna basin region, Bommai said, since 2013, Maharashtra has been charging money for the release of water to the state.However, it has been agreed upon that Karnataka will not pay but will supply water to the drought-hit Jath taluk of Maharashtra during the rainy season. For the past three years, the state has witnessed flood in Krishna and Bhima rivers following the downpour in its catchment areas in Maharashtra.He added that if a timely warning comes from Maharashtra, Karnataka gets 48 hours to monitor the water inflow and outflow.Discharge of water from seven major dams in Sangli and Satara districts of Maharashtra -- Koyna, Warna, Dhoom, Urmodi, Kanher, Tarali and Dhom Balkwadi -- has always been a major concern for Karnataka as the Krishna river flows with a very low slope and with its drainage capacity being low, water management becomes even more crucial to prevent floods in Karnataka.Flood management becomes vital as the Krishna flowing from Maharashtra confluences with various tributaries -- Ghataprabha, Malaprabha, Bhima, Tungabhadra and Musi rivers -- in Karnataka.Yediyurappa also held a video conference regarding the precautions to be taken during floods with Deputy Commissioners of 20 flood-prone districts. During the meeting, for the first time in the state, State Flood Management Action Plan 2021 has been prepared. “1,710 villages have been identified as flood-prone. Gram Panchayath level disaster management action plan has been developed, and training is imparted regarding its implementation. Taskforce, operational teams and WhatsApp groups have been created to manage flood situation. Role and responsibilities of various departments at different levels have been identified,” read a communication from the CM’s office. The government also announced that a flood forecast cell has been established at the Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre. Material required for rescue operations has been mobilized and provided, it added. “Four NDRF teams are deployed for rescue operations to Raichur, Kodagu, Belagavi and Dakshina Kannada districts. SDRF teams consisting of more than 200 personnel are strengthened with the necessary equipment for the rescue operations. Around ₹1,000 crore fund is available with the Deputy Commissioners for disaster management,” the communication added. (With Inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ktaka-maha-unite-to-supply-water-in-drought-hit-regions-101624130069957.html
20-06-2021||India||Karnataka eases Covid curbs in 16 districts||: The Karnataka government Saturday announced new relaxations to unlock, which includes the opening of hotels and restaurants with 50% capacity, the new guideline stated.As per the new relaxations, in 16 districts, including Bengaluru city, hotel and restaurants can open at 50% capacity. The latest relaxations were announced after the positivity rate in these 16 districts dropped below 5%.The decision was taken by Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa, based on the positivity rate and suggestions made by the Technical Advisory Committee (TAC). The first set of relaxations announced apply to 16 districts - Bengaluru urban, Uttara Kannada, Belagavi, Mandya, Koppala, Chikkaballapur, Tumkur, Kolar, Gadaga, Raichur, Bagalakote, Kalaburagi, Haveri, Ramnagara, Yadagiri and Bidar. In these districts, all shops can be open till 5 pm. Dining at hotels, clubs, restaurants (excluding liquor) at 50% capacity. However, air-conditioning is not allowed. Apart from this, conducting outdoor sports without spectators is allowed. Government and private offices are permitted to work with 50% capacity. “Lodges and resorts can function only with 50 % capacity. Gyms can operate with 50% capacity (without AC facility),” read a communication from the Karnataka CM’s office. In districts with more than a 5% positivity rate, relaxations were announced on June 11, where essential services can stay open till 2 pm, and selected industries and offices are allowed to open. These districts are Hassan, Udupi, Dakshina Kannada, Shimoga, Chamrajngagar, Chikkamagalur, Bangalore rural, Davanagere, Kodagu, Dharwad, Bellari, Chitradurga and Vijayapura. The status quo on the lockdown rules will remain in the Mysuru district, which has a positivity rate of more than 10%.Meanwhile, night curfew between 7 pm to 5 am, weekend curfew between 7 am to 5 am, and a cap on 50% seating capacity up to 50% will be applicable across the state. On Saturday, Karnataka reported 5,815 new Covid cases taking the number of active cases to 1,30,872. The state also reported 161 Covid related deaths. The total deaths due to Covid reached 33,763. Out of these, Bengaluru reported 1,263 new cases and four deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-eases-covid-curbs-in-16-districts-101624129830521.html
20-06-2021||India||60 years of Marut: A fighter jet that proved its worth in 1971 war||The armament firing sorties of this aircraft -- where the weapons on the fighter plane put to the test -- were often called the canopy firing sorties by the pilots who flew it. The vibrations during weapon firing were so strong that it resulted in the canopy of aircraft flying off mid-air. It was India’s first indigenously developed fighter aircraft- HF-24 Marut. Despite its shortcomings, the fighter plane proved its worth in the 1971 war. A ground attack aircraft, it has aerial combat kill to its name after Squadron Leader KK Bakshi shot down a Pakistani F-86 Sabre on December 7, 1971. In this war, three Marut pilots were awarded Vir Chakra for bravery. June 17 marked 60 years since the aircraft made its maiden flight. Despite the list of problem that came with indigenous production, the men who flew the aircraft and those help build have fond memories. The development of the aircraft was envisioned by the Jawaharlal Nehru and Hindustan Aircraft Limited (HAL) in the 1960s, with aeronautical engineer Kurt Tank as the lead designer. Although intended to have a top speed of Mach 2 (twice the speed of sound), the Marut could not even manage to do half that. Since its speed was limited, it was primarily used for ground attack missions, even though envisioned as a capable interceptor aircraft. Air Marshal (retd) Brijesh Jayal was in charge of taking the aircraft from HAL to the operational unit in Jamnagar for conversion of the squadron to Maruts. Referring to his logbook, the officer said that on March 19, 1967, he flew BD 842 from Bengaluru to Jamnagar via Pune, along with three other IAF pilots Karan Yadav, Pirthi Singh and Ashoka. As much as the aircraft, he thought the men who flew were exceptional too, said the retired air marshal. According to him, there were times when he was taken aback by the sheer gung-ho attitude of the operational pilots. “On one occasion, a senior flight commander and a dear friend mentioned to me that one of his pilots had reported airframe vibrations beyond a particular speed. The flight commander took the aircraft up himself and decided to explore further and flew beyond the speed. He then described to me the severity of the vibrations. When I told him that he should investigate the problem rather than first exploring possibilities on the ground, he had a hearty laugh. The flight commander was unimpressed and thought that I was far too cautious,” recalled Air Marshal Jayal. “I have done more than 150 hours on the aircraft, and I love it. Much of my experience as a test pilot with Maruts were routine. Testing is not about bravado but meticulous planning, good teamwork and a keen eye for detail and potential problems. I was fortunate in having worked with the finest in every field, including those involved in HAL.” he added. Prodyut Das, who worked on the Marut at HAL, said the Marut was an aircraft with the potential but wasn’t realised because of several reasons. “For starters, we should have aimed for simpler aircraft than looking to make Mach II fighter. Even though he had very sincere engineering, their experience was lacking. In our education, we are taught to find the correct answer and not developing the capacity to imagine something big. But of course, I believe that instead of focussing on purchasing foreign aircraft, had we given more support to the project, it could have been a bigger success,” said Das. Angad Singh, a Project Coordinator with Observer Research Foundation’s Strategic Studies Programme, said the project began as a prestige project of Prime Minister Nehru and was troubled from the start for various reasons. “We were trying to create something incredibly difficult and expensive in a country where spending money was frowned upon. The gun versus butter argument was firmly settled in favour of butter. There was no appetite for something more than the bare minimum. Considering this, it was an achievement. But at the same, the initial designs were created by a German designer not at the cutting edge of contemporary aerospace research and technology, so the design was not state of the art,” he added. But the pilots who flew have all praise for the ability of the aircraft. In 2011, a reunion of the pilots of Marut was held in Bengaluru, where pilots remembered the aircraft had remembered the fighter fondly. “The first time I saw her, I was stunned. She was beautiful, slim and sexy. When she moved, you couldn’t spot her,” said Wing Commander (retd) Brian DeMagry. Air Commodore (retd) P Ashok, another pilot, recollected how low the pilots used to fly the Maruts. “There was a pilot who flew so low that he crashed into a live high-tension wire pole. He was skilled enough to bring the plane out without a scratch, but the whole locality was in the dark for an entire day,” he said. And there were mentions about the canopy flying off as well. “During the armament firing exercise, the canopy of the plane flew off. Not once but twice, though, I managed to land it safely both times. Then on, whenever I would go for armament firing, they used to call it canopy firing exercise,” said Wing Commander (retd) M W Tilak at the reunion in 2011. However, the prolonged technical problems and the induction of the newer, more technologically advanced aircraft resulted in the aircraft retiring from service by the late 1980s. But did it pave the way to indigenisation in the defence sector? Singh thinks otherwise. “For whatever good or bad that was the Marut project, it was HAL who worked on it, and every other domestic or licence-production aviation project in the country. They were the centre of all aerospace expertise in the country but, when India decided to start the Light Combat Aircraft project, we created the Aeronautical Development Agency (ADA) and kept HAL out of the design phase,” he said. Despite the aircraft not realising its true potential or resulting in better lessons for its indigenous fighter manufacturing, Marut, the spirit of the storm remains close to the heart of those who have flown it. “Everything said that about the aircraft aside, I loved the Marut,” said Air Marshal (Retd) Jayal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/60-years-of-marut-a-fighter-jet-that-proved-its-worth-in-1971-war-101624129770008.html
20-06-2021||India||Man falls while escaping after aborted bid to steal cattle, dies 5 days later in Tripura||A 27-year-old man who received injuries five days ago when trying to flee after trying to steal cattle in North Tripura district’s Kadamtala area died on Saturday, police said.Police said that Suman Munda, 27, was suspected to be a cattle smuggler from Bangladesh. He and three others entered a house in the area early on June 14 in an attempt to steal cattle. But they were spotted by some local people who chased them. Three of the suspects escaped but Suman fell and sustained injuries.Police said he was taken to a local hospital and later referred to Dharmanagar district hospital.A case was registered against him for trying to steal cattle on June 14 by the Kadamtala police.“We suspect him to be a Bangladeshi…. will try to verify his identity from the Bangladesh authorities. If they agree, we will send the body to them or, else, his cremation will be done here”, said North Tripura district superintendent of police Bhanupada Chakraborty. A Border Security Force statement this evening said the police informed them about the case on June 14 and they have jointly visited the spot.During preliminary questioning, the suspect is reported to have told officials that he hails from Bangladesh’s Moulvibazar district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-falls-while-escaping-after-aborted-bid-to-steal-cattle-dies-5-days-later-in-tripura-101624129170474.html
20-06-2021||India||No delay in fixing floor wages: Labour ministry||The Union labour ministry on Saturday said it would fix minimum wages and national floor wages as soon as an expert committee, formed to decide the rates, gives its recommendations, adding there would be no “delay” in the exercise.The fixing of the new wage benchmarks is mandated by the Code on Wages Bill passed in 2019. On June 3, the Centre announced a six-member expert committee of economists and bureaucrats to recommend the wage ceilings, but it had not stipulated a timeframe by which the panel has to submit its report.“The tenure of the expert group has been kept as three years so that even after the fixation of minimum wages and national floor wages, (the) government may seek technical inputs/advice from the expert group,” an official statement from the ministry said.According to the Periodic Labour Force Survey 2017-18, 45% of regular workers even in the formal sector receive less than the current minimum wages. The expert group is led by economist Ajit Mishra and is mandated to provide technical inputs and recommendations on fixation of wages to the labour ministry.While there would be different minimum wages for different categories of jobs and these will vary according to geographical zones, there will be national floor wages for each category and no zone can have a wage below this level, according to the wage code 2019.The group had held its first meeting on June 14. A second meeting is scheduled for June 29. The panel’s mandate is also to look into “international best practices on wages and evolve a scientific criteria and methodology for fixation of wage”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-delay-in-fixing-floor-wages-labour-ministry-101624128990450.html
20-06-2021||India||'Keeping a close watch on LAC', says IAF chief||The Indian armed forces were on a high alert and keeping a close watch on the situation along the border with China as the two sides looked to complete the disengagement process, Indian Air Force (IAF) chief RKS Bhadauria said on Saturday.India and China have been locked in a standoff in the Ladakh sector for over a year, and are currently negotiating a withdrawal of troops and weapons from friction points on the disputed border. The Indian Army and the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) have held 11 rounds of talks between corps commander-rank officers, but the negotiations have only had limited success in hammering out an agreement for disengagement of rival soldiers from friction points.The IAF chief said discussions were going on between the two sides for the next round of talks on the issue. “There is a proposal for the next commander-level talks and a decision will be taken soon. The first attempt is to continue with talks and do disengagement of balance friction points and follow it with de-escalation,” he said after attending the Combined Graduation Parade of the newly trained flight cadets at the Air Force Academy, Dundigal, on the outskirts of Hyderabad.The first round of talks took place on June 6 last year, days before the Galwan Valley clash, the first deadly skirmish between the two troops in over five decades. It left 20 Indian soldiers and an undisclosed number of Chinese troops dead and pushed the bilateral relationship to breaking point.Bhadauria said the Indian forces were not letting their guard down and were better prepared now than last year. “The ground reality is being monitored closely in terms of current leftover locations, deployments, or any changes. We are taking all required actions on our part,” he said.The air force chief added that the IAF was undergoing a “monumental transformation” due to an evolving security challenge. “IAF is undergoing a monumental transformation. Rapid infusion of niche technologies and combat power in every facet of our operations has never been as intense as it is now. This is primarily because of the unprecedented and rapidly evolving security challenges that we face…,” he said. Bhadauria said they were committed to inducting the Rafale aircraft into the IAF by 2022.“The target [for Rafale induction] is 2022... Broadly, we are absolutely on target on the Rafale induction plan,” he said. In 2016, India signed an inter-governmental agreement with France to procure 36 Rafale jets at a cost ₹59,000 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/keeping-a-close-watch-on-lac-says-iafchief-101624128329875.html
20-06-2021||India||‘Monitor signs of spike’: Centre warns against lowering guard||The central government joined experts and courts in warning states and Union Territories not to become “complacent” about a decline in Covid-19 infections, urging them to ensure that protocol is followed and asking them to monitor signs of a potential spike in cases as they lift lockdown restrictions across regions.In a letter to the states and UTs on Saturday, Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla said that while the opening up of businesses and allowing economic activities is “essential” as cases decline, states and UTs must ensure that the whole “process is carefully calibrated”.He noted that the easing of lockdown norms — which were necessitated in April-May by the devastating second wave of infections — has led to crowding in markets and other public places. It is “extremely important” to follow the five-fold strategy that includes observing Covid-appropriate behaviour, the test-track-treat approach and boosting vaccinations, the senior official said.The letter of caution comes a day after the Delhi high court took note of crowding, and violations in Covid-19 protocols in markets and public spaces across the Capital, and sounded a warning that the city will be in “great trouble” in the context of an anticipated third wave of the pandemic. The court also told the Centre and the Delhi government to take strict measures, sensitise shopkeepers, and hold meetings with markets and vendors’ associations in this regard.India’s second and worst wave so far of infections began in March and started to ease sometime in May. At its peak, India added an average of 391,819 daily cases for the week ending May 9. It also surpassed the US — the worst-hit nation in cumulative cases — in recording the most number of infections in a single day, when it added 315,909 cases on April 21. In fact, India recorded more than US’s highest single day tally every day from April 21 to May 15. The world’s worst outbreak at the time brought the national capital to its knees, as hospitals ran out of medical oxygen and life-saving drugs and bodies piled up in crematoria. The health care infrastructure in Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal and Odisha, too, were stretched thin in those months.As lockdown norms are withdrawn, images from across metropolises in recent days have shown large crowds gathering in markets and streets, with hundreds of people seen with virtually no social distancing and often with poor mask compliance.In Delhi, markets have been open for over two weeks, at first in a 50% arrangement before the government eased all curbs from June 14. In Mumbai, too, all shops and markets, and gymnasiums are open. Similarly, curbs have been relaxed in other cities including Kolkata and Bengaluru. On Saturday, Telangana ordered lifting of all restrictions “to full extent”.Experts have cautioned that a race to resume business activities can compromise containment efforts and trigger a third wave of the pandemic if the pace of the vaccination drive doesn’t pick up.Bhalla pointed out on Saturday that inoculations are critical to break the chain of transmission of the viral illness and all states/UTs should try to cover the most number of people under the vaccination drive.India has administered at least one dose of the vaccine to 15.5% of its entire population of 1.35 billion people so far, significantly lower than the US’s 52.7%, the UK’s 62%, Israel’s 63% and Canada’s 66%. On average, around 3.24 million jabs given daily in the last seven days. The senior official additionally asked authorities to regularly monitor any lapses in Covid-appropriate behaviour and said state/UT administrations should keep an eye out for early signs of a potential outbreak.“A system should be in place at the micro-level to ensure that whenever cases rise in a smaller place, it gets checked there itself, through local containment measures as per the existing guidelines issued by the ministry of health and family welfare,” the home secretary said.“We need to continue all measures to prevent transmission of the infection such as local containment till there are no cases in the country. This is how we will prevent a third wave and end the pandemic. As you know, when a disease is nearing an end, we need to intensify our efforts in order to ensure that we eliminate it. This is not the time for complacency,” said Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Safdarjung hospital in New Delhi.The letter added: “I therefore urge you to issue directions to district and all other authorities concerned, to keep a close watch on the situation, while activities are opened in a cautious manner, and to scrupulously ensure there is no complacency in adhering to COVID appropriate behaviour...”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monitor-signs-of-spike-centre-warns-against-lowering-guard-101624128269890.html
20-06-2021||India||‘Monitor signs of spike’: Centre warns states against lowering guard||The central government joined experts and courts in warning states and Union Territories not to become “complacent” about a decline in Covid-19 infections, urging them to ensure that protocol is followed and asking them to monitor signs of a potential spike in cases as they lift lockdown restrictions across regions.In a letter to the states and UTs on Saturday, Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla said that while the opening up of businesses and allowing economic activities is “essential” as cases decline, states and UTs must ensure that the whole “process is carefully calibrated”.He noted that the easing of lockdown norms — which were necessitated in April-May by the devastating second wave of infections — has led to crowding in markets and other public places. It is “extremely important” to follow the five-fold strategy that includes observing Covid-appropriate behaviour, the test-track-treat approach and boosting vaccinations, the senior official said.The letter of caution comes a day after the Delhi high court took note of crowding, and violations in Covid-19 protocols in markets and public spaces across the Capital, and sounded a warning that the city will be in “great trouble” in the context of an anticipated third wave of the pandemic. The court also told the Centre and the Delhi government to take strict measures, sensitise shopkeepers, and hold meetings with markets and vendors’ associations in this regard.India’s second and worst wave so far of infections began in March and started to ease sometime in May. At its peak, India added an average of 3,91,819 daily cases for the week ending May 9. It also surpassed the US — the worst-hit nation in cumulative cases — in recording the most number of infections in a single day (305,062) when it recorded 315,909 cases on April 21. In fact, India recorded more than US’s highest single day tally every day from April 21 to May 15. The world’s worst outbreak at the time brought the national capital to its knees, as hospitals ran out of medical oxygen and life-saving drugs and bodies piled up in crematoria. The health care infrastructure in Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal and Odisha, too, were stretched thin in those months.As lockdown norms are withdrawn, images from across metropolises in recent days have shown large crowds gathering in markets and streets, with hundreds of people seen with virtually no social distancing and often with poor mask compliance.In Delhi, markets have been open for over two weeks, at first in a 50% arrangement before the government eased all curbs from June 14. In Mumbai, too, all shops and markets, and gymnasiums are open since June 7. Similarly, curbs have been relaxed in other cities including Kolkata, Chennai, Bengaluru. On Saturday, Telangana ordered lifting of all restrictions “to full extent”.Experts have cautioned that a race to resume business activities can compromise containment efforts and trigger a third wave of the pandemic if the pace of the vaccination drive doesn’t pick up.Bhalla pointed out on Saturday that inoculations are critical to break the chain of transmission of the viral illness and all states/UTs should try to cover the most number of people under the vaccination drive.India has administered at least one dose of the vaccine to 15.5% of its entire population of 1.35 billion people so far, significantly lower than the US’s 52.7%, the UK’s 62%, Israel’s 63% and Canada’s 66%. On average, around 3.24 million jabs given daily in the last seven days.The senior official additionally asked authorities to regularly monitor any lapses in Covid-appropriate behaviour and said state/UT administrations should keep an eye out for early signs of a potential outbreak.“A system should be in place at the micro-level to ensure that whenever cases rise in a smaller place, it gets checked there itself, through local containment measures as per the existing guidelines issued by the ministry of health and family welfare,” the home secretary said.“I therefore urge you to issue directions to district and all other authorities concerned, to keep a close watch on the situation, while activities are opened in a cautious manner, and to scrupulously ensure there is no complacency in adhering to COVID appropriate behaviour...” the letter added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monitor-signs-of-spike-centre-warns-against-lowering-guard-101624127077818.html
20-06-2021||India||Jammu and Kashmir outfits warm to idea of all-party meet||Saturday saw frenetic behind the scenes activity in the Capital as the government laid the groundwork for a meeting between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and mainstream parties from Jammu & Kashmir on the afternoon of Thursday, June 24, the first such meeting after August 2019, when the Union government passed laws and resolutions to scrap J&K’s special status, and split the state into two Union territories.Home minister Amit Shah, along with J&K lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha, and senior officials of the home ministry have been putting together the agenda for the meeting, people familiar with the matter said on the condition of anonymity. While formal invitations had not been sent out to the parties, most confirmed having been sounded out by senior officials in the home ministry.While news of the meeting broke suddenly late on Friday, HT learns that the home ministry and the national security adviser, Ajit Doval, have been working towards it by regularly reaching out to the parties. On Saturday, Sartaj Madni, the uncle of PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti was released; Mufti has also been pushing for the release of Waheed Para, the head of the party’s youth wing.Even as the parties said they would hold consultations internally to decide whether to attend the meeting, clear indications emerged that they were inclined to do so as all of them favoured the restoration of political engagement with New Delhi.The people cited above added that while delimitation will be discussed at the meeting, the larger idea is to restart the political process. It’s too early to even speak about the restoration of statehood, one of them added.The meeting comes weeks after the delimitation commission for J&K wrote to all 20 of the UT’s district commissioners seeking both quantitative and qualitative data. Set up in early 2020, and given an extension earlier this year, the commission has been tasked with delineating the boundaries of the assembly and parliamentary constituencies. It is only after this process is complete that elections can be held. And there’s hope in the Kashmir valley that the issue of the elections and the restoration of the region’s statehood are linked. Still, HT learns that the June 24 meeting is to ensure the participation of the UT’s political parties in the process. The commission is headed by retired judge Ranjana Prakash Desai.Political parties in the region that have been bitterly opposed to the state’s transformation into two UTs and the revocation of Article 370 that gave it special status, said they will consult their highest decision-making bodies to take a call on participating in the meeting.On Saturday, Union home secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla telephoned several Jammu and Kashmir politicians, to invite them to the meeting. Among those who received calls were National Conference’s Farooq and Omar Abdullah, PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti and CPI(M) leader, Mohamad Yousuf Tarigami.Tarigami said, “We don’t know what the agenda is or what New Delhi wants to convey. The assembly was unilaterally dissolved in 2019 and the State’s special status too was withdrawn. Delhi promised more development and jobs but all we have got since 2019 are accusations, slanderous campaigns and detentions. Dissent has also become a crime.”Tarigami is a member of the Gupkar Alliance and said he would speak to other leaders before deciding on the all-party meeting, though he added: “We have never said no to engagement.”That appears to be the general sentiment.Farooq Abdullah too indicated after a meeting of the Gupkar Alliance on June 10 that “we have not closed any doors or options… If they invite us, then we will decide at that time.” An NC leader said on Saturday that the party would hold consultations before arriving at a final decision. A Congress functionary said former J&K chief minister Ghulam Nabi Azad has been informed about the development. BJP state unit chief Ravinder Raina tweeted that he has received an invitation for the meeting.The delimitation exercise is critical to the elections. So far, both the PDP and the NC have boycotted the exercise of redrawing the constituencies in the UT in accordance with the provisions of Part V of Jammu and Kashmir Reorganization Act, 2019 and Delimitation Act, 2002 .“The delimitation commission sent out invitations to the parties to attend the meetings, but they did not send their suggestions or representatives. Now the ball is again in their court; if they attend the meeting to be chaired by the PM it will indicate a willingness to work with the centre on restoring a democratic process,” said a BJP functionary who asked not to be named.And that could well mean the start of the political process in the UT, and perhaps, an eventual restoration of statehood.“For the first time after the revocation of Article 370 on August 5, 2019, the ice is breaking between the centre and J&K leadership. The government of India wants to initiate political process as they have realised without major players it’s difficult to manage J&K. Now it will bargaining for political rights and time will answer how much sincerity will be shown in this round of talks,” said Asem Mohiuddin, editor of weekly The Legitimate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jk-outfits-warm-to-idea-of-all-party-meet-101624126409799.html
20-06-2021||India||Zydus Cadila set to seek nod for its Covid vaccine||Indian pharmaceutical company Zydus Cadila is likely to apply for an emergency use authorisation for its Covid-19 vaccine ZyCoV-D to the central drugs regulator next week, people aware of the developments said on Saturday.If approved by the Drugs Controller General of India, it will become the fourth vaccine to be cleared for use against the viral infection in India. The company has so far not released any data from its trials.Currently, the country’s vaccination programme is using the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine, locally manufactured as Covishield, Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin, and Russian vaccine Sputnik V.“We are hoping that they will apply in the near future. Most of their study is complete. They have enrolled more than 28,000 in their phase III study. We expect they will submit the results very soon,” Dr VK Paul, member (health) NITI Aayog told ANI.Once ZyCoV-D is approved, it will be the second indigenously developed vaccine to receive clearance in the country and the first DNA vaccine in the world to be authorised. So far, about 18 vaccines are in use across the world, with many using the inactivated virus technology.DNA-Plasmid based ZyCoV-D will be a three-dose vaccine and is to be administered intradermally. It can be stored at two to four degrees Celsius and does not require cold chains, making transportation to remote parts of the country easy.With the vaccine being tested even in the 12-18 year age group, the firm could seek approval for use in children as well, people aware of the developments said. So far, no vaccine has been approved for use in children in India. Bharat Biotech is also conducting trials for Covaxin in children between the ages of 6 and 18 years.Globally, only Pfizer’s vaccine is approved for use in children.An official aware of the matter told news agency PTI: “The analysis of the phase-three trial data is almost ready and the company has informed the government that it could apply for emergency use licensure for its Covid-19 vaccine next week.”The vaccine candidate has been supported by the National Biopharma Mission (NBM) under the aegis of Biotechnology Industry Research Assistance Council (BIRAC), a PSU under the department of biotechnology.With inputs from agencies||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/zydus-cadila-set-to-seek-nod-for-its-covid-vaccine-101624123050269.html
20-06-2021||India||Man who won gold at legendary 1960 race pays tribute to his track rival Milkha Singh||In that iconic photograph from the 1960 Rome Olympics, where Milkha Singh can be seen hurtling towards the finish line, the man who has already crossed the tape and is howling up at the sky is US runner Otis Davis, who had just broken the world 400m record. Davis, now 88, lives in New Jersey. Milkha Singh’s name makes him exclaim, “Oh man, he was fast!” Here’s how the winner of that legendary race remembers his Indian rival, the favourite going into the event:Milkha was a great runner, a very fast runner. He was in the finals, and I’m telling you, I was very concerned about him.It wasn’t just because he was one of the favourites coming into the race. I saw him one time before the heats when he was just practising, and he ran a few 47s. One of the sports writers watching it said, “Boy, he is fast! He is running 47s!” I was hearing all of that. But I told myself: he is going to have to run faster than that to beat me!I had never interacted with him prior to our meeting in Rome. He just came to me before we ran and introduced himself. That’s when I got to know a little bit about him. Not only was he quick with his feet, he talked a lot too. I remember he told me, “You’re going to win, but if you don’t, then I’m going to win!” He was trying to psych me out a little, I think.Even though I hadn’t met him prior to the Olympics, I was aware about his exploits leading up to it. I was even more aware about the fact that he was definitely one of the favourites. He had run against some of the other champion runners previously, and he had done good.We ran together in the semi-final (where Milkha finished second behind Davis). It was his strength against mine. Clearly, he was ready for the race.And that race! I remember he was running outside of me. And I saw him going fast, you know, real fast. He and (South Africa’s Malcolm) Spence, the guy who finished third, were really turning it on around the curve. That’s when I made my move. I made my move right after they did. But it was them who set the pace.Everyone speaks about us (Davis and Kaufmann), but we had to keep rolling because these guys were flying!After the race, he walked up to me and congratulated me, although I can’t remember the words. Of course, I knew he was disappointed. I had a lot of respect for the man. He was a great sportsman in every sense. And he was very popular too.I didn’t get a chance to speak to him again after that Olympics. I went on a tour in Germany and then returned to the US.That was a very fast race. It broke a world record. It broke a barrier. It was the best (400m) race in Olympic history. I truly believe it was. Because it had so many fast runners. Because it had some of the best in the world. Like Milkha.As told to Rutvick Mehta||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-who-won-gold-at-legendary-1960-race-pays-tribute-to-his-track-rival-milkha-singh-101624122989679.html
20-06-2021||India||Telangana lifts lockdown, schools reopen from July 1||Hyderabad: The Telangana government on Saturday announced the complete lifting of lockdown in the state with effect from Sunday in view of the improvement in Covid-19 situation.A decision to this effect was taken at the state cabinet meeting held by chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao at his camp office Pragati Bhavan in the afternoon.“The decision to lift the lockdown completely was taken after examining reports submitted by the state medical and health department officials, which said the number of Covid-19 cases in the State and the positivity rate had dropped significantly,” the official release said.The lockdown in Telangana has been in force since May 12 with the government giving periodical relaxations. On June 9, the state government announced a 12-hour relaxation in the lockdown from 6 am to 6 pm for 10 days and it will come to an end at 6 am on Sunday.According to an official release from the chief minister’s office, the cabinet decided that there would be no night curfew as well. The cabinet observed that the spread of the virus in the state was completely under control. The cabinet also directed that the officials of all the departments completely lift all the regulations imposed during the lockdown.The official release said the cabinet made a thorough review of the Covid-19 situation across the country in general and the neighbouring states in particular and observed that the virus spread was under significant control.The cabinet directed that the education department reopen all educational institutions from July 1 in all aspects with total preparedness. The official release said the decision to lift the lockdown completely was taken to see that the normal life and the livelihood of the common people should not be affected. The cabinet appealed to the people to cooperate with the government in containing the spread of the virus.The cabinet made it clear that the people should not let their guard down because the lockdown was lifted. There should be no complacency in fighting against the virus. “The people should strictly follow the Covid-19 restrictions like wearing of a mask, maintenance of social distance and use of sanitisers which are compulsory,” the cabinet said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-lifts-lockdown-from-sunday-schools-reopen-from-july-1-101624102409932.html
20-06-2021||India||Cong Kerala chief attacks Vijayan, CM hits back||Thiruvananthapuram: The war of words between Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan and opposition Congress state president K Sudhakaran escalated on Saturday as the two levelled serious allegations against each other. Sudhakaran called Vijayan a “political criminal” while denying kidnapping and other charges the chief minister made against him. He said Vijayan was accused of murder. Sudhakaran added he never carried a pistol, or a bullet, like the chief minister. He was referring to a 2007 case wherein security personnel at the Chennai airport found five live cartridges of a .38-revolver in Vijayan’s laptop case. Vijayan was questioned before he was released after he gave a written explanation that the cartridges were of his licensed revolver. Sudhakaran said Vijayan should not denigrate the position he is holding by making “cheap comments” and dared him to investigate charges against him. The two belong to Kannur and were in the same college but did not see eye to eye. On Friday, Vijayan quoted a late unnamed Congress leader telling him that Sudhakaran planned to kidnap his children. Sudhakaran rejected the allegation and asked Vijayan why did not he report such a serious issue to the police.“Raising such a weird allegation against the political opponent after many years is not fair. Why did not he file a police complaint then? He is not even revealing the name of the Congress leader who told him about this kidnap theory,” Sudhakaran said. He said he was not involved in any murder case like Vijayan. “He was one of the accused in Jan Sangh leader Vadikkal Ramakrishnan’s murder in 1969,” he said citing the copy of an old First Information Report. He said a Congress leader was injured in an attack allegedly carried out by Vijayan years ago.A Malayalam weekly carried an interview of Sudhakaran last week in which he took pot-shots at Vijayan and ridiculed his “macho man” image. He said once in college in Kannur during a brawl, he kicked and knocked down Vijayan. Sudhakaran said Vijayan’s macho image was just a media creation. He later said he told this to the reporter of the weekly off the record and it was wrongly included in the interview. On Friday, Vijayan hit out at Sudhakaran saying after he got the top Congress post in the state, the latter started fantasizing. “All are aware of Sudhakaran’s track records-- whether it is sand smuggling, benami business, and many other illegal activities... I do not know who gave him a certificate to talk about others,” he said.He said when political opponents came close to him during college days, he clapped his hands in a peculiar manner to make a deafening sound and all would flee from the scene. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) called the barbs a ploy to divert attention from the tree felling case. “Trees worth several crores of rupees were plundered last year. Claims and counter-claims over a physical attack in college five decades ago is a ploy to divert attention,” said Union minister and BJP leader V Muraleedharan. He said a fresh case should be registered against Vijayan in the light of Sudhakaran’s latest disclosure about the alleged murder. Ruling Communist Party of India (Marxist) leader A Vijayaraghavan defended Vijayan. “How can you keep quiet when a person is making such false claims. Sudhakaran is talking in the language of a street fighter,” he said. Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala said Vijayan should restrain from making weird claims over minor incidents that took place decades ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vijayansudhakaran-spat-escalates-level-serious-allegations-against-each-other-101624101869353.html
20-06-2021||India||No significant possibility of rise in deposits in swiss banks by Indians: govt||There is no “significant possibility” of an increase in undeclared incomes of Indian residents in Swiss banks, and added the government has requested Swiss authorities to provide relevant facts along with their view on this matter, the Union finance ministry said on Saturday.The central ministry was reacting to reports that funds of Indians in Swiss Banks have risen to over ₹20,700 crore at the end of 2020, a jump of over 212% from ₹6,625 crore at the end of 2019, reversing a two-year declining trend. It was also stated that this was also the highest figure of deposits in the last 13 years.“Media reports allude to the fact that the figures reported are official figures reported by banks to Swiss National Bank (SNB) and do not indicate the quantum of much debated alleged black money held by Indians in Switzerland. Further, these statistics do not include the money that Indians, NRIs [non-resident Indians] or others might have in Swiss banks in the names of third–country entities,” a finance ministry statement said....||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-significant-possibility-of-rising-black-money-in-swiss-banks-finance-ministry-101624087650755.html
20-06-2021||Today's||The politics of foreign aid in India||As India reeled under the second wave of Covid-19, one fact became evident — it would not be left to struggle alone. Aid poured into India from over 40 nations. Countries sent oxygen, medical equipment, ventilators, and antiviral drugs. Offers of help came not just from expected corners such as the United States (US) and Russia, but also from unexpected sources such as China and Uzbekistan. India’s acceptance of the aid (that continues to flow in) has been pointed out as a reversal of Indian policy, and an indication of the pandemic hole the Indian government has dug itself into. For many nationalists, acceptance of aid even brought back the humiliating memories of India’s forced reliance on food aid in the years after Independence. But both beliefs — that India does not accept aid, and that receiving foreign aid is a sign of weakness — are fallacies.The myth of a self-reliant India refusing to accept foreign aid dates back to around 2004 when the Indian government officially stopped accepting foreign aid for disasters. That year, during the Indian Ocean tsunami, the government released $115 million for the National Contingency Fund. And India not only refused any humanitarian assistance from Japan, but also turned down emergency aid offers from the US and Israel. Prime Minister (PM) Manmohan Singh said, “We feel that we can cope with the situation on our own.” This policy seemed to continue over the next decade. For example, in 2018, in the wake of the worst floods Kerala had faced in over 100 years, India again refused any external aid, including from one of its closest trade partners, the United Arab Emirates, which offered almost $100 million in aid, and was lauded by some in the Indian media for doing so.But the fact is India never stopped accepting foreign aid, even for disaster relief. While aid data on India is spotty, by some accounts, India is believed to be one of the largest recipients of aid globally. What changed after 2004 were the terms of receiving aid. Aid was requested on a long-term basis (sometimes well after the period of the disaster), accepted only from G8 countries, from donors who would agree to give more than $25 million per year, or accepted by state governments rather than the Centre. Consequently, while the number of donors decreased, the amount of aid stayed virtually the same. After the tsunami, for example, India requested and received long-term aid for rehabilitation from both the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank (ADB). It also accepted, a full year later, $3.1 million from the United States Agency for International Development (USAID)’s office of Foreign Disaster Assistance for emergency relief activities. This was used to fund, among other things, 5,000 Indian Navy personnel to deliver relief supplies. India also regularly accepts foreign assistance from multilateral organisations such as the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) — India ranked first in the top 10 recipients of Official Development Assistance aid in 2018-19; the World Bank (in addition to favourable loans, the Narendra Modi government has requested and received aid for infrastructure projects such as Swachh Bharat); and increasingly, the ADB.So why the brouhaha over openly accepting aid? On one hand, academic research shows a strong correlation between the politics of accepting foreign aid and the status that a country believes it should enjoy in international relations. This is more complex than simple claims of nationalism and nationalist pride. As has been shown, offering and accepting aid can be a demonstration of the “superiority and power” of the donor, and the “inferiority and powerlessness” of the recipient. Thus, foreign aid is sometimes seen as a tool that can shape countries’ reputations by conferring prestige on the donor and extracting a cost from the recipient.Yet, on the other hand, arguably, the reputation of each country is built by the collective beliefs of a community of countries rather than a single element such as aid. Thus, the very act of being offered aid in a time of need can be seen as the outcome of an established reputation, and as an achievement of status rather than lack of it. This telling allows us to see the outpouring of international aid to India in a different light. Particularly if we contrast it to Brazil, another country devastated by the pandemic, yet not the recipient of even a fraction of the aid and international sympathy that has been offered in spades to the Modi government. Of course, ideally, the institutional failure that existed in India with regard to the pandemic should never have been allowed to take place. But given that it did, the largesse offered by international society is a boon, not a curse.Manjari Chatterjee Miller is associate professor, Pardee School, Boston University, director, BU Rising Powers Initiative, and research associate, University of Oxford. Vidhu Priya Mukundan is a Masters student at the Pardee School, Boston University, and research assistant at the Global Development Policy Center, Boston University.The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-politics-of-foreign-aid-in-india-101624200153853.html
20-06-2021||Today's||The power and relevance of yoga during a pandemic||The relevance of yoga — amid the Covid-19 pandemic, which has upended the lives and livelihoods of millions of people around the world — has increased substantially. As we celebrate the seventh International Yoga Day on June 21, this year especially, we need to understand how its healing touch can improve our physical well-being.Yoga, which originated in India and has been part of the Indian civilisation for millennia, has been a practice that aligns our mind, body and spirit, and enhances mental clarity. It is an effective tool to reduce stress and improve motor functions, which, in turn, helps keep various health problems at bay.The pandemic has led to a substantial loss of human lives and has created unprecedented challenges for the public health system, not just in India, but across the world. The fear of this ever-mutating virus has kept many of us indoors. This forced confinement has increased the stress on our bodies and minds.This public health crisis has brought to the fore the importance of strengthening our immune systems. For this, we need to adopt a healthy lifestyle. Studies suggest that yoga contributes to improving the immune system since it is a combination of physical exercise, controlled breathing and mental concentration — all of which are known to have health benefits. Among the many yoga asanas, shavasana and sasakasana reduce stress which, many practitioners believe, increases the efficiency of the immune system. Breathing techniques like pranayam improve the functioning of the respiratory system. Trikonasana improves blood circulation which benefits all our organs.Several medical practitioners and experts have suggested that those suffering from mild symptoms of Covid-19 and who have been advised to isolate at home, could benefit from practising yoga asanas and breathing exercises, albeit with caution. As the virus directly affects the lungs, it is imperative to strengthen the respiratory system. Practising yoga is also advised to those who have recovered from the virus. Yogic breathing, beginner-level yoga asanas and meditation bring mental peace, a vital factor in the recovery process for those who have had the traumatic experience of contracting Covid-19. Apart from these, modified breathing techniques and yoga poses recommended by experts can help reduce fatigue and slowly restore energy levels among Covid-19 patients who are on the mend. Children can also benefit from yoga. As many are facing mental stress due to isolation and anxiety in an unpredictable school year, yoga can be a useful coping method. Hence, I appeal to all the parents and teachers to motivate young children to practice yoga in their daily lives. Being a country with the largest population of young people, we must make significant efforts to help them navigate through the adverse effects of the pandemic-induced disruption.Parents and teachers can and should motivate children to practise yoga. This will help improve physical flexibility and enhance concentration in these challenging times.Our way of life has changed, most likely, forever. Across the world, yoga has come to be recognised as an effective tool in improving health, which, in turn, helps maintain an all-important work-life balance. Today, yoga has gained an enormous following globally and could well be considered one of the pillars of India’s soft power. In the absence of Covid-19, we could have been out in parks and public places celebrating this ancient practice. But we will have to maintain safety protocols and stay indoors. The virus has been debilitating for so many of us. But on this Yoga Day, let us grab our mats and lift our spirits with yoga. We need the peace and calm that yoga brings into our lives. And let us hope that by next Yoga Day, the virus will be well and truly behind us. Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ is Union education minister The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-power-and-relevance-of-yoga-during-a-health-crisis-101624198419993.html
