29-06-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab logs 16 deaths, 218 fresh Covid cases||Sixteen more people died from coronavirus in Punjab on Tuesday as 218 fresh cases surfaced, taking the state’s infection count 5,95,351, according to a medical bulletin.So far, 16,033 people have died from the infection in the state. Deaths were reported from several districts, including Amritsar, Barnala, Bathinda and Ferozepur. Ludhiana reported 24 infections, followed by 22 in Mohali and 19 in Jalandhar. The state currently has 3,347 active cases, the bulletin said, adding that the state’s positivity rate stood at 0.52%. With 485 recoveries from the infection, the number of cured people reached 5,75,971, it said.There are 106 critical patients who are on ventilator and 1,509 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said. A total of 1,08,47,309 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-logs-16-deaths-218-fresh-covid-cases-101624991238887.html
29-06-2021||Chandigarh||SAD slams Kejriwal, say poor will lose out on 200 units free power||After Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) chief Arvind Kejriwal promised free power in Punjab if his party wins the state polls, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) said on Tuesday that far from giving any relief to the common man through subsidised power, the AAP would even do away with 200 units per month free power provided to the poor, including Dalits and backward classes, by former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal. Addressing a press conference, SAD senior leaders Bikram Singh Majithia and Daljit Singh Cheema said the Delhi chief minister had admitted that the party’s promise of 300 units per billing cycle free power facility will only be applicable in case the consumption is less than 300 units. “This amounts to a cruel joke on Punjabis as a majority of them will not be eligible for any benefit. Instead, the poor and disadvantaged will lose out on the 200 units free power facility, which is applicable without any conditions,” they claimed. Accusing Kejriwal of trying to introduce a flop model that had already failed in Delhi, Majithia also presented power bills of Delhi consumers, which showed that they were charged ₹5.30 per unit for bills slightly above 200 units and not extended any benefit of subsidised power. The SAD leaders also castigated the Delhi CM for trying to lie his way out of the press conference by stating that farmers in Delhi were “probably” given free power when this was clearly not the case as they were charged astronomical fixed charges. “Similarly power tariff of shops and the domestic sector in Delhi, which constitutes the lion’s share of consumers, is extremely high, they said. Majithia said that the AAP leader was tom-tomming about ₹6,500 crore subsidised power facility extended in Delhi in six year forgetting that the free power facility extended to farmers in Punjab by Parkash Singh Badal had given them a benefit of ₹90,000 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sad-slams-kejriwal-say-poor-will-lose-out-on-200-units-free-power-101624990878651.html
29-06-2021||Noida||2,200 farmers shifted to make way for airport project: Yeida||At least 2,200 out of the 3,000 farmers whose land will be acquired for the upcoming Noida international airport at Jewar have shifted to the new ‘Airport Township’ being developed at the Jewar Bangar area and the rest will be rehabilitated by July 15, said officials. “We are satisfied with the pace of work at the Airport Township. Soon, the remaining farmers will be shifted there so that their land can be transferred to the Yamuna International Airport Private Limited (YIAPL) that will begin work on this project,” said Uttar Pradesh additional chief secretary Arvind Kumar who inspected the township on Tuesday. The administration said they have asked the remaining farmers to shift to the new township. “All farmers are cooperating and busy in shifting to the township. We will achieve the target as per deadline,” said Balram Singh additional district magistrate Gautam Budh Nagar administration. Kumar also inspected Vivo’s manufacturing plant and HIG, LIG flat project in sector 22D located near the Formual-1 Buddh International Circuit along the 165-km Yamuna Expressway. Kumar was unhappy with cleanliness there. “We will clean the area and provide all basic amenities, including sewage connection, water supply, drainage and lift etc so that residents do not face any issues in living there,” said Arun Vir Singh, chief executive officer of Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (Yeida).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/2200-farmers-shifted-to-make-way-for-airport-project-yeida-101624990817534.html
29-06-2021||Noida||Vaccination suspended in GB Nagar for 2nd day||Noida Due to paucity of vaccines, the Gautam Budh Nagar health department will now resume vaccinations at its centres only on July 1 when the Uttar Pradesh government’s mass vaccination drive is expected to kick off and the district will look to vaccinate 40,000 people a day, said officials.The government had reduced vaccine supply to districts in view of this drive and forced the department to cancel Covishield vaccinations at government centres on Tuesday. Now this has been extended to Wednesday as well. Those who booked their slots for these two days will be accommodated next week, said officials. Six centres administered Covaxin on Tuesday but now even that was exhausted.Gautam Budh Nagar chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Deepak Ohri said “We are now completely out of stock. So much so that we can’t even conduct the trial run of the near-to-home vaccination drive on Wednesday, which is crucial to the mega vaccination drive. The state headquarters has assured that we will get at least 100,000 vaccines before the drive kicks off in the district. It will cater our need for two days, and the remaining stock will be kept in reserve,” Ohri said.According to the CMO, the district had been getting 25,000 vaccines from the government daily for the last one week. “We did our best to inoculate as many eligible persons as possible with the available vaccines. But now, we are running out of vaccine stock. Many people, who had booked slots for the jab for Tuesday and Wednesday, will be vaccinated on Tuesday and Wednesday next week, i.e. July 5 and 6, subject to the availability of vaccines,” he said.Crowd but no vaccinesA large number of people, unaware of the suspension of the vaccination drive on Tuesday, reached vaccination booths. Many were domestic helps and they said they could not go back to work till they got at least one dose of the vaccine, as per rules by residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) and apartment owners’ associations (AOAs).Suniti Patra, a domestic help who works in Sector 27 returned disappointed from the Sector 30 district hospital, said. “It was a complete mess there. My friends and I failed to get vaccinated. We don’t know what to do to get entry into the residential complex. This will affect our work,” she said.Deboshree Laha, another domestic help who works in Sector 104, said, “I am helpless. There are many others like me, who have not yet taken the jab. Now, it depends on the housing complex management, whether they will allow us to work or not.”Federation of Noida RWAs (FONRWA) president Yogendra Sharma said that all RWAs and AOAs that had decided not to allow unvaccinated domestic helps inside from July 1, were asked to extend the deadline for a week. “What can these domestic helps do if vaccines are not available. I hope these residential complexes adapt a sympathetic approach towards them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/vaccination-suspended-in-gb-nagar-for-2nd-day-101624990759857.html
29-06-2021||Other||PCMC order for all employees to get vaxed before July 20 or face salary cut draws mixed reactions||PUNE Employees of the Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) have mixed reactions to an order issued by civic chief Rajesh Patil, which states that employees should get vaccinated by July 20, failing which, the administration may consider not paying salaries of those not vaccinated.There are 7,479 employees working in the PCMC in various departments (divided into A to D sections).One of the employees who work in the C section said, “I had taken the first dose on time, but for my second dose, there was a shortage and then I could not manage to take it. I hope the administration does not cut the salary, if someone has not taken a vaccine due to genuine reasons.”The order is issued under various initiatives which the civic body is taking to promote vaccination.A corporator on condition of anonymity, said, “I don’t think such orders need to be issued. It may create panic among employees. Many were coming to municipal corporations even during the second wave and they may not have got time to go for vaccination. They will go and take the vaccine on their own. Why make them scared.”In April, PCMC had passed the same order after which 30 per cent of the employees got vaccinated. No salary cut was initiated after the first order.The second order, passed on Monday, had civic chief Rajesh Patil directing departmental heads to ensure every one completes both the doses of the vaccination before July 20.“Those who have not taken vaccines should enrol themselves and complete the vaccination. We are initiating this step to keep all employees safe,” said Patil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pcmc-order-for-all-employees-to-get-vaxed-before-july-20-or-face-salary-cut-draws-mixed-reactions-101624990758737.html
29-06-2021||Other||Layer upon layer of lacunae clouds probe into Apexcare’s status as dedicated Covid hospital||PUNE The Apexcare hospital for Covid-19 treatment came into existence during the first wave in 2020. It was first active on the premises of the Aditya Multispecialty Hospital in Miraj, after which it was granted a permit to operate as a dedicated Covid hospital. Dr Mahesh Jadhav, currently in police custody, started operating the Covid centre under aegis of Apexcare, in agreement with the owners of Aditya hospital.Documents related to the facility after it shifted to an independent building on the Sangli-Miraj road, reveal a series of glaring lacunae.While the local health department official says that the permit application for a trauma centre is pending, advertising hoardings claiming that the Apexcare hospital is a 24-hour accident, trauma, and ICU hospital are on display. The facility has now been sealed.“After an oxygen leak happened at Aditya Hospital, the facility was shifted to its present location. At Aditya Hospital, it operated on the Bombay Nursing Act permit for that hospital, but later on, a separate permit was granted. During that procedure they had submitted a list of three intensivists, a resident medical officer, 21 medical officers, and 30 paramedical staff as employed at the hospital. If, over the period of time, the staff quit, positions needed to be refilled immediately. Moreover, if a staff shortage is reported, we issue orders for filling positions with private hospital doctors. A shortage was never reported by the hospital. The shortage was reported by victims and their families,” said Nitin Kapadnis, commissioner, Sangli, Miraj, Kupwad municipal corporation (SMKC).The police found 18 fina-year students working in the hospital and have recorded their statements along with nursing staff. There are 50 statements on record.The first serious complaint against the hospital came immediately after its inception in 2020 - relatives were neither allowed any contact with the patients nor were they given updates. In response, commissioner Kapadnis claims to have visited the facility on April 22, 2021. However, by the end of April, complaints of no doctors and absence of equipment started pouring in, according to Kapadnis.Commissioner Kapadnis made a second visit on May 2 and served a notice to the hospital for fulfilling requirements, but since the hospital refused to respond, the dedicated Covid hospital licence was cancelled on May 7.“When a district-level monitoring committee made visits to the hospital, four ventilators and 10 bipap machines were in place. On the third visit, the number of ventilators had reduced,” he said.A family from Pandharpur was among multiple families promised a ventilator bed for their relatives at Apexcare on April 27, 2021. The Maharashtra government’s health department spreadsheet for bed availability on April 27, and every day since, shows no ventilator beds available at the hospital. The same family from Pandharpur had four patients in the hospital - one allegedly on the ventilator. However, they were all charged the same amount as that of the ventilator patient.Meanwhile, complaints by the district-level bill audit teams against the hospital kept piling up. District collect Abhijeet Chaudhury then issued orders for a case to be registered against Dr Mahesh Jadhav.“If the doctor had treated and given wrong treatment, then it could at least be a case of medical negligence. Here, the case is of not providing treatment after charging money for the treatment. The ones present in the hospital were a Munna Bhai-kind of BHMS final year students who were drawing a salary from the hospital,” said senior police inspector Shashikant Chavan of Gandhi chowk police station, who is investigating the case.The SMKC officials have launched a parallel enquiry for verification of the names which were provided by the hospital as trained medical staff while applying for a permit under Bombay Nursing Act.Dr Sunil Amboli, head of health department of SMKC which granted the Nursing Act permit, is woefully unaware of the details of the hospital.The case continues to get murkier as one starts wondering what happened to the four ventilators which were allegedly seen by the district monitoring team, but were not found by the police when the hospital was sealed. The local government is also checking if there are records for structural, fire, and electric audit of the hospital which are mandatory for inception of a dedicated Covid hospital, according to Kapadnis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/layer-upon-layer-of-lacunae-clouds-probe-into-apexcare-s-status-as-dedicated-covid-hospital-101624990759295.html
29-06-2021||Other||Admission into Apexcare hospital is a tale of going from hope to despair||PUNE The story of horrors at Apexcare hospital has only now started coming to light. However, complaints had begun in the Covid first wave itself, in 2020. A particularly harrowing story is that of a farmer whose family claims that his oxygen levels were shown to be in 60s, even when the oximeter showed it to be in 90s.A small concrete room, surrounded by endless agriculture fields is the home house fora family of three - Bhimrao Khatave (55), his wife Sangita (45), and their daughter Snehal (21); until Covid-19 claimed Bhimrao’s life, or so the family was told by the Apexcare Covid hospital, where he breathed his last. These events unfolded in October 2020.The Khatave family sold gold jewellery, two cows, and borrowed money from relatives in to pay the bill at the hospital after the 55-year-old spent 22 days there. Thefamily paid ₹3,50,000 for treatment and did not have any more left when the hospital staff allegedly asked for ₹40,000 more, according to Sangita.Snehal, a final-year Arts student, is soft-spoken and determined to find a job after graduation. However, she refuses to consider nursing. “I saw how nurses treat people. I had never been to a hospital before. I do not wish to be in that kind of system,” she said, remembering the alleged arguments with the hospital staff while her father lay dead.The uncle of Dr Mahesh Jadhav (36), the brother of Dr Madan Jadhav, who owns the hospital, was reminiscing days of pride that he Jadhav family enjoyed due he brothers’ achievements.“They are both highly qualified and never should have lived in a small town. While Mahesh trained for plastic surgery in Aurangabad, Madan trained at KEM, Mumbai. Their father passed away and their mother is too unwell to be here,” said Rajendra Jadhav (57), paternal uncle of the Jadhav siblings.One would think that the emotional, mental, and physical effects of the alleged misdeeds at the hospital were felt only by patients in Miraj; but the list of victims mentions people from other towns, including Pandharpur and Sangola.SANGOLASaurabh Swamy (23), owner of a bakery and son of a home guard, is struggling to get an insurance claim for some ₹25,000 he spent on travel and treatment of his father Shashukant Swamy.“We took him to the hospital on May 2 around 8:30pm. The ambulance driver was asking for ₹14,000, but I could not pay him that much. I paid him ₹4,000. When we reached the hospital, they asked for ₹50,000 deposit but I could only pay ₹10,000. By 3:40pm, they had told us that he was on bipap machine, even though they had promised a ventilator. Then he passed away. They kept on asking us toclear the remaining bill,” said Saurabh Swamy.When Swamy came to Miraj police station to record his statement, he came across other people from nearby villages who were suggested the name of the hospital by either ambulance drivers or private doctors.“I met at least four other families who were from the same village and had lost their relative in the same hospital. I even found a person who was informed about the hospital by the same ambulance driver who had told my family about Apexcare,” said Swamy.We spoke to at least two other families from Sangola and Bhose village areas of Solapur, who lost their patient at Apexcare and none of them were provided with a printed bill to explain the charges.PANDHARPUR At the peak of the second wave, four people from one family in Dnyaneshwar nagar in Pandharpur were struggling to get a hospital bed in their hometown. Ghule family had four members showing symptoms and eventually testing positive in the last week of April. To people in rural western Maharashtra, where beds were running out fast, the availability of a bed at Apexcare hospital seemed like a ray of hope.“We were struggling to find a bed in Pandharpur. So we contacted a private doctor, but even he had normal beds and our 60-year-old grandmother needed a ventilator. Three other people in the family were also positive and needed hospitalisation. The doctor told us that there is bed availability at Apexcare in Miraj, and Miraj being a hub of medical colleges and hospitals, we readily went there,” said a relative of the patient, Nihal Chougule (20).“They charged us ₹20,000 as deposit per person. We all got admitted on April 27 early morning. On May 1, our grandmother, Saraswati Aba Ghule (60), passed away and they asked us to pay ₹2,75,000 more. When we asked for details, they had charged the rest of us with same amount as that of our grandmother whom they claimed they had ventilated,” said Krishna Ghule (20) who was admitted with his younger brother Shubham (17) and mother Vaishali (36), at Apexcare Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/admission-into-apexcare-hospital-is-a-tale-of-going-from-hope-to-despair-101624990757571.html
29-06-2021||Other||CSR funds ensure oxygen supply at PMC hospitals ready for third wave||PUNE During the pandemic, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) received a lot of from funds raised under corporate social responsibility (CSR) and from public representatives. These funds helped the civic body buy necessary equipment for civic hospitals. Before the pandemic none of the civic hospitals had any ventilators or ICU beds, or even an oxygen generation plant. However, the pandemic forced the civic body to enhance its hospitals with all essential medical equipment. As of June 27, 10 civic hospitals have 214 ICU beds and 1,274 oxygen beds. Similarly none of the hospitals, including Naidu hospital which was the only infection control hospital in the state in March 2020, when the pandemic began, had an oxygen generation plant and had to completely rely on oxygen cylinders. As of Sunday, the 10 civic hospitals located across the city have got, or will receive, 15 oxygen generation plants. Of the 15 plants, four plants have been commissioned, work orders have been issued for eight plants and three are in the process of sanction. These 15 plants when put to use will generate 12,733 litres of oxygen per minute. Each hospital of these 10 will receive one plant each, except for major hospitals like Naidu hospital, Dalvi hospital, Baner (old), Baner (new) and Rajiv Gandhi hospital, will have two oxygen generation plants each. Except for the two oxygen generation plants at Rajiv Gandhi hospital which have been built completely on PMC funds, the rest of the construction has either been funded through CSR, the mayor’s fund or in collaboration with PMC and CSR. The addition of oxygen generation plants will make the hospital independent of oxygen cylinders and this will become a permanent addition to the hospital. The shortage of oxygen was felt during both the first and second wave of Covid-19, and so these plants will ensure that the same situation is not repeated if the anticipated third wave is harsher than the first two. Additional municipal commissioner Rubal Agarwal said, “During the pandemic, along with the administration, multiple organisations stepped forward to lend their support to the city. Through such contributions we could upgrade our civic hospitals. As of now all our major hospitals, including Dalvi maternity home, have oxygen generation plants. These plants will help the city even after the pandemic ends.”Med Asia has donated ₹1.5 crore worth of medical equipment to BJ Medical college and Sassoon general hospital. The equipment includes ventilators, oxygen concentrators, rapid antigen kits, PPE kits and others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/csr-funds-ensure-oxygen-supply-at-pmc-hospitals-ready-for-third-wave-101624990758147.html
29-06-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Chandigarh logs 7 cases, lowest in a year||Chandigarh reported only seven Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, lowest in about one year. It was on July 5 last year that the UT had recorded the same number of cases, and the daily tally has remained higher ever since, peaking at 895 during the second wave on May 9. Meanwhile, after a lull of five days, Chandigarh logged one fatality due to the virus, as a 58-year-old man from Dhanas succumbed at the PGIMER on Tuesday. Positivity rate remains at 0.5%, also lowest in the past one year. The cumulative infection tally of the tricity stood at 31 on Tuesday, as Mohali reported 22 cases and Panchkula recorded two.While Panchkula reported no fatality for the second consecutive day, one patient died in Mohali, taking the tricity’s death toll to two. On Monday, the tricity had recorded 30 cases and one death.The active caseload dropped to 485 from Monday’s 521, with 264 cases active in Mohali, followed by 163 in Chandigarh and 58 in Panchkula.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid19chandigarh-logs-7-cases-lowest-in-a-year-101624990701356.html
29-06-2021||Noida||Noida: 500 samples collected for ICMR’s sero survey||Noida: Around 500 blood samples were collected from Gautam Budh Nagar on Monday as part of the Indian Council of Medical Research’s (ICMR) fourth nationwide Covid-19 serological survey in 70 districts.The survey will ascertain the prevalence (called seroprevalence) of antibodies against Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, from a past infection in a given population.This was the fourth ICMR serosurvey in Gautam Budh Nagar. The district had also participated in a state-level survey earlier this month. Districtwise results of all surveys are yet to be released This was also the first such serosurvey after the second wave of Covid-19 ravaged the country in April and May. Experts had previously said that they expect the antibody levels to be higher as cases were more widespread in the second wave.Ten teams of 10 people each from the ICMR’s National Institute of Cancer Prevention and Research (NICPR) and the district health department collected the samples at random, officials said.“While 400 samples were collected from the general population, 100 samples were collected from health care workers at the district hospital in Sector 30. The samples will be sent to ICMR to test them for the presence of antibodies that determine a past infection due to the virus,” said Dr Deepak Ohri, district chief medical officer.As per Dr Amit Kumar, nodal officer from the district health department for the sample collection, the collections centred around 10 areas - Acheja, Bisahda, Nagla Nainsukh, Sarakpur, Ronija, Neemka, Sahjahanpur, Dankaur, Kherli Hafizpur and Balwant Vihar Chipiyana. Around 40 samples were collected from each area, he said.“Of the 400 people sampled from the general populace, 40 (four from each area) were from children between six and nine years, 80 (eight from each area) from children between nine and 17 years, and 280 (28 from each area) from adults (14 men and women),” said Dr Kumar.Dr Shalini Singh, director, ICMR-NICPR, said, “The survey will give us a clue on the presence of antibodies among children as well as adults and health care workers. It will tell us about the trend of spread and presence of the infection in the community and health-care workers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-500-samples-collected-for-icmr-s-sero-survey-101624990699230.html
29-06-2021||Chandigarh||Eye on Punjab polls, Kejriwal promises 300 free electricity units, 24-hour supply||Ahead of assembly elections in Punjab early next year, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) chief and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday promised 300 units of free electricity for each household in the state and waiver of their pending bills if his party wins the state polls. Kejriwal, whose party is the principal opposition in Punjab, also assured restoration of electricity supply to domestic category consumers whose connections have been snapped due to arrears and round-the-clock power supply in the state. “With 300 units of free power to each household, 77-80% families in Punjab will get zero bill. They will get 24-hour power but no bill,” he said at a press meet at the Chandigarh Press Club. The AAP chief said power in Punjab is the costliest in the country despite it being a producer state that is surplus. “We do not produce power in Delhi and buy from other states and still supply at almost the cheapest rates,” he said, blaming the “dirty nexus” between the state government and the (private) power companies for expensive power in Punjab. “If this nexus is ended and things are set right in power companies, we can ensure cheaper power,” he added. Kejriwal was accompanied by state AAP president Bhagwant Mann, leader of opposition in the Punjab assembly Harpal Singh Cheema, Punjab affairs in-charge and Delhi MLA Jarnail Singh and AAP spokesperson and Punjab affairs co-incharge Raghav Chadha, besides former IPS officer Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh. Kejriwal’s guarantee, not Capt’s promisesThe Delhi CM said these are his guarantees, not Capt’s (Amarinder Singh) promises. “As soon as the AAP government is formed in the state, we will ensure free power and write off all pending bills of consumers of domestic supply category with the first stroke of pen. The 24-hour supply will require strengthening of the distribution network and may take three to four years,” Kejriwal declared before responding to questions. Asked about his free power promise, he said that it is for domestic consumers with consumption of up to 300 units. If power consumption exceeds 300 units, the consumer will have to pay the bill, he said. The party, in a press release later, clarified that all the existing beneficiary categories such as SCs and BPL families, which were getting 200 free units, will now get 300 free units and will be charged only for consumption over and above 300 units. “All other non-beneficiaries who do not receive any electricity benefits currently will get 300 units per month. If this category consumes more than 300 units per month, they will have to pay for the whole consumption,” it said. ‘Will replicate Delhi model’On freebie politics, Kejriwal said he was asked the same questions in Delhi six years ago, but his government has achieved this there. “In Delhi, people get free electricity and the government and power companies are in profit. We will do it in Punjab in the same way. Yeh jadoo hai hamein hi karna aata hai (Only the AAP knows how to make this possible). I have done my calculations before announcing power sops for Punjab residents,” he said. Slamming the mafias in Punjab, he said there is no dearth of money in the state, but it lacks a government with “acchi neeyat” (good intention). He also said farmers will continue to get electricity free and industry at the present rates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/eye-on-punjab-polls-kejriwal-promises-300-free-electricity-units-24-hour-supply-101624990698081.html
29-06-2021||Noida||Farmers’ agitation can have huge impact in UP elections: Yashwant Sinha||Ghaziabad: Trinamool Congress (TMC) vice-president Yashwant Sinha extended his support to the farmers’ agitation on Tuesday and said that the protest will have a huge impact in the assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh scheduled for next year and predicted that the results will be similar to West Bengal. Sinha, a former Union minister, on Tuesday arrived at UP Gate and met farmers’ leaders, including Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) national spokesperson Rakesh Tikait. Sinha had left the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in 2018 and joined Mamata Banerjee’s TMC ahead of the this year’s assembly elections in West Bengal where his party returned to power with over 200 seats and the BJP winning less than 100. “As far as I know, the farmers’ leaders from the agitation went to West Bengal and they asked people to vote for anyone but the BJP. So, if they their role is same role in UP elections, it will have huge impact over the people as their agitation is standing strong. The government is helping corporate, and those I am indicating to, their net worth has increased despite Covid situation,” Sinha said at UP-Gate. “In our economy, the terms of trade are not in favour of farmers. So, the government should supplement the income of farmers. Its calculation should be taken up by some expert group either regularly or on annual basis. When I was with the same party when its government came to power in 2014, I wrote (to the government) on this. But they had no interest in it.” The farmers have camped at different borders of Delhi since November 26 last year and demanding repeal of three new farm laws and also for a new law on minimum support price (MSP). Since the decline in second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, the farmers have regrouped and renewing their agitations at different borders of Delhi. “We will give ‘dose’ in upcoming elections, and we will go to Uttarakhand and UP as well. It is now easy for us since we have different ‘morchas’ (agitation points) set up at different borders. We will go from here and return back,” Tikait said. The UP BJP spokesperson could not be reached for comments. “People have seen how different opposition parties contested together in UP and lost ground. In West Bengal, the BJP secured more vote percentage than before and secured more seats than before. We also saw how other parties did not give a contested in West Bengal and this benefitted the TMC. So, the situation in UP are different and the BJP led government by chief minister Yogi Adityanath will come more strongly than before in 2022,” said Sunil Sharma, the BJP MLA from Sahibabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/farmers-agitation-can-have-huge-impact-in-up-elections-yashwant-sinha-101624990637535.html
29-06-2021||Other||Smart City Prayagraj: Bike sharing system to come to town soon||In its ‘smart city’ avatar, Prayagraj is all set to have a Public Bike/Bicycle Sharing (PBS) System with automatic smart locks. This eco-friendly mode of transport will be for the common man as well as for tourists, to be used within city limits.The bikes, to be operated through a smart app embellished with a unique identification code for each of the bicycles, will be available for use on a rental basis. The app will allow a user to take the bike from a select PBS docking station for a fixed time and by paying the rental upfront.Once the use of the bicycle is over, it can be returned to the nearest docking station, mostly located near a bus stand, private taxi station or a railway station, which will enable the person to carry on with his/her journey further, officials said. However, no date has yet been given for the formal start of this facility.A vision of this proposed PBS system was presented before the Prayagraj Smart City Advisory Forum in a meeting held at Integrated Command and Control Centre (ICCC) on Monday. CEO of Prayagraj Smart City Ltd Rajiv Ranjan presented details of the ongoing work and the proposed projects to be undertaken as part of the Smart City initiative in the city. The meeting was attended by mayor Abhilasha Gupta, MLA Allahabad North Harshvardhan Bajpai and Mission Manager of Smart City project SK Sinha, besides other members of the forum.“The bike share system allows people to borrow a bike from a dock and return it at another dock. Docks are special bike racks that lock the bike, and only release it by computer control. The user enters payment information, and the computer unlocks a bike. The user returns the bike by placing it in the dock, which locks it in place,” explained Ranjan.The idea is to connect residential localities with markets, etc, officials said. The plan is to have 75 docking stations across the city with 10 bikes each. In the first phase, 30 docking stations with 300 bicycles will be installed, while the remaining 45 stations with 450 bicycles will be installed gauging the success of Phase1, as also the acceptance of the project by citizens.Some of the sites identified for setting up the docking stations include Nagar Nigam Prayagraj, All Saints Cathedral, Girls High School and College, Hotel Harsh Ananda, Sardar Patel Marg, Hotel Allahabad Regency, PD Tandon Park, Chandra Shekhar Azad Park Gate number 3 and 6 besides Anand Bhawan and Allahabad University among others.Details of various projects like augmentation and upgradation of the existing streetlights, strengthening the ICCC system were also shared with the members. The members also gave their suggestions including installing tracking devices on the bikes of the proposed PBS system, undertaking a road-widening exercise keeping the traffic load in mind, etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/smart-city-prayagraj-bike-sharing-system-to-come-to-town-soon-101624990578252.html
29-06-2021||Chandigarh||Lockdown relaxed: Shops can stay open till 9pm in Chandigarh||The Chandigarh administration has allowed all shops to remain open till 9pm. However, shopkeepers have to ensure that Covid appropriate behaviour is followed by the workers and customers.The decision was taken during the Covid review meeting chaired by UT administrator VP Singh Badnore on Tuesday. Last week, the market timings were extended till 8pm. While night curfew has been in force in the UT since April 6, lockdown was imposed on May 4. In the past few weeks, the administration has been easing the restrictions in view of the decline in the second wave of the pandemic. It was on May 24 that the administration had decided to open all non-essential shops. On May 31, salons and barber shops were allowed to open, while on June 8, restaurants and bars were allowed to offer dine-in services.During the meeting, Badnore also directed the director general of police to take strict action against those who violate Covid protocol, particularly for not wearing masks at Sukhna Lake and other public places.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/lockdown-relaxed-shops-can-stay-open-till-9pm-in-chandigarh-101624990518159.html
29-06-2021||Chandigarh||16 Punjab-origin men charged with mail theft, fraud in Canada||The Canadian police have charged 16 Punjab-origin men with more than 140 offences after a six-week investigation involving mail theft, fraud over $5,000, identity theft, uttering a forged document, possession of stolen property and controlled substances.According to media reports, investigators scrutinised more than 100 reports of mail thefts and incidents of mischief in the Region of Peel between January and April this year and they discovered links to numerous parties residing in Brampton. In May, investigators began collaborating with their partners at Canada Post, Halton Regional Police Service, Ontario Provincial Police, and financial institutions.The accused used to allegedly steal mail by breaking into Canada Post mailboxes or individual roadside residential mailboxes, targeting cheques, credit cards and identification documents. They would then allegedly alter and deposit the stolen cheques into various banks before withdrawing the funds fraudulently, the police was quoted in Canadian media reports.Investigators began arresting the accused in mid-May and on June 16, two search warrants were conducted at residences in Brampton, where officers located hundreds of pieces of mail, stolen/altered cheques, printers, scanners, and other tools used to forge documents. The investigators also located six stolen vehicles used by suspects, it was reported.The accused have been identified as Gurdeep Bains, 46, Hartinder Randhawa, 37, Harmeet Khakh, 28, Gurdip Singh, 28, Gurkamal Mehmi, 38, Gurvinder Kang, 38, Hartinder Randhawa, 37, Gurpreet Singh, 21, Varinder Kooner, 43, Gurvinder Kang, 38, Suhail Kumar, 21, Rattan Preetam, 26, Rupinder Sharma 25, Harjinder Singh, 31, all residents of Brampton, Taranjeet Virk, 37, of Woodbridge, and Joga Singh 30, of Toronto. Further arrests and charges are anticipated in relation to this investigation, said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/16-punjab-origin-men-charged-with-mail-theft-fraud-in-canada-101624990461412.html
29-06-2021||Chandigarh||15 children rescued from liquor bottling factory in Chandigarh||Fifteen minors, including eight girls, working at a liquor bottling plant at Chandigarh’s Industrial Area, Phase 1, were rescued in a raid on Tuesday. The joint raid was conducted by the district task force committee, childline, anti-human trafficking unit of Chandigarh Police and the NGO Bachpan Bachao Andolan. After their medical examination, the rescued children — who are aged between 15 and 17 years and belong to Haryana, Rajasthan, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and even as far as Tamil Nadu — have been shifted to the Snehalaya, where they will be kept in quarantine. The Industrial Area police have initiated the process to book the owners of the unit, Rock and Storm Bottlers Private Limited, and the contractor through whom the children were arranged under the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection) Act 2015 for exploitation of children and employing them under hazardous conditions. “The district administration has been continuously working towards non-tolerance towards child labour and this raid was aimed at ensuring the children are not deployed in hazardous industries,” said Mandip Singh Brar, deputy commissioner, Chandigarh. Harjit Singh Sandhu, subdivisional magistrate, central, said the children will be rehabilitated soon.A tip-off and two-week recceIt was during a counselling session that a juvenile recently apprehended for a crime had said that he was working in a liquor factory along with many other minors. “Recce was conducted for two weeks, and the raid was planned only after the information was found to be authentic,” said a senior official privy to the development. Sources said the factory is engaged in bottling and packing around half a dozen liquor brands. When the raid was conducted, the children were found branding and filling the bottles. “We suspect that there might be more children working in the plant,” said an officer, who did not wish to be named. Covid protocol given the go-byThe team that raided the factory found about 200 people, mostly women and youngsters, working there without wearing masks. The premises was quite congested and unhygienic. “The rescued girls have scars on their hands, which indicate they have come in direct contact with chemicals. Children cannot be deployed in hazardous factories,” said the officer. The SDM (central) said action will also be taken for the violation of Covid safety protocol. Wages, work hours being looked intoThe labour department is also looking into wages being paid and the amount of hours the children were made to work. During preliminary interaction, the children said they were paid ₹4,000-5,000 a month for working eight hours daily. According to officials, this is lower than the minimum wages fixed by the DC’s office. Meanwhile, the child welfare committee will be interacting with the children to establish since when and in what circumstances they have been working at the factory. The district authorities would also be investigating the child trafficking angle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/15-children-rescued-from-liquor-bottling-factory-in-chandigarh-101624990398363.html
29-06-2021||Other||‘Smart signages’ to guide tourists around heritage sites, ghats in Varanasi||Heritage sites, ghats and historical monuments in Varanasi will soon have ‘smart signages’ with Quick Response (QR) code as part of the ‘smart city’ project. These signages will apprise visitors or tourists about cultural importance of heritage sites and the 84 iconic ghats of the city which are known for their antiquity and marvel of architect, said an official of Varanasi Smart City Limited. “We are installing five types of signages, including name signage, information signage, map signage, sculptural signage and step signage with QR codes at these places under the project. The name signages have already been installed at several ghats,” said D Vasudevan, general manager of Varanasi Smart City Limited. “The project is worth ₹5 crore and the work of installing all types of signages will be completed by July end this year. All these signages are made of Corten steel which has long life,” said Vasudevan. A person or a tourist may know about complete history and heritage importance of any ghat by scanning the QR code on the name signage being installed at every ghat with its name. “For instance, if any tourist wants to know about Dashashwamedh ghat, he/she just needs to scan the QR code on the name signage. As soon as he scans the QR code all information will be before him on his mobile phone,” he said. Likewise, a map signage will be put up at tourist facility centre coming up near Dashashwamedh ghat. It will be a 3D map with a complete visualisation of the ghats. While sitting at tourist facility centre, the tourists will have an idea about the map of the ghats, Vasudevan said. Around 280 step signages with a line of poem are also being installed at several ghats while heritage siganges would be put up at 20 different ghats. Each of these signages will have information about cultural heritage of Kashi, he said. A sculpture signage each has to be installed at the Assi ghat and Khidkiya ghat that will have information about various events like Ganga Arti at Dashashwamedh ghat, annual Naag Nathaiyya event at Tulsi ghat, the official said. The tourists can also get information about methods of different rituals like ‘mundan sanskar’ and puja done at several ghats, including Dashashwamedh ghat and Shitla ghat, with help this signage. As many foreign tourists visit Manikarnika Ghat and Harishchandra Ghat where last rites of Hindus are performed, the smart signage would help them know traditional rituals of these gahts. Vasudevan said all the information about the ghats and heritage sites for this project has been compiled with the help of historians, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/smart-signages-to-guide-tourists-around-heritage-sites-ghats-in-varanasi-101624990339643.html
29-06-2021||Noida||Prostitution ring busted in Noida residential area, 18 arrested||Noida Noida Police on Tuesday said they rescued 10 women from forced prostitution after a raid on a residential property in Noida Sector 51 in which they arrested 18 people.According to the police, the suspects who ran the racket earlier operated from a spa in the Sector 18 market, but was shut earlier this year. As many as 200 such establishments in Noida were shut down in April.Following losses, they started using a residential property that was converted into a guest house for the operation from March,” said a senior police officer who requested anonymity.“We got a tip about the racket following which teams from the local police and anti-human trafficking unit (AHTU) raided the building,” said the officer. Police said the arrested suspects include six men and two women managers of the guest house- including the alleged mastermind who the police identified by a single name Ramesh - and 10 customers who were from the Delhi-NCR region. “The rescued women, mostly from West Bengal and the north-east, used to work at the spa centre. The managers had forced the women, most of whom are from economically disadvantaged background, to work in the racket after the spa centre was shut. They were also threatened that they would be fired in case they refused,” said Vinod Kumar Singh, station house officer (SHO), Sector 49 police station.They advertised about their operation on online portals and social media platforms, said the police, adding that they have seized account books, contraceptives, and cellphones used for bookings, among others during the raid.The suspects were booked under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 370A(2) and 34, and relevant Immoral Traffic Prevention Act, 1956, sections by the Sector 49 police station.Earlier, the Sector 49 police had busted a prostitution ring on June 25, that was being run from a beauty parlour in Sector 73. Three women, who were forced to work there, were also rescued, while the owner had managed to escape. Efforts are being made to nab the female manager, said the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/prostitution-ring-busted-in-noida-residential-area-18-arrested-101624990338286.html
29-06-2021||Noida||Injured victim of Yamuna Expressway accident dies||Noida: A 30-year-old man who was severely injured in a motorcycle accident on the Yamuna Expressway on Sunday, succumbed to his injuries in a private hospital on Monday, said police.Yash Kumar was allegedly racing with his friend 28-year-old Rahul Teotia when Teotia’s rear tyre allegedly suffered a puncture and crashed into Kumar. Teotia died of his injuries the same day. Both victims were from Delhi. Greater Noida Additional DCP Vishal Pandey confirmed the death. “The police have not received any complaint in this matter,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/injured-victim-of-yamuna-expressway-accident-dies-101624990337582.html
29-06-2021||Noida||Loni triple murder: Victim’s nephew arrested||Ghaziabad: A day after a 65-year-old cloth trader and his two sons were shot dead in their home in Loni town, the Ghaziabad police on Tuesday arrested a 30-year-old nephew of the trader in connection with the case. Police said that the suspect allegedly killed his uncle after he refused to give ₹10 lakh for starting a business. The suspect was identified as Mohammad Ayyub, who lives in the same locality. The fourth victim of the incident, 60-year-old wife of the trader, is still critical at a hospital in Noida, police said. On early Monday morning, Haji Raisuddin, the trader, and his two sons -- Azhar, 30, and Imran, 25 -- had been shot dead, while his wife, Fatima, had suffered critical gunshot wounds in the incident that had taken place in Toli Mohalla. According to police, Ayyub was forcing his uncle, Raisuddin, to provide the money for a scrap business. When the victim denied, the suspect gunned him down and later fired at the other victims to protect his identity. “On the night of the incident, Ayyub, as per plan, visited his uncle’s house at 9.45pm and said to him that he will stay for the night. He brought along a pistol and a magazine. When his uncle woke up around 2.30am, the suspect asked him for money, but he denied. This angered the suspect and he opened fire,” said Amit Pathak, senior superintendent of police (SSP), Ghaziabad. Then the suspect tried to flee through the main door but he heard some noises of locals gathering outside. So, he decided to escape through the roofs of nearby houses, police said. “During interrogation, the suspect said that he started shooting at the victims one by one in order to protect his identity,” Pathak said. Police officials involved in the investigation said that after fleeing from the uncle’s house, the suspect threw his blood-stained shirt in one of the lanes of the locality and disposed of the pistol in a drain. They said that one of the buttons of the shirt broke off during the incident and was found at the crime spot. The officials further said that they also got clues from the CCTV footage in which the suspect was seen escaping while his identity was revealed to police by the trader’s daughter-in-law, Afsana, who was the only one who escaped unhurt in the house. “She said that she identified the suspect during the incident. The suspect said that he tried to fire at her, but the pistol malfunctioned. One live cartridge was also found which got ejected from the weapon during the process. The pistol and the blood-stained shirt were recovered,” said an officer attached to the investigation. “The suspect also told us that he was viewing some YouTube videos about fitting a silencer to the pistol. So, he was planning the incident for quite some time and finally gave way on Monday morning,” the officer added. Police had filed an FIR on Monday night against unknown persons under IPC sections 396 (dacoity with murder) and 397 (robbery, or dacoity, with attempt to cause death or grievous hurt) at Loni police station.SSP Pathak said that the claims of robbery have been ruled out as alleged by the victims’ family members. The family members on Monday claimed that the suspects had also escaped with cash and jewellery.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/loni-triple-murder-victim-s-nephew-arrested-101624990277571.html
29-06-2021||Noida||Noida sizzles at 43°C, heat wave to continue||At 43 degrees Celsius (°C), Noida experienced its second heat wave of the year on Tuesday, thanks to a delay in the monsoon, cloudless skies and unfavourable winds, said weather analysts. The trend is expected to continue for the next few days, they added.The temperature rose 2°C over the maximum temperature on Monday.According to the weather analysts the heat wave occurs when the maximum temperature is either 45°C and above, or is over 40°C and over 5°C of the seasons average. Tuesday’s maximum temperature was 6°C above average.The city had suffered its first heat wave on March 29 when the temperature was 40.5°C, which was 7°C above the seasonal average and also the first heat wave to be realised in March in 76 years. According to the weathermen the region may experience heat wave for the next two days due to extremely dry weather conditions.“The heat wave is due to several reasons, including the dry northwesterly winds (overcoming the moisture laden southwest monsoon winds), no clouds and no rains. There is no chance of any respite for another two days. There is a possibility of drizzle on July 2,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, India Meteorological Department (IMD). “This is also the first heat wave in June since 2019. Last year there had been several instances of heat waves in May but not June. This year, due to a number of pre-monsoon showers, the region was saved from heat waves in May.”On Tuesday, the IMD recorded the minimum temperature for Noida at 28.8°C as against 28.6°C on Monday. At the IMD’s Safdarjung weather monitoring station, which is considered standard for the National Capital Region, the maximum and minimum temperatures were recorded at 43°C and 27.4°C, respectively.“There are high chances of heat wave in next 24 to 48 hours, then between July 2 and three comparatively cooler winds accompanied with light rains may bring the temperature down by four to five degrees Celsius ,” said Mahesh Palawat, Vice President, meteorology and climate change, Skymet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-sizzles-at-43-c-heat-wave-to-continue-101624990097490.html
29-06-2021||Gurugram||Measures to mitigate roadkills not yet taken despite several reminders: Wildlife officials||A day after a two-year-old female leopard was killed in a road accident, wildlife officials said that mitigation measures for wildlife have not been taken up on the Gurugram-Faridabad Road, despite several reminders. “In the past two years, around 10 reminders must have been sent to senior wildlife officials and Public Works Department to construct underpasses for wildlife or increase the number of rumble strips on stretches where there is wildlife movement, but we did not get any response,” a district wildlife official, who did not wish to be named, said. On Monday, a two-year-old female leopard was found dead on Pali-Surajkund Road near Gurugram with autopsy reports suggesting it could have been hit by a vehicle. This is the seventh such death of a leopard to be reported from this region since 2015. The stretch from where the leopard’s carcass was recovered is an ecologically sensitive area, as it is flanked by the Asola Bhati wildlife sanctuary on both sides. The official cited above said that on-ground signage has been installed, giving details about the movement of wildlife in the region. “Leopard is a big animal which is easily visible and its death becomes known. But smaller animals, such as monkeys, monitor lizards and snakes, also get killed in road accidents, which do not get noticed,” the official said. In 2017, the Wildlife Institute of India, in a study titled Mapping land use/landcover Patterns in Aravallis Haryana, with reference to the status of key wildlife species, states, “There is a need to identify road crossing zones for key wildlife species especially leopards to suggest mitigation measures. Radio-telemetry study will help in identifying critical leopard crossing zones.”The report states, “Highways passing through the wildlife habitats have adversely affected the fauna in these forests. Fast-moving vehicles kill these animals when they move across these road stretches. The Gurugram-Faridabad expressway is one such road in Aravallis.”Senior wildlife officials said that meetings are being held with departments concerned to construct underpasses for animals to reduce such incidents. “Signage asking motorists to slow down and informing of wildlife movement have been put up on the Faridabad road and near Manesar. Rumble strips have also been installed at different places to reduce the speed of vehicles. We have regularly been in touch with the Public Works Department and have asked them to prepare an estimate for the construction of an underpass in Faridabad. If we get an estimate, we can plan how to proceed with it, depending on funds available with us as part of a conservation plan or from other sources,” said MS Malik, the chief conservator of forest for Gurugram circle. He said that on National Highway-48 near Manesar, there are a few culverts that are choked with boulders and rocks, and that the area is being cleared and levelled for an animal underpass. A proposal regarding the same has been sent to the state forest department and the process is likely to take one year. Meanwhile, officials of the Public Works Department (PWD) in Gurugram said that they have not received any clear instructions from the wildlife officials on areas where an underpass can be constructed. Sandeep Singh, the executive engineer with the PWD who looks after the Gurugram-Faridabad Road, said, “So far, neither locations are identified where underpass can be made nor there is any clarity on the funding. We were requested to set up rumble strips, which have been set up at spots identified by the forest department.” Environmentalists from Gurugram have been demanding the construction of wildlife underpasses on the busy Gurugram-Faridabad highway, which passes through the ecologically sensitive Aravalli forest. Vivek Kamboj, a city-based environmentalist, said, “We have to understand that these roads pass through the wildlife habitat. So, measures need to be taken to ensure their safety. Rumble strips have been installed, but they do not necessarily reduce the speed of the vehicle. The number of speed breakers needs to be increased. Passages need to be made along with the installation of wires or other forms of barricading over the walls so that animals do not jump off on roads and get accustomed to using the passages.” “This is not the first such incident that has been reported from the region. These highways have been there for years and officials have still not taken any concrete action that reduces roadkill incidents,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/measures-to-mitigate-roadkills-not-yet-taken-despite-several-reminders-wildlife-officials-101624990040542.html
29-06-2021||Gurugram||Waste recycling hubs to be opened in DLF Phase-1, Badshahpur||As part of efforts to reduce the load on the Bandhwari landfill, the municipal corporation and a non-governmental organisation (NGO) will start two waste recycling hubs, in DLF Phase-1 and Badshahpur forest corridor, on Thursday. Residents can dump segregated dry waste, such as e-waste, paper, solid plastics, soft plastics, multilayered plastic (MLP), glass and metal, for each of which separate bins are installed, officials of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) said. The Badshahpur forest corridor facility is located on the Southern Peripheral Road (SPR) in Sector 69 behind Tatvam Villas, while the other facility is located at the Sikandepur Pahadi, near Khushboo Chowk, in DLF Phase-1.Officials of the MCG said that the objective behind opening these two hubs is to process and recycle higher quantities of dry waste in a quicker time and also make it more accessible for residents. Further, the facilities are expected to decrease the load on the Bandhwari landfill.Currently, there is only one recycling facility, the Samadhaan Hub in Sector 43, where waste can be deposited for recycling and processing purposes. Anjali Khatri, a member of iamgurgaon, the NGO involved in the projects, said, “It was proving difficult for citizens across the city to commute to a solitary recycling facility. More such facilities (besides the two) will be set up so that there is easier access for residents to drop waste. Our main objective is to reduce the quantity of waste being carried to the Bandhwari waste plant, as well as, simultaneously, ensuring that the maximum amount of dry waste can be recycled and reused, or given to responsible recyclers for processing,” she said.The daily operations of the three facilities are primarily being managed by the NGO, with support from the MCG. The new facilities are funded by an IT solutions company. Khatri said that there are six main categories of waste collection at the three facilities, and the NGO is in the process of adding another category, expired and unused medicines, at these two hubs in the future. “The idea is to collect unused medicines that can be distributed to the underprivileged or NGOs in need of them while the expired medicines will be sent to biomedical waste collectors for further processing,” said Khatri.A collection point for expired medicines and unused medicines was set up at the Samadhaan Hub in October last year. “Any initiative that helps in reducing as well as recycling of waste is always supported by the MCG. We will be lending our support to this cause to ensure it is not only a success, but also that maximum number of residents are aware of its existence and make use of them,” said Ashish Singla, chief medical officer (CMO), MCG, one of the officials supervising this project.Dr Indu K Murthy, a principal research scientist working in the climate, environment and sustainability sector at the Center for Study of Science, Technology, and Policy (CSTEP), said that waste is an ever-increasing source of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions in cities. “Not just landfills, but even the trucks used in transporting the waste contribute to GHG emissions. Improving waste management and introducing recycling hubs in cities will help save space, avoid pollution and reduce the carbon footprint. Recycling of waste will minimise environmental and climate impacts, and lead to substantial resource savings,” said Murthy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/waste-recycling-hubs-to-be-opened-in-dlf-phase-1-badshahpur-101624990038722.html
29-06-2021||Gurugram||Efforts on to build heliport, aero museum in Gurugram||Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala, who held a meeting with officials of the state civil aviation department and the Gurugram administration in the city on Tuesday, directed the officials to explore possibilities of developing a heliport and aero museum in the district at the proposed global city along the Dwarka Expressway.“There is no aero museum in India at present, and it will be a unique effort if one is built in Gurugram. Also, it will boost industrialisation and trade in Gurugram and its surrounding area if the heliport is built here. Efforts will also be made to build the heliport and aero museum on a public-private partnership (PPP),” said Chautala, who holds the portfolio of the civil aviation department.In a state budget presented in March 2021, the Haryana government announced that a new business district will be developed on land allocated for the global city project in Gurugram. It will come up on the land acquired by the Haryana State Industrial & Infrastructure Development Corporation in Harsaru, Jharsa, Khandsa and Gadholi Khurd villages, which falls under sectors 36, 36B, 37 and 37B.“Work is being done to make Haryana a hub of industries in the field of aerospace and defence. For this, an aerospace and defence policy is being prepared... The state leads in the auto sector. Now, the target is to invite more industries by making the aerospace and defence policy, so that Haryana can become a hub in these sectors as well,” Chautala said in a statement issued by the Gurugram administration.Haryana will also see the opening of flying schools at four locations across the state. Tenders have been signed for running flying schools in Mahendragarh and Bhiwani on PPP basis. Now, the possibilities for running these schools in Karnal and Pinjore are also in the pipeline. The existing airstrips in Haryana will be revamped in addition to the establishment of an international aviation centre in Hisar.Chautala discussed improvement of Bachhod and Bhiwani airstrips near Narnaul in Mahendragarh.Lights will be installed on the runway of these airstrips, and taxi tracks will be made along with the runway, he said. Useful equipment will also be installed in terminal building and navigation. Similarly, the Bhiwani airstrip runway will be extended, and lights will be installed there. The airstrip will be improved by making a parallel taxi track.During the meeting, officials have also agreed to set up an additional hangar at Narnaul.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/efforts-on-to-build-heliport-aero-museum-in-gurugram-101624990039284.html
29-06-2021||Gurugram||Colonies with unauthorised drinking water supply to be removed from billing system||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) commissioner, Mukesh Kumar Ahuja, has asked all the councillors to send a list of colonies without a provision of authorised drinking water supply, or standpost water in their respective wards. Such colonies will be removed from the water billing system, according to an MCG release on Tuesday. The development comes amidst complaints of drinking water supply bills being distributed in illegal colonies, or those waiting to be taken over by the MCG.Ahuja issued these directions to the MCG officials during the first monthly meeting held with councillors at the civic body’s Sector 34 office on Tuesday. They mainly discussed points related to the water supply, said officials, privy to the matter.A meeting will be held between MCG councillors and the commissioner over civic matters pertaining to the MCG, identifying problem areas, and coming up with possible solutions so that development work could be expedited, on last Tuesday of every month, Ahuja had issued an order earlier this month.Many councillors had raised issues over water bills with Ahuja, and he subsequently asked all the councillors to compile a list of such areas, so that those could be removed from the billing list altogether, said a senior MCG official who was present at the meeting.“The MCG commissioner (Ahuja) has also directed the MCG chief engineer, TL Sharma, to ask all executive engineers (XENs) to check unauthorised water connections and ensure that the water supply is metered,” said SS Rohilla, public relation officer (PRO), MCG.Ahuja also sought records of all water boosting stations build by the civic body in the past three years, along with the status report, to check whether those are functional or non-operational at the moment. According to the officials, Ahuja has directed Sharma to compile the list — details of which will be filled by respective XENs.The issue of cleaning weeds and dirt spread across vacant plots in the district was also discussed briefly during the meeting. On this, Ahuja has directed the officials of MCG’s horticulture wing to take action and spread pesticides wherever needed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/colonies-with-unauthorised-drinking-water-supply-to-be-removed-from-billing-system-101624990037474.html
29-06-2021||Mumbai||Vehicular emissions in Mumbai double in five years, says study||The transport sector’s contribution to air pollution in the city has almost doubled in the last five years, reveals a new study by the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), an initiative under the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM), Pune, which is under the Union ministry of earth sciences.The study, conducted over one year between 2019 and 2020, shows that vehicular emissions contributed 30.5% of all PM2.5 particles in Mumbai during the study period. This is up from 16% contributed by the same sector in 2016-17, as per a previous source apportionment study conducted by SAFAR.PM2.5 refers to small, ultrafine particles less than 2.5 microns in diameter, which can enter the bloodstream via the respiratory system and travel throughout the body, causing health problems such as asthma, lung cancer and heart disease. PM2.5 is made up of hundreds of different chemicals and is emitted by a range of sources, from construction work to industrial smokestacks, power plants, open fires and automobiles. According to SAFAR, other prominent sources of PM2.5 in Mumbai include the industries and power sector, which contributed 18% of the city’s overall PM2.5 pollution load. Another 15% came from domestic sources - such as residential cooking practices in slums, burning of garbage, wood, cow dung and other cheap fuels.Windblown dust (referring to transboundary pollutants originating outside of the city) made up another 15% of PM2.5 pollutants, while the remaining 21.5% is estimated to have come from an amalgam of sources, including solid waste plants, brick kilns, crematoria, aviation and various miscellaneous activities.A similar source estimation for PM2.5 pollutants by SAFAR in 2016-17 had shown transport accounted for 16% of this distribution, while industry and power was the biggest contributor at 36%. Domestic sources of PM2.5 made up 27% of the inventory, while the share of windblown dust was 21%.Experts said this trend is indicative of the substantial threat posed by vehicles powered by conventional, non-renewable fuels like petrol and diesel. Such vehicles have exploded in number on city streets in the past decade. Gufran Beig, senior scientist and the founding project director of SAFAR, said, “This (trend) is a combination of both an increase in the number of vehicles in Mumbai and more stagnation at traffic junctions leading to congestion.”While all major Indian cities have witnessed a significant rise in the number of vehicles over the past decade, Beig pointed out that cities like Delhi have pushed for the adoption of compressed natural gas (CNG), in both public transport and private vehicles. “The uptake of clean fuel has been very less across Mumbai. The majority of the vehicles continue to be petrol and diesel,” he said.As per data with the Maharashtra transport department, Mumbai has already registered at least 40 lakh new vehicles, a threshold which it crossed earlier this year. Of these, 11.6 lakh are private cars and 24 lakh are two-wheelers. This is up from 30.69 lakh vehicles registered by 2016-17, and 20.28 lakh vehicles in 2011-12. A recent, state-wide economic survey estimated that there are roughly about 2,000 vehicles per kilometre of road in Mumbai. As the city gets more congested and more vehicles idle in traffic, the more emissions they generate.That automobiles are a significant threat to clean air in the city was highlighted as early as 1982, when the Indian Journal of Environmental Protection had published a study titled Level of Air Pollution in Bombay. “The urgent task is to reduce the number of cars and their movement in the city. It should not be difficult to provide an efficient public transport system,” the study said.Though Mumbai’s favourable position along the coastline helps in the quick dispersal of pollutants, experts have expressed concern over the SAFAR study’s findings. “We may soon approach a natural tipping point where environmental buffers will not make any difference to the overall pollution scenario. A sector-wise plan to tackle emissions at source is needed,” said Beig.Commenting on the preliminary results, Anumita Roy Chowdhury, executive director of research and advocacy at the Centre for Science and Environment, Delhi, said, “Even though we have to see the exact numbers, the source apportionment analysis seems logical in identifying the transport sector as a rapidly growing source.” She also pointed out that the increase in vehicles coincides with a slowdown in the establishment of new industries and power plants around Mumbai, which is consistent with SAFAR’s findings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/vehicular-emissions-in-mumbai-double-in-five-years-says-study-101624989437488.html
29-06-2021||Mumbai||Civic dashboards for oxygen, Covid drugs to be functional soon, Maharashtra govt tells HC||The state government on Tuesday informed the Bombay high court (HC) that the dashboard on oxygen and anti-Covid drugs availability across civic bodies in Maharashtra would be operational from today, however, full access to the public would be after two weeks. The state also clarified that the dashboard would have a separate access window for the details from Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) and Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), which will be updated every three hours initially. Meanwhile, actor Sonu Sood has filed an intervention application in the public interest litigation (PIL) alleging improper Covid management, seeking to respond to the allegations made by the petitioners that he had procured Covid drugs unauthorisedly to address SOS calls on social media. The application is expected to be heard on June 30. A division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, while hearing the PIL seeking directions to the Centre, state and BMC to have better management of Covid-related issues was informed by the state that the issue of providing a statewide dashboard on availability of oxygen and Covid drugs was finally ready. Advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni for the state said, “The issue of the statewide dashboard has been haunting us for long but today I would like to assure the court that it is finally ready. Work on merging the existing dashboards of the two municipal corporations is being done and the final dashboard will be available for public use in two weeks,” said Kumbhakoni. In earlier hearings, advocate Rajesh Inamdar for the petitioner Sneha Marjadi had informed the court that in the absence of any centralised system for providing information about the availability of oxygen, Covid drugs and other facilities for getting treatment for Covid and mucormycosis, patients and their relatives had to run from pillar to post and at times it was too late. Inamdar had submitted that the existing helplines in the various municipal jurisdictions across the state were not very helpful and hence the state should be directed to have a dashboard with the latest area-wise information of various Covid-related facilities. On Tuesday, Kumbhakoni submitted that the integrated dashboard for 32 municipal corporations, except BMC and PMC was ready and the software was adaptable and could be accessed even on smartphones. He assured the court that new features would be added to the dashboard as and when the need arose. “The updation time should ideally be real-time but initially it will be updated every three hours. Tracking of essential medicines like Amphotericin, Remdesivir and oxygen supply will be available within two weeks,” said Kumbhakoni and added that a copy of the action taken report would be supplied to the petitioner and the state Covid task force would be giving a presentation of the dashboard on July 1. ‘Had undertaken philanthropic work since lockdown last year’ Actor Sonu Sood in his intervention application through advocate Milan Desai informed the bench that he had undertaken philanthropic work ever since the lockdown had started last year and his work of providing food and jobs to those rendered jobless due to the lockdown had also secured him an award from the United Nations Development Programme. In light of these averments in his petition, Sood said that the allegations made against him by the petitioner of hoarding and procuring Covid-essential drugs were unsubstantiated and as the petitioner had failed to corroborate the allegations he wanted to apprise the court of the drugs and other Covid-related reliefs he provided to people in need. The court has allowed the intervention and will hear the actor on Wednesday, June 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/civic-dashboards-for-oxygen-covid-drugs-to-be-functional-soon-maharashtra-govt-tells-hc-101624989377545.html
29-06-2021||Bangalore||No infighting in Congress, only created by media: Siddaramaiah||There is no fight among Congress leaders in Karnataka and it has only been created by the media, said former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah on Tuesday.Attacking the media over reports about the political leaders discussing chief ministerial candidates, Siddaramaiah said, "There is no infighting in Congress at all in Karnataka. It is only created by none other than the media. We are all together in the party and all discussions go in the party forum, not in front of the media."Speaking to media persons, he further stressed that such issues will be discussed in the official party forum instead of media."If at all any issues need to be discussed, those issues will be discussed in the official party forum and not in front of the media," he said.Siddaramaiah also condemned the media reports and said that the tussle and confusion between the leaders was wholly created by the media and not by the leaders, despite there being "no such in Congress."From the last one month, several leaders from the Congress party initiated discussions over the chief ministerial candidates for the next assembly polls to be held in 2023. A loyalist of Siddaramaiah, Zameer Ahmed made a statement demanding Siddaramaiah for the post of Chief Minister. Following his suit, many other political leaders favoured his demand. Furthermore, a plethora of reactions came from the followers and loyalists of Karnataka Congress chief DK Shivakumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/no-infighting-in-congress-only-created-by-media-siddaramaiah-101624989014456.html
29-06-2021||Other||Ambulance service at ₹100 in Navi Mumbai||Around three years ago, Raghav Narsalay’s was charged ₹4,000 for an ambulance for travelling just 200 metres, as his mother had to be hospitalised. Narsalay, 47, a managing director with a multinational company (MNC), at the time, wondered how the poor could afford an ambulance service. In April, while he and his wife had tested positive for Covid-19 and were home isolated, he thought about starting an ambulance service to patients anywhere in Navi Mumbai for merely ₹100. “While we were blessed to have a house and a comfortable atmosphere to be home isolated, I wondered about the less privileged. Many have been doing good work during the pandemic, and I wished to contribute too. The initial idea was to start a food service, but that would involve having a quality check daily.” Narsalay, after repaying all the loans, initiated to invest for the welfare of society. “Navi Mumbai has helped me grow professionally in many ways and it was time to repay the city,” he said. He purchased a Tata Winger for ₹16 lakh and completed the formalities. On Friday, he received all the documents for the ambulance service. “I haven’t received a call yet for service. No service request is also a good sign that the people now are not needing an ambulance,” he added. Around ₹40,000 is the estimated expense for the ambulance, which includes fuel and the salary for the chauffeur. The plan is to run the service from 10am to 10pm. “I am learning the whole process. Once established, I will think of getting another ambulance,” he added. His wife, Madhavi, 48, is an assistant professor of Sanskrit at Mumbai University, while his daughter Maitreyi, 21, has a startup. For ambulance service, people can call on 9820770021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ambulance-service-at-100-in-navi-mumbai-101624989137483.html
29-06-2021||Mumbai||HC fumes at state for seeking Centre’s approval for experimental home vaccination in Mumbai||The state health department on Tuesday filed an affidavit in the Bombay high court (HC) wherein it has proposed to start home vaccination for the severely ill and bed-ridden persons on an experimental basis, but with five mandatory conditions. The affidavit states that though a policy on the same is yet to be declared, it has formulated the plan based on suggestions of the state Covid task force and sent it to the state government for approval, which will then be sent for a nod from the Central government. The court then sought to know why it required the approval of the Centre when the issue of health was also on the state list in the Constitution.The affidavit was filed in the public interest litigation (PIL) which has sought door-to-door vaccination for those who cannot go to vaccination centres. The division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, while hearing the PIL filed by lawyers Dhruti Kapadia and Kunal Tiwari, was informed by the advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni that the Dr Dilip Narayan Patil, deputy director, State Family Welfare Bureau, Pune, had filed an affidavit illustrating the implementation of the home vaccination proposal on an experimental basis. The affidavit listed five conditions including home vaccination only for bedridden beneficiaries, a prior certificate from treating doctor to show beneficiary is truly immobile, doctor to certify the beneficiary not likely to have adverse events following immunisation (AEFI) and be ‘entirely responsible’ to provide appropriate treatment in case of AEFI as a requisite for the vaccination. The affidavit also added that a written consent from the family members was required and to avoid wastage of the vaccine there should be at least 10 beneficiaries in close proximity for the home vaccination to be carried out. The affidavit concluded that the proposed regime would be sent to the state government and thereafter to the Central government for approval before it was implemented. On June 22 the state had submitted draft guidelines prepared by the state Covid task force on implementing door-to-door vaccination and had sought a week to get it approved by the state government. The HC had observed that progress on the issue of formulating measures for elderly and specially-abled persons was in the right direction. However, after perusing the affidavit, the court questioned the state government on the diluted guidelines and sought to know why it required the approval of the Centre when the issue of health was also on the state list in the Constitution. The court further asked whether states like Bihar, Jharkhand and Kerela had obtained approvals from the centre before starting home vaccination initiatives in their respective states.Responding to the affidavit Kapadia submitted that private doctors would not issue prior certificates of home vaccination beneficiaries not having AEFI nor would they take responsibility for the same and hence insisted that such conditions should be left out from the guidelines. The bench then observed, “This affidavit dilutes the task force guidelines. Today’s affidavit again takes a back step. We had appreciated the draft guidelines framed by the task force. You will find a radical change. This is not what we expected from the state.” Thus saying the bench adjourned the hearing of the PIL on Wednesday, June 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/hc-fumes-at-state-for-seeking-centre-s-approval-for-experimental-home-vaccination-in-mumbai-101624989077521.html
29-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai’s KEM Hospital starts clinical trial for Covovax||Civic-run King Edward Memorial (KEM) hospital, Parel, has started a clinical trial on adults above 18 years for the Novavax Covid-19 vaccine, known in India as Covovax. Four other hospitals have also been selected for the trial.Covovax is the Indian version of the Covid-19 vaccine, originally developed by US-based Novavax Inc, that is being manufactured in India by Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII). Results of the phase three trial have demonstrated 100% protection against moderate and severe disease, and 90.4% overall efficacy.Confirming the development, Dr Hemant Deshmukh, dean of KEM Hospital, said, “The clinical trial has started among adults above 18 years at the hospital as part of the national phase two and three clinical trials.” Deshmukh, however, refused to divulge any other information due to the non-disclosure rule of the hospital’s ethics committee that approved the trial.Around 80 volunteers above the age of 18 years will be part of the trial. As per the Clinical Trial Registry issued on June 29, a nationwide clinical trial will be conducted on 1,600 volunteers across 20 hospitals. Of this, five have been selected from Maharashtra. Other than KEM, the list includes Government Medical College and Hospital, Nagpur and three hospitals from Pune—Dr DY Patil Medical College, Noble Hospital and Sahyadri Super Speciality Hospital.Two shots will be given to the volunteers. The second dose will be given on the 22nd day of taking the first jab. Also, the written consent has been taken from the participants.“All participants will be tested for Covid-19 to overrule any possible Covid-19 infection. This also includes testing them for antibodies. Individuals who have been vaccinated or earlier infected with novel coronavirus can’t take part in the trial,” said a senior officer from BMC.As reported, SII plans to apply for permission from the Drug Controller and General of India (DCGI) to conduct a clinical trial of the same among the paediatric population.Covovax is the second vaccine being made by Serum, the first being the Oxford-AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine, produced in India by SII as ‘Covishield’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbais-kem-hospital-starts-clinical-trial-for-covovax-101624988897480.html
29-06-2021||Mumbai||Vaccination scam: Catch big fish, HC directs Mumbai Police||The Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday directed the Mumbai Police to catch the big fish behind the fake vaccination scam that has rocked the city and leftover 2,000 Mumbaikars affected. The HC, while observing that it was a failure of the state to prevent fake or unauthorised vaccination camps, asked the BMC to inform it on measures to provide proper vaccination to the affected persons and also verify whether they were vaccinated or not and what was administered to them in the camps.The division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, while hearing public interest litigation (PIL) filed by Mumbai resident Siddharth Chandrashekhar, was informed that as the general public especially the elderly faced problems while booking vaccination slots on the Co-WIN portal, the court should pass appropriate directions to the authorities to initiate measures to address the issue. During the hearing of the petition, Chandrashekhar through advocate Anita Shekhar-Castellino had drawn the attention of the HC to news reports on fake vaccination camps being held in the city and sought strict action against the perpetrators. On its part, the Mumbai Police on June 24, had informed the court that over 2,000 people received fake Covid-19 jabs at nine private vaccination camps in Mumbai and five FIRs had been registered against the perpetrators who mostly operated in the western suburbs. On Tuesday, while responding to the directions of the HC in the June 24 hearing, the state and BMC filed affidavits on the progress of the investigation and measures being taken to avoid such cases in future. Chief public prosecutor Deepak Thakare for Mumbai Police through an investigation progress report informed that seven cases of fake vaccination camps were registered and 11 accused were taken into custody. The accused Dr Manish Tripathi had also surrendered to the police. “There has to be a meaningful and fair probe. Please tell the police officers that there could be big fishes, who are not investigated and none should be spared irrespective of any colour and probe should be proper. The lives of citizens are involved and the accused should be punished accordingly. They should be taught a lesson,” the bench directed the police. The court further observed that earnest attempts need to be made by the investigating officers and hope that the investigation would be completed at the earliest.Senior Counsel Anil Sakhare for BMC informed the bench that the civic authority was trying to ascertain what was injected in over 2,000 people by conducting an antibody test on them. He added that the victims could also get the test done themselves and come for vaccination. He, however, added that the issue of vaccination certificates given to the victims had to be checked with the central government. The bench was then informed that SOPs for holding vaccination camps for housing societies, commercial premises, educational institutions among others would be published by Wednesday. Castellino however pointed out that while the BMC SOPs spoke about measures to be taken to prevent further frauds, it did not address the issue of grievances of people affected by unauthorised vaccinations especially the concerns of victim students who have to travel for studies to foreign countries. The bench then directed BMC to file its response to the concerns raised by the petitioner and also directed the police to submit the further investigation progress report and posted hearing of the PIL to Thursday, July 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/vaccination-scam-catch-big-fish-hc-directs-mumbai-police-101624988839612.html
29-06-2021||Mumbai||Vaccination scam: Police receive one more complaint of a suspected fake camp||The Samta Nagar police have received a complaint about one more suspected fake vaccination camp allegedly organised by Mahendra Singh and others.Police have now written to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) asking them whether the vaccination camp at Intercontinental Diamond LLP in the Ashok Nagar area of Kandivli (East), was held with the permission of the civic body or not.Anandrao Hanke, senior police inspector said that on Monday they received a letter from Intercontinental Diamond LLP claiming that 580 of their employees were vaccinated by Mahendra Singh and others at a camp organised by the group on April 23 and April 24. The firm approached the police after the employees did not receive the vaccination certificates. “We are awaiting the reply from BMC before registering the first information report (FI)R against the accused,” said Hanke. Hanke said that the complaint was being verified.The police are recording statements of the firm’s officers to find out who had approached them and collecting all the evidence against the accused.On Tuesday, one of the accused in a fake vaccination scam, Dr Manish Tripathi, was arrested by Kandivli police after the Dindoshi sessions court rejected his anticipatory bail plea. The vaccination scam came to light after Hiranandani Heritage society in Kandivli approached the police complaining they were duped by Mahendra Singh and four others who administered fake vaccines to their society members on May 30. The society members claimed they received the vaccination certificates, but they had names of different hospitals and different dates, but when the residents checked the Co-WIN portal, their status was shown as “yet to receive the first dose.” Six more cases have been filed at Versova, Borivli, Bangur Nagar and Khar police stations against the same group. So far, police have arrested eight accused and are on the lookout for two more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/vaccination-scam-police-receive-one-more-complaint-of-a-suspected-fake-camp-101624988838970.html
29-06-2021||Other||Kurukshetra traffic cop dragged on car bonnet, 3 held for attempt to murder||A traffic cop was dragged on the bonnet of an SUV for around 500m on a busy road in Kurukshetra. The incident was recorded in the CCTV cameras installed on the road.Police officials on the road chased the accused and they were overpowered by the cops. The accused have been identified as Noordeep, of Baghthala village, Manreet Singh and Kamaljit Singh, of Kurukshetra city.In his complaint, head constable Sanjeev Kumar said that the incident took place on Monday late evening when he and other cops were deputed at a checkpost at BR Chowk in Kurukshetra.He tried to stop a Mahindra Bolero but the driver did not stop at the checkpost. The SUV hit him and he fell on the bonnet.The driver did not stop even then and sub-inspector Gulab Singh chased the SUV and managed to stop them near Sundarpur bridge.Sanjeev fell on the road and sustained minor injuries but the cops managed to overpower the accused.The accused have been booked under Sections 307, 353, 332 and 186 of the IPC and were sent to judicial custody by a local court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kurukshetra-traffic-cop-dragged-on-car-bonnet-3-held-for-attempt-to-murder-101624988718029.html
29-06-2021||Delhi||Woman undergoes surgery after kite string slits her neck in East Delhi||A 24-year-old woman had to undergo a surgery on the neck after it was slit by a piece of flyaway kite string while she was descending the Seelampur flyover on her scooter in north-east Delhi on Monday evening, police said. The woman suffered a deep slit to the neck and was bleeding profusely when she was rushed to Jag Pravesh Chandra hospital, from where she was referred to St Stephen’s Hospital. Her condition is now out of danger, the police said on Tuesday.“We have registered a case at the Shastri Park police station for causing hurt by an act endangering life or personal safety of others, under the Indian Penal Code’s sections 336 and 337, against unknown persons. Efforts are being made to identify the person who was flying the kite,” said deputy commissioner of police (north-east) Sanjay Kumar Sain.The police have not said the thread that slit the woman’s neck was a “Chinese manjha”, a synthetic kite string often coated with powdered glass or fine pieces of metal, as the sale and use of such strings are banned. Police said they did not find any thread at the spot where the incident took place. However, senior police officers have asked the personnel on field duty in north-east Delhi to keep a vigil on the illegal sale of Chinese manjha and also to nab people who use such string for kite flying.Police said the woman, identified as Nisha, lives with her family in Vijay Nagar near Ghaziabad. On Monday evening, Nisha had come to her parental home in Nand Nagri and her mother, Saroj, asked Nisha to accompany her to their relative’s home in north Delhi. Nisha left on her scooter with her mother and two siblings left on another scooter.Nisha was descending the Seelampur flyover when the kite string got entangled around her neck and slit it. She stopped the scooter and was bleeding profusely. Her family members panicked and sought help from passersby, who rushed her to Jag Pravesh Chandra hospital. As her condition was serious, she was referred to St. Stephen’s Hospital, where she underwent a surgery, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/woman-undergoes-surgery-after-kite-string-slits-her-neck-in-east-delhi-101624988660181.html
29-06-2021||Chandigarh||HC dismisses bail plea of accused in West Bengal woman’s rape at Tikri border||The Punjab and Haryana high court has dismissed the anticipatory bail plea of Ankur Sangwan, an accused in rape of a West Bengal woman who participated in the farmers’ protest at Tikri border.The order was passed by the bench of justice JS Puri. A detailed order is awaited.Sangwan, who comes from Charkhi Dadri area in Haryana, had approached the HC for anticipatory bail on June 3. He is still at large and the local police have announced a reward of ₹25,000 for facilitating his arrest.The West Bengal woman, who had been assaulted on April 28, had succumbed to coronavirus at a private hospital in Jhajjar’s Bahadurgarh on April 30.As per police, the main accused in rape of the 25-year-old woman, has admitted to sexually assaulting her twice — once on the train to New Delhi and then at the protest site.The allegations against Sangwan are that he was among the six persons who were with her on the train from West Bengal to New Delhi, when she came to join protest. It is also alleged that he stayed in the same tent where she was sexually assaulted.State’s additional advocate general Deepak Sabharwal told court that Sangwan’s custodial interrogation is required to find out the role of different persons. He is accused of outraging modesty of the woman and using criminal force on her, Sabharwal had told court.Police have been able to arrest only Anil Kumar, who is allegedly the main accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-dismisses-bail-plea-of-accused-in-west-bengal-woman-s-rape-at-tikri-border-101624988599243.html
29-06-2021||Chandigarh||Mewat health official removed on suspicion of joining farmers’ protest drags admn to HC||A Mewat health department official, who was allegedly removed on suspicion of being part of the farmers’ protest, has dragged the local authorities to high court. Acting on his plea, the HC bench of justice Arun Monga has sought response from the Haryana government by July 16 further restraining the government from making an appointment in his place. The petitioner Rajuddin claimed before the court that he was appointed on the post of senior treatment supervisor under the National Rural Health Mission (NRHM) by the Mewat civil surgeon-cum-chairman executive committee (health and family welfare). He worked uninterruptedly since 2014. But merely on vague allegations/suspicion that he participated in the strike call given by the farmers at Tikri border on December 5, 2020, he was terminated, the court was told, adding that an order in this regard was passed on February 25 without any enquiry, show-cause notice or an opportunity of being heard. The court was further told that due to the current pandemic scenario, he was earlier unable to challenge the termination order as the courts were working in a restricted manner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mewat-health-official-removed-on-suspicion-of-joining-farmers-protest-drags-admn-to-hc-101624988545915.html
29-06-2021||Other||All illegal entry, exit points on Panipat-Jalandhar stretch will be sealed: NHAI||Amid the ongoing controversy over barricading on NH-44 in front of a roadside dhaba in Kurukshetra, the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) has decided to seal all illegal entry and exit points on the Panipat-Jalandhar stretch of the highway.This was informed by NHAI, Ambala’s section engineer Bhanu Pratap Singh while presenting his report on behalf of the NHAI before the road safety committee in Kurukshetra.He said that under the Road Safety Policy, in order to curb road mishaps on NH-44, they have decided to close the cuts in front of private properties and other such illegal cuts.He added that a survey of all illegal entry and exit points was conducted and it was found that most of these cuts are located in front of private properties, especially eateries.He did not mention the number of such cuts identified in Kurukshetra but said that these are the cause of many road accidents on one of the busiest highways in country.“Work on blocking these illegal cuts from Panipat to Jalandhar is in progress and around five to six illegal exit and entry points are being blocked everyday,” he added.He said the work to block such 70 illegal cuts detected in Karnal is near completion and will be completed in Kurukshetra over the next 20 days.Barricading of an exit point in front of a roadside dhaba in Umri village of Kurukshetra district had sparked controversy as the owner of the dhaba, Ram Singh Rana, had alleged that the authorities blocked the way to his eatery because he was providing services to the agitating farmers at Singhu border.Many political leaders, including SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal, and farmer associations have come out in his support.Farm unions associated with the Sanyukta Kisan Morcha have even threatened to intensify their protests if the barricades are not removed by July 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/all-illegal-entry-exit-points-on-panipat-jalandhar-stretch-will-be-sealed-nhai-101624988418014.html
29-06-2021||Other||Bhiwani mahapanchayat: Over 50 khaps to march towards Delhi borders in July||Over 50 khaps of Haryana on Tuesday announced to start a march towards Delhi borders in July to support farmers protesting against Centre’s three farm laws. The decision to intensify the agitation was taken at the mahapanchayat held at Kitlana toll plaza in Bhiwani.Chairing the panchayat, independent MLA from Dadri, Sombir Sangwan, who also heads the Sangwan khap, read 12 resolutions, including a legal guarantee to the minimum support price (MSP), agricultural loan waiver, cancellation of proposed Electricity (Amendment) Bill 2020, revoking Damage to Property Act enforced by the Haryana government, ₹50 lakh compensation to kin of farmers who died during farm stir, and job for their family members.Sangwan said the khaps will intensify the agitation and start a march towards Delhi in July under the supervision of the Sanyukta Kisan Morcha.“The khaps will give support to the farmers protesting against Centre’s three farm legislations. The government will have to revoke these cases and we are ready for the long haul,” he added.Activist and SKM leader Yogendra Yadav said the Union government and Prime Minister Narendra Modi are afraid of the farm agitation and have no choice except taking back these “black laws”.“The BJP faced the brunt in the West Bengal elections and will face similar results in the Uttar Pradesh assembly polls as well. The farmers’ numbers have been swelling at the borders and they are committed to not go back home until the government revokes these laws,” he added.Raju Maan, a local Congress leader, who had quit the JJP in support of the farm agitation, said, “We had defeated the chilling winter and now are camping in the hot summer. This shows our commitment towards this stir.”“The BJP-JJP leaders have tried many things to defame the farmers but the public has given them a befitting reply. The khaps have also asked the youth to remain active on the social media to counter the BJP’s fake narrative,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bhiwani-mahapanchayat-over-50-khaps-to-march-towards-delhi-borders-in-july-101624988298117.html
29-06-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana unveils master plan for eco-friendly development around Sultanpur National Park in Gurugram||Twenty-two villages nestled in the salubrious environs of Sultanpur National Park have been included in the zonal master plan that the Haryana government rolled out for an eco-sensitive zone (ESZ) where numerous activities will be either prohibited or regulated.Sultanpur National Park, some 20km from Gurugram, is a bird watchers’ paradise. The ESZ of the national park is spread across 23,628 acre including Sultanpur lake on 350 acre.Commercial mining, stone quarrying and crushing units will be prohibited up to 5km from the boundary of the national park, apart from burning of wheat and paddy stubble in the ESZ. New commercial construction within 3km from the boundary of the national park will be banned, setting up of new wood-based industries within 1km from the boundary will also be prohibited, according to June 22 notification of the Haryana government.However, no restriction will be imposed on approved existing land use, infrastructure and activities unless specified in the zoning regulations of this zonal master plan.“This comprehensive notification is a testament of the Haryana government’s sensitivity towards ecology,” said principal secretary (forest and wildlife ) G Anupama.“The aim of this zonal master plan is to ensure measured and balanced developmental activities in the eco-sensitive zone,” added Anupama.This zone will have five concentric rings with different prohibitions, regulations and promotions. The first ring will be up to 300m from the boundary of the national park. The second ring will be up to 500m, while the third up to 1km. The length of fourth ring will be 3km from the boundary and the fifth ring will be beyond 3km and up to the outer limit of the ESZ.Mankraula, Jhanjraula, Mohammedpur, Patli, Dhanawas, Wazirpur, Ramnagar, Shikhawala, Garhi Harsaru, Tughlakpur, Kaliawas, Iqbalpur, Saidpur, Khaintawas, Hamarpur, Daya Bihar, Chandu, Omnagar, Budhera, Sultanpur, Harsinghwali Dhani, and Sadhrana Barmripur are the villages forming this eco-sensitive zone that also include revenue estates of 15 villages in addition to seven small settlements.Official said for the purpose of this master plan, the boundary will be kept as the Gurugram-Pataudi railway line to the east which also forms the boundary of the urbanisable zone of the notified Gurgaon Manesar Urban Complex development plan.To the south, Kundli-Manesar-Palwal Expressway provides a natural boundary for this master plan, though some part of the notified ESZ falls beyond the KMP Expressway.All activities in the ESZ will be governed by the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972.ACTIVITIES PROHIBITEDThere will be ban on any kind of construction within 300m, except tubewell chambers of dimension not more than 1,000 cubic feet and on installing new high tension transmission wires up to 500m from the boundary of the national park.Any polluting industry, established after the notification of ESZ, in the red and orange category as notified by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) and brick kilns will be prohibited within 3km from the boundary of the national park.As per the notification published in the Haryana government gazette, construction of any building with more than two storeys (30-ft) will not be allowed in the area falling between 300-500m from the boundary of the national park.Local people will be permitted to undertake construction on their land for residential use. Commercial construction of not more than 100 sq-m area will be permitted within the ‘abadi deh’ of existing villages.Single-use plastic will be prohibited in residential areas located within the notified ESZ up to the limits of the railway line on the eastern side and western peripheral expressway on the southern side.“Discharge of untreated effluents and solid waste in natural water bodies or land area within the ESZ of the national park will be strictly prohibited,” states the order.Also banned will be installation of new mobile towers within 3km from the national park’s boundary; and use of air pressure horn and public address system or loud speakers within 1km distance from the boundary.Construction of glazed/glass facade buildings within 3km from the national park’s boundary will be prohibited and extraction of groundwater will be allowed for bona fide agricultural and local drinking water consumption.Burning or incineration of solid wastes has been banned in the ESZ.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-unveils-master-plan-for-eco-friendly-development-around-sultanpur-national-park-in-gurugram-101624988119807.html
29-06-2021||Other||Former aides hit out at Mayawati for her attack on BJP||LUCKNOW UP’s labour minister, Swami Prasad Maurya, and minorities welfare minister, Nandgopal Nandi – both former aides of Bahujan Samaj Party chief Mayawati, hit out at the BSP chief over her attack on the BJP. Earlier in the day, Mayawati had targeted the BJP government after President Ram Nath Kovind laid the foundation stone of Babasaheb Dr Bhimrao Ambedkar Memorial Cultural Centre in Lucknow. “Mayawati ji should be happy that the BJP has initiated a move to preserve the legacy and memory of Babasaheb,” said Maurya while slamming her for raising questions on the decision of the BJP government. Nandi too flayed Mayawati. “People have now seen through her politics and the lip service she paid to Dalits,” said Nandi. Meanwhile, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and defence minister Rajnath Singh both praised the UP government for Dr Bhimrao Memorial and Cultural Centre in Lucknow. The two leaders said the centre would help popularise the works and thoughts of Ambedkar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/former-aides-hit-out-at-mayawati-for-her-attack-on-bjp-101624987697412.html
29-06-2021||Noida||No Covid vaccination at government centres in Noida on June 30||All Covid-19 vaccinations scheduled for Wednesday at government-run centres in Gautam Buddh Nagar have been deferred to July 6, officials said on Tuesday.The decision to cancel all vaccinations, including Covishield and Covaxin, has been taken due to "unavoidable" reasons, Chief Medical Officer Dr. Deepak Ohri said.The order does not apply to private facilities, he added."Those who have pre-registered themselves for COVID-19 vaccination tomorrow (June 30) will be administered their dose on July 6 (next Tuesday). The vaccination process will continue as normal in the district from July 1," Dr. Ohri said in a statement.Earlier, the district health department had deferred Covishield vaccination that was scheduled on Tuesday (June 29) to July 5 due to "unavoidable" reasons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/no-covid-vaccination-at-government-centres-in-noida-on-june-30-101624986169771.html
29-06-2021||Lucknow||Glitches mar online fee payment in several LU courses||Students of various Lucknow University (LU) courses trying to submit their fees through the university’s website are facing problems due to the technical glitches. Taking note of the issue, the university administration has advised students to not submit fees for now.Several courses, including four-semester BSc, have been reportedly displaying fees which is more than double the actual fees for the last couple of days. This has added to the troubles of students as online fee submission has been prioritised by the district administration considering the pandemic. Several students have also raised the issue on various online platforms and have tagged LU administrators.“There have been complaints about discrepancies in fees submission via online medium which is being looked into. Our technical team has been tasked to address the issue swiftly. Till the issue is resolved, we have advised the students to be prudent while submitting fees. In case they find any changes in the fees, they should first check it with university staff before submitting it,” said vice chancellor of Lucknow University Prof Alok Kumar Rai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/glitches-mar-online-fee-payment-in-several-lu-courses-101624985657383.html
29-06-2021||Lucknow||AKTU students may take exam from home, cybercafé||Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Technical University (AKTU) has released the proposed schedule for the term-end examinations, except final year semester. The exams to be held in online mode will be of objective type, an AKTU official said. “This time all the exams will be held in online mode. Students may appear in the examination from place of their convenience be it from their home, cyber cafe or institute campus. Students may use any devices like laptop, smartphone and desktop computer to write the examination,” said controller of exams, AKTU, Prof Anurag Tripathi. Tripathi said that the term-end exams of first, second and third-year students would start from August 3 and will end by the first week of September. Except final year, the timetable of all other semester examinations has been issued today, he said. He said that students can visit the website of the university www.aktu.ac.in and get complete information about the examination schedule. AKTU students, however, are not happy with the examinations being conducted as many of the colleges have not completed their syllabus. They said colleges are running online classes irrespective of the fact whether students are able to grasp whatever is being taught to them, besides online classes that often face glitches like poor connectivity leads to audio loss. The students want the university to first complete the syllabus and then conduct exams. Many students are against online examinations, but the university has decided to go ahead with online examinations as mandated by the UP technical education department in its order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/aktu-students-may-take-exam-from-home-cybercaf-101624985537318.html
29-06-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 937 fresh Covid cases, 16 deaths in 24 hours||Pune: The district reported 937 new Covid-19 cases and 16 deaths in 24 hours. For the second day in a row, the district has reported less than 1,000 new virus cases. The figure took the progressive count to 1.053 million cases of which 1.020 million have recovered, 16,890 deaths and 16,467 are active cases currently in hospitals undergoing treatment or in home isolation. As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 448 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 309,285 and with 16 more deaths the death toll stood at 5,778. Pune city reported 281 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 493,806 and reported zero deaths on the day and the toll remained 8,165 while PCMC reported 208 new Covid cases and the progressive count went up to 250,492. With no death reported, the toll was 2,745. The state reported that 8,623 patients were discharged and in total 5,809,548 Covid patients have been discharged after full recovery until Tuesday. The recovery rate in the state is 96%. Also, 8,085 new cases and 231 Covid deaths were reported in the state on Tuesday. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.01%. Of 41,398,501 laboratory samples, 6,051,633 have been tested positive (14.62 %) for Covid until Tuesday. Currently, 621,377 people are in home quarantine and 3,584 in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-937-fresh-covid-cases-16-deaths-in-24-hours-101624985417377.html
29-06-2021||Lucknow||IIT-Kanpur, PGI Lucknow join hands to set up healthcare robotics CoE||Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur, (IIT-K) has and Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGIMS), Lucknow, have signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) to advance innovation in accessible healthcare through indigenous solutions. Under the MoU, the institutes will set up a centre of excellence (CoE) in telemedicine and healthcare robotics to nurture smart healthcare with an overarching objective of strengthening healthcare system. The MoU signing ceremony, held on Monday, was attended by key members from both the institutes, including Prof RK Dhiman, director, SGPGIMS and prof Abhay Karandikar, director, IIT Kanpur.Addressing the gathering on the occasion, prof Karandikar said, “Through this initiative, two leading institutions of India will join hands to uphold their vision of a robust, indigenous healthcare system focused on promoting interdisciplinary innovation. The MoU is a timely step in the right direction to enable an exchange of ideas across engineering and medicine as professionals from IIT Kanpur will receive the opportunity to collaborate with specialised doctors at SGPGI, Lucknow.”IIT Kanpur and SGPGI Lucknow have agreed to establish an R&D set up for promoting telemedicine aided by ICT and 5G, and point-of-care testing and diagnostics. An integrated network of mobile health vans in rural areas and smart kiosks in urban locales will ensure last-mile connectivity to ascertain availability of emergency healthcare services. Prof RK Dhiman said, “We will jointly launch courses in various fields of digital health which is not available in any engineering and medical educational institutions in the country at the moment. Current corona pandemic has made telemedicine technology a very popular and useful tool to bridge the gap between care providers and citizens. So, there is a need to develop indigenous technology platform and systems in large scale which can be affordable and made available widely.”“This will promote entrepreneurship and develop a rural health system which can be deployed far and wide to strengthen the health system. The future holds the key for hybrid healthcare system for which the bond between engineering and medical discipline needs to be strengthened. In that context, the timing of handshake between two major institutions is appropriate which is going to yield immense benefit to the society,” he added.Role of IIT KanpurAny telemedicine system is about creating a network of expected beneficiaries and medical experts and integrating them in a digital platform. A cost-effective platform consisting of hardware sensors and IoT (internet of things) controller devices needs to be developed for collecting patient health data. The system has to be integrated with cloud servers and mobile apps. In this regard, the role of IIT Kanpur will include:• * Development of such portable IoT enabled health care systems along with point-of-care testing and diagnostics.• * Designing customized mobile vans and kiosks equipped with AI-based diagnostics.• * Integrating multi-lingual avatars with systems to give patients the feel of the presence of a doctor or a care giver. The avatars would especially be essential for patients with mental health disorders and elderly care.Role of SGPGI, LucknowSGPGIMS, Lucknow, set up a school of telemedicine & biomedical informatics in 2006 with the objective of teaching and training healthcare personnel and clinical engineers’ tools and strategies of ICT-enabled health care. It received a major Grant-in-Aid from the Union ministry of electronics & IT in 2007 to elevate the school to a national resource centre in telemedicine & biomedical informatics which was continued for five years. From 2007 till date, the facility and trained technical human power have been supported by Union ministry of health & family welfare to develop and manage the national medical college network as the national resource centre. With the collaboration with IIT Kanpur and the centre of excellence, the engineering aspects of clinical application of digital technologies can be addressed. With two decades of experience in application-oriented telemedicine research, development, and deployment, SGPGI’s collaboration with IIT Kanpur will foster synergies to cultivate an ecosystem at the intersection of technology and healthcare through capacity development.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/iitkanpur-pgi-lucknow-join-hands-to-set-up-healthcare-robotics-coe-101624985418080.html
29-06-2021||Pune||Seven sandalwood trees stolen from heavily guarded AFK, Khadki||As many as seven fully grown sandalwood trees located at Boat Club road inside Ammunition Factory Khadki (AFK) were found hacked by unidentified persons on Saturday night. Purushottam Kumar, junior works manager at AFK lodged an FIR against the unidentified thieves at Khadki police station. According to the police, the thieves gained entry into the high security Boat Club zone of the factory and chopped off the trees from the trunk and escaped around Saturday midnight. The issue came to the notice of the authorities on Sunday and according to the directions of the senior officers, an FIR was lodged at the police station. PSI Vikas Shinde said “There is high security in the area and still the thieves managed to steal sandalwood from AFK premises. We are inquiring into the incident and investigation is on.” On June 19, eight sandalwood trees were stolen from the open premises of AFK. The factory’s junior works manager, Keshav Patange (59) had registered an FIR with the Khadki police stating that the thieves entered the premises from an internal road near Holkar bridge and used sharp weapons to chop the trees and steal them on the intervening night of June 19. The Khadki police conducted an on-the-spot inspection of the spot and found that there was no compound wall or barbed wire fence near the crime spot. Neither CCTV cameras nor security guards were there at the scene of crime. The theft came to light during an inspection conducted by factory officials. The police had registered Patange’s FIR under Section 379 (theft) of the IPC. No arrests have been made so far. The AFK manufactures small arms ammunitions, while the High Explosives (HE) factory produces explosives’ powders required for production of artillery and small ammunitions. They supply ammunitions to the army, the paramilitary and police forces of the country||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/seven-sandalwood-trees-stolen-from-heavily-guarded-afk-khadki-101624984757379.html
29-06-2021||Pune||PMPML to deploy 950 buses to ensure citizens reach home on time||The Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) will be operating as many 950 buses on different city routes to ensure that citizens reach home on time. The PMPML has taken a decision to deploy buses on city roads to cater to commuter traffic so that their operations are completed by 8 pm and ensure people reach home on time. PMPML traffic manager Dattatyra Zende said, “Taking into the needs of the citizens to reach home, we will be deploying 950 buses on the roads for citizens. We have already deployed around 925 buses and the response has been encouraging. We will continue the deployment depending on the needs of the citizens.” The bus depots and stations across the city which were deserted for the last two months, saw the return of some hustle bustle as drivers, conductors and other employees resumed their duties wearing face masks and the employees of PMPML attending work.Buses and the premises of various bus depots and different bus stands in the city and suburbs are being regularly sanitized. Conductors have been instructed by the administration to carrying sanitizer bottles and sprinkle it on the hands of passengers once they are seated. “Before issuing tickets, we tell the passengers to wear face masks. The conductors are ensuring that the social distancing is maintained in buses,” a PMPML official said. Efforts have been taken to make the seating arrangements in few buses changed to ensure social distancing while in the majority of the buses the conductors are making sure that the seat next to a passenger remains vacant. The conductors have also been issued directions not to allow standing passengers to ensure social distancing. However, due to a large number of common citizens travelling, it being difficult to maintain social distancing rules for the administration. Meanwhile, civic activists have welcomed the PMPML decision to deploy more buses. Sameer Patel, a civic activist from NIBM said, “The PMPML must ensure that all the measures like social distancing and use of sanitisers are done in the bus. At the same time, the increase in the number of buses will lessen the burden and hardship of citizens during the new restrictions.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmpml-to-deploy-950-buses-to-ensure-citizens-reach-home-on-time-101624984398544.html
29-06-2021||Other||UP Police book Twitter India chief for faulty J&K, Ladakh map||Meerut/LucknowBulandshahr Police registered a first information report (FIR) against officials of Twitter India after the micro-blogging site showed a distorted map of India with Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh outside the country, officials familiar with the matter said on Tuesday.The case against Twitter India managing director Manish Maheshwari and India head Amrita Tripathi was registered at Khurja Nagar police station on Monday evening on the basis of a complaint by an advocate and office-bearer of Bajrang Dal, Praveen Bhati, Bulandshahr senior superintendent of police (SSP) SK Singh said.The FIR was registered under section 505(2) of the Indian Penal Code and section 74 of the IT (Amendment) Act, 2008.In his complaint, Bhati said that he came across the distorted map on Monday while browsing the micro-blogging site, circle officer of Khurja Nagar, Suresh Kumar, said.“Their act was meant to hurt the sentiments of the countrymen. Moreover, it seems to be a deliberate act to mislead the world,” the complaint read.The map was available as part of a larger creative image depicting the world map on the company’s website under the careers sections on the page titled Tweep Life. While it showed the disputed Aksai Chin area of Ladakh, illegally occupied by China, as part of that country, it depicted the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir as a separate country. The map was subsequently taken down on Monday evening.The misrepresentation had caused an uproar online amid the ongoing impasse between the government and the micro-blogging firm.Kumar said notices will be sent to the accused and a further probe is underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-police-book-twitter-india-chief-for-faulty-j-k-ladakh-map-101624983977308.html
29-06-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra sees spike in single-daily Covid-19 cases as testing increases||Maharashtra recorded 8,085 new cases of Covid-19 on Tuesday, taking the state-wide tally to 6,051,633. The death toll reached 121,804 after 231 more individuals succumbed to the infection. As many as 8,623 people made a full recovery in the previous 24 hours, taking the total recoveries in the state to 5,809,548, according to the state health bulletin.The capital city of Mumbai reported 556 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Tuesday, the city has recorded 721,516 cases since the pandemic started. An addition of 12 fatalities pushed the death toll to 15,426. Breaking with Maharashtra’s trend, Mumbai reported a decline in its daily tally. The city had reported 611 cases on Monday.Tuesday’s daily spike marks an increase over the 6,727 positive cases the state had recorded on Monday. The state also witnessed a drop in the number of daily recoveries, after recording 8,623 recoveries on Tuesday as opposed to the 10,812 recorded a day prior.Also Read: Third Covid wave in Mumbai likely to be less deadly than second: StudyThe state tested 190,140 samples for coronavirus marking an increase from the 166,163 samples tested a day before. Tuesday marks the sixth consecutive day of the state, which was once reeling under a vicious second wave, recording less than 10,000 cases a day.The state has been trying to ramp up vaccination drive before a possible third wave hits. Minority Affairs Minister Nawab Malik said that "If Maharashtra gets adequate stock of vaccine doses, the state can vaccinate its entire population in two months,". He also told reporters that of the 21 people infected with the Delta plus variant only one had been administered a single shot of the Covid-19 vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-sees-spike-in-single-daily-covid-19-cases-as-testing-increases-101624983236317.html
29-06-2021||Lucknow||Laying foundation of Ambedkar centre ahead of polls is nothing but drama, says Maya||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati on Tuesday dubbed the foundation laying ceremony of Dr Ambedkar Cultural Centre in Lucknow by President Ram Nath Kovind as ‘drama before the election’ by the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh.In a series of tweets, Mayawati said the BJP government neglected Dr Bhaimrao Ambedkar and exploited his crores of followers for the entire time in power.“Now, when the assembly election is near, the laying of the foundation stone of a ‘Cultural Centre’ by the state government in the name of Baba Saheb, is a drama,” she said.Mayawati said the BSP was not against setting up of centre in the name of Dr Ambedkar but doing it for the sake of electoral interest was a gross deception.If the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh had done this work earlier, then instead of laying the foundation stone, the President would have been inaugurating the cultural centre, she said.Be it the BJP government, the SP or the Congress, everyone indulges in such deceit and drama in the name of Ambedkar.Similarly, in the case of grabbing rights of Dalits and Backwards and committing atrocities over the weaker section, all the rival political parties are same, she said.Mayawati said lakhs of government posts reserved for Dalits and Backwards were lying vacant.Also, the neglect of the world class memorial and parks constructed in the name of Dalits icons by the BSP government had been continuing since the SP government was in power and it was highly condemnable, she said.Reacting to BSP chief statement, the spokesperson of the BJP state unit Sameer Singh said the BJP government at the centre and in the state had been working for the dignity and welfare of the weaker sections of the society, including Dalits and backwards.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had developed five sites associated with Ambedkar as ‘Panch Teerth’ , launched several schemes of the Dalit community, he said.Under the BJP government, a person coming from the Dalit community had been made the President, said Singh while insisting that the tweets of Mayawati over the foundation of the Ambedkar Cultural Centre goes on to show that she was jittery and frustrated over defeat in successive elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/laying-foundation-of-ambedkar-centre-ahead-of-polls-is-nothing-but-drama-says-maya-101624983257878.html
29-06-2021||Other||Cyber frauds: High Court seeks detailed data of 1 year||The Allahabad High Court directed SP (cyber cell) Lucknow to file his personal affidavit mentioning therein the number of FIRs registered in cyber frauds in the state within a year, the current status of investigation, the number of fraudulent withdrawals, the money recovered to the victim and the efforts being made to control these types of fraudulent activities.Further, the superintendent of police (Crime/Cyber Cell) Prayagraj, was also directed to provide a complete chart mentioning similar details regarding online frauds committed in the district in the last one year.Justice SK Yadav passed the order in a bail application filed by one Neeraj Mandal alias Rakesh who was arrested in a matter related to fraudulent withdrawal of money from the bank account of a retired Judge of High Court, for which an FIR was registered on December 8, 2020, at Cantt police station in Prayagraj.The court said the police authorities were not making serious efforts in controlling these types of fraudulent activities.“After hearing the submissions of learned counsels for both the sides, the Court is not satisfied with the efforts being made by the police authorities with regard to fraudulent withdrawal of money prevailing around the district as well as the state level. The Court is of the view that it is a crime against the society and the police authorities are not making serious efforts in controlling these types of fraudulent activities,” observed the bench while directing SP (cyber cell), Lucknow and Prayagraj to file their personal affidavits in the case.The court while fixing July 9 as the next date of hearing directed SP (Cyber cell), Prayagraj and SHO of Cantt police station to remain present on the date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cyber-frauds-high-court-seeks-detailed-data-of-1-year-101624982957217.html
29-06-2021||Lucknow||Ruling BJP ‘manages’ dominance in Zila Panchayat chairpersons’ poll||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) extended its domination in the zila panchayat chairpersons’ poll on Tuesday, as in a series of dramatic political developments, opposition candidates became ruling party’s members in several districts and withdrew their candidature. After the close of withdrawal time on Tuesday, the ruling BJP got 21 candidates elected unopposed in as many districts, with the opposition Samajwadi Party (SP) having to content with a lone unopposed win in its stronghold of Etawah. The BJP had lost to the Samajwadi Party in the elections to the zila panchayat ward members but has now stamped its domination in the indirect elections of panchayat chairpersons amid opposition allegations of foul play and misuse of official machinery. There was some high drama in Baghpat when the BJP first looked set for another ‘unopposed’ win when the SP-RLD candidate Mamta Kishore ‘withdrew’ her papers.It turned out to be ‘fake Mamata’ as the real SP candidate put out a video and sent a representation to the election officials claiming she hadn’t withdrawn from the race. But, in Shahjahanpur, the SP candidate’s withdrawal was for real. The SP candidate’s withdrawal set up BJP’s unopposed win in the bastion of UP’s finance minister Suresh Khanna.Here, SP candidate Binoo Singh joined the BJP and then withdrew from the race as SP candidate setting up BJP candidate Sangeeta Yadav’s unopposed win.Some local leaders, considered close to former Congress heavyweight Jitin Prasada, who joined the BJP recently, described it as “Prasada effect.” In Bahraich too, the SP candidate Neha Azeez who had been talking of putting up a strong fight against the BJP, suddenly withdrew, to set up BJP candidate Manju Singh’s unopposed win.Here, BJP MP Brij Bhushan Saran Singh was ‘managing’ the entire election, party leaders said. In Pilibhit, the Lok Sabha constituency of BJP MP Varun Gandhi, the SP was relying on former BJP man, Swami Pravakta Nand, who suddenly pulled out of the contest. In Saharanpur too, the opposition candidate Johnny Kumar Jaivir withdrew from the race paving the way for BJP’s Mangey Ram’s win. On the nomination day itself, the BJP was assured of unopposed wins of 17 panchayat chairpersons. The districts where the results were known on Tuesday itself, well ahead of the July 3 elections, include Saharanpur, Bahraich, Etawah, Chitrakoot, Agra, Gautambudh Nagar, Meerut, Ghaziabad, Bulandshahr, Amroha, Moradabad, Lalitpur, Jhansi, Banda, Shravasti, Balrampur, Gonda, Gorakhpur, Mau, Varanasi, Pilibhit and Shahjahanpur. In majority of the 53 districts, where elections would now happen, the BJP is up against candidates put up by mostly SP or its ally RLD. In 37 districts, just two candidates are in contest while in 16 other districts it is a multi-cornered contest.The BJP had left out two seats – Jaunpur and Sonbhadra – for its ally Apna Dal. In Farrukhabad, the BJP has put up Monica Yadav, ex-wife of Samajwadi Party leader Dharmendra Yadav while in Gorakhpur, Sadhna Singh, the daughter in law of former UP chief minister Vir Bahadur Singh was declared elected unopposed on BJP ticket. Vir Bahadur Singh was a senior Congress leader. “The BJP’s attempts to force SP out of the race in Unnao proved futile,” said SP leader Sunil Singh Sajan. In Unnao the BJP had to replace its candidate Arun Singh with Shakun Singh, wife of slain BJP MLC Ajeet Singh, after the Unnao rape survivor raised objections against Arun’s candidature. Arun however is now contesting as an independent with the support of Unnao BJP MP Sakshi Maharaj.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ruling-bjp-manages-dominance-in-zila-panchayat-chairpersons-poll-101624982837268.html
29-06-2021||Pune||Builder Amit Lunkad granted bail on surety of ₹1 lakh||Builder Amit Lunkad was granted bail by a Pune court on Tuesday with a surety of ₹1 lakh on Tuesday afternoon. Sessions judge SS Gosavi allowed Lunkad’s bail on the condition that he pays the investors whose tenures have matured within eight days. Lunkad was arrested by the city crime branch in connection with a cheating case involving several investors and was lodged in Yerawada central prison. Lunkad through his lawyers had filed an affidavit in the court which stated that he would refund the investors’ money whose tenure had matured within eight days. The court in its order mentioned that according to the affidavit, if the money is not refunded in 15 days’ time then the properties shown in the affidavit will be sold off and the money will be paid to the investors. Lunkad was represented by advocates Sudhir Shah, Jitendra Sawant and Rahul Bharekar. Lunkad was arrested on the night of June 21 from his residence by the crime branch after a complaint was lodged against him by Sanjay Vilas Honrao (48), a resident of Ambegaon Budruk. The lawyers informed the court that the four complainants were refunded through RTGS the same day and those investors who will claim refund will be paid. Lunkad realty has a professional history of 30 years and does not have a single criminal case lodged against the company and till date not even a single cheque has bounced. The defence lawyers said that their submission regarding the antecedents of the realty firm must be considered for granting bail. He was sent to Yerawada central jail on judicial custody remand on charges of duping investors. Later, six other witnesses recorded their statements in the case. Following which the law for protection of investors’ interest was also invoked against Lunkad. A case under Sections 420 (cheating) and 406 (criminal breach of trust) of Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of MPID was registered at Yerawada police station against the realtor. According to the Economic Offences Wing (EOW), there are 22 complaints lodged against Lunkad so far following his arrest. Honrao in his complaint said that in July 2019 he had met Lunkad at his office in Kalyaninagar and during the meeting Lunkad allegedly promised him 15 per cent return per month on investment. Trusting Lunkad, Honrao invested ₹21,26,875 over the next two years. The complainant has alleged that he neither received the returns nor the principal amount that was invested after he asked for the money back from the builder.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/builder-amit-lunkad-granted-bail-on-surety-of-rs-1-lakh-101624982477262.html
29-06-2021||Pune||PMC launches amnesty scheme to regularise illegal water connections||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) on Tuesday announced an amnesty scheme to regularise illegal water connections and recover dues from water tax defaulters. The city has many illegal water connections, and the administration believes there are anywhere around 50,000 illegal water connections in the city. For the last several years, PMC has been taking action against illegal connections but after a few days they are being restored again. By considering this, the municipal commissioner suggested to launch an amnesty scheme to regularise the illegal water connections. Many government offices like BSNL, banks, railways, MSEB, police, cantonment boards and private firms like IT Companies, hotels and malls have water tax dues. To recover the tax from them, the PMC launched an amnesty scheme. Standing committee chairman Hemant Rasne said, “The water tax dues are almost more than ₹600 crore. If these defaulters came forward and paid the tax, it would help the PMC to provide more facilities during Covid-19 pandemic. It has been decided to regularise the illegal water connections from slums and houses erected under the guntewari scheme.” Rasne said, “This scheme is only for three months. PMC officials would appeal to the government offices and private firms to pay their dues or cut the water connection.” PMC water department officials said in the standing committee that it is better to regularise the meters as they are using water but not paying tax to PMC. Even if the PMC holds a drive, there is a lot of opposition from the citizens. PMC said that those who want to regularise their water connection, they need to submit an application at their water zone office with address proof and contact number. BXIllegal connection size/ Fine for residential/ Fine for commercial connection1/2 inch/ ₹4000/ ₹80003/4 inch/ ₹7500/ ₹150001 inch/ ₹19500/ ₹35,500||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-launches-amnesty-scheme-to-regularise-illegal-water-connections-101624982417193.html
29-06-2021||Pune||Man loses ₹51 lakh to fake cop in job fraud||A 43-year-old man was arrested by Pune police on Monday for posing as a police officer and duping two people to the tune of over ₹51 lakh under false pretext of getting one of them a job in the customs department. The arrested man was identified as Rajendra Ramchandra Shinde (43), a resident of Tukai Tekdi area of Kalepoadal in Hadapsar and Sulochana Dadu Sonawane (37), a resident of Tingrenagar in Vishrantwadi. A case was lodged against the two by a man identified as Deepak Mundada (51) a resident of Shaniwar peth area of Pune. In 2014, the man had met the complainant at his Ganapati idol stall and told him that he is an assistant sub inspector in Mumbai police. He had made an occasional phone call and visit until 2017 when he told Mundada that there were positions opening in the customs department where he knows some high-rankingofficers. He told Mundada that a clerk position for his nephew would cost ₹15 lakh and a superintendent position for his son, who is more educated, would cost ₹25 lakh. However, over a period of time, after multiple visits to Mumbai, Mundada ended up paying ₹51, 17,400 to him. In the meanwhile, he brought a female wearing a khaki uniform and cap to meet with Mundada in a car. “Shinde told them that she is a high-ranking customs officer. She used to sit with him in a car and roam with him and he told everyone that she is a high-ranking government officer. She is his second wife and is involved in the crime with him,” said Police sub inspector Shrikant Sawant of Faraskhana police station who is investigating the case. Since 2017, Shinde allegedly duped Mundada of ₹51, 17,400 under various reasons including the fee for application etc. In 2018, he took the two boys to a facility in Mahim where they underwent medical tests and Shinde gave them material like uniform, shoes, cap. When Mundada’s friend got interested in the process, Shinde again showed up in a uniform but wore a name plate describing him as an “assistant police inspector” which is much higher in rank than ASI. That made Mundada suspicious and his relatives helped him catch Shinde. The police have urged other people who may have been duped by Shinde and Sonawane to come forward and lodge a complaint. A case under Sections 170 (personating a public servant), 171 (wearing garb or carrying token used by public servant with fraudulent intent), 406 (criminal breach of trusts), and 420 (cheating) of Indian Penal Code (IPC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/man-loses-rs-51-lakh-to-fake-cop-in-job-fraud-101624982237244.html
29-06-2021||Other||One killed for opposing illegal sand mining||One person was shot dead and another injured for opposing alleged illegal sand mining near Pachrukhiya ghat under Koilwar police station in Ara on Tuesday, police said. One of the alleged accused was taken into custody in this connection.According to family members of the deceased, the incident took place when the man went for cattle grazing on his field. He saw some persons mining sand from his field. On raising objection, he was shot. He was rushed to Ara sadar hospital but died on the way, they said.Another village resident also sustained bullet injuries in the arm during the incident. Following this, the Koilwar police conducted raids at several places to arrest the alleged accused involved in the incident.“One one of the alleged accused involved in the incident has been taken into police custody,” SHO Kunwar Prasad Gupta said. Man stabbed by sonA man, who used to work as a clerk under an advocate, was stabbed by his son at Gundi under Krishnagarh police station on Tuesday over a property-related dispute, police said.The 65-year-old victim was currently undergoing treatment, SHO of Krishnagarh police station Arvind Kumar said.According to the victim’s wife, one of their sons used to quarrel over registry of property in his name. She also said that their son used to demand money from his father for wrong reasons. On Tuesday morning too, the alleged accused asked his father for registry of property in his name and demanded money from him. When his father refused, he stabbed him.“The victim was at first admitted to Ara sadar hospital, from where he was referred to PMCH for better treatment. When the victim will be able to give his statement, it will be recorded,” the SHO said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/one-killed-for-opposing-illegal-sand-mining-101624982178368.html
29-06-2021||Patna||Ward councillor doles out gifts in lucky draw to boost vaccination drive||Ruchir Kumar ruchirkumar@hindustantimes.com  In a bid to tackle vaccine hesitancy, a ward councillor in Katihar district gave out gifts in lucky draw to encourage people take the Covid-19 jab. In a first of its kind initiative in Bihar, Manzoor Khan, councillor of ward number 45 in Katihar, doled out a 24-inch LED colour TV, bicycle, pedestal fan, wall clock and tiffin box as gifts for winners of the lucky draw held among those who took the vaccine at a special camp held in his constituency recently on June 26. The trick did wonders, as nearly 800 people, a record for the district, turned up at Bhatta Tola vaccination centre to take the shot, officials said on Tuesday. “Before this, we never achieved around 800 vaccination shots in a single day at any vaccination session site since commencement of Covid-19 inoculation drive on January 16. Earlier, we would be happy by vaccinating around 200-350 people at a vaccination centre. However, we achieved a new milestone for our district on June 26,” said Udayan Mishra, district magistrate (DM) of Katihar. “We are now planning similar initiatives, involving public representatives, and doling out gifts among beneficiaries on a weekly basis,” he said. The draw of lots was done in presence of the DM, who also handed out gifts among the winners present there. Khan, who recovered from SARS CoV-2 infection last year, admitted to vaccine hesitancy in Muslim-dominated areas. “I took my idea of organising a lucky draw competition at the vaccination centre to the DM, who supported me. I then got in touch with a potato cold storage firm M/s Neha, that agreed to sponsor the gifts. We had to pitch pandals, draw up tarpaulin because of rainfall and decorate the vaccination centre with balloons etc. to give it a festive look, for which I also contributed some money. The entire event was organised for about ₹52,000,” said Khan. “If we public representatives take up such small initiatives, I am sure we will be able to achieve the target our Prime Minister and chief minister have set of vaccinating the eligible population by December,” he added. District immunisation officer Dr DN Jha appreciated Khan’s initiative. “Had it not rained, we may have achieved 1,000-plus vaccinations, but we had to stop at 782 vaccinations that day,” said Dr Jha. Katihar is among the laggard districts so far as vaccination is concerned, largely because of hesitancy in the area. It had vaccinated only around 2,500 people against an eligible population of 22 lakh before the onset of the second wave of the pandemic in early April this year. The vaccination drive started on January 16 in the country.However, as per figures provided by officials, the drive gained momentum during the last one month. “We have vaccinated 3.10 lakh eligible people with the first dose, accounting for 15% of the eligible population. We have been able to almost saturate ward number 45, where the special vaccination drive was organised,” said Dr DN Pandey, civil surgeon of Katihar. In addition to the static vaccination sites, the district has got 20 Teeka Express or mobile vaccination vans for rural areas and two for urban areas to inoculate people at their doorsteps. “We have vaccinated 13,211 beneficiaries so far at an average daily 287 vaccinations per van since the two mobile vans started to ply in urban areas of the district from June 4,” said Rahul Kumar Sonkar, district technical officer, outreach and nutrition, Care India, which is the development partner to the state health department. Bihar has so far administered 1,58,25,605 doses of Covid-19 vaccine among its 7.22 crore eligible beneficiaries. Of this, 1,36,25,770 have been given the first dose and 21,99,835 the second dose. Chief minister Nitish Kumar has set a target to vaccinate six crore people in six months, beginning July.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/ward-councillor-doles-out-gifts-in-lucky-draw-to-boost-vaccination-drive-101624982177272.html
29-06-2021||Patna||Juvenile board lets off minor boy, his brother after he clears Class X exam||The Juvenile Justice Board (JJB) in Biharsharif has acquitted two minor brothers after one of them passed standard 10th examination conducted by the Bihar School Examination Board (BSEB) in April this year, a lawyer involved in the case said. JJB’s principal judge Manvendra Mishra on Monday acquitted the brothers, aged 14 and 15, when the younger one submitted his mark sheet, which showed he had scored 83 marks in maths and 77% overall. The judge also decided to pay for the boy’s English tuition after he expressed his wish to study in standard 12 as English medium. According to the additional public prosecutor (APP) Jai Prakash, the Deepnagar police station had, on May 27, 2019, lodged a case against 37 persons, including the two minor boys, in a case of scuffle between two parties.The boys’ father is said to be mentally ill while their mother suffers from severe illness. They are seven siblings, including their five sisters. The JJB has also ordered the block development officer (BDO) to provide ration card and benefits under Indira Aaawas Yojna and Ayushman Bharat scheme to the family and enrol the elder brother in a skill development course.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/juvenile-board-lets-off-minor-boy-his-brother-after-he-clears-class-x-exam-101624982118725.html
29-06-2021||Pune||Pawar instructs handing over amenities in 23 merged villages to PMC||Almost six months after the state government approved a merger of 23 surrounding villages into Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Tuesday asked rural development ministry to hand over all departments to the urban development department. The state government on December 24 had issued a notification, officially paving the way for initiation of the merger process for the 23 villages. These villages are highly urbanised, although lacking in basic amenities like road, water supply and waste management. Pawar on Tuesday held a review meeting at Mumbai to discuss various civic issues pertaining to Pune. Rural development minister Hasan Mushrif, minister Jitendra Avhad, minister of state for rural development Abdul Sattar, Prajakata Tanpure and city’s elected representatives were present for the meeting. Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol remained absent for the meeting, but the mayor claimed that he did have an invite for the meeting. “Ajit Pawar instructed our department to hand over all the amenities in these 23 villages to urban development ministry as part of merger of these areas into PMC,” said Sattar. Pawar also hinted to merge 23 villages in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) before the municipal elections scheduled early next year. It is likely that the official order for merger of these villages into PMC limits will be issued within a month as the divisional commissionerate has already submitted its report comprising suggestions made by locals.The rural development ministry has given a nod to hand over all its properties including schools and water schemes to the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), which falls under urban development department. These 23 villages are mainly dominated by NCP and party is hoping that it would help them to get power in the upcoming municipal election. However, city mayor Murlidhar Mohol was absent for the meeting citing he did not get proper information for it.Mohol said, “This meeting was scheduled to discuss Pune city’s issues. I have been attending all the meetings, though I did not get the information for this meeting. It is wrong that the politics is getting done over issues related to Pune. Our stand is very clear that these villages should be merged step by step as it would add burden on the city’s infrastructure. If the state government wants to merge all the villages in a single phase, they should allot the funds for same and handover it to the municipal corporation.” Along with the merged villages, the issue of handing over Maharashtra’s Jeevan Padikaran water project to PMC, which is meant for Uttamnagar, Shivane and Kondwe area. Pawar instructed to handover the project to the PMC immediately.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pawar-instructs-handing-over-amenities-in-23-merged-villages-to-pmc-101624982118034.html
29-06-2021||Patna||High demand for Sputnik V vaccine at Medanta||Sputnik V, Russia’s vaccine against coronavirus, which the Jai Prabha Medanta hospital began administering to beneficiaries last week, are flying off the shelves fast. The hospital, which became the first health facility in the state to get the Russian vaccine through private channel, received limited supplies of 600 doses last week. Given its high demand and limited availability, the hospital has restricted vaccination slots through the CoWIN portal. “We are insisting on pre-registration and pre-booking of slots through the CoWIN portal for the Sputnik jab after we began administering it to beneficiaries on June 25,” said Dr Ravi Shankar Singh, associate medical director of the hospital. The newly built hospital has so far administered 350 doses to beneficiaries during the last four days, he added. “We have requested our Gurgaon head office for 2,000 more doses of the vaccine. We are yet to get a confirmation about the arrival of new stocks,” said Dr Singh. The Sputnik V vaccine efficacy was around 91.6% in India. However, the Russian Direct Investment Fund on Tuesday announced that the efficacy of its Covid-19 vaccine Sputnik V in the United Arab Emirates was 97.8% among over 81,000 people. Given the high efficacy of the Russian vaccine against Covid-19, the hospital, said sources, was receiving requests from ministers, legislators and senior government officers for administering jabs among their friends and relatives. Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar had inaugurated the super-specialty hospital on September 18 last year. Though it commenced outdoor patient department services soon after its inauguration, the hospital is yet to become fully functional. It expects to begin indoor patient department services in August. As per the agreement with the state government, the hospital will offer around 25% beds to poor patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/high-demand-for-sputnik-v-vaccine-at-medanta-101624982117250.html
29-06-2021||Patna||Bihar: 12-yr-old rescued, man held for kidnapping||Gaya police on Tuesday rescued a 12-year-old boy from Bhagalpur, who was allegedly kidnapped for ransom by his neighbour on Monday. The accused, identified as Anil Bhatt, was also arrested, police said. Gaya SSP Aditya Kumar said police earlier detained Bhatt’s wife for investigation. During her questioning, she revealed the location of her husband. Police traced the location, rescued the boy and took Bhatt in custody. “Police are bringing the boy back to the city. It seems like there was some financial dispute between the boy’s father Rajendra Mishra and Bhatt, which could be the reason behind the kidnapping,” SSP added. Police said that Shivam was abducted from the Bageshwari-Bambam locality under the Delha police station area on Monday morning. The abductors demanded ₹4 lakh from his father and threatened to sell the boy’s kidney if failed to pay the ransom. Police have registered a case of abduction against Anil Bhatt, based on the statement of the victim’s father. Shivam’s grandfather Tirupati Mishra said that the incident took place around 11am when Bhatt took his grandchild away on the pretext of buying a bicycle. When he did not return till evening, all family members started looking for the boy. Late on Monday night, they lodged a case of kidnapping against Bhatt who also went missing after the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-12-yr-old-rescued-man-held-for-kidnapping-101624982057991.html
29-06-2021||Pune||Man arrested for duping at least 14 in ATM fraud||A man was arrested for using sleight of hand to swap people’s ATM cards under the guise of helping them and is suspected to be involved in at least 14 such cases in and around Pune. The arrested man, identified as Shravan Satish Minjagi (25) a resident of Kadam Wak Vasti, Lonikalbhor and a native of Solapur. He is currently in police custody until June 30 at Wanowrie police station, according to senior police inspector Deepak Lagad. The Lonikalbhor police believe his involvement in one case with three victims registered on Monday. The man gained credentials of the card by looking at the PIN by peeping into the ATM machine while the victim used it in the first attempt, according to the police. “He mostly targetted old people. He always kept another card with him. He would cunningly exchange the cards when the victims were not paying attention and used the PIN to use the cards and then passed on the stolen cards in a similar cycle,” said senior PI Lagad. He was booked for duping three people, including a 19-year-old girl, by pretending to help them withdraw money from two ATMs in Haveli area. In the Wanowrie case, he duped a retired policeman of ₹1,30,000 by using the card to withdraw money and shop. “There is CCTV showing him involved in three incidents at two separate ATMs. We suspect that the man caught in the exactly same case in Wanowrie is the accused in our case as well,” said On April 21, when the 19-year-old girl was not able to withdraw cash from an ATM in Lonikalbhor, he pretended to help her and duped her of ₹12,000. In the same ATM on the same day, he duped a woman of ₹9,000. After two months, on June 20, he duped a man of ₹20,000 in another ATM in Kunjurwadi. A case under Sections 379 (theft) and 420 (cheating) of Indian Penal Code was registered in the matter at Lonikalbhor police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/man-arrested-for-duping-at-least-14-in-atm-fraud-101624982057237.html
29-06-2021||Patna||Be ready, time is yours, Tejashwi tells his MLAs, party workers||Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, who convened a meeting of party legislators on Monday evening and office bearers on Tuesday, has asked them to “remain vigilant as anything is possible in politics”.The party is planning to celebrate its 25th foundation on July 5 in a grand manner and is trying to bring party chief Lalu Prasad, who is recuperating in New Delhi, to Patna to mark the occasion. “If four governments can be formed in four years, anything can happen in politics,” Tejashwi said in his address. “Be honest to your work, remain vigilant and work in your constituency. The time to come is yours,” said Yadav in his address. He was apparently referring to political flux in the state between 2013 and 2017 when JD-U broke up with BJP, tied up with RJD only to return to the NDA in 2017. Tejashwi Yadav, who is also leader of Opposition in Bihar Assembly, had predicted the fall of NDA government during visit to his constituency Raghopur Friday last. RJD spokesperson Mritunjay Tiwary said there was demand from party office-bearers to bring Lalu Prasad for the foundation day function. “He will come only if the doctors permit him to travel. His visit will certainly galvanise party workers,” he said.JD (U) and BJP reacted mockingly to Tejashwi’s advice to his MLAs. “Legislative party meeting concluded, leader elected. Ministries divided. Now just the oath of the post of Chief Minister remains... ” tweeted JD (U) spokesperson Nikhil Mandal. “He hasn’t stop day dreaming, A person who doesn’t visit his constituency is aspiring to become CM,” said BJP spokesperson Prem Ranjan Patel. The NDA government has the support of 127 MLAs in the 243-member Assembly. These include 74 of BJP, 44 of JD-U (The party had won 43 seats in 2020 polls. While LJP MLA Rajkumar Singh and BSP MLA Jama Khan joined the party later, one seat fell vacant after the death of its MLA Mewalal Choudhary), and four each of HAM-S and VIP. An independent MLA is also supporting the NDA government led by Nitish Kumar.In the Opposition camp, RJD has 75 MLAs, Congress 19 and the Left 16. With 110 MLAs altogether, the opposition’s grand alliance is only 12 seats away from the majority mark of 122. The AIMIM, which has 5 MLAs, has promised unconditional support to the grand alliance. This leaves GA just seven seats away from the majority. In such a situation, if HAM-S and VIP, which of late have been sulking, hold the key. “There is no weight in Yadav’s claim in that NDA government is going in 2-3 months. All this is hogwash. The NDA is united. HAM-S and VIP are solidly behind the NDA. One should not be misguided by the growing proximity between Tejashwi and Chirag Paswan,” HAM-S president and former chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/be-ready-time-is-yours-tejashwi-tells-his-mlas-party-workers-101624981997972.html
29-06-2021||Patna||Don’t be misled: Bihar edu minister tells protesting STET candidates||The State Teacher Eligibility Test (STET) qualified candidates need not to worry or get misguided, state education minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary said on Tuesday.“All the students will get the opportunity to apply for the teachers’ recruitment to be conducted in a decentralised manner at the level of Panchayati raj institutions and urban local bodies. The recruiting agencies will publish the merit list. At present, there is no relevance of the merit list, as all the qualified candidates are eligible to apply,” he said.The minister said that the status of those candidates who are on the STET merit list will remain unchanged, but they should understand that the merit list is for eligibility, not appointment. The merit list for appointment will come after due process, starting with category-wise advertisement and online submission of applications. “All the STET candidates are eligible to apply, so there is no reason to become restless at this stage under any influence.Students should have patience,” he added.The STET candidates have been agitating since the Bihar School Examination Board (BSEB) published their results in two categories - one for those who qualified and were on the merit list and another for those who qualified STET but their names were not on the list. Besides, the candidates said that there was no category-wise cut-off mentioned for the students.The STET was held in 2011 and 2019. The government had advertised 37,540 seats in the state’s secondary and higher secondary schools, while the number of candidates turned out to more than double. It has created insecurity among the students.After the confusion, the education department set up a committee under the department’s principal secretary to correct the anomaly and declared that all the qualified candidates would be eligible to apply in future recruitments. The committee blamed the two categories of results on the earlier validity of STET score for seven years, which the Centre has now made for the lifetime. However, the candidates want all qualified students to be appointed.However, the STET candidates blamed the government for all the confusion, calling it an attempt to divide the teacher aspirants. They also met the leader of opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav with their demands. “The government has created this situation and it should find a way out. The candidates are on the streets as they felt cheated even after passing the test. The government wanted litigation so that the matter reaches the court, to stall the appointments,” said a STET candidate..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/dont-be-misled-bihar-edu-minister-tells-protesting-stet-candidates-101624981997196.html
29-06-2021||Patna||Bihar: STET candidates protest near edu minister’s residence, cops resort to lathicharge||At least half a dozen State Teacher Eligibility Test (STET) candidates and a magistrate received minor injuries after police resorted to lathicharge during a protest over the ongoing merit list row, near Eco-park under Sachiwalaya police station on Monday.Over 500 candidates were moving towards the education minister’s residence to stage a dharna over their demand to include all qualified candidates in the STET merit list. The situation turned ugly when candidates climbed the barricades and tried to enter the minister’s residence, which is just 200 metres away from the place of the incident.“An FIR is being lodged based on the statement of magistrate. Few candidates have also been taken into custody. We had requested the protestors to retreat as it was a prohibited area. However, they ignored the warning and became furious. We had to use mild lathicharge to disperse the mob,” Sachilwalya DSP Rajesh Prabhakar said.During lathicharge, about half a dozen students were injured. A magistrate, who was handling the law and order, fell on the ground and received minor injuries in the incident, police said.Additional forces have been deputed near ECO park to maintain the law and order situation.Later, the candidates met the opposition leader Tejaswi Yadav and requested him to look into the matter. Tejaswi targeted chief minister Nitish Kumar over the issue and said, “This government is adopting a dictatorial attitude. It has become shameless. Nitish Kumar has nothing to do with the people. His government is spoiling the future of the youth.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/biharstet-candidates-protest-near-edu-minister-s-residence-cops-resort-to-lathicharge-101624981937162.html
29-06-2021||Other||3 held with eight China-made drone cameras on Indo-Nepal border||Eight China-made drone cameras were seized and three people arrested at the Indo-Nepal border in Bihar’s East Champaran district last week, security officials said on Tuesday. The incident comes amid the alert for drones sounded after the attack on Indian Air Force station in Jammu Sunday last.In an FIR lodged with Kundwa Chainpur police station in Sikarahana subdivision of the district, Dayanand Kushwaha, a sub-inspector with 20th battalion of Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB), which guards the Indo-Nepal border, has said they intercepted a white car (BR-06AW3210) near Guwabari on June 26 and found eight drone cameras packed in separate boxes. “The three occupants of the car failed to give any satisfactory answers about the source of these drones. We also seized Nepali currency from them,” Kushwaha has stated in his complaint. Police identified the three arrested as Vicky Kumar Rayniyar (22), a resident of Baganiya in Sitamarhi district, Kishnandand Kumar (23) and Rahul Kumar (24), both residents of Mahugaon village in East Champaran. Mithlesh Kumar, station house officer (SHO) of Kundwa Chainpur police station, said all three arrested have been sent to jail.Navin Chand Jha, superintendent of police (SP), East Champaran, said those arrested claimed these drone cameras were meant for capturing shooting wedding ceremonies. “However, we are investigating all possible angles. Dhaka SDPO (subdivisional police officer) is looking into the matter,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/3-held-with-eight-china-made-drone-cameras-on-indo-nepal-border-101624981877268.html
29-06-2021||Other||So far, no Delta plus infection in UP: CM||LUCKNOW Uttar Pradesh had so far not reported any Delta plus infection and the Delta variant of Covid was present in 80% samples that were sent for genome sequencing, said chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday.“While the state is ramping up facilities for genome sequencing for deep study of coronavirus variants, the 550 samples genome sequenced by the IGBI (Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology), New Delhi were not found to have Delta plus variant and 80% of these were found to have the Delta variant,” said Yogi at the high-level Covid-19 review meeting he held in the morning.Yogi reiterated that now genome sequencing was being carried out at the KGMU (King George’s Medical College), Lucknow; BHU (Banaras Hindu University), Varanasi; CDRI (Central Drugs Research Institute), Lucknow and with the help of IGBI (Institute of genomics and integrative biology), New Delhi. “Such genomic studies would certainly help in devising ways to tackle the Delta plus variant of coronavirus,” he said.The chief minister said several states in the country reported Delta plus infections and experts were saying that this variant was comparatively more virulent. “Thus we will have to be more cautious and more alert. Following the recommendations of the UP experts’ committee on Covid, all necessary preparedness must be put in place in advance without any delay,” he told officials.He said the Covid situation in the state was improving with each passing day, but this was the time to be more alert and vigilant – a little negligence and laxity could cause huge problems and complications.The CM said Covid vaccination was an effective safety shield against the virus and UP so far had administered 3.10 crore doses of vaccines. As many as 44 lakh people had got both their doses, he added.In the last 24 hours, 2.37 lakh Covid tests were done, of which only 174 tested positive. In the same period, 254 patients recovered and were discharged from the hospitals, said Yogi. “The daily positivity rate in UP is below 0.1%, recovery rate is 98.5% and total active Covid cases have fallen to 2,946, of which 1,810 patients are in home isolation. The state, so far (since March last year) has done 5.75 crore Covid tests,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/so-far-no-delta-plus-infection-in-up-cm-101624981757212.html
29-06-2021||Other||Seven deaths, 12 fresh Covid cases in Lko||LUCKNOW The state capital recorded 12 fresh Covid cases and seven more deaths due to the virus in the last 24 hours, taking the fatality count to 2,644 on Tuesday. As many as seven patients recovered from the infection while Lucknow’s active case count stood at 259.So far, 2,35,384 people have defeated Covid in the state capital, as per NO COVID VAX TODAYThere will be no Covid vaccination on Wednesday, a day before the launch of the mega vaccination drive on July 1.“Covid vaccinations will remain cancelled due to preparations for the mega vaccination drive. As many as 859 revenue villages and wards of the district have been divided into 186 clusters where a population of around 54 lakh would be benefited by the mega drive,” said Dr MK Singh, ACMO and in-charge of vaccinations in Lucknow.Regular immunisation of kidsRegular immunisation of newborns and kids will start from Wednesday in all the women and child hospitals of the city and rural areas. Vaccines for children have been sent to all the PHCs and CHCs. Inoculation of kids was stopped two months back after the onset of the second wave of Covid, but now vaccination will start from Wednesday, said Dr Singh.Black Fungus: 2 patients die “Three patients of black fungus have been admitted to the KGMU in the last 24 hours while surgeries of three patients were performed. Two patients died during this period while five patients who recovered from black fungus were discharged from the hospital, said Dr Sudhir Singh, spokesperson of KGMU.So far, 484 patients of black fungus have been admitted to the KGMU, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/seven-deaths-12-fresh-covid-cases-in-lko-101624981577117.html
29-06-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan claims vaccination suspended on Tuesday due to shortage||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Tuesday demanded immediate delivery of 15 million vaccine doses from Centre citing Rajasthan’s increased requirement in the month of July while accusing the Centre of not meeting state’s requirement leading to repeated suspension of the drive and resentment among people.While Gehlot said that the Centre’s assurance of no shortage of vaccines to states was not being met, an official in the state’s health department said that the vaccination drive was suspended on Tuesday since inoculation centres ran out of doses by Monday and the vaccines sent by the Centre arrived late and will reach centres only by Tuesday evening.“The state received two lakh (covishield) vaccines last night and 60,000 (Covaxin) but it will reach districts by today evening,” the official said on condition of anonymity. He added that due to the depleting stock, only 8-10 districts were able to administer vaccines on Monday.He pointed out that the state has been consistently asking the Central government to increase the number of doses supplied to the state to feed its ambition to vaccinate 1.5 million people daily after having successfully administered 1.045 million doses on a single day on June 25.The official claimed that the “shortage” of vaccines was slowing down the drive, which was stalled at least ten times in the state in the last three months. Rajasthan has so far administered 24.423 doses including 20.543m first doses.On Sunday chief minister Ashok Gehlot wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi saying the state needed to vaccinate 1.5 million beneficiaries daily if it were to vaccinate the 7.5 million people due for their second dose by the end of July on time. Gehlot said the Centre was currently supplying 300,000-400,000 vaccines doses daily, on an average to the state, which will obstruct the state’s effort to prevent the 3rd wave of Covid-19.“...More than seven million people will be due for their second dose by the end of July, 2021. To ensure time-bound and expeditious vaccination, we have created a capacity to vaccinate over 1.5 million persons per day. Presently our daily vaccination is limited to the extent of supplies received from the Central government. The daily average of vaccine doses received, since the start of vaccination drive for 18 years plus, has been 300,000 to 400,000 only,” Gehlot wrote.Lav Aggarwal, joint secretary in the health ministry said some delays were part of the “normal process” due to the logistic challenges involved in the massive exercise. However, he assured that the manufacturing of vaccines was being scaled up continuously.“For example, in the case of Covaxin, that [the manufacturing] has gone up from 5-6 million doses a month to 10 million and will go up further. All this is a part of upgrading the health infrastructure to manage the needs of the country,” he said during the ministry’s briefing on Covid-19 on Tuesday.The Central government reversed the vaccination procurement policy after persistent complaints by states over its pricing and availability in the open market. From June 21 onwards, Centre is procuring and providing vaccine doses to states, based on their vaccination rate in the past and future needs. The Central government has told states that it will distribute 120 million doses including 100 million shots of Covishield and 20 million of Covaxin to all states and Union Territories for the month of July.The Union ministry of health and family welfare said it will share the estimated number of vaccine doses available in a particular month with states before the start of the month as part of its advance visibility plan so that states and UTs can prepare and schedule vaccinations accordingly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-claims-vaccination-suspended-on-tuesday-due-to-shortage-101624981157715.html
29-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi reports a surge in Covid-19 cases; logs 101 new cases, 4 deaths||Delhi reported a surge in coronavirus (Covid-19) cases on Tuesday, recording 101 new cases, a day after recording the lowest single-day spike of this year. In the previous 24 hours the national capital also recorded four deaths and 119 recoveries, according to the health department bulletin.Tuesday’s numbers marked a stark increase from the 59 cases recorded on Monday, and the 89 cases recorded on Sunday. After today’s tally the total number of cases in the national capital now stands at 1,434,094. The number of recoveries continued to outnumber the number of daily cases.Also Read: Covid-19 killed more people under 50 than any other age group: AIIMS studyThe positivity rate reached 0.15% after 66,397 samples were tested, of which 101 came back positive. The national capital has been reporting less than 1% positivity rate for the last 30 days. This also marks an increase from the 58,895 tested a day prior, which took the positivity rate to 0.10%. A total of 42,973 RTPCR/CBNAAT/True Nat tests, and 23,424 rapid antigen tests were conducted in the previous 24 hours.Delhi vaccinated 204,711 beneficiaries on Tuesday, out of these 164,715 were inoculated with the first dose of the vaccine and 39,996 were inoculated with their second dose.Delhi, which currently has 20,925 empty hospital beds, has started to train 5,000 health care workers in collaboration with Guru Gobind Singh Indraprastha University (GGSIPU) from Monday. This two-week certificate course was announced by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on June 16 to build a force of “community nursing assistants” in preparation for a potential third wave.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-reports-a-surge-in-covid-19-cases-logs-101-new-cases-4-deaths-101624979931620.html
29-06-2021||Bhopal||MP to dispose of hazardous waste for memorial to Bhopal gas tragedy victims||The Madhya Pradesh government plans to dispose of 337 metric tonnes of hazardous waste from the premises of the erstwhile Union Carbide pesticide factory for the construction of a memorial to the Bhopal gas tragedy victims there, officials said. Over 5,000 people were killed in one of the worst industrial disasters when methyl isocyanate gas leaked from the factory in December 1984. Bhopal Gas Tragedy Relief and Rehabilitation department director Basant Kurre said a tender was issued on May 4 for the disposal and two companies won the bid. “Now, the Central Pollution Control Board, State Pollution Control Board, and a team of experts will check the efficiency of these companies and their work. If the companies are found eligible, the work order will be released. The companies will get four months to collect the waste and dispose of it.” He added the state will get ₹350 crore from the Centre for the disposal. Also Read | IMD issues ‘orange’ alert for several MP districtsOfficials said the disposal was delayed due to a lack of clarity over who would dispose of the waste--whether the state or the Central government. Rachna Dhingra, an activist, said the waste cited is just 5% of total lying there and the state government should conduct a proper survey. “After the disaster, about 200 metric tonne waste was dumped in a pond by covering the ground with sheets while about 137 MT was in the factory. According to a report of the National Environmental Engineering Research Institute, the Pollution Control Board, and independent research, the toxic waste poisoned the groundwater and soil of the nearby area. There is a need for the survey and real disposal of waste,” said Dhingra. Rashida Bi, a survivor, said the government is trying to dispose of the waste in hurry. “The survivors of the tragedy are waiting for compensation. The state government is planning to spend ₹100 crore on a memorial and research centre. They should first focus on providing the victims with quality water and a good life...” Vishwas Sarang, the minister in charge of the relief and rehabilitation, said the government wants to give a good life to the victims and that is why they are making efforts to provide them health facilities and jobs. “The hazardous waste is lying in the area for years and we are trying to dispose it of as soon as possible as per the guidelines of the Supreme Court and ministry of environment. If required, we will do a survey of groundwater and soil of the nearby area and will accordingly.” In 2012, the Supreme Court ordered the ministry to dispose of the waste after conducting a trial and an assessment of the impact of the disposal on the environment. After a ministry report, the court asked the state government to release tenders under the guidance of the Central Pollution Control Board for waste disposal. The Board disposed of 10 tonnes of waste from the factory premises on a trial basis in Pithampur Industrial area in Dhar. But after the trial, the government did not take any further action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/mp-to-dispose-of-hazardous-waste-for-memorial-to-bhopal-gas-tragedy-victims-101624977077880.html
29-06-2021||Patna||Boy does well in Class 10 Bihar board exam; Juvenile Justice Board acquits him||The Juvenile Justice Board (JJB) of Biharsharif has acquitted two minor boys of Mahadalit community after one of them passed his standard 10 examination conducted by the Bihar School Examination Board (BSEB). The result was declared in April this year. JJB principal judge Manvendra Mishra acquitted the minors when one of them submitted his mark sheet to the board. The 14-year-old has scored 83 in Mathematics and an overall 77% in standard 10. He also decided to bear the expense of English coaching for the boy in case he wants to pursue his class 12 in English medium.Also Read | Decision to reopen schools to be taken after July 6: Bihar education ministerAccording to additional public prosecutor (APP) Jai Prakash, the boys who are brothers, are among 37 people who were booked by the Deepnagar police station on May 27, 2019 on the basis of the statement of one Bhagirath Prasad on the charges of fighting over a petty issue. On learning that they were minors, the court of Chief judicial magistrate (CJM) sent the matter to JJB, Biharsharif. The boys’ father is mentally ill while their mother suffers from severe illness. They have five sisters as well. One of the brothers worked in an eatery before they were arrested. Seeking their bail in 2019, their parents told the JJB that the younger one would have to give up studies if the case continued. The boy convinced the board that he will do well in his BSEB examination.The JJB granted them bail on the condition that the younger one will submit his mark sheet once the results were out. During the final hearing through video conferencing, the JJB got details from the Deepnagar police station and decided to acquit them. The JJB ordered the block development officer (BDO) to provide ration card, Indira Aaawas, Ayushman Bharat scheme etc to the family and skill development course to the elder brother.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/boy-does-well-in-class-10-bihar-board-exam-juvenile-justice-board-acquits-him-101624976477509.html
29-06-2021||Lucknow||Ambedkar always worked for an egalitarian society: President||President Ram Nath Kovind on Tuesday said equality was always on top of Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar’s mind as he realised that the country’s integrated development was impossible unless the governments worked to bring about equality in society.He was speaking at a virtual foundation stone laying ceremony of Babasaheb Dr Bhimrao Ambedkar Memorial Cultural Centre here. Kovind said Ambedkar worked to bring about equality in society and incorporated the same in the Preamble of the Constitution.Governor Anandiben Patel, chief minister Yogi Adityanath, deputy chief ministers Keshav Prasad Maurya and Dinesh Sharma were among those who attended the ceremony.Also Read | Ram Nath Kovind first President to reach Lucknow by trainAdityanath, in his address earlier, pointed out that Ambedkar launched a newspaper titled Samta 93 years ago.Kovind said the foundation of the memorial and cultural centre was being laid on the day when Ambedkar pushed the idea of equality in society. “This day is important for us because Dr Ambedkar began his journey for equality 93 years ago on this day and we are witness to this journey being taken forward by laying of the foundation stone of Ambedkar Memorial and Cultural Centre,” said Kovind.He said Ambedkar had a special connection with Lucknow. “Bodhanandji, who was like a guru for Baba Saheb, and Bhadant Pragyanandji, who gave diksha to him, lived in Lucknow and Dr Ambedkar used to visit them.”He said all the places associated with Ambedkar have special importance for the people of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ambedkar-always-worked-for-an-egalitarian-society-president-101624975757664.html
29-06-2021||Kolkata||TMC sharpens attack against Bengal governor Dhankhar over Jain Hawla case||The ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) in West Bengal sharpened its attack on governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Tuesday saying that “the name of one Dhankhar can be found in the Jain Hawala case”.“Names of several politicians who took bribe cropped up when the case was being heard. One of them was that of Dhankhar. It is not possible for me to say whether our governor and that person (Dhankhar) named in the Jain dairy are one and the same person. Only Dhankhar can clarify,” said TMC MP Sukhendu Sekhar Ray.This comes a day after chief minister Mamata Banerjee alleged that the name of Dhankhar appeared in the case. The Jain hawala case was a political scandal in the mid-90s centered around a handwritten diary that mentioned alleged hawala payments of about ₹65 crore. The names of the recipients were written in codes and matched the initials of some top political leaders. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) filed over two dozen chargesheets in this case. But the cases collapsed because the CBI did not produce any corroborative evidence to prove the bribery charge.Also Read | Statehood for north Bengal: The story of an old demand, new political dynamicThe governor has refuted the charges. “I never expected a leader of her stature to create a sensation, engage in misinformation and misrepresentation. I have not been charge-sheeted. There is no such document. This is far from fact. This is plain and simple untruth, misinformation. I have not taken any stay from any court,” Dhankhar said on Monday.There was no response from Dhankhar on Tuesday till almost two hours after the TMC’s fresh attack.Ray said the party will decide if any legal steps are to be taken in this regard. “Chief minister has already sent three letters to the Prime Minister on three occasions to relieve Dhankhar of the post. The parliament sessions start on July 19. We would explore if any steps could be taken against the governor in the parliament.”Dhankhar said on Monday that everyone named in the charge sheet was acquitted. Ray said that the case was still pending in the court and hence the question of acquittal does not arise.“TMC abides by the Constitution. It is not safe for the country if a man who doesn’t abide by the Constitution, is corrupt and may have links with terrorism is made the governor.”Samik Bhattacharya, the Bhartiya Janata Party’s Bengal spokesman, said the TMC is trying to divert the attention because it knows that the corruption in the Gorkha Territorial Administration (GTA) has now come out and the lid has been taken off from the fake vaccination racket in which senior leaders are involved.The governor said on Monday the TMC’s attack came after he raised allegations of corruption against the GTA, which runs the Darjeeling and Kalimpong regions. State minister Bratya Basu said the governor could have sought the report from the department of home and hill affairs instead.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/tmc-sharpens-attack-against-bengal-governor-dhankhar-over-jain-hawla-case-101624972698912.html
29-06-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali’s NIPER gets new director||Professor Dulal Panda of the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Bombay, will join as the director of National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research (NIPER), Mohali. The chairperson of the NIPER’s apex council has approved his appointment for a period of five years. The post has been lying vacant for a year and a half. The previous director, Raghuram Rao Akkinepally, was sacked by the President of India on December 3, 2019, for concealing facts while submitting his application for appointment. Akkinepally had been appointed in May 2017, after a gap of nearly seven years. Declared as an ‘Institute of National Importance’ by the Government of India, NIPER is the first national-level institute in pharmaceutical sciences with a proclaimed objective of becoming a centre of excellence for advanced studies and research in this field. Mohali houses the main campus of the group of seven NIPER institutes across India under the ministry of chemicals and fertilisers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohalis-niper-gets-new-director-101624971017180.html
29-06-2021||Lucknow||Gross deception: Mayawati hits out at BJP over laying foundation for Ambedkar cultural centre before 2022 UP polls||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati hit out at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government in Uttar Pradesh for laying the foundation of ‘Bharat Ratna Dr Bhimrao Memorial and Cultural Centre’ in the capital city of Lucknow by President Ram Nath Kovind, ahead of the 2022 assembly elections.“After neglecting Babasaheb Dr Bhimrao Ambedkar and harassing crores of his oppressed followers during their tenure, they are laying the foundation stone of 'Cultural Centre' in the name of Baba Saheb as the assembly elections are nearing, if not drama then what it is?" Mayawati tweeted on Tuesday.The President, who is on an official visit to Uttar Pradesh, paid floral tributes to Babasaheb and laid the foundation of a cultural center named after him, Rashtrapati Bhavan said on Twitter. The BSP supremo clarified that the party is not against commemorating Ambedkar but objects to electoral deception by laying the foundation stone so close to poll dates."BSP is not against setting up of any centre etc. in the name of Param Pujya Babasaheb Dr Ambedkar, but now doing all this for the sake of electoral interest is a gross deception. If the UP government had done this work earlier, then Rashtrapatiji would have been inaugurating this centre today, not just laying the foundation stone." she added.Also Read: BSP-SAD alliance will free Punjab from Cong misrule: MayawatiMayawati also took to task the previous state governments led by Samajwadi Party (SP) and Congress.“By the way, in resorting to such deceit and drama, no one is any less than the other -- whether it be the BJP government or that of the SP or the Congress,” she said.“In crushing the rights of Dalits and backwards and heaping injustice and atrocities on them, they all are the same -- this is known to all and very unfortunate,” she tweeted. “As a result, lakhs of government posts reserved for Dalits and backward classes people are lying vacant,”.The erstwhile chief minister also lamented that the present state of the buildings and parks built by her government “in the name of their saints, gurus and great men in UP”, insisting that “have been grossly neglected since the previous SP regime took over and the situation continues under the BJP government”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/gross-deception-mayawati-hits-out-at-bjp-over-laying-foundation-for-ambedkar-cultural-centre-before-2022-up-polls-101624970325515.html
29-06-2021||Chandigarh||Delta plus 'matter of concern', Covid-19 curbs extended till July 10: Punjab CM||With certain relaxations, Punjab on Tuesday extended the Covid-19 curbs till July 10 in view of the Delta plus mutation of the coronavirus. After the revised rules, bars, pubs and 'ahatas' can resume services, starting July 1. However, a condition of 50% capacity will be applicable. They will also be required to follow all Covid-19 norms like social distancing and mandatory wearing of face masks.It will also be mandatory for waiters, bartenders and other employees working at those bars and pubs to take at least one dose of the Covid-19 vaccine.Skill development centres and universities have also been allowed to open with conditions that staff and students must have taken at least one dose of vaccine. The onus of vaccination on the owners, the chief minister asserted.Expressing satisfaction over the decline in positivity to less than 1%, with an overall fall in inactive cases, Singh noted that the positivity rate in some districts still remained over 1%. Further, speaking on the rising cases of Delta PLus variant, Singh said it is a "matter of concern," hence it is essential to continue with the curbs.The month-wise whole-genome sequencing has shown that more than 90% is a variant of concern, with the original virus having been practically replaced by variants, he also informed at the Covid-19 review meeting.Two cases (Ludhiana and Patiala) have shown Delta plus variant, while in May and June, the Delta variant was most prevalent, he pointed out.Singh also directed health officials to ramp up testing as he reviewed the preparations for the imminent third wave.On the Black Fungus (Mucormycosis), a fungal infection commonly being found in Covid-19 patients in the recovery stage, the Singh noted that Punjab has had much fewer cases than most other states, including Haryana, and Delhi, which not only saw more cases but more than three times the deaths in Punjab. However, it was still unfortunate that 51 people had died due to black fungus in the state, he also said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/delta-plus-matter-of-concern-covid-19-curbs-extended-till-july-10-punjab-cm-101624968054558.html
29-06-2021||Pune||Civic Sanskriti: Pune municipal polls must reflect civic reality||With elections coming up, the public should express what they want the future government to do. Hopefully, we will be over the worst of the health crisis of Covid-19 by the end of 2021 and can look forward to resuming work and education. Safe transport is a crucial service we would want the city government to focus on. A basic expectation is that going anywhere in the city should be easy, safe, and affordable. Since the transport sector is a major pollution source in Pune, it is equally essential to reduce the number of private vehicles on road. Strengthening bus-based public transport is among the most critical needs in Pune currently, for providing mobility for all and reducing vehicular pollution. People living in the Pune municipal area used to make roughly six million trips daily going to school, college, or workplaces, for domestic chores, or for leisure or social needs, prior to the pandemic situation. Only about 17% of these trips used public transport. The share of public transport must rise to at least 40% in the next four to five years and facilities for walking and cycling improved alongside. Though many Punekars and perhaps politicians feel that the Metro will meet public transport demand, in fact, in most big cities which have a substantial metro network, such as London, New York and Singapore - the bus system often carries as many, if not more people. This is because buses are easier to access and convenient for medium-length trips, which is the bulk of the trips in Pune. Pune’s Comprehensive Mobility Plan has projected that unless public transport is improved, congestion will rise dramatically. Peak-hour travel times would increase, and traffic would move at about 10km per hour along the major arterial roads. Air pollution would become much worse. So how will the shift from private-transport to public-transport happen? It can only happen with excellent public transport. We are fortunate to have PMPML as a publicly-owned city bus service. Now, PMPML must step up, and also receive PMC and PCMC support, to provide high-quality, easily accessible to all, affordable, high frequency bus services. Good network, but strengthen the fleet As per an ITDP study “People near Transit, Transit near People”, about 25% of the population will have access to rapid transit within 500 metres, considering that both metro and Rainbow BRT networks will be operational. All the rest of us, who don’t live near the metro or Rainbow BRT would use the regular city bus services by PMPML. This is eminently possible since 96% of Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad live within 500 metres of the extensive PMPML network. Bus connectivity is already pretty good. However, according to Pranjali Deshpande, who authored the study, the frequency of the bus service needs to be greatly improved, as only 66% of people have a bus available every five minutes at a walking distance of 500 metres. PMPML must increase the number of buses substantially, and strengthen routes and operations for more people to ride the bus. PMPML’s new business plan suggests that fleet size would be 3,600 buses in the next 10 years. Considering the service area and population, the Pune urban region already needs 2,500 buses in service. Currently, only 1,400 are operational. In fact, PMPML should aim for at least 5,000 buses over the next few years just for Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad. The benchmark by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs is 40-60 buses per 0.1 million people. Bus Rapid Transit When Rainbow Bus Rapid Transit was launched in 2015, it received a huge positive response from commuters with its high-quality services, dedicated bus lanes, covered bus shelters, bus arrival information, safe access to the bus, clear branding, and customer relations. However, the city has so far operationalised only two corridors in Pune–Sangamwadi-Vishrantwadi and Yerwada-Wagholi – though funding was accessed for 60km of BRT. Sujit Patwardhan, founder of Parisar, advises that PMPML and PMC need to renew the commitment to the Rainbow BRT and implement the network and maintain it well, and this should have been included in the business plan. Finance Both the Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad municipal corporations should continue to support PMPML by providing it annual core funds, regularly and in time. They should also help raise additional revenue and create the necessary facilities of good bus shelters and for pedestrians and cyclists to access public transit services. Though experts’ views differ on the exact strategies for strengthening the organisation and its operations, and the fleet size essential, PMPML’s new business plan is a step forward. Will election manifestos support excellent bus-based public transport? They must if politicians care for the well-being of people and aim to improve air quality and climate action. Sanskriti Menon is senior programme director, Centre for Environment Education. She writes on urban sustainability and participatory governance. Views are personal. She can be reached at civic.sanskriti@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/civic-sanskriti-pune-municipal-polls-must-reflect-civic-reality-101624967957563.html
29-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi opens up: Fashion designers feel optimistic||The second wave of the Covid-19 crisis and lockdown brought the fashion industry to a halt once again. Production and sales were severely hit by the temporary closure of manufacturing units, stores. However, now with the ease in restrictions, Delhi designers feel hopeful about bouncing back to business.“We opened just a few days ago and business has been encouraging. I’m surprised to see such numbers already,” says Rahul Mishra. Echoing the sentiment, Gaurav Gupta says, “Couture clients were waiting to visit the store in Mehrauli and my other store is getting decent footfall as well.”The stores have reopened with utmost safety precautions after the hiatus. “People were locked in and want to feel normal once again. The stores are following safety protocols, are well-ventilated,” says Namrata Joshipura. Designers are also ensuring the garments for trial are well sanitised.And in a move to entice shoppers, some are offering rare discounts. Mishra says, “We don’t give discounts usually, but stores were shut for two months. So we are offering off on certain pieces for a week.”However, many are still encouraging virtual meetings to maintain social distance. Suneet Varma says, “People are getting more comfortable buying digitally, especially the NRI and international clients. But a few personalised appointments are also there.” Although there is limited clientele at any given time, but digital sales have seen higher conversions. Gupta is also advocating a combination of offline and online appointments. “Before fixing an offline meet, all queries and concerns are considered to lessen visits to the store,” he adds.Despite reopening, some designers are facing challenges due to vaccine hesitancy among artisans and taking the onus of inoculation on themselves. Anju Modi says, “Kaarigars went back to their villages and are coming back now. We have to get them vaccinated.” Joshipura also feels this is their responsibility. “Some kaarigars are afraid to get vaccinated, but we are assisting them in getting slots booked,” she says.Nevertheless, the sudden break has been a moment to pause and reflect for many including Modi who says, “We have taken this time to restructure our way of working. We are doing more in-depth research, thinking of holistic ways, consuming less and becoming more conscious of the wastage.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-opens-up-fashion-designers-feel-optimistic-101624965317022.html
29-06-2021||Chandigarh||Savouring the hidden agenda of a blabbermouth Mintu||The tallest mint plant in the backyard talks to me twice a day. I go there to see the progress of the kitchen garden, turned into one by filling earth in the small swimming pool for children. With the kids having flown the nest, we decided a couple of years ago, to go for home-grown vegetables. For the last four seasons, it has supplied us with organic, green veggies, just enough for Koumdi and me. How does he do the talking? “For the ensuing Covid period, we have been, on an experimental basis, endowed by Mother Nature, to engage traumatised humans into conversation, to give them some relief and mental succour,” said Mintu, a name I gave it. With the last season withering out, the crop that had matured beyond not yielding anything had been uprooted by the mali (gardener), who spared Mintu and its family bunch, since they still looked fresh. In April, when the mali sowed lady’s finger and gourd seeds, Mintu told me that it was time for brinjal and tomato, too. “Your mali is a good for nothing fellow. He should have made you an expert in growing, pruning, watering and nurturing plants by now.” I told Mintu that the mali had transplanted brinjal and tomatoes but Mintu ignored my statement. “Uprooting sounds barbarous, no?” it referred to the mali’s act. I told Mintu to wait for a few days when the mali’s efforts would bear fruit. It smiled wryly. I sprinkled some water on it and its family bunch and moved on. The next morning, Mintu looked fresh. “Hey, I saw the lady’s finger seed germinating moment by moment at night. I even heard a ticking sound. By sunrise two small leafy eruptions were there.” “Wow!” I said, “Let me have a look!” I was excited to see the callow, pastel green, pithy mini-bulge. I looked at the point where the gardener had grown gourd seed. Going closer, I saw some groundswell there as well. It was my turn now to surprise Mintu who looked excited and exclaimed, “More the merrier! Tell your mali to fix prods in time for these creepers to lean on, or else their tentacles will interfere with the tomatoes when they find roots, and maybe they reach our colony too.” A fortnight flew by when Mintu found enough verdure greenery around in the vicinity. It kept informing me about what transpired in the bed in my absence. Mintu knew I was happy visiting the backyard regularly and talking to it. It talked about the lemon-coloured flowers that grew on the branch before fruiting into lady’s finger and gourd. Mintu was worried about the brinjal plant leaves that had begun to be eaten by pests. “Your mali should have arranged for some pesticide,” Mintu cribbed again, “he doesn’t even properly water them all.” The next day, I asked the mali to arrange for some pesticide. I talked to him about some other things that Mintu had shared with me. The mali was intrigued with my knowledge of plants and maintenance of the bed. I returned to Mintu when it pleaded with me, “Sir, can I ask for a favour?” “Please go ahead.” I said. “If you are happy with me, can you ask the mali not to uproot me and my family one more time this season? In case he has to, can you have some of us transplanted here in this bed only?” My faith in life, and the place where one belonged, got reaffirmed, that too with a hint of mint. rajbirdeswal@hotmail.com The author is a retired IPS officer and an advocate||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/savouring-the-hidden-agenda-of-a-blabbermouth-mintu-101624964897038.html
29-06-2021||Patna||Nitish Kumar not comfortable in NDA, says Congress leader||Congress leader Tariq Anwar has said Bihar’s Nitish Kumar-led government will not survive long citing “intense squabbling” within the ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA). He told reporters on Monday that Kumar was under tremendous pressure due to ally Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s antics.“Given the nature of Nitish Kumar and marginalisation of the Janata Dal (United)... it is for all of us to see how long he could survive...”Also Read | Bihar councillor beats vaccine hesitancy with a lucky draw in KatiharAnwar’s comments came days after Rashtriya Janata Dal leader (RJD) Tejashwi Prasad Yadav last week said the government would fall in a couple of months.The Janata Dal (United) or JD(U) has dismissed the claim of the imminent fall of the government. “No power in the world can bring down Nitish Kumar’s government for five years,” said JD-U leader Upendra Kushwaha on Sunday.BJP leader Prem Ranjan Patel said on Sunday, “They are dreaming that the government is going to fall in two to three months. But his dream will remain a dream.”The NDA has a wafer-thin majority of 127 in the 243-member Bihar assembly. The BJP has 74 seats and JD (U) 44. The RJD-led opposition Grand Alliance has 115 members while RJD is the single largest party in the assembly with 75 seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/nitish-kumar-not-comfortable-in-nda-says-congress-leader-101624962437290.html
29-06-2021||Other||Bankatwa is Bihar’s 1st block where everyone above 18 has got 1st vaccine dose||East Champaran’s Bankatwa has become Bihar’s first block, where the entire eligible population above 18 has received the first dose of Covid-19 vaccination, officials said.District magistrate Shirsat Kapil Ashok said that except for children and migrant workers, the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine has been given to the entire population.A team of vaccinators has administered the first dose to 52,500 people above 18 of a total population of 116,863 in over two months.Also Read | Bihar councillor beats vaccine hesitancy with a lucky draw in KatiharAshok said the district administration has been keeping an eye on migrant workers and other non-residents of Bankatwa block. “They will be given vaccines as and when they come. In the meantime, they are being also tracked and efforts are on to ensure that they get vaccinated in whichever part of the country they are.”The vaccination drive started on January 30. “We came across many villagers who feared repercussions of vaccination in the form of death, fever or impotency, and hence, the vaccination drive did not yield the desired result at the outset,” said Gyan Prakash, sub-divisional magistrate.Over 20,000 people were inoculated during a mega drive on June 21 and 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bankatwa-is-bihar-s-1st-block-where-everyone-above-18-has-got-1st-vaccine-dose-101624961117441.html
29-06-2021||Patna||Bihar councillor beats vaccine hesitancy with a lucky draw in Katihar||In a first of its kind initiative in Bihar to overcome vaccine hesitancy, a ward councillor in Katihar district gave out gifts in a lucky draw and made a record by getting 800 persons to come forward for vaccination at one centre in a single day. An impressed administration said it may repeat the formula at other centres to step-up the drive.Manzoor Khan, councillor of ward number 45 in Katihar, gave away a 24-inch LED colour TV, a bicycle, pedestal fan, wall clocks and tiffin boxes as gifts for the winners of the lucky draw among the 782 persons who took a jab of the vaccine at a special camp held at the Bhatta Tola vaccination centre in his constituency on June 26, creating a record for vaccinations done in a day at a single centre in the district. “We had never achieved around 800 vaccinations in a single day at any vaccination session site since the commencement of the Covid-19 inoculation drive on January 16. We would be happy to vaccinate around 200-350 people at a vaccination centre. However, we achieved a new milestone for our district on June 26,” said Udayan Mishra, district magistrate of Katihar, who handed out the gifts to lucky beneficiaries. “We are now planning similar initiatives, involving public representatives, and doling out gifts among beneficiaries on a weekly basis,” Mishra added. The hero of the campaign, Manzoor Khan, whose idea made the drive a huge success, admitted there was vaccine hesitancy in Muslim dominated areas. “I took my idea of organising a lucky draw at the vaccination centre to the district magistrate, who supported me. I then got in touch with M/s Neha, a potato cold storage firm, which agreed to sponsor the gifts. We had to pitch pandals, draw up tarpaulin because of rains and decorate the vaccination centre with balloons, etc. to give it a festive look, for which, I also contributed some money. The entire show was organised at a cost of ₹52,000,” Khan said.District immunisation officer Dr DN Jha was appreciative of Khan’s initiative. “Had it not rained, we may have achieved 1000-plus vaccinations, but we had to stop at 782 vaccinations that day,” he said.Khan said it was possible to achieve the target of vaccinating the country’s population if public representatives took interest in the drive.One of the laggards on the front of vaccination, Katihar initially managed to vaccinate only around 2,500 persons out of the 2.2 million eligible population before the onset of the second wave of the pandemic, which caused several thousand deaths. The drive has, however, picked pace in the last month.“We have vaccinated 310,000 beneficiaries with the first dose, which makes up 15% of the eligible population. We have been able to almost saturate ward number 45, where the special vaccination drive was organised,” said Dr DN Pandey, civil surgeon of Katihar. The district is also using 20 Teeka Express or mobile vaccination vans to take the drive to rural areas and inoculate people in urban areas at their doorsteps. “We have vaccinated 13,211 beneficiaries so far at an average of 287 vaccinations per day, per van since June 4, when two mobile vans started to ply in urban areas of the district.” said Rahul Kumar Sonkar, district technical officer, outreach and nutrition, Care India, which is the development partner to the state health department. Bihar has so far administered 15.825 million doses of the Covid-19 vaccine among its 72.2 million eligible population. Of this, 13.625m have been given the first dose and 2.199m the second dose. Chief minister Nitish Kumar has set a target to vaccinate 60 million people in six months, beginning July.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-councillor-beats-vaccine-hesitancy-with-a-lucky-draw-in-katihar-101624960817302.html
29-06-2021||Jaipur||Joshi-Shekhawat spat turns into poster war in Rajasthan||The war of words between Congress chief whip Mahesh Joshi and Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat has escalated into a poster war in Jaipur. The Crime Branch had sent the notice to Joshi, asking him to appear before it on June 24 for questioning in the phone-tapping case lodged on a complaint by Shekhawat. The chief whip replied to it, refusing to appear before the Delhi Police.The case was registered in March this year against the OSD to Rajasthan chief minister, Lokesh Sharma, on the complaint by the minster, who is also the BJP MP from Jodhpur. Sharma had allegedly circulated audio clips purportedly with Shekhawat talking about toppling the Congress government in the state. Sharma rejected the allegations and moved Delhi high court seeking quashing of the FIR against him. Also Read | Petrol crosses ₹100/litre in West Bengal, ₹110/litre in Rajasthan’s GanganagarMeanwhile, Joshi’s supporters have put up big hoardings at the prominent places in Jaipur. The hoardings with Joshi’s photo carry slogans such as ‘Har Anyay Ka Denge Jawab’ (will answer every injustice) and ‘Yah Anyay Nahi Sahega Jaipur’ (Jaipur will not tolerate this injustice). Reacting to this, Shekhawat’s supporters held a demonstration with a poster depicting the minister as an elephant with some dogs barking charges like “ACB ka Pata Batau kya (should I tell the address of ACB)”, “Shekhawat ko Isteefa dena chahiye’ (Shekhawat should resign)”. Leading the protest near Civil Lines railway crossing, Shekhawat supporter Prem Singh Banwasa said, “We held a demonstration against the chief whip who has been insulting the Union minister instead of appearing before the Delhi Police.” Reacting to the demonstration, Joshi said, “PM Narendra Modi talks about the elimination of Covid-19 but BJP workers are polluting the environment by burning effigies. Till date, I don’t have any FIR against me. A wrong notice has been sent, if such a notice is sent in a threatening manner, we will protest again.” After the Delhi Police notice, Joshi attacked Shekhawat, calling him a fugitive and asking why he has not given a voice sample to the anti-corruption bureau.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/joshishekhawat-spat-turns-into-poster-war-in-rajasthan-101624959977865.html
29-06-2021||Noida||Bull’s decapitated body found in Noida’s Sector 45||A black bull’s decapitated carcass was found at a garbage dump in Sector 45, Noida, on Tuesday morning. A local from the area spotted it during his morning walk who then informed about it to the Gau Nandi Sewa Hospital volunteer.Kapil Anand, a volunteer at the Sector 62 hospital, who arrived with an ambulance, said, “By the time I reached the spot, a large crowd had gathered there and local police officials were also there. The bull’s head had been chopped off and was lying across the garbage dump. A blunt object similar to a large knife was also found on the spot.” “We took the carcass to the hospital where post-mortem was done by the chief veterinary officer before we conducted the animal’s last rites,” added Anand.Also Read | Cops bust prostitution racket in Noida, 28 people arrestedChief veterinary officer Virendra Kumar Srivastava said, “It seems that the incident happened at night. The post-mortem report will be submitted to the police for investigation.”Additional deputy commissioner of police Ranvijay Singh said, “We had to disperse the crowd. An FIR has been lodged under 3/8 Cow Slaughtering Act and Section 295 of the Indian Penal Code.”“The incident occurred near Amrapali Sapphire apartments in Sector 45. It seems that it was done to disturb law and order situation in the city,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/bulls-decapitated-body-found-in-noida-s-sector-45-101624957336937.html
29-06-2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Garden Reach shipyard installs AI-enabled surveillance network||The Garden Reach Shipbuilders and Engineers Ltd (GRSE), a leading shipyard and warship manufacturer in Kolkata, has installed an artificial intelligence (AI)-enabled high-end CCTV network for surveillance at its five units in the city to ward off any threat to its assets, an official was quoted as saying by news agency PTI on Tuesday. The state-of-the-art technology will enable surveillance of the 152.81-acre area of the shipyard to ensure round-the-clock safety and security of all its premises, he added"Adopting the latest technology with respect to the security of infrastructure and other assets, defense PSU GRSE has commenced an artificial intelligence-enabled high-end CCTV network across its five units in Kolkata at a cost of ₹12.95 crore," the official of the leading warship builder said.The AI-enabled system will also prove to be a valuable tool during any investigation, detecting unauthorised intrusion or trespassing, he said.The security system was set into operation at the Main Control room, the GRSE main unit on Monday in the presence of Rear Admiral (retd) V K Saxena, the Chairman and Managing Director of the warship builder."This flexible and intelligent security of GRSE's infrastructure is the need of the hour for a defense PSU and the shipyard has deployed the CCTV network to boost operational safety and productivity," the official said.The security system includes tracking unidentified goods and materials, automatic alarm in case of an unusual gathering of personnel, tracking alarm of camera tampering, automatic alarm for trespassing/ intrusion, and tracking of personnel/ vehicles of dubious nature, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/kolkata-garden-reach-shipyard-installs-ai-enabled-surveillance-network-101624955009986.html
29-06-2021||Mumbai||Anil Deshmukh fails to appear before ED, requests to record his statement online||Former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh again failed to show up at the office of the Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Tuesday. Instead, he sent a letter through his legal representative, requesting the agency to record his “statement on audio/visual mode at whatever time convenient.” He has also sought a copy of the enforcement case information report (ECIR) that ED has registered against him.ED had, on Monday, issued a second summons to Deshmukh to question him in connection with the alleged money laundering linked to the extortion racket involving dismissed assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze.Deshmukh had failed to appear before investigators on June 26 when the first summons were issued.Responding to the second summons, Deshmukh sent a three-page letter to ED through his lawyer, advocate Inderpal B Singh, on Tuesday morning.Also Read | ‘BJP using agencies to trouble leaders of Maharashtra’s ruling parties’“It would not be possible for me to furnish the documents sought by you unless I am furnished with or supplied the copy of the ECIR MBZO-I66/2021 or list of documents. Unless the said ECIR is perused by me, it will not be possible to furnish the documents sought,” the former minister stated in the letter.“I have already exposed my person to some extent on June 25, in my long interaction with you spanning over several hours during the course of search and recording of my statement. I will furnish all information and any document that you may require once I am aware of the contents and details thereof. The copy of ECIR is not available with me, I am handicapped and incapacitated to furnish the documents as of now,” he added in the letter.He said, “Contrary to the fact that I had duly complied with the summons dated June 25 in the letter and spirit by appearing through authorised representative, an adverse propaganda against me was unleashed in social and print media platforms alleging that instead of complying I have sought time to appear.”The senior Nationalist Congress Party leader further stated that, “I have been repeatedly highlighting that the proceedings being initiated against me at the instance of certain individuals who are themselves guilty of grave offences & have dubious antecedents as also the fact that a political tug of war has been initiated by the Central Government led by a particular political party who seek to abuse their power and authority for vested interest.”“Please note that your summons do not clarify the particular purpose of my personal appearance. You have arrested two persons who were associated with me. Therefore, insistence on personal appearance without even supplying me a copy of the EClR or documents may strengthen my assertion that there is some kind of malice being nursed against me,” he said in the letter.If the ED’s investigators are not satisfied with Deshmukh’s letter, the agency may soon issue third summons.The anti-money laundering agency already arrested Deshmukh’s personal secretary Sanjeev Palande and personal assistant Kundan Shinde early Saturday morning after carrying out raids at their properties in Mumbai and Nagpur on Friday. The two are in ED’s custody up to July 1. The ED also claimed to have found that Vaze had collected ₹4.7 crore from various orchestra bar owners in Mumbai for “smooth functioning of the bars”. Later, through hawala channels, this money was sent to the Delhi-based Jain brothers who operate paper (bogus) companies, said the agency. It claimed that the Jain brothers, on the instructions of Deshmukh’s son Hrishikesh, diverted this money as donations to Nagpur-based Shri Sai Shikshan Sansthan, a trust controlled by the Deshmukh family. ED has said that while collecting money from the bar owners, Vaze told them that part of the money was to go to “No.1”, crime branch and the social service branch of Mumbai Police. ED has also said that when they recorded the statement of Vaze, presently in Taloja jail in connection with his alleged role in the Antilia explosives and Mansukh Hirani murder cases, he told the investigators that Deshmukh had called him to his official residence and instructed him to collect ₹3 lakh from every bar and restaurant in the city. He was also given a list of the establishments. ED has also identified 24 private entities that are directly and indirectly controlled by the Deshmukh family and found that huge sums of money had moved among them without any rationale.“From the analysis of the bank accounts of these companies, it is clear that there is no rationale for the transfers and can thus be said that these series of transactions were meant for inflating balance sheets and layering of money from one company to other,” ED had stated. The money laundering case against Deshmukh was registered based on an FIR by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) against him on April 21.CBI, in turn, started the probe after former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh alleged that the NCP leader ran an “extortion racket” in Mumbai and had instructed some Mumbai Police officers to collect ₹100 crore for him every month from various establishments.Deshmukh has called the allegations false and claimed that Param Bir Singh levelled the accusations only after being shunted out from the Mumbai Police chief’s post for his poor handling of the Antilia explosives scare and Mansukh Hiran murder cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/anil-deshmukh-fails-to-appear-before-ed-requests-to-record-his-statement-online-101624955836905.html
29-06-2021||Chandigarh||Eye on polls, Arvind Kejriwal promises free electricity in Punjab||Aam Aadmi Party national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Tuesday that if the AAP was voted to power in the assembly elections early next year, it would ensure 300 units of free electricity to each household.Also read: Kejriwal promises free power if AAP forms govt in Punjab“Punjab is a power surplus state, but still has the most expensive power in the country. In Delhi, we buy power and provide electricity at the cheapest rates. Power is expensive in Punjab because there is a nexus between the government and (private) power companies. If this nexus is ended, we can reduce the power rates in the state,” Kejriwal said at a press conference in Chandigarh.Kejriwal’s guarantee, not Capt’s promises Announcing three guarantees, he said if the AAP wins in Punjab, “Our government will give 300 units of free electricity to each household. 77-80% households in Punjab will get zero bill. Secondly, all pending bills of domestic connections will be written off. Thirdly, 24-hour supply will be ensured as the state has surplus power.”He clarified that free power is for domestic consumers with consumption of up to 300 units. If power consumption exceeds 300 units, the consumer will have to pay the bill.He said these were Kejriwal’s guarantees, not Capt’s (Amarinder Singh) promises. “As soon as the AAP government is formed, we will ensure free power and write off pending bills of consumers of domestic supply category,” Kejriwal declared.He was accompanied by state AAP president Bhagwant Mann, leader of opposition in the Punjab assembly Harpal Singh Cheema, Punjab affairs in-charge and Delhi MLA Jarnail Singh and AAP spokesperson and Punjab affairs co-incharge Raghav Chadha besides former Indian Police Service officer Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh.Will replicate Delhi model “I am sure these announcements will make everyone, particularly women, in Punjab happy,” the Delhi chief minister said.“We have done this in Delhi in six years where people get free power and the government and power companies are in profit. We will do it in Punjab in the same way. Yeh jadoo hai hamein hi karna aata hai (Only the AAP knows how to make this possible). I have done my calculations,” Kejriwal said.Free power will continue for farmers Farmers will continue to get it free and consumers of other categories will continue to get it at the present rate, Kejriwal said. “There is no dearth of money in Punjab, but it lacks a government with acchi neeyat (good intentions),” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/aiming-at-power-kejriwal-promises-punjab-free-electricity-101624955716781.html
29-06-2021||Noida||Cops bust prostitution racket in Noida, 28 people arrested||The Noida police on Tuesday said as many as 28 people, including 12 women, have been arrested from the city for alleged prostitution and illegal flesh trade. The raid was conducted after the cops received a tip-off about a prostitution racket operating from a residence in Sector-51, said additional deputy commissioner of police Ranvijay Singh said on Tuesday."Based on the input, the house, in Sector 49 police station area, was raided late last night, leading to the arrest of 16 men and 12 women from the site," Singh said, adding, "Some incriminating material has also been seized from the spot."The raid teams included an assistant commissioner of police, the local police station in-charge, officials from the Mahila Thana, and the Anti-Human Trafficking Unit, he said. An FIR is being lodged in the case and further legal proceedings would be initiated soon, Singh added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/cops-bust-prostitution-racket-in-noida-28-people-arrested-101624953462496.html
29-06-2021||Other||Boy falls off tree; lightning strike kills him in Maharashtra’s Palghar||A 17-year-old boy died while two others suffered injuries after they fell from a tree as lightning struck while they were trying to get mobile connectivity on Monday at Dahanu in Maharashtra’s Palgarh district.Dahanu tehsildar Rahul Sarang said Ravin Bachu Korda died as he fell from the tree after losing his balance as the lightning struck. His three friends, Mehul Anil Mankar, 14, Deepesh Sandip Korda, 14, Chetan Mohan Korda, 13, also fell down and received minor burns and fractures.Sarang said a team has been rushed to Dahanu to assess the situation and compensation to the boy’s family was likely to be given under rules stipulated for a natural disaster. Also Read | Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray says ready to vaccinate 1.5 million a dayResidents of the villages in the Wada-Dahanu belt climb onto teakwood trees to catch mobile signals to make phone calls because of a patchy network. Shashi Thakur, a local resident, said the villagers prefer teakwood trees because they are the tallest grown in the area and have strong branches. “...due to weak network, we are compelled to climb the tall teakwood trees and talk. It is a big risk as there are chances of falling... especially during the monsoons...”Vasant Bhoir, another resident, said they have written letters to all service providers to improve the network but to date, there has been no response.Machindra Agiwale, a journalist with a Marathi newspaper, said he would travel on a bike around six kilometres to the nearest town to file his stories. “...mobile service providers are ignoring the rural areas and not installing towers in the villages.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/boy-falls-off-tree-lightning-strike-kills-him-in-maharashtra-s-palghar-101624953017019.html
29-06-2021||Delhi||Monsoon style: Fun, funky, frutilicious||If you have ever shied away from fruit prints thinking that they look kiddish, it’s time to change your mind. Fruit prints can inject a big dose of fun into your wardrobe. If done rightly, they look refreshing and cool and help make a chic style statement. Be it cherries, berries, banana, sliced coconut or watermelon, you can take your pick from a variety of cheerful, vibrant prints.Fruit prints are not new; they have been popular since 18th century. In old times, waistcoats were embroidered with berries on it. In the 1920s, abstract prints, which could be interpreted as cherries and berries became a fashion statement for the elite. In the 50s, dresses with cherries and strawberries were considered glam. In 1953, Christian Dior presented one of their jaw-dropping collections with berries, blueberries and strawberries. We keep seeing refreshing versions of fruit prints on the global runway with brands such as Dior, Gucci, D&G and others create jaw-dropping collections with delicious fruits every year.“The uniqueness of this print is that it is a part of nature but different from the run of the mill florals and animal prints. They signify a prosperous, comfortable lifestyle,” says fashion designer, Gautam Gupta. Designers have their own interpretation of this print. “Fruits, just like florals can have a beautifully poetic appeal on fabric and garments, given that its usage is done with a balance and restrain of making them look classic than overtly kitsch,” says fashion designer Karan Torani who has recently unveiled his latest collection with fruit prints.Fruit prints can be presented in various ways from quirky and fun to serious and elegant. “To ensure the prints don’t look childish, they can be made in seamless patterns and can be done in muted colours with a vintage, European feel. Also, while using bright colours is a good idea, it should not be overdone to avoid childish vibe. And toile fabric gives it a mature feel,” says Gupta. The right choice can enhance one’s entire look. Fashion designer Rina Dhaka, says, “Fruit prints were a big trend when I was growing up. In early 90’s, the tropical pineapple print, its leaves, cherries, little apples, even banana were the most popular. Now with the revival of trend and its recreation involving modern elements, you see its creative version that can totally cheer you up.”Wondering how to pick up the right prints? “If you like quirky and fun fruit prints, go for deep, dark backgrounds to bring out their vibrance and juiciness. If one is looking an elegant look, go for white, beige or off-white with toile prints or watercolour look prints. I guess cherries are the fruits everyone can safely try on, they fit in all moods,” says Gupta. Fashion designer Jenjum Gadi, says, “If you are road testing the look, go with the same pop colours of the fruits like orange, banana, yellow, peach while pairing it up. For a quirky look, play with lots of different fruits in an uneven abstract way to stand out.”Stylist Aakansha Kapoor shares a few tips to rock fruit prints:1. For a casual look, you can pair a fruit printed shirt or a crop top with plain trousers or a skirt.2. For your office/formal wear, you can pair small fruit printed shirt with jeans/pants.3. For your ideal beach vacation look, you can pair fruit printed dresses or T-shirts with shorts.4. To create a fun look, you can match your accessories with the same fruit print you are wearing.5. You can accessorize your fruit print outfits with neutral accessories like a bamboo bag.6. For a bolder look, go for print on print. A fruit printed shirt with striped/checked bottom can look great.7. Don’t go overboard when styling prints. Add a neutral element to your look.Author tweets @ruchikagarg271Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/monsoon-style-fun-funky-frutilicious-101624952543504.html
29-06-2021||Chandigarh||Tourism back with a bang in Himachal||With Covid-19 restrictions being lifted in Himachal Pradesh since June 14, the state’s tourism and hospitality industry is finally back on track. The state cabinet decided to do away with the condition for an e-pass for entering the state on June 23. Ever since, the influx of tourists has grown by the day, particularly during the weekend. Also read: Not just Delta Plus, 3 other variants of coronavirus pose threatHotels in Shimla were packed to capacity last weekend and tourists had to spend the night in their vehicles, while others went up further to Mashobra and Kufri to find accommodation. More than 22,000 vehicles of tourists had entered Shimla and adjoining areas over the weekend. “The hotel occupancy in Shimla was 100% on Saturday (June 26) and more than 60% on Sunday (June 27). This is a good sign for the industry that had been reeling under the impact of the pandemic,” said Gopal Aggarwal, the chief adviser of the Tourism Industry Stakeholders’ Association. A huge influx of tourists was witnessed in Manali, McLeodganj, Dalhousie, Khajjiar, Chail and Kasauli. The buzz also returned to Triund, the popular trekkers’ destination overlooking Dharamshala town, where more than 1,000 people reached during the weekend. All roads lead to hill state According to data released by the state police, since June 14 when the Covid curfew was lifted, a total of 2.57 lakh vehicles entered the state. Of these, 1.31 lakh vehicles entered between June 13 and 20 and 1.26 lakh between June 21 and 27. That adds up to an average of 18,370 vehicles a day. Authorities on the guard The heavy influx of tourists has left the authorities concerned as many were found not adhering to the Covid-19 safety protocol of wearing masks and maintaining social distancing. According to the police, 3,620 challans were issued for mask violation during this period and a fine of ₹20.05 lakh was realised. Besides, ₹17,000 was realised for violation of the Motor Vehicles Act, while ₹3,500 was recovered for driving without a mask.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/tourism-back-with-a-bang-in-himachal-101624952416899.html
29-06-2021||Delhi||It’s a wrap: Go vegan with these beauties||In a pandemic struck world, veganism is not a fad, it’s a way of life. With health becoming one of the prime concerns, a growing number of people are opting for a green diet. And there are studies that claim that being a vegan is a sensible choice. ‘Healthcare professionals consuming plant-based diets were 73% less likely to experience moderate to severe Covid-19,’ says a recent study.There are many benefits of choosing a vegan diet and if you think it’s a task to prepare, vegan wraps make for an easy, delicious choice. They are not only healthy and nutritious but also super easy to put together. “They are loaded with vegetables and healthy fats. They can be prepared with basic pantry ingredients yet provide full nutrition. No butter, no cheese… well your gym trainer will definitely be happy seeing you eat these,” says Chef Natasha Gandhi.The wrap consists of two components, the base and the filling inside. “The basic ingredients to make tortillas for a vegan wrap are wheat, salt, water and vegetable oil. Various other flours like millets, almond flour, white chickpea flour can also be considered. One can substitute lettuce with cabbage or steamed collard green to ramp up the flavor,” says culinary expert Vindhya Karwa of Vinsplate. All kinds of seeds and plant roots can be used to create flour for the wraps. “One can also experiment with soya base, amaranth flour, ragi and jowar flour too,” says chef Juliano Rodrigues, general manager of Out of The Blue. For filling one can also pick up from a variety of options. “From the point of using Asian elements, one can stuff with pickled radish and pock choy to using tofu and miso. Indian food such as mock cottage cheese, pickled mangoes, pickled lotus stems can also be used,” says chef Rajdeep Kapoor, executive chef ITC Maurya.Making them with the right blend of ingredients is all one has to do. “One can go wild with the color of the tortilla sheet, maybe by making a purple cabbage or a beetroot cheela to make it purple, a spinach infused chapatti for a green outer layer or even a tomato infused tortilla for a red colored wrap. Using thinly sliced zucchini is also something that one can try to make fresh zucchini wraps. When it comes to fillings, one can flavor their wraps with anything from anywhere in the world, be it a Thai filling or a raw mango – coconut filling, there are absolutely no boundaries to limit imagination,” says chef Rajesh Singh, executive sous chef, Taj Mahal, New Delhi.They’re the best place for your leftovers and help minimise food waste. “You need to create a good sauce or chutney as base, layer your left over veggies, add some pickled vegetables like onion beets and cabbage, some spices and I would recommend folding the edges and cooking it on the pan till it’s heated and crispy. I personally do this whenever there is a vegetable I don’t like, but you can totally do this with leftover gajar matar sabji or pav bhaji or even some bhindi,” says Gandhi.A wrap is evidently incomplete without a sauce and the best sauces to go in a wrap are vegan. “A simple cilantro-jalapeno sauce with a cashew paste base or a spicy mexican style adobo dressing can help get the heat levels high. Something as simple as an arugula pesto or a raw mango-coconut sauce can still help get the perfectly balanced wrap. If you have a flair for Japanese food, a must try is the vegan-wasabi sauce,” says Singh.Recipe Gluten-free Tortillas Ingredients 1/2 Cup millet flour (Ragi in one and Jowar in second ) 1/2 cup boiling water 2 tbsp tapioca starch Salt as per taste Process In a bowl add the flour and starch and knead with hot boiling water. Add the water gradually and knead into a medium soft dough. Let the dough rest for 5-7 mins Shape into equal sized balls and roll into thin round sheetsToss them onto a hot pan and cook on medium heat from both sides. Transfer to a plate once cooked on both sidesFor the FillingsLoad your Wrap with hummus or labneh as base, boiled kidney beans or chickpeas in a tomato sauce, swap the rice with cooked quinoa and top with a refreshing mango salsa and greens. by chef Natasha Gandhi Author tweets @ruchikagarg271Follow more stories in Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/its-a-wrap-go-vegan-with-these-beauties-101624952258811.html
29-06-2021||Other||Traffic blocked on Gaya-Patna National Highway over 12-yr-old boy’s abduction||Vehicular movement on the Gaya-Patna National Highway was disrupted on Tuesday as angry residents blocked it in protest against the alleged kidnapping for ransom of a 12-year-old boy on Monday.Rajendra Mishra, the boy’s father who is a temple priest, said the abductors were demanding ₹4 lakh ransom and have threatened to sell a kidney of the 12-year-old if the money is not paid. Police have registered a case of abduction against one Anil Bhatt.Also Read | Man files case against Dharmendra Pradhan in Bihar court over fuel price hikeProtestors raised slogans against police, threw stones at vehicles, and burnt tyres along the highway. Police were trying to pacify the protesters.Baban Baitha, a local police officer, said the blockade started around 5 am and was still going on.Senior police superintendent Aditya Kumar cited preliminary investigation and said it suggested there was a dispute over money and land between Bhatt and Mishra. “We are investigating the case from an abduction point of view. We have launched a massive search for the boy.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/traffic-blocked-on-gaya-patna-national-highway-over-12-yr-old-boy-s-abduction-101624951996527.html
29-06-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand CM, Governor condole death of state Lokayukta||Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren and Governor Droupadi Murmu have condoled the death of state Lokayukta Justice Dhruv Narayan Upadhyay.Justice Upadhyay, as per information breathed his last at AIIMS Delhi on Monday night where he was admitted due to illness.Soren in a tweet said: "Received the sad news of the demise of Justice Dhruv Narayan Upadhyay, Lokayukta of Jharkhand. While working in the judicial field, Justice Upadhyay ji had efficiently discharged many responsibilities."He added: "May God give peace to the departed soul and give strength to the bereaved family to bear the loss."The governor in a message has expressed deep sorrow and grief on the demise of Justice Upadhyay.Murmu said that his death has caused an irreparable loss to the judicial world."May God give eternal peace to his soul and give strength to his family members to bear this pain," her message said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-cm-governor-condole-death-of-state-lokayukta-101624949939038.html
29-06-2021||Other||Lone tusker may join herd after over 500km trek through 6 Jharkhand districts||A lone tusker that has killed at least 16 persons since April 1 in its journey across six districts in the state may be able to join its herd in Tundi area in Dhanbad district of Jharkhand after meandering for over 500 kilometres, said forest officials.They said they have been tracking the animal ever since it allegedly killed its first victim in Tundi area in Dhanbad district on April 8. “We think that is the period when the tusker either strayed from the herd or was pushed out by the members. We have managed to keep the herd in the Tundi forest area by training the villagers who have been armed with equipment such as search lights. We have also been tracking the movement of the lone tusker all along, alerting villagers on the route,” said Jharkhand chief wildlife warden Rajiv Ranjan.Also Read | Chhattisgarh: 3 forest officials removed, 2 suspended over elephant’s deathThe elephant reached Sahebganj district from where it almost retraced its steps to return to Tundi forest area. On the way to Sahebganj from Tundi in Dhanbad, it crossed four other districts of Jamtara, Deoghar, Dumka and Pakur.The distance by road from Tundi to Sahebganj is over 250 kilometres, making the total distance covered by the stray tusker at least 500 kilometres as animals tend to drift.Now that the tusker has reached closer to its herd, the officials are trying to lead it to its family. “As of now, it is in the Tundi mountainous pocket. We are trying to make it join the herd which is stationed in the Tundi forest area. However, that is tricky as it would depend on the herd to accept the tusker back,” said Rajiv Ranjan.Finding a way out for the elephant in case it is rejected by its herd would depend on its behaviour, said Ranjan. “It is not easy to tranquilise and move such a big animal from dense forest areas. If it goes wild, the other possibility would be to shoot it down. But that is the last option for us as we have been trying to lead it back to its herd,” said Ranjan.The last time the forest department was forced to kill an elephant was in 2017 in Sahebganj. Another tusker was killed in 2008 in Bokaro, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lone-tusker-may-join-herd-after-over-500km-trek-through-6-jharkhand-dists-101624948579230.html
29-06-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal increases retirement age at super-speciality hospital to 65 years||Despite opposition, the Himachal Pradesh government has increased the retirement age of the principal and faculty members at the super-speciality hospital at Chamiana in Shimla from 62 to 65 years. In a notification, the Himachal Pradesh department of medical education and research said that the faculty posts of non-superspeciality departments that have been created for the hospital shall form a part of the faculty cadre of Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital (IGMC), Shimla. Also read: Not just Delta Plus, 3 other variants of coronavirus pose threatThe faculty of the trauma centre and tertiary cancer care centre shall be a part of the IGMC cadre and any faculty appointed in these two institutions shall have no right of transfer/repatriation to the faculty cadre of any other government medical college of the state, it said. The faculty cadre of the super-speciality hospital shall be separate and under the director, medical education and research, Himachal Pradesh, while the cadre of paramedical staff shall remain under the state director, health services. According to the notification, the additional manpower of security guard, sanitation staff, ward boy, data entry operator etc for the super-speciality hospital, trauma centre and tertiary cancer care centre at IGMC shall be hired on outsource basis. The State Association of Medical and Dental College Teachers was opposed to the increase in the retirement age of the super-speciality college faculty. Association president Dr Ram Lal said there is an accepted policy of age of retirement for teachers at 62 years in IGMC, Shimla, and Rajendra Prasad Government Medical College, Tanda, while it is 65 years in the newly set up medical colleges. “Raising the age of retirement for super-specialities in these postgraduate institutes will not only block the promotional avenues by benefitting a section of the cadre but will also obstruct the feeding cadre of senior professors to new colleges already facing a shortage,” Dr Lal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-increases-retirement-age-at-super-speciality-hospital-to-65-years-101624947796490.html
29-06-2021||Mumbai||Two Romanians, a local arrested for ATM card cloning in Mumbai||Kandivali cyber crime unit of Mumbai Police has arrested two Romanian nationals and their local accomplice for allegedly cloning ATM cards and withdrawing money from bank accounts linked with those cards.The two men have been identified as Miyu Ruchinal, 48, and Budai Romana,36. Police have also recovered ₹60,000 in cash.Police said last week, a complainant approached them stating that amount of ₹6.05 lakh had been fraudulently withdrawn from his bank account from an ATM kiosk at Malad.On scanning CCTV footage of the ATM centre, police saw a local planting a micro camera and a magnetic chip in the machine.Also Read | Mumbai activist flags illegal work at Tungareshwar wildlife sanctuaryThe footage of CCTV cameras led the police to a car which they saw the accomplice board on Saturday. They tracked the vehicle through its registration number plate. They later noticed the vehicle parked outside the South Indian Bank ATM centre. “We entered the ATM centre and saw the accused installing a device used for cloning ATM cards,” said an officer from the cyber crime unit.The police arrested the accused and recovered a micro camera, magnetic chip, and several ATM cards from him.The accused confessed to cloning cards and led the police to the foreign nationals who were the masterminds of the racket. Both Ruchinal and Romana have been booked for cheating under section 420 of the Indian Penal Code and under relevant sections of the Information Technology Act, said an officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/two-romanians-a-local-arrested-for-atm-card-cloning-in-mumbai-101624944916762.html
29-06-2021||Delhi||Manish Sisodia claims govt car vandalised by BJP workers, slams attack on school||Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Tuesday claimed that workers of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) carried out acts of violence in a school being constructed in national capital. He also shared pictures on his Twitter handle, claiming that his government vehicle was also vandalised when he visited the site of the construction in Rohtas Nagar.“Today, the BJP workers and a goons opposed to the construction of school in Rohtas Nagar vandalised the building. They vandalised my government vehicle, and misbehaved with female teachers and the workers and engineers involved in construction work. Why are BJP workers opposed to education and construction of schools?” Sisodia asked in his tweet posted in Hindi.आज रोहतास नगर में स्कूल बनने का विरोध करते हुए बीजेपी नेताओं व गुंडों ने स्कूल में तोड़फोड़ की. मेरी सरकारी गाड़ी को तोड़ा, स्कूल का गेट तोड़कर अंदर मौजूद महिला शिक्षकों, इंजीनियर्स और मज़दूरों के साथ बदतमीज़ी की.भाजपाइयों को स्कूल बनने, पढ़ने लिखने से इतनी चिढ़ क्यों है? pic.twitter.com/29YOpo1JLDThe ruling Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and the BJP have been attacking each other over the past year on different issues - ranging from the farmers’ protest to supply of oxygen.In December last year, AAP leader Raghav Chadha tweeted photos on the attack of his Delhi Jal Board (DJB) office, and blamed the BJP workers for it. He claimed that his party’s stand against the farm laws passed by Parliament has led to the attack.During the peak of the second wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), AAP leaders claimed they are not being given enough oxygen to treat critical patients. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal too joined the attack and blamed the BJP-ruled central government of not paying heed to their demands.The BJP, on the other hand, alleged that the oxygen supply issue was exaggerated by the AAP leaders. The party leaders shared an interim report by a sub-group under the Supreme Court-appointed committee to audit oxygen utilisation in the national capital. The BJP leaders alleged that the actual requirement was much less than what was claimed by the ruling party in Delhi.There has also been sparring among the two parties over law and order situation int he national capital. The AAP wants the Centre to hand over the control of Delhi Police to the state government, something which is under Centre’s command since Delhi is not a full-fledged state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/manish-sisodia-claims-govt-car-vandalised-by-bjp-workers-slams-attack-on-school-101624944278565.html
29-06-2021||Kolkata||Two more arrested in fake vaccination racket in Kolkata||Two more persons were arrested on Tuesday in connection with the fake vaccination racket that was busted by the Kolkata Police last week. Police had earlier arrested four persons including the mastermind, Debanjan Deb, 28, who had been impersonating an IAS officer for the past four months to organise fake vaccination camps. The two arrested persons have been identified as Kanchan Deb, 37 and Sarat Patra, 52. While Patra had earlier worked under a doctor and was hired by Debanjan Deb to administer the fake injections to people, Kanchan Deb is Debanjan Deb’s cousin. “Kanchan Deb had knowledge about the fraud from the beginning. He even used to cheat Debanjan Deb,” said a senior police official. Till now sleuths have found transactions of over ₹2 crore in just one year in the bank account maintained by Debanjan Deb. Also Read | Debanjan Deb: Saga of conman who spent his money to run fake vaccination camps“He had taken a loan of ₹20 lakh from a private bank using forged documents. He had procured items such as mask and sanitiser worth ₹1.2 crore from a stockiest but never paid him. He hired employees who had to pay him for getting the job,” said the officer. Earlier police had found that Debanjan Ded had cheated at least two private firms and a contractor of nearly ₹1 crore, impersonating a senior IAS officer. Investigation so far has found Debanjan Deb had organised at least two fake vaccination camps in Kolkata, in which over 800 people, including Trinamool Congress (TMC) MP Mimi Chakraborty and family members of another TMC leader received the fake jabs. In one camp, police suspects the victims were given Amikacin, an antibiotic. The Kolkata Municipal Corporation and state health department organised health camps to conduct health check-up of the victims. While the Bharatiya Janata Party has demanded a CBI probe alleging that the mastermind had close links with senior TMC leaders, including ministers, MPs and MLAs, the ruling party leaders have rubbished the charges saying they might have come across Debanjan Deb in public programmes where it is not possible to check the credentials of each and every person.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/two-more-arrested-in-fake-vaccination-racket-in-kolkata-101624944196277.html
29-06-2021||Kolkata||Fake vaccine case: 2 more, including fake IAS officer's cousin, held in Kolkata||The Kolkata police has arrested two more persons in connection with the fake vaccination drive against coronavirus disease (Covid-19), said officials familiar with the development on Tuesday. Six persons have so far been arrested in the case, which includes fraud IAS officer Debanjan Deb -- the mastermind behind the elaborate scam. In the latest arrests, the cops have held Deb's cousin and another person who assisted in administering the fake vaccines, the police said."In a raid on Monday night, we picked up Deb's cousin from the Naktala area and another 52-year-old man from the northern part of the city. Both were actively involved with Deb," news agency PTI quoted an officer of the Kolkata police as saying. Deb's cousin knew from the very beginning that he was not an IAS officer and despite that, he continued assisting him in the illegal activities, the officer said."The cousin even cheated Deb. The other man was associated with a doctor of the Taltala area and assisting Deb in administering the fake Covid-19 vaccines to the people who came to the camps," he said.The investigators also found that Deb as an "IAS officer" even conducted a raid near his office in the Kasba area after getting information that adulterated petrol was being sold, the police officer said. A report about the raid was published in a newspaper with Deb's photograph, he said."He had also conducted an election where his employees cast votes. After the election, he declared himself the winner and also got that news published, mentioning that he won in West Bengal Employees Federation elections," the officer said.Deb was arrested last week for masquerading as the joint commissioner of the Kolkata Municipal Corporation and operating dubious immunisation camps. Three of his associates were arrested on Saturday as police included the charge of an attempt to murder along with other sections of the IPC against them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/fake-vaccine-case-2-more-including-fake-ias-officer-s-cousin-held-in-kolkata-101624942939475.html
29-06-2021||Other||6 held for assaulting woman in Assam’s Cachar district||Six people have been arrested in Assam’s Cachar district for allegedly assaulting a 30-year-old woman after branding her a witch and accusing her of killing a boy on June 18. The accused were absconding since the assault.Nirupam Nath, a local police officer, said the accused blamed the woman for her alleged involvement in witchcraft. “The incident is connected with the death of the boy... At that time some people alleged that the boy died because of a witch. They accused the woman of being the witch and held her responsible for the death. But in medical investigation, it was found that the boy had some serious illness,” said Nath.Also Read | Assam NGO files FIR against former NRC coordinator Prateek HajelaHe added the six were arrested on Monday. Nath said that they have been booked under various sections of the Indian Penal Code including those related to rioting, unlawful assembly and voluntarily causing grievous hurt as well as the Assam Witch Hunting (Prohibition, Prevention and Protection) Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/6-held-for-assaulting-woman-in-assam-s-cachar-district-101624939576156.html
29-06-2021||Patna||Have to open educational institutions phase-wise after July 6: Minister||Bihar Education Minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary on Monday said the educational institutions in the state will reopen in a phased manner after July 6 if the Covid-19 situation continues to improve at the same pace."We think that if the situation continues to improve at the same pace as now, life would gradually start becoming normal after 6th July. In that situation, our department thinks that our institutions should open. We'll have to open them phase-wise," said Bihar Education Minister.Choudhary said that the final decision of opening educational institutions will be taken only after assessing the situation at that time."In the first phase, we'll open universities, in the second phase we will open secondary and higher secondary schools, in the third phase, we will open primary and middle schools. But the final decision will be taken only after assessing the situation at that time," said Vijay Kumar Choudhary.He further said that the state government has started an initiative, a program 'Hamara Doordarshan, hamara vidyalaya' for class 1 to 5."We started an initiative, contacted Doordarshan and a program 'Hamara Doordarshan, hamara vidyalaya' started for class 1 to 5. Web portal e-LOTS offers online textbooks on all subjects for students up to class 12. Students can access books through this portal," Bihar minister.Educational institutions in the state have remained closed in the state since April following the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.In wake of decline in Covid infections, Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on June 21 announced partial relaxations of lockdown curbs.Complete lockdown in the state was imposed on May 5 after the state witnessed a surge in Covid infections.Bihar, one of the worst-hit states in the country, has been reporting a decline in daily Covid-19 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/have-to-open-educational-institutions-phase-wise-after-july-6-minister-101624938937941.html
29-06-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra fully prepared to vaccinate 1.5 million people daily: CM Thackeray||More than 3.33 million Covid-19 vaccine doses were administered in the past week across Maharashtra, its highest weekly tally, after the inoculation drive was ramped up nationwide from June 21.Also, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday said that the state is now fully prepared to vaccinate 1.5 million people daily.Between June 21 and June 27, 3,343,921 doses were administered, the highest seven-day figure since vaccination started on January 16. A week before (June 14-June 20), 1,594,964 doses were administered in the state. With over 31.77 million doses administered till Monday, Maharashtra tops the country, followed by Uttar Pradesh with 30.99 million jabs, according to figures from the Co-WIN portal.Also Read | Covid-19 killed more people under 50 than any other age group: AIIMS studyMeanwhile, the state recorded 6,727 cases on Monday, taking the tally to 6,043,548. The state also reported 101 more deaths, taking the toll to 121,573. With 18 new deaths in Mumbai, the city’s toll touched 15,414.The total number of active Covid patients in Maharashtra currently stands at 117,874. There were 166,163 tests done on Monday, while the number of recoveries clocked 10,812. The highest number of active patients (17,042 ) were seen in Pune, followed by Thane, at 16,141 patients. On the vaccination front, there were 615, 273 doses administered across the state on Monday, thus bringing the total to 31,770,849 doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-fully-prepared-to-vaccinate-1-5-million-people-daily-cm-thackeray-101624935135785.html
29-06-2021||Chandigarh||Virus spread ebbs in Haryana, less than 1,000 cases in a week||The steep decline in coronavirus infections in Haryana continued for the seventh successive week with the weekly infections staying below the 1,000-mark.The last time the state registered less than 1,000 cases in a week was mid-January when the virus was on the wane. The state reported 980 cases last week (June 21-27) as compared to 1,557 the week before (June 14-20).The virus curve has been flattening after 11 weeks of devastation when the contagion spread was at its peak in May. The state had registered a weekly six-digit infection tally and more than 2,000 deaths during the period.There are now 1,593 active cases in the state and 698 patients are in home isolation. Seventeen districts have less than 100 active cases and nine have less than 50 active cases. Statistics show that only five districts - Hisar, Sirsa, Panipat, Gurugram and Bhiwani have more than 100 active cases.Chief secretary Vijai Vardhan, however, warned against complacency. Vardhan said he has advised health authorities to conduct special sampling drives in places with high-population density such as colleges, offices, shopping malls and industrial establishments.“We should not lower our guard. At least 50,000 reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) or rapid antigen tests (RAT) should be conducted every day,’’ the chief secretary said.Despite the decline, the cumulative positivity rate for 15 districts continued to be in the critical category (more than 6%). Nuh is the only district with a positivity rate less than 2 %. The high cumulative positivity rate, officials said, was indicative of the virulent impact of the contagion during the second wave. “It will take many weeks of decline in infection to get the cumulative positivity rate in the desirable category,’’ said an official.Statistics show that loss of lives due to the virus-induced illness has also come down with 139 fatalities being reported last weeks. The number of fatalities had shot up in May when 2,199 deaths were reported in the first two week. Hisar with over 1,000 deaths has the highest number of cumulative fatalities, followed by Gurugram (896), Faridabad (716), Bhiwani (578), Karnal (540), Panipat (536), Jind (511) and Ambala (508).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/virus-spread-ebbs-in-haryana-less-than-1-000-cases-in-a-week-101624934537337.html
29-06-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana clocks 16 deaths, 96 fresh virus cases on Monday||Sixteen Covid-induced deaths and 96 fresh cases were reported in Haryana on Monday.Panchkula, Kurukshetra, Yamunanagar, Sirsa, Bhiwani, Jhajjar, Fatehabad, Kaithal and Jind reported a death each. Two people succumbed to the virus in Gurugram and Ambala districts, while three fatalities were reported in Hisar, which has reported 1,006 deaths so far — the highest in the state. As many as 21,525 samples were collected over the last 24 hours.No new cases were detected in Faridabad, Panipat and Mahendergarh districts, while one case each was recorded in Jhajjar, Kaithal and Jind, and two new cases each were reported in Rohtak, Rewari and Nuh.The highest ,16, fresh cases were detected in Palwal, followed by 12 in Charkhi Dadri, nine each in Ambala and Kurukshetra and eight in Gurugram.The active cases came down to 1,593 after 172 more people recovered on Monday, pushing the recovery rate to 98.57%.With 1.36 lakh people getting the jab – 97,909 , the first dose – on Monday, the number of people vaccinated has risen to 86 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-clocks-16-deaths-96-fresh-virus-cases-101624934235785.html
29-06-2021||Chandigarh||Charkhi Dadri village 1st to achieve 100% vaccination in Haryana||With all people above the age of 18 receiving at least one shot of the vaccination, Govindpura village in Charkhi Dadri district on Monday became the first village in Haryana to achieve the feat. The village, which has 562 people above the age of 18, was also the first in the state to achieve 100% vaccination of all residents over the age of 45 on May 13. Dr Bhupinder Sheoran, the medical officer of Govindpura village, which comes under the Badhra primary health centre, said the vaccination drive had been initiated on March 16. “Of the 562 residents eligible for the jab, 120 have received both the doses. Initially, villagers were hesitant to get the jab, but they came around after cases began to increase in remote areas,” Sheoran said.Congratulating the health teams and residents of Govindpura village, Charkhi Dadri’s immunisation officer Dr Ashish Maan, said five more villages were in the line to achieve 100% inoculation in the district.“The health department has converted roadways buses into ambulances, and vehicles provided by the Haryana police and private vehicles were used to ferry people from their homes to vaccination sites.” Charkhi Dadri civil surgeon Dr Sudarshan Panwar said, “As internet facility was not available to everyone in Govindpura village, it was a Herculean task to vaccinate the residents. We had to carry out a door-to-door campaign to raise awareness regarding the benefits of vaccination.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/charkhi-dadri-village-1st-to-achieve-100-vaccination-in-haryana-101624933875873.html
29-06-2021||Chandigarh||Mustard oil subsidy will be transferred after 2 months: Haryana govt||The Haryana government on Monday said it will start transferring mustard oil subsidy into the bank accounts of beneficiaries after two months. The food department attributed the delay in transferring subsidy to a mismatch in the bank account numbers of beneficiaries and the lack of a bank account number in some cases. Earlier this month, the Haryana government had stopped the monthly supply of mustard oil and salt through ration depots among 11.40 lakh beneficiaries, saying mustard oil was not available with the HAFED due to a steep rise in prices. The state government had announced that it will transfer ₹250 in lieu of two litre mustard oil as subsidy into the bank accounts of eligible families. The process of transferring the mustard oil subsidy, the government had said, will continue until mustard oil became available with HAFED. However, on Monday the state government said: “The dues of mustard oil would be deposited in the (bank) accounts of the eligible beneficiaries in about two months through DBT.” An official spokesperson said the food department is “working on war footing” to obtain bank account numbers of the eligible beneficiaries whose data is not available in the department’s ration card database to release the dues. “Besides, wrong or incomplete bank account numbers are also being rectified so that eligible beneficiaries can easily get DBT benefits,” the spokesperson said. The government said that due to lockdown the supplier was unable to arrange 1kg packing of salt in June, due to which salt was not distributed. “Now, 1kg packing of salt has been arranged and its distribution will take place in the month of July,” the spokesperson said, adding that government does not provide subsidy on salt as it is bought in bulk and distributed at low prices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mustard-oil-subsidy-will-be-transferred-after-2-months-haryana-govt-101624933638685.html
29-06-2021||Chandigarh||DSR technique: Haryana govt yet to pay ₹5k per acre incentive promised in 2019||KARNAL The Haryana government has announced a cash incentive to encourage farmers to adopt direct seeding of rice as opposed to transplanting seedlings from the nursery. However, farmers who had opted for this method in 2019 are still waiting for the ₹5,000 per acre incentive promised by the government. The government collectively owes 1,685 farmers in the three major paddy-growing districts of Kaithal, Karnal and Kurukshetra around ₹2 crore, as per reports. Officials of the state agriculture department said the delay in disbursement of incentives has discouraged farmers from opting for this method, which consumes 50% less water as compared to the traditional method of paddy cultivation.With the technique receiving a tepid response from farmers, the government had announced an incentive of ₹5,000 on demonstration plots of around 30,000 acres in eight districts under the Rashtriya Krishi Vikas Yojana. Applications of interested farmers had been invited online. As per data obtained from the state agriculture department, the state owes ₹1.12 crore to 934 farmers, of which 104 are women, for opting for the DSR technique over 934 acres in Kaithal; ₹47.67 lakh is owed to 504 farmers in Karnal, while 234 farmers who grew paddy over 736 acres with this technique are owed ₹36.80 lakh.Officials monitoring the project said payments had not been disbursed amid reports of fake registrations. Several farmers applied for the scheme but did not opt for it. District-level officials have submitted their reports to the head office after the ground-level physical verification but the file was stuck as top-level officials say there are some discrepancies in their field survey.Haryana Agriculture Department additional director Surinder Dahiya said disbursement of incentives was delayed as there were some internal issues in the field survey, which has been conveyed to district-level officers. This year, the Haryana government has announced a cash incentive of ₹ 5,000 per acre to farmers of eight districts opting for DSR technique. A target of 20,000 acres, including 4,000 acre in Kaithal; 3,000 acre each in Karnal and Kurukshetra and 2,000 acre each in Sonepat, Panipat, Jind, Ambala and Yamunanagar has been set.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dsrtechnique-haryana-govt-yet-to-pay-5k-per-acre-incentive-promised-in-2019-101624933516401.html
29-06-2021||Lucknow||UP ramps up preparations to combat possible Covid-19 3rd wave||Uttar Pradesh has ramped up preparations to combat a possible third wave of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) by training medical staff, facilitating easy availability of proper medical treatment and Covid-19 related medicines.The Uttar Pradesh government in a statement on Monday said the ambulance staff has been trained to adopt a sensitive approach towards parents or guardians of children, who are affected by Covid-19, and that the ambulances have been equipped with all life-saving equipment for the treatment of children.Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, according to the statement, has directed officials that the state must be "equipped to serve all its citizens". "Improve the response time and bring down the number of cancelled calls due to non-availability of ambulances for various reasons," Adityanath was quoted in the statement, according to news agency PTI.The state government's 102 and 108 emergency ambulance services that have been serving as frontline warriors to ensure 24x7 smooth and timely admission of patients across the state have geared up to protect children against a probable third Covid-19 wave.The emergency ambulance services and 137 Advanced Life Support (ALS) ambulance services have been pressed into service by the state government which are equipped with oxygen cylinders and 'ALS', which includes both oxygen cylinders and ventilators.The vehicles of '108, '102' and ALS ambulances have now been deployed in various districts in both rural and urban areas of Uttar Pradesh. The service can be availed by calling on toll-free number '108'. A 24-hour Emergency Medical Technician (EMT) and a team of more than 23,000 people have been working day and night as part of the ambulance services, the statement added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-ramps-up-preparations-to-combat-possible-covid-19-3rd-wave-101624925703696.html
29-06-2021||Chandigarh||Free electricity in Punjab if AAP wins, says Kejriwal||Ahead of assembly elections in Punjab next year, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday promised free electricity in that state, if his Aam Aadmi Party wins the 2022 assembly electionsKejriwal, who is scheduled to address a press conference in Chandigarh on Tuesday, made the announcement on Twitter. “In Delhi, we provide 200 units of free electricity to every family. The women are quite happy. Women in Punjab are also quite unhappy with inflation. The AAP government will also provide free electricity in Punjab. See you tomorrow in Chandigarh,” he tweeted.Meanwhile, a controversy erupted over the venue of his press conference after AAP spokesperson and Delhi MLA Raghav Chadha alleged that the Punjab chief minister’s office has denied the AAP permission to hold a press conference at a pre-decided venue. CM Captain Amarinder Singh dismissed the allegation, accusing the AAP of indulging in drama and said: “If he wants I’d be happy to arrange his lunch too”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/free-electricity-in-punjab-if-aap-wins-says-kejriwal-101624929953198.html
29-06-2021||Kolkata||Bengal CM, minister file fresh plea in HC in Narada case||Following the Supreme Court order, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, state law minister Malay Ghatak and state government on Monday filed a fresh application at the Calcutta high court to submit their affidavits in the Narada case.On June 25, SC vacation bench of Justices Vineet Saran and Dinesh Maheshwari urged the five -judge bench of the Calcutta high court, headed by acting chief justice Rajesh Bindal, to decide afresh the pleas of Banerjee, Ghatak, and the state government before deciding on the CBI petition seeking transfer of the case from the special CBI court to the high court.The case will be now heard by the five-judge high court bench on Tuesday.The apex court set aside the high court’s June 9 order that refused to accept the affidavits Banerjee and Ghatak filed describing their role on May 17 when state ministers Subrata Mukherjee and Firhad Hakim, Trinamool Congress MLA Madan Mitra, and former Kolkata mayor Sovan Chatterjee were arrested by the Central Bureau of Investigation in the case. The CBI has alleged that Banerjee and Ghatak incited a mob after the arrested leaders were brought to the CBI office.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bengal-cm-minister-file-fresh-plea-in-hc-in-narada-case-101624929499353.html
29-06-2021||Delhi||28-year-old held with heroin worth ₹1.5 crore||Delhi Police on Monday said they have arrested a 28-year-old man allegedly with one kilogram of heroin, worth around ₹1.5 crore in the international market, from outer Delhi’s Nihal Vihar -- one of the 15 areas in Delhi recently identified by the police as a hot spot for drug peddling.The accused, Irfan Saifi alias Bona, was previously involved in 11 criminal cases including robbery, snatching and vehicle theft, said DCP (crime and narcotic cell) Chinmoy Biswal.On June 23, the DCP said, they received information that Ifran would visit Satsang Wali Gali in Nihal Vihar to deliver heroin and accordingly, a trap was laid and he was caught.“A plastic bag, tied to his bike, contained one kilogram of heroin. Irfan was arrested under the NDPS Act. His bike was also seized,” the DCP added.Investigators said Irfan is the brother of Shakeel Saifi, a former RPI leader at whose farmhouse in Nihal Vihar a firing incident had taken place last year. When contacted, Shakeel confirmed said that he had disowned his brother because of his drug addiction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/28yearold-held-with-heroin-worth-rs-1-5-crore-101624924980221.html
29-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi puts out tenders for new liquor retail licences||The Delhi government on Monday floated tenders for appointing new licensees for retail sale of liquor in the national capital, paving the way for a range of sweeping reforms to boost the city’s revenue, to crack down on the liquor mafia and improve user experience under the new state excise policy, documents seen by HT showed.Under the Delhi Excise Policy, 2021, the city has been divided into 32 zones and allotment of licenses will be on a zonal basis. On Monday, the state excise department issued e-tenders for stakeholders to apply for L-7Z and L-7V licences which are meant for retail sale of Indian and foreign liquor (except country liquor) in Delhi. The department floated 32 e-tenders, one for each zone.“With these tenders, we can say that the city administration has formally started the process of bringing in liquor reforms in Delhi. The Delhi government’s objective is to allow responsible players of the industry to carry out trade transparently without resorting to any proxy model. It aims to ensure equitable access to liquor supply to all the wards or areas of Delhi so that there are no areas with no shops or few sellers,” said a senior government official on condition of anonymity.Under the new policy, business hours have been fixed at between 10am to 10pm, while those at the airport may open round-the-clock. The government has kept the annual reserve licence fee (which will subsume all existing taxes and other charges) for the 30 zones under the three municipal corporations between ₹220-228 crore per zone. For the 31st zone, which is the NDMC and Delhi Cantonment Board area, the fee will be Rs217 crore, while the zone 32 (airport zone), will have an annual reserve licence fee of ₹105 crore, the document showed.However, liquor retailers in the city said the government has floated the tenders without making the final Delhi excise policy document public. “While the tender document claims that the new excise policy has been approved by the Delhi government, we could not find the document anywhere on its website. It is expected to be made available tomorrow. In the absence of the Delhi Excise Policy, 2021 being made public, potential bidders like us want more clarity on the license regime such as fixation of MRPs, rate of VAT/excise see subsumed, retailer margin, etc,” said Naresh Goyal, a retailer licensee and president of Delhi liquor traders association.The tender documents stated that bidders will have to pay a non-refundable fee of ₹10 lakh and an earnest money deposit (EMD) of ₹30 crore, if applying for one zone; and ₹60 crore, if bidding for two or more zones. The pre-bid meeting has been scheduled for July 6. Until now, the EMD was ₹8 lakh. Officials said by increasing the EMD amount manifold, the government wants to ensure that only the big and premium players get involved in Delhi’s retail liquor trade, and curb proxy ownership, brand pushing and corruption.However, this does not mean that the existing retail vends or retail licences will become invalid. On June 10, the excise department extended licences of all retail liquor vends in Delhi for three more months till September 30. It stated that all licences are being renewed as per the existing rules for now because “the government of NCT of Delhi has approved the new Excise Policy 2021-22, which is likely to be implemented in the next three months”. Rather, the existing retailers will also be able participate in the tender and may bid for any zones, said the official.The tenders are also significant because as per the new excise policy, the Delhi government will completely exit the retail sale of liquor. So, all existing retail licences — L6, L6FG, L6FE — will not be renewed as these were meant for government liquor vends. However, country liquor vends will operate till the new country liquor policy is framed.Delhi has 849 liquor stores, of which 276 are run by private entities. The rest are run by the state government. Under the new policy, the government will keep the total number of vends intact, reshuffling them to ensure a more equitable distribution across 272 municipal wards in the city, the New Delhi Municipal Council area and the airport, which has been classified as a ‘special zone’.“Any private legal entity or individual who has proof of filing Income Tax Returns for the last three years (2018-19, 2019-20 & 2020-21) is eligible to participate in the bid. The entity willing to participate in the tender for retail vends in one zone should have a net worth of at least ₹6 crore, and of at least ₹12 crore for more than one zone. No manufacturer or wholesale (L-1) licence holder will be eligible to bid for retail zone/vend or vice versa. Similarly, the retail licence holder should not have any manufacturing facilities/distilleries/breweries/in India or abroad either directly or through any sister concerns/related entities,” the documents stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-puts-out-tenders-for-new-liquor-retail-licences-101624923178745.html
29-06-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: The backpacker’s last stop||The white walls are covered with handwritten scrawls in Russian, Japanese, Spanish, Dutch, French, German, Arabic, Portuguese, Thai, Italian, and English. There are drawings too — a woman’s face, a Turkish darvesh, a peaceful tiger, a mermaid with Medusa-like hair, an auto (in its customary green), a map of Canada, a man with tree roots as his torso.This is the small, dimly lit lobby of a backpackers’ hostel in Paharganj. The sights on the walls are the souvenirs of the many travellers who have passed through it over the years. Among the budget hotels of Paharganj, this hostel — its entrance is so unremarkable that nobody might notice it unless one is actively looking for it — is a dormitory filled with bunk beds (laundry service provided). The hostel has been empty of foreigners since the coronavirus pandemic hit the world early last year, and India stopped giving tourist visas. There’s no Indian guest either for the moment.This afternoon, reading the scrawls on the wall produces awe, as if one had encountered the remains of a vanished civilisation. Some are messages from one traveller to another, some are attestations of love for India, some travellers just wrote down their names to immortalise their fleeting presence, and some just don’t make any sense. There’s also a poem by Emily Dickinson.Frankly, most lines have the sort of wisdom available on the backs of the painted trucks that roar down the Delhi-Jaipur highway. Even so, these handwritten words must be recorded to commemorate Paharganj’s recent past. In today’s difficult times, there’s no knowing of the future of such a place. And the owner, who doesn’t wish himself and his property to be identified, is planning to repaint these walls. Here’s a very brief selection from the many scrawls in English. Read and weep.“I take India in my skin”“Sakoora, you my one and only”“The future is female”“That it will never come againIs what makes life so sweet—Emily Dickinson”“Thank you for asking DuDu for me to train station”“I love you India…don’t ever change!!!—Mara, Canada”“This too shall pass”“Don’t think, just go”“Forever in my heart—Elly”“After three weeks in India, things to say:Don’t worry, be happyNo hurry, no worryNo chicken, no curry”“I love Waseem!”“Go travel now!—from Julio in Texas”“Shall we move?”“—Asha—Steph—Gracie—Trisha—Emma—Eimear—Godge—Ellie”“Rancho Poiema was here”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-the-backpacker-s-last-stop-101624921943063.html
29-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi adds just 59 new cases of Covid, fewest in a day since April 15 last year||The national capital on Monday added 59 new cases of Covid-19, as infections continue to plummet to levels not seen since the initial phase of the pandemic in April last year, while latest deaths due to the disease also fell to a 100-day low, showed the state government’s health bulletin.As daily infections dropped, the Covid-19 test positivity rate on Monday fell to 0.10% —the lowest ever in Delhi.The World Health Organization (WHO) recommends a positivity rate below 5% for at least a two-week period for an outbreak to be considered under control in a region. The positivity rate in Delhi has been below this threshold for 39 days. Of these, it has spent the last 29 days below the 1% mark.This number stayed below 1% for 82 days during the lull in cases, between December last year and March this year, after the November wave.The Capital also logged two more deaths of the infection, showed Monday’s health bulletin, the fewest fatalities in a day since March 21 this year, when just one person succumbed to the viral infection. The city has now added an average of six daily deaths over the past week.Dr T Jacob John, former head of the department of virology at Christian Medical College-Vellore, said, “Delhi has almost reached the endemic levels as majority of the population seems to have been exposed to Covid-19 already. A sero survey result at this point will help a lot to decide the course of action for the coming months. Also, at no point should mask wearing be taken lightly and vaccination should be accelerated,” he said.Delhi last added fewer than 59 cases 440 days ago — on April 15, 2020, the early days of the Covid-19 outbreak in the national capital, and three weeks after the Union government put in place a hard lockdown across the country to stem the spread of the illness. Further, Covid-19 testing infrastructure was in a nascent stage at that point and far fewer tests were conducted in a day than they are now.The seven-day average of cases, also known as case trajectory, fell to 100 on Monday. This number has now dropped for 59 days in a row and is now at its lowest since end-April last year. Delhi added an average of 96 new cases a day in the seven-days ending April 22, 2020.Delhi administered 204,586 doses of Covid vaccines till 10.30pm on Monday -- just short of the record 207,000 doses given on Saturday. However, only 9,563 persons were inoculated on Sunday.On Sunday, AAP MLA Atishi said the Delhi government has informed the Centre that the city needs 4.5 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines in July to keep up the current vaccination rate of 1.5 lakh jabs daily.According to Atishi, 25% of Delhi’s population in the 18-45 age group has received at least one dose of vaccine. At least 9.2 million people in this age group are eligible for vaccination in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-adds-just-59-new-cases-of-covid-fewest-in-a-day-since-april-15-last-year-101624918430835.html
29-06-2021||Gurugram||Leopard dies in suspected road accident||A two-year-old female leopard was found dead on the Pali-Surajkund road early on Monday, with autopsy reports suggesting it could have been hit by a vehicle, officials of the forest department said.Raj Kumar, the divisional forest officer for Faridabad, said, “The carcass of the two-year-old female leopard was sent for a post-mortem examination, which suggests that it died due to a head injury after being hit by a vehicle around 4am on Monday.”The incident was reported by traffic police around 10.15am, following which a team of the forest department staff collected the carcass.The stretch from where the leopard’s carcass was recovered is an ecologically sensitive area, as it is flanked by the Asola Bhatti wildlife sanctuary on both sides.“We cannot call it a leopard corridor as such, but there is significant movement of leopards in the region. This is the first such case to be reported this year but roadkill incidents have been seen in this region before. Last year in October, a leopard was killed in a road accident near Mangar village on Gurugram-Faridabad road,” Kumar said.Officials said they could not identify the vehicle due to the absence of CCTV cameras on the busy road, which cuts through a forest area.A case is yet to be registered in the matter, as it is difficult to trace those responsible due to lack of surveillance, officials said.Wildlife experts said the place where the carcass was found has a sharp bend and the authorities need to put in place safety measures to protect animals.Sunil Harsana, a wildlife researcher from Mangar village in Faridabad, said, “The spot where the carcass was found is a fragmented forest area, as the road cuts through the Asola Bhatti Wildlife Sanctuary. At such a place, if the animal has to cross the road, it will first jump off a wall, reach the road and jump another wall to enter the forest. Due to this fragmentation, such roadkill incidents take place. We have been requesting the forest department to take measures, such as creating an underpass or installing rumble strips so that vehicles slow down on the stretch.”Besides the road cutting through the forest, heavy encroachments in villages of Ankhir and Mewla-Maharajpur that fall in the vicinity compound the problems for animals, experts said.Chetan Agarwal, a city-based environment analyst, said, “The forests in that whole area has been fragmented with roads and illegally built farmhouses, the walls of which impede the movement of animals. In the past five years, many such cases of leopard depths have been reported from roads in the Aravallis.”A monkey was also found dead at the same stretch on Monday afternoon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/leopard-dies-in-suspected-road-accident-101624917347947.html
29-06-2021||Delhi||No stay on order allowing schools to levy annual fees||The Supreme Court on Monday refused to stay the Delhi high court order that allows private schools in Delhi to collect annual charges and development fee for 2021-22, ruling that the state cannot be aggrieved with an arrangement between the schools and parents.“How the state is aggrieved in a matter between private schools and (parents of) students…State is not concerned according to us,” a three-judge bench of the top court led by Justice AM Khanwilkar said on the appeal by the city government’s education department against orders passed by the Delhi high court.A single judge of the Delhi high court on May 31 set aside the Directorate of Education’s (DoE) orders on April 18, 2020 and August 28, 2020 that sought to restrict private, unaided schools from collecting annual charges and development fees due to the Covid-19 situation.The DoE rushed to the division bench of the high court in appeal against the May 31 ruling and asked the two-judge bench to stay the court order but the judges declined the request and posted the case for further hearing on July 12.Since the high court order enabled schools to collect annual charges (subject to deduction of 15 per cent) to be payable in six monthly instalments beginning June this year, the DoE filed a special leave petition in the Supreme Court to seek a stay.At Monday’s hearing, senior advocate Vikas Singh, who was representing the Delhi government, reasoned that parents were being harassed on account of the high court stay on its orders. “I (state) am the repository of students. Who will represent the innocent children? Do you want lakhs of parents to be in court? There should be a stay on the (HC) judgment. Parents are being subjected to harassment.”Around 450 private schools, who secured the order from the Delhi high court under the banner Action Committee for Unaided Recognized Private Schools, argued against a stay order.Senior advocate Shyam Divan, who represented the schools’ body, said the high court was yet to form a conclusive view of the matter.The June 7 order of the high court had emphasised that staying the single judge’s order “without a deeper examination of the facts would only compromise with the ability of these schools to continue serving this critical function.” The schools agreed to continue charging the fees collected by them during the past year. The Delhi Public School Society, also represented by senior advocate Neeraj Kishan Kaul, supported this submission of private schools.While declining any immediate relief to the Delhi government, the Supreme Court noted that the government can argue its appeal before the high court which was slated to hear the plea on July 12.“The dismissal of the special leave petition (SLP) is not to be treated as an opinion on the correctness of the high court order or the contentions raised by the parties,” Justice Khanwilkar said.The high court’s May 31 order was a blow to the powers of the DoE to direct schools not to collect annual and development fees. This power was vested under the Delhi School Education Act, 1973 and the accompanying Rules. The Delhi government argued that if schools were collecting full tuition fees, there was no need to collect annual and development fees as only 40-60% of the tuition fee component was getting utilized to pay salary to teachers and staff.The high court, however, relied on a Supreme Court order in May 2021 where the top court allowed private schools in Rajasthan to collect annual fees in six monthly instalments after deducting 15% and applied it as it is to the context of Delhi schools.Senior advocate Vikas Singh argued that the high court got it wrong as the top court’s judgment related to schools which had partially reopened and were stopped from charging even tuition fees by the Rajasthan government which invoked its powers under the Disaster Management Act. Further, the Supreme Court order in this case was passed under Article 142 of the Constitution, a power exclusively reserved for the Supreme Court and not the high courts, Singh added.In the May 31 order, the high court judge, however, pointed out that even when schools were physically shut, they incurred expenses like rents, taxes, travelling, conveyance, insurance charges, remuneration of auditors, repair and maintenance of building and maintenance of equipment, furniture and fixtures. This became the basis to set aside the DoE orders of April 2020 and August 2020.Delhi government officials did not respond to requests for comment.SK Bhattacharya, president of the action committee unaided recognised private schools-- an umbrella body of over 400 private schools in Delhi-- that had challenged the Delhi government order in the high court said, “Its a big relief for schools. The recent Covid situation has brought schools to the verge of closure as they were finding it difficult to meet essential expenditure such as salaries. Several schools can now pay salary to their staff only by charging the annual fee and development funds.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/no-stay-on-order-allowing-schools-to-levy-annual-fees-101624914419409.html
29-06-2021||Other||Ludhiana doctors call off strike after principal secretary’s assurance||District doctors, who have been protesting against the reduction in non-practising allowance under the Sixth Pay Commission, called off their strike after being assured by principal health secretary Hussan Lal that their demands would be fulfilled.Dr Rohit Rampal, who was leading the protests in the district, said, “We held a meeting with the principal health secretary today. He assured us that our demands will be fulfilled. We have called off the strike and hope that the authorities will roll back their decision.” “NPA comprised 25% of our basic salary. However, the Sixth Pay Commission, which aims to better our pay scale, has reduced the component to 20% of our basic salary. It has even de-linked NPA from the basic salary,” Dr Rampal added. Earlier during the day, members of the Joint Punjab Government Doctors Coordination Committee, comprising general physicians, specialists, rural medical officers, homeopaths, and ayurveda specialists, staged a protest at the civil hospital. On the call of the Punjab Civil Medical Services (PCMS) Association, several services such as outpatient departments (OPDs), inpatient departments (IPDs), unique IDs for persons with disabilities (UDID), Ayushman Bharat - Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojana (AB-SSBY), and elective surgeries remained suspended as around 400 doctors employed at the civil hospitals in Ludhiana, Khanna and Jagraon, and 10 community health centres boycotted work. Government-run dispensaries remained closed as well. A visit to the civil hospital at 11 am revealed that the few patients, who had turned up at the hospital, had to return home without getting treated as no doctor was available due to the strike. Kavita Kumari from Shahpur Road, who visited the mother and child hospital with her husband for check-up, was asked to visit again as doctors were not available. 50-year-old Bhagat Ram, who works in the factory, visited the civil hospital for treatment on Monday. He said, “I had slipped from the roof and suffered injuries so was rushed to the hospital but because the doctors were observing a strike, I had to go to a private hospital. I don’t understand why the government wants to implement rules that are not in favour of the employees. These protests and strikes ultimately make the common mam suffer.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-doctors-call-off-strike-after-principal-secretary-s-assurance-101624910359955.html
29-06-2021||Other||Row over water-sewer tariff: Cong-BJP leaders enter into scuffle in Ludhiana||High drama was witnessed in Salem Tabri area (Ward number 95) after Congress and Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) entered into a scuffle when the latter went to stage a protest outside the house of Congress councillor Gurcharandeep over revocation of the exemption on water-sewer charges for houses up to 125 sq yards area on Monday. BJP had announced that its workers would protest outside the houses of 62 Congress councillors on Monday. In that course, a protest was also staged outside the house of Gurcharandeep. While BJP workers were raising slogans against Congress, the councillor and his supporters started raising slogans against them and Prime Minister Narendra Modi.Both parties entered into a scuffle, following which BJP leaders led by district president Pushpinder Singal staged a protest at Salem Tabri police station seeking action against the Congress leaders. A few Congress councillors and interim district president Ashwani Sharma also reached the spot following which both the parties reached a compromise. Assistant commissioner of police (ACP, North) Gurbinder Singh said that no formal complaint was received from any of the sides. While the Congress councillors stated that the resolution to revoke the exemption was suspended by the mayor on Sunday, BJP accused Congress of befooling the public ahead of assembly elections. BJP district president, Pushpinder Singal stated, “Mayor Balkar Sandhu is befooling the public ahead of assembly elections by announcing the exemption has been reinstated as the resolution can only be revoked by the MC general house. The BJP will continue the protest until the resolution is revoked. The mayor should call a meeting of MC general house over the issue.”Meanwhile, mayor Sandhu stated the resolution was approved by the general house of MC which also includes BJP councillors and an announcement has already been made to revoke the resolution.“BJP is trying to gain political mileage and is befooling the public. I have already announced the reinstatement of exemption and bills are not being issued against houses up to 125 sq yd area now. The resolution will also be tabled during the next meeting of MC general house,” he said.Starting this financial year, the MC had revoked the water-sewer fee exemption for houses upto 125 yards area and increased the water-sewer tariff by upto 60% for different categories. Only the houses with area upto 50 sq yards with only ground floor were exempted from water-sewer charges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/row-over-water-sewer-tariff-cong-bjp-leaders-enter-into-scuffle-in-ludhiana-101624910358538.html
29-06-2021||Other||Surge in fuel prices: Ludhiana transporters observe ‘black day’, residents also express resentment||With an increase of 35 paise per litre, the price of petrol has touched ₹100.04 per litre in the district. On June 21, the price of petrol was 98.82 per litre. This was the fourth consecutive hike in the last seven days.The price of diesel also rose in the district by 60 paise. It has now reached ₹91.52.Protesting against the diesel price hike, city transporters observed ‘Black Day’ on the call of All India Motor Transport Congress on Monday and submitted a memorandum to deputy commission (DC) Varinder Sharma. The memorandum was addressed to PM Narendra Modi and Punjab finance minister Manpreet Badal.Seeking a reduction in prices, the transporters, under the banner of Ludhiana Goods Transport Association (LGTA), demanded that the union government should reduce the excise duty while, the state government should reduce VAT.They rued that diesel rates had increased by around ₹30 since the outbreak of the pandemic last year. They said the price of diesel in the state was around ₹62 per litre last year, and now it has reached ₹91.52.The transporters across the country have announced an indefinite ‘Chakka jam’ from August if fuel prices are not reduced by the government.LGTA president Didar Singh and general secretary JP Singh said that operations of 50% of the trucks have been put to a halt by the transporters as they are not being able to cover the expenses. JP Singh said, “The freight prices have gone down due to low demand in the market and the expenses are increasing due to hike in diesel rates and rising inflation. The transporters are struggling to make ends meet but the government is not paying heed to their problems. If these circumstances continue then the sector will not be able to survive.”Chairman Charan Singh Lohara said, “Around 20 crore people are associated with the sector across the country. AIMTC has now announced indefinite ‘Chakka Jam’ from August if the government fails to reduce the prices by July end. A month’s ultimatum has been given to the government. We have also demanded that the price of fuel should be uniform across the country.”PS Bhogal, professor, Arya College, said, “Petrol has crossed ₹100 benchmark in Ludhiana. Diesel prices are also rising fast. Soon it too will cross the ₹100 benchmark. The union government’s financial mismanagement is visible. We know that petrol and diesel are heavily taxed and this is fuelling inflation in the country thereby making the life of a common man tough in such times. The union government’s unresponsive attitude over such development is deplorable. Civil society must rise against such bullish attitude.”Parambir Singh, teacher, Malwa Khalsa Senior Secondary School, said, “Instead of providing employment to people, the government is only earning profit. It is also becoming very difficult for us to maintain our families. The means of transport are proving to be expensive, while our salaries aren’t increasing at all. It seems the government wants the common people to be forced to travel on foot.”Narinder Kaur Grewal, a resident of Lalton Kalan, said, “Rising fuel prices increase rates of other commodities as well and therefore disturb the entire household budget. We have to shell out more daily to buy necessary items. It will also delay the recovery of our economy as it directly impacts the consumption levels of the common people.”Meera Nagpal assistant professor at PU Regional Centre, said, “The hike will affect everyone, especially the salaried class, as the income doesn’t seem to be increasing even as the expenses are on a rise. The officials should also ensure that prices of fuels do not vary from state to state and are stabilized at the national level.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/surge-in-fuel-prices-ludhiana-transporters-observe-black-day-residents-also-express-resentment-101624910357227.html
29-06-2021||Chandigarh||Two succumb to contagion, 35 test positive in Ludhiana||Two coronavirus patients succumbed while 35 others tested positive for the infection in Ludhiana on Monday. A 51-year-old man of Talwandi Kalan and a 56- year-old woman of Gill village lost the battle to the virus, taking the district’s death toll to 2,083. Ludhiana’s case count stands at 86,923, of which 84,475 patients have recovered and 365 cases remain active. Currently, 11 patients are on ventilator support. The fresh cases included 13 patients with influenza-like symptoms and eight patients from outpatient departments. One new black fungus case reported A local resident was among the two persons diagnosed with mucormycosis (black fungus) in the district on Monday. As many as 142 black fungus cases have been detected in the district so far, of which 34 cases are active, while eight people have lost their life. Ludhiana DC directs 25 hospitals to set up their own PSA oxygen unitsTo combat any crisis due to shortage of the oxygen in the possible third wave of the Covid pandemic, Ludhiana DC Varinder Kumar Sharma has asked 25 hospitals, including 24 private health institutions, to set up their own pressure swing adsorption (PSA) oxygen plants soon. In a letter to the medical superintendents of these 25 hospitals, DC Sharma said these plants will help in meeting oxygen requirement during the third wave and would make these hospitals generate oxygen independently.“Taking in the view experience of the second wave, we have to better prepared to deal with the virus. So these hospitals have to establish the oxygen plants immediately before the advent of the third wave,” he added. The DC said with the installation of PSA units, the load on district administration and vendors supplying liquid medical oxygen would minimise and smaller hospitals can be supplied the life-saving gas as per their requirement. Among these hospitals are Dayanand Medical College and Hospital, Christian Medical College and Hospital, Satguru Partap Singh Hospital, Fortis Hospital, Deep Hospital, Mohan Dai Oswal Hospital, Aastha Kidney Hospital, AIMC Bassi, Arora Neuro Hospital, Aykai Hospital, civil hospital, Deepak Hospital, Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital, Guru Nanak Hospital, Jain Hospital in Khanna, Ludhiana Mediways, Mahal Hospital, Orison/Conjoint Hospital, Pancham Hospital, Prolife Hospital, Raghunath Hospital, Shri Krishna Hospital, Sidhu Hospital Doraha and Verma Multispecialty Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/two-succumb-to-contagion-35-test-positive-in-ludhiana-101624910298008.html
29-06-2021||Chandigarh||FIR against owner of migrant quarter after abduction of 2 kids in Ludhiana||Three days after an 18-year-old tutor, along with her parents, kidnapped two children from Bihari Colony in Gobidgarh village, police on Monday booked the owner of a migrant quarter (vehra) for renting accommodation to the accused without verification.The FIR against Hardeep Singh has been registered on the complaint Papu Manjhi, father of two-year-old boy, Prince, who was abducted. The complainant stated that he was living in a rented accommodation — migrant quarters — owned by Hardeep Singh. A few days ago, the tutor, along with her parents, also took a room on rent, he told the police. After the tutor identified as Anjali abducted her son and fled, Pappu asked the owner of the migrant quarters to share her details and realised that he hadn’t got their verification done. In the meantime, the police have secured the CCTV footage wherein Anjali can be seen taking the children in a bus.She, along with her parents, has been booked for abducting two boys, aged six and two, who had gone missing from Bihari Colony on June 25. Ram Bahadur, the father of the six-year-old boy, said his son, Ravi, had told them that a girl had volunteered to offer free tuition classes. The investigation officer, Jasveer Kaur, said the matter was being probed and the accused will soon be arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/fir-against-owner-of-migrant-quarter-after-abduction-of-2-kids-in-ludhiana-101624910297035.html
29-06-2021||Chandigarh||One booked for extortion on Ludhiana farm activist’s complaint||The Jagraon police have booked a person for issuing extortion threats to a farm activist and YouTuber, Kapil Narula. According to Narula, on June 25 around 8pm, he had received a call from a person who identified himself as Sukha Faridkotia.The caller threatened Narula and asked him to arrange ₹20 lakh in cash.He disconnected the call and later tried to contact Narula repeatedly. However, he did not respond, the police said. Faridkotia, the complainant said, then sent a message threatening him with dire consequences in case he didn’t arrange the money. “The caller also threatened that my children’s life will be in danger if I did not accept his demands,” Narula told the police. He said after discussing the issue with his family, he reported the matter to the police.According to Kamaldeep Kaur, Jagraon Bus Stand police post incharge, a case under Section 387 of the IPC has been registered against Sukha Faridkotia.“Soon after receiving the complaint, we registered an FIR and started an investigation. We have got the mobile number from which the extortion calls were made,” the cop said. Kapil Narula had caught the limelight when he donated a generator to the protesting farmers at Singhu border.He was also honoured by Balbir Singh Rajewal during the first farmer mahapanchayat of Punjab at Jagraon for donations and vociferously advocating for the farmers’ cause.His son and daughter-in-law, Samreet and Arshreet, are noted social media influencers with considerable fan following. Narula, who runs a photography studio in Jagraon City, said the caller had asked him to speak on WhatsApp.“After he made extortion threats, I disconnected the call and shared its recording with the police,” Narula said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/one-booked-for-extortion-on-ludhiana-farm-activist-s-complaint-101624910296037.html
29-06-2021||Chandigarh||PAU appeals public to donate artefacts for its rural life museum||The College of Community Science at Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) has made an appeal to the public to donate traditional Punjabi kitchen utensils, agricultural implements, handicrafts, furnishings and textiles, musical instruments, equipment and decorative pieces for display at its Museum of Rural Life of Punjab. The appeal comes almost two months after thieves had struck at the museum and decamped with 141 items of 39 various types. Among the stolen items were 12 brass bells of three different sizes, brass utensils and traditional jewellery. Police said the burglars had stolen 52 items from Room number 1, 47 items from Room 2, 12 items from Room 5, four items from Room 6 and 26 items from the Phulkari section.The theft had taken place when the varsity was closed for outsiders and entry was allowed only from Gate Number 4. PAU officials had found out about the theft on April 19 when the varsity reopened. They, however, waited for two days before filing a complaint on April 21. On April 26, the police had apprehended a youth, who was said to be the son of a Class-4 employee working at the varsity. They had recovered two brass plates from him, but the authorities said the recovered articles that did not belong to the museum. According to the university, the stolen items were antique and some of those were centuries-old artwork depicting life in rural Punjab. The police had questioned the staff and the lone security guard who was deployed at the museum when the theft had come to the light. The cops had also quizzed PAU officials over the “poor” security measures and absence of CCTV cameras at the museum. However, even after two months, cops have failed to make any headway in the case. Sandeep Bains, dean, College of Community Science, said the museum is built in an “old-style architecture to look like a respectable house of the 18th Century”. “PAU is the only university in India to have a museum like this,” she added. However, she maintained that they usually ask people to donate traditional valuables and artefacts and the latest request has nothing to do with the theft. Bains said the museum has a collection of old farmsteads, cottages and mills portraying the living conditions. Stating that the museum showcases the rich cultural heritage of Punjab, she said the university will highly acknowledge the contribution people make in this regard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pau-appeals-public-to-donate-artefacts-for-its-rural-life-museum-101624910295034.html
29-06-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Commuters bear the brunt as roadways contractual staffers go on strike||Commuters at Amar Shaheed Sukhdev Interstate Bus Terminal were a harried lot after Punjab Roadways (Punbus) contractual employees went on a three-day strike across the state starting Monday, slamming brakes on the movement of over 200 roadways and PRTC buses. Protesting against the state government over its ‘failure’ in regularising them, the contractual staffers also closed the bus stand for around two hours and staged a demonstration against the government. Meanwhile, commuters were seen looking for alternative mode of transport to reach their respective destinations. Jasmeet Singh, one of the passengers, who was supposed to travel to Dhuri, said, “I have been waiting for a bus for the last around half an hour. Roadways buses are not running and private buses are not available at present. One of the private operators has assured that one bus will depart for Dhuri in 15 minutes and I have been left with no other option than to wait for it.” Chaotic scenes were witnessed outside the bus stand as private bus operators continued their services from there for the time period when the bus stand was closed. Some of the commuters also complained that they charged extra fare from them. Another commuter waiting for a bus to Patiala, Gurjit Singh, said, “The employees should protest for their rights, but they should ensure that public does not face any harassment. We are forced to travel in private buses and their operators charge extra ₹10- ₹20 when the public bus services are suspended.” Meanwhile, authorities said that 25 buses were run by the department on Chandigarh, Amritsar, Barnala and a few other routes through the permanent staff of roadways, but the services at most of the routes remained suspended due to strike.Station supervisor Kuljit Singh Sodhi said, “We have permanent staff to run only 25 buses, while rest of the buses were put to halt due to the strike announced by contractual employees. The government is in talks with the union to end the strike.”Women passengers wait for free serviceMany women passengers were seen waiting for the public bus service to resume to travel free of cost. One of the residents of Sangrur, Manjit Kaur, said, “We had planned to pay obeisance at the Golden Temple and seven of us, including five women, took a roadways bus to Ludhiana from Sangrur in the morning. We had to change our bus from Ludhiana, but we are stuck here due to the strike. If we opt for a private bus now, we will have to pay the fare for all seven of us, which will cost us around ₹1,000 extra. We are waiting for roadways services to resume towards Amritsar, otherwise we will have to go back.” ‘Will protest outside CM’s residence today’Slamming the state government for not paying heed to their demands, state vice-president of Roadways/Punbus Contractual Employees Union Satnam Singh and district vice-president Gurpreet Singh said the three day strike will continue till June 30.They added that the union will stage a protest outside of the residence of Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh in Patiala on June 29. The employees said that many of them have been working with the department for over a decade, but the government has failed to regularise their services despite making promises during the last assembly elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-commuters-bear-the-brunt-as-roadways-contractual-staffers-go-on-strike-101624910234984.html
29-06-2021||Chandigarh||Bhola drug racket: HC seeks details on Goraya businessman’s health condition||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Monday sought details on the health condition of Goraya-based businessman Chunni Lal Gaba, an accused in the 2013 Jagdish Bhola drug racket case.The order comes days after the Supreme Court had expressed shock over the HC not allowing hearing of Gaba’s bail plea, which was pending for over a year. The apex court had observed that the accused has a right to hearing of his application for bail and the denial of the same is an infringement of his rights and liberty. According to Gaba, his bail plea is pending since February 28, 2020, and the request for an hearing was not entertained by the high court in view of restricted functioning of courts owing to the Covid-19 outbreak. During the hearing on Tuesday, the high court bench of Justice Rajan Gupta observed that the court was informed on February 26 about the precarious medical condition of Gaba and a query was put up before the state’s counsel who sought more time to apprise the court even on the next date of hearing on March 25. The counsel even sought time on Monday stating that he has no information regarding Gaba’s present medical condition.The high court has now posted the matter for July 9 and directed that a short affidavit be filed about the businessman’s medical condition. The state’s counsel told the court that it would also be apprised whether Gaba remained incarcerated on the jail premises or was in a hospital during this period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bhola-drug-racket-hc-seeks-details-on-goraya-businessman-s-health-condition-101624910114533.html
29-06-2021||Chandigarh||Red Fort violence: On the run for 5 months, Amritsar man arrested||A man wanted in the Red Fort flag hoisting case was arrested from Punjab and sent to three-day custody of Delhi Police on Monday.“Gurjot Singh was arrested from Amritsar. A reward of ₹1 lakh was declared for his arrest,” deputy commissioner of police (special cell), Delhi Police, Sanjeev Kumar Yadav said.Gurjot, who was evading arrest for five months, was nabbed on Sunday by the special cell of Delhi Police.He was produced before metropolitan magistrate Anurag Thakur who remanded him in police custody for three days and also allowed his counsel to meet him every day for half an hour.On January 26, protesting farmers had clashed with police during a tractor rally against the three new central farm laws and stormed the Red Fort, hoisting religious flags on its domes and injuring scores of policemen.The court had recently taken cognisance of the chargesheet in the case and summoned all the accused on June 29.Actor-activist Deep Sidhu, who is accused of being the key conspirator of the violence, is currently out on bail.“After the incident, Gurjot spoke to the media where he disclosed his role in the incident of flag hoisting at the historic monument. On that basis, he was wanted in the case and a reward of ₹1 lakh was announced on his arrest,” the DCP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/red-fort-violence-on-the-run-for-5-months-amritsar-man-arrested-101624909393914.html
29-06-2021||Chandigarh||Derogatory posters at Bargari: SIT sends dera man’s handwriting sample to forensic lab again||The special investigation team (SIT) probing the sacrilege cases has resent the handwriting sample of an accused Dera Sacha Sauda follower to match it with the writings on derogatory posters pasted at Faridkot district’s Bargari village in September 2015 after the Central Forensic Science Laboratory (CFSL), Chandigarh, returned it with objections. The SIT had again collected samples of Sukhjinder Singh, alias Sunny, the accused, in the first week of June. The derogatory posters were against Guru Granth Sahib, the Sikh holy book. “There are some standard guidelines for collecting the samples, as was conveyed by the forensic lab. The SIT is careful enough to avoid any legal issue as small technicalities can be challenged in court at a later stage,” said an officer privy to the development. The SIT-led by inspector general of police (IGP) Surinder Pal Singh Parmar has arrested four dera followers, claiming the posters were pasted by them at the behest of the sect’s three national committee members. The six persons, including the four, arrested for the Bargari sacrilege were produced in court through video conferencing on Monday. Their judicial custody was extended to July 8. In the three posters that appeared at Bargari and Burj Jawahar Singh Wala villages on September 24-25, 2015, it was threatened that the ‘bir’ of Guru Granth Sahib stolen from Burj Jawahar Singh Wala on June 1 that year would be torn if the dera chief (now jailed) Gurmeet Ram Rahim-starrer film Messenger of God (MSG)-2 was not allowed to be released in Punjab. The SIT-led then deputy inspector general (DIG) Ranbir Singh Khatra in 2018 claimed that the handwriting of the accused dera followers had matched with the one on the posters. But the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in its closure report filed in a Mohali court in July 2019 had said the handwriting samples of the accused dera followers it had sent to the CFSL in Delhi did not match with the ones on the posters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/derogatory-posters-at-bargari-sit-sends-dera-man-s-handwriting-sample-to-forensic-lab-again-101624909275606.html
29-06-2021||Chandigarh||Bus services hit in Punjab as contractual employees go on 3-day strike||Demanding regularisation of their jobs, the outsourced and contractual employees of state-owned Pepsu Road Transport Corporation (PRTC) and Punjab Roadways/Punbus went on a three-day strike from Monday. The bus services across the state remained affected, causing inconvenience to commuters. As per reports, at least 40% of state-owned buses remained off road. The protesting employees held dharnas at bus stands and raised slogans against the state government. The protesters said they did not allow plying of buses in the state, except for a few operated by regular employees. Meanwhile, the state transport department directed its officials posted at different depots to put their regular staff on the job so as to minimise impact of the strike. Inderjit Singh, member of the outsourced and contractual employees’ action committee, said the government had promised to bring a policy for their regularisation in 2017, but nothing has been done to date.“The employees are being exploited financially as they have no choice that to work on meagre salaries. Not only conductors and drivers, even contractual staff on administrative duties are observing complete pen-down strike,” he said.Another activist Sehajpal Singh said most of the employees are working on contract for past 15 years but the government is not paying heed to their demands.“We are also demanding a stringent check on the transport mafia, implementation of equal work, equal pay and to stop harassment of employees,” he said.PRTC managing director Bhupinder Singh said they are yet to access the financial and services loss due to the strike.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bus-services-hit-in-punjab-as-contractual-employees-go-on-3-day-strike-101624909274594.html
29-06-2021||Chandigarh||Kejriwal promises free power if AAP forms govt in Punjab||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday promised free electricity in Punjab if his party wins next year’s assembly polls in the state. Kejriwal, who is scheduled to address a press conference in Chandigarh on Tuesday, made the announcement on Twitter. “In Delhi, we provide 200 units of free electricity to every family. The women are quite happy. Women in Punjab are also quite unhappy with inflation. The AAP government will also provide free electricity in Punjab. See you tomorrow in Chandigarh,” he tweeted in Punjabi. Minutes later, a controversy erupted over the venue of his press conference as the party leaders accused the Congress government in Punjab of denying permission for Kejriwal’s press conference at Punjab Bhawan, a charge that was denied by chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh. AAP’s media coordinator Digvijay Dhanju said the party had planned the press conference at the state guest house, but the chief minister’s office (CMO) denied permission. AAP spokesperson and Punjab affairs co-incharge Raghav Chadha also slammed the state government, attributing the refusal to Amarinder’s fear of the Delhi CM. “@capt_amarinder’s fear of Kejriwal has reached a point where his office has denied us permission to hold press conference at the pre-decided venue. Nevertheless, @ArvindKejriwal will make a mega announcement tomorrow in Chandigarh which will send 440volt current to Capt and his party (sic),” he tweeted. Amarinder immediately dismissed the allegation, accusing the AAP, the principal opposition party in Punjab, of indulging in drama. He also asked why the state government would stop Kejriwal from holding a press conference when he was allowed to hold a party programme a few days ago, offering to arrange lunch for him. The AAP national convener’s visit on Tuesday will be his second this month as he was in Amritsar on June 21 and had inducted former inspector general of police (IGP) Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh into the party. “Totally not true. We let @ArvindKejriwal address a rally here just few days back so why should we stop him now having a press conference? If he wants I’d be happy to arrange his lunch too. @AamAadmiParty just wants to do drama even if it means lying: Capt Amarinder,” read a tweet posted by the Punjab CM’s media adviser Raveen Thukral. A senior CMO official also said there was no question of denying permission as no request was received from the opposition party. AAP state president Bhagwant Mann said that Kejriwal will address the media at the Chandigarh Press Club and make “big announcements”, including free power, on the lines of unlimited facilities being provided to the people of Delhi. He also demanded scrapping of the “faulty” power purchase agreements (PPAs) with independent power producers that are a drain on the state exchequer. Last week, the Congress high command also took stock of the progress made on the promises made by the party in the 2017 poll manifesto and set an 18-point agenda, including 200 units of free electricity for all households, for the chief minister. State officials feel additional subsidy burden on account of free electricity to domestic consumers will not be tenable.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kejriwal-promises-free-power-if-aap-forms-govt-in-punjab-101624909214437.html
29-06-2021||Chandigarh||BSP-SAD alliance will free Punjab from Cong misrule: Mayawati||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati on Monday said the BSP-Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) alliance will free Punjab from the misrule of the Congress in the 2022 assembly elections.Mayawati reviewed the assembly election strategy at a meeting with the office-bearers of the party’s Punjab state committee.She called upon the party workers to work with honesty and make all-out effort for the victory of the BSP-SAD alliance on each seat.“We have to ensure that the BSP-SAD forms a popular government in Punjab that works for the welfare of the masses and development of the state,” she said.Terming the Congress government in Punjab corrupt, Mayawati said it failed on all fronts.BSP Punjab unit president Jasbir Singh Garhi and party Punjab in-charge Randhir Singh Beniwal were present at the meeting.The BSP has decided to field candidates on 20 assembly seats while SAD will contest on the 97 seats in the Punjab assembly elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bspsad-alliance-will-free-punjab-from-cong-misrule-mayawati-101624909156978.html
29-06-2021||Chandigarh||Youth Akali Dal lays siege to ex-IG Kunwar Vijay’s Amritsar residence||Activists of the Youth Akali Dal (YAD) on Monday broke through police barricades to lay siege to the residence of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh demanding a criminal case against the former inspector general of police (IGP) for his alleged association with an accused in the ₹15-crore medical drug seizure case. A former president of the district Congress committee, the accused, Rajiv Bhagat, joined the AAP two months ago. The protesters alleged that Bhagat was given the responsibility of overseeing Amritsar-West constituency at the behest of Kunwar Vijay.The police detained some Akali workers for a while to disperse to crowd. YAD leaders Gurpartap Singh Tikka and Jodh Singh Samra said, “The accused, Rajiv Bhagat, used the then IG’s official vehicle to transport drugs from one place to another. Chief minister Amarinder Singh must take action in the matter or it would be presumed that he is protecting the former IG as part of a pact with AAP,” they said.Also, the Aam Aadmi Party volunteers led by leader of opposition in assembly Harpal Singh Cheema also held a protest at Congress MLA Raj Kumar Verka’s house in support of sanitation workers and sewermen for their regularisation. The protesters burnt an effigy of the Congress government.Cheema said, “Thousands of unemployed people have been protesting against the government. Due to the protests of safai karamcharies, most of the cities are littered with garbage that can lead to the spread of diseases..”On the SAD’s protest, Cheema said, “The party is trying to regain its lost ground by making fake allegations against the former cop whose services remained unquestionable.”When contacted, Verka said, “The state government has already announced to regularise the safai karamcharies and we are giving appointment letters to 5,000 such workers on July 1.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/youth-akali-dal-lays-siege-to-ex-ig-kunwar-vijay-s-amritsar-residence-101624909155344.html
29-06-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab reports 271 Covid cases, 18 more deaths||Punjab on Monday recorded 271 fresh Covid-19 cases that took its infection tally to 5,95,136 while 18 more fatalities pushed the death toll to 16,011, according to a medical bulletin.Ludhiana reported 35 fresh cases, followed by 26 in Jalandhar and 21 in Hoshiarpur, the bulletin stated.The latest deaths were reported from Barnala, Bathinda and Faridkot, among other districts, it said.There are 3,639 active Covid-19 cases in Punjab. While 114 critical patients are on ventilator support, 381 critical patients and 1,560 others are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.The state’s positivity rate stands at 0.67%. As many as 614 more coronavirus patients recovered from the infection the previous day, taking the total number of cured people to 5,75,486, it said.So far, 1,07,95,548 samples have been collected for testing in the state, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-reports-271-covid-cases-18-more-deaths-101624909034488.html
29-06-2021||Chandigarh||Sidhu to meet Rahul, Priyanka on Tuesday||Amid uncertainty over the Congress high command’s peace formula for the faction-ridden Punjab unit, former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu will meet former party president Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Tuesday. Sidhu, who has been targeting chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh over delay in justice in sacrilege cases and other unkept promises, will meet the two leaders in Delhi, an aide of the former minister said on Monday. His meeting with Rahul and Priyanka comes at a time when the party high command is making efforts to end factionalism ahead of next year’s assembly polls in the state. Rahul and Priyanka, general secretary in-charge of party affairs in Uttar Pradesh, are likely to discuss with the former minister his role in the organisational set up or the government. A three-member committee constituted by Congress president Sonia Gandhi to resolve the rift had, in its report on June 10, suggested that Sidhu should be suitably accommodated to end the factionalism in the state unit. While Sidhu is said to be keen on heading the state Congress despite his statements to the contrary, Amarinder is not amenable to having him in the position. The Amritsar East MLA, who quit the state cabinet over his differences with the CM two years ago, upped the ante about a week with a spate of interviews in which he accused Amarinder of colluding with Badals. Meanwhile, Sidhu, in a series of tweets on Monday in support of protesting farmers, suggested transforming social movement of unions into a sustainable economic power by influencing political decision makers with progressive agenda, beyond mere repealing of black laws. “Farmers can be game-changers in 2022 for resurrection of Punjab. Unions can transform their power into an economic force via cooperatives,” he tweeted, reiterating his demand that Punjab should give MSP on pulses, oilseeds, vegetables and fruits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sidhu-to-meet-rahul-priyanka-on-tuesday-101624908914432.html
29-06-2021||Chandigarh||117 cross Wagah border as Pakistan eases Covid norms||AMRITSARAs many as 117 people, comprising 84 Indians and 33 Pakistani nationals, crossed over to India from Pakistan via the Attari-Wagah border on Monday.Earlier, the ministry of interior of the Pakistan government had informed that 461 people — 405 of them Indians and 56 Pakistani nationals — would cross over to India from the transit route on Monday. According to officials, these people had been stranded in Pakistan due to Covid-19 restrictions.Some of the returnees included no obligation to return to India (NORI) visa holders, who had gone to the neighbouring country to meet their relatives, and some were students from Kashmir. The Indian government issues NORI visas to Pakistani and Bangladeshi nationals who leave their home country and live in India or are married in India but have not yet obtained Indian citizenship. Similarly, many students from Kashmir pursue professional courses in Pakistan institutions.“There had been information that 461 people would come to India, but only 117 could make it on Monday. Those who failed to cross will come in the coming days,” said Arun Pal, Punjab Police’s protocol officer at Attari border. He said those who returned underwent Covid-19 test at the integrated check post (ICP), Attari, and no one tested positive.Durafshan Yousuf, 26, who is pursuing MBBS in Pakistan, said she had been in Pakistan for the past one year. “There should be proper coordination between both the countries to allow the stranded people to return to their countries in a time-bound manner in Covid-like situations,” she said.Meanwhile, the Indian government repatriated four Pakistani prisoners, including three fishermen, through the transit route on Monday. The fishermen—Jumma Muhammad, Mumad Hassan and Vatu Muhammad of Thatta district in Pakistan—were caught in Gujarat after they had entered in Indian water in Arabian Sea in December 2016.Arun Pal said these fishermen completed their 3.5-year sentence in Palara jail of Gujarat. They were released after their nationality was confirmed by the Pakistan government.The fourth Pakistani, who was released from Amritsar Central jail, is Muhammad Ramjan, 22 of Lahore. He was arrested by the Border Security Force while roaming in the Indian territory at Khemkaran sector of Tarn Taran district in 2017. He completed his 2-year sentence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/117-cross-wagah-border-as-pakistan-eases-covid-norms-101624908794629.html
29-06-2021||Other||Suspected Jaish terrorists killed SPO, kin in Pulwama, say police||Police on Monday said that two foreign terrorists from Jaish-e-Muhamad outfit could be behind the attack that killed a Special Police Officer of the Jammu & Kashmir police, his wife, and his daughter in Hariparigam village of south Kashmir’s Pulwama district.According to Inspector General of Police, Vijay Kumar, SPO Fayaz Ahmad was at home with his family around 11pm on Sunday when two terrorists barged into their house and opened indiscriminate fire. “As per preliminary investigations, Ahmad’s wife and daughter sustained injuries while trying to save him,” said Kumar.They were rushed to the hospital where Ahmad and his wife Raja Begum died during treatment, while their daughter, Rafiya, succumbed to her injuries on Monday, he added.“There is a movement of Jaish militants in the area and, as per the appearance of one of the terrorists, they are foreigners,” said Kumar.The “cowardly” attack triggered sharp response from leaders across parties.Jammu and Kashmir’s lieutenant governor, Manoj Sinha, termed the killing brutal. “I strongly condemn the brutal terrorist attack on SPO Fayaz Ahmad & his family at Awantipora. This is an act of cowardice & perpetrators of violence will be brought to justice very soon. My deepest condolences to the family of martyr & prayers for the recovery of injured,” tweeted Sinha.“No words are strong enough to condemn the cowardly attack in Awantipora that claimed the lives of a JKP officer Fayaz Ahmad, his wife & daughter. May Allah Ta’ala grant them maghfirat & their loved ones the fortitude to bear this loss,” tweeted PDP president, Mehbooba Mufti.Former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Omar Abdullah also condemned the attack in a tweet and said: “I unreservedly condemn the dastardly and cowardly militant attack on the J&K police SPO Fayaz Ahmed, his wife and his young daughter at their home last night. I pray they receive their place in Jannat and their loved ones find strength during this terrible time.”Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) spokesperson Altaf Thakur,too, termed it barbaric “Barging into the house of a cop and killing him and his family members is nothing but a pure form of terrorism,” he said.“What was the fault of the innocent wife and daughter of policeman Fayaz Ahmed? Killing women is [not] bravery but a purely cowardly attack which deserves the highest form of condemnation,” Thakur added.This is the latest in a series of attacks on locals in the Union territory.On June 23, a shop owner was killed when gunmen opened fire on him in Srinagar.Police had said that militants fired upon a mobile phone shop owner Umar Nazir Bhat of Kelashpora, inside his shop at Main Chowk Habba Kadal in Old City.On June 22, a police officer was killed in a suspected militant attack on Srinagar outskirts.Officials said that Inspector Pervaiz Ahmad, who worked with the Criminal Investigation Department (CID) wing of the police, was fired upon near his home at Nowgam.He was rushed to Shri Maharaja Hari Singh (SMHS) hospital in the Old City, where doctors declared him dead on arrival.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/suspected-jaish-terrorists-killed-spo-kin-in-pulwama-say-police-101624908555792.html
29-06-2021||Other||Abduction of Sikh women: Valley leaders urge admn to conduct thorough probe||Political leaders in Kashmir on Monday urged the J&K administration to conduct a thorough probe into the alleged abduction and conversion of two young Sikh women and allay the concerns of Sikh community in the valley.According to the protesters, one of the girls has been returned to her family by the police, but the other one is still missing, and they are awaiting her return. However, they shared no specific details in the case of the latter.National Conference vice-president Omar Abdullah and Peoples Democratic Party president Mehbooba Mufti asked the authorities to properly investigate the issue.“Any move to drive a wedge between Sikhs and Muslims in Kashmir will cause irreparable harm to J&K. The two communities have supported each other through thick and thin, having withstood countless attempts to damage age-old relationships,” said Abdullah.“Hope the investigative agencies swiftly get to the bottom of this issue,” said Mehbooba.Protests by Sikh community were triggered on Sunday after reports spread that a young woman from the community was allegedly kidnapped by a man from another community. Police said they have arrested the person, 29, and the girl, 18, was presented before a court on Saturday, and later returned to her family.Amit Shah assures returnUnion home minister Amit Shah has assured the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) of the safe return of the Sikh woman to their families, said DSGMC president Manjinder Singh Sirsa on Monday.Addressing the media, the DSGMC president said Shah will soon meet the J&K Sikh delegation to discuss the concerns of the minority.Sirsa, who is camping in Srinagar for the past two days said, “DSGMC is making all efforts to bring both the girls back into the Sikh fold. Both the girls are from poor families, and we have rescued one of them and efforts are on to rescue the other.”Manjit Singh GK, former president of DSGMC, who held a demonstration in New Delhi on Monday, demanded anti-conversion law in J&K. In a memorandum to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, GK said that inspite of the fact that Article 370 has been annulled, Sikhs in J&K were discriminated against.Bibi Jagir Kaur, president of Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee, said the SGPC is giving all support to the family. “I have asked families to bring both the girls to Darbar Sahib for counselling and moral support. I also plan to visit Srinagar to be in touch with the families,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/abduction-of-sikh-women-valley-leaders-urge-admn-to-conduct-thorough-probe-101624908505641.html
29-06-2021||Other||We believe in dialogue, but can retaliate, says Rajnath Singh on Indo-China row||Amid renewed tensions at the border, Union defence minister Rajnath Singh gave a clear message to China on Monday, saying that India believes in resolving disputes through dialogue with the neighbouring countries, but “our Army has the capability to give a befitting reply to every challenge”.“We have always worked for world peace. We never attack anyone. Our objective has never been to achieve victory against anyone. India has neither attacked any country nor occupied an inch. Our intention is very clear,” said Singh, while addressing soldiers in a forward location on the second day of his visit to eastern Ladakh.Singh also paid rich tributes to the soldiers killed during the Galwan Valley clash last year, saying that the country will never forget their sacrifice.The Galwan Valley clash of June 15, 2020, was the first deadly skirmish between Indian and Chinese troops along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in more than five decades, and pushed the bilateral relationship to breaking point. It left 20 Indian soldiers and an undisclosed number of Chinese troops dead. Since then, the two armies have held 11 rounds of talks between corps commander-rank officers, but the negotiations have only had limited success in hammering out an agreement for disengagement of rival soldiers from friction points.“We had to face a big challenge along the Northern border last year. But our armed forces displayed their courage and dedication to deal with it... Our Army has the capability to give a befitting reply to every challenge,” he said. “Our neighbours should think that we have been neighbours for ages, we will remain neighbours for ages. Can we not find permanent solutions to the disputed issues through talks...”Inaugurates strategic bridgesDuring the visit, Singh also dedicated to the nation 63 bridges built by the Border Roads Organisation (BRO).Besides inaugurating a 50-metre-long bridge constructed on the Leh-Loma road in Ladakh, Singh virtually inaugurated 62 more bridges -- 11 in Ladakh, four in Jammu and Kashmir, three in Himachal Pradesh, six in Uttarakhand, eight in Sikkim, one each in Nagaland and Manipur and 29 in Arunachal Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/we-believe-in-dialogue-but-can-retaliate-says-rajnath-singh-on-indo-china-row-101624908498187.html
29-06-2021||Other||Cylinderman: How gas agency employee from Maharashtra’s Ambernath set Internet on fire||A gas cylinder delivery staffer from Ambernath has become an internet sensation overnight, thanks to a media professional who posted the 29 year old’s random photo, exhibiting his muscular physique, on social media. On the morning of June 26, Sagar Jadhav was standing beside his agency’s cylinder carrier truck while his colleague made a delivery near Ambernath railway station, when Tushar Bhamre, 35, a media professional spotted him. Bhamre, also an Ambernath resident, was seated in his car, while his wife was buying groceries. “Jadhav was leaning against the truck, lost in thought, and I thought it made for a very nice picture. So I clicked a few photos and posted one on Facebook, with a caption saying that this could be a still out of a web series. I didn’t think much of it at the time, but by afternoon, the post had received scores of comments and shares,” said Bhamre. Bhamre’s post received 351 likes, 151 comments and 71 shares. The morning after he posted it, several other social media users had obtained the picture from Bhamre and posted it on their own social media pages. Artists made Jadhav’s caricature and posted it on Instagram, with someone coming up with #cylinderman. By Monday, Instagram fitness accounts like Six Pack Abs India had also picked up the picture. “I came home from work on June 26 and went off to sleep, not knowing what was brewing. I only learned about it later after a friend called me up. Honestly, I couldn’t believe it at first,” Jadhav recalled. Using Facebook, Bhamre found a few users mutual friends and got in touch with Jadhav on Sunday. “The first thing I did was to apologise to him for posting the picture without his consent. We both expressed the desire to meet each other and that same evening, he visited my house. We spoke for a long time,” said Bhamre. Orphaned at childhood, Jadhav is a shy personality and protective of his personal life. His elder brother also works for the same liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) retail agency. Jadhav got married two-and-a-half years ago. Jadhav has been working for a gas retail agency since his teenage years. When he started working, he was a skinny young man with scant interest in fitness. However, as years progressed, he started feeling the need to increase his strength and stamina to suit the demands of his job. “An empty LPG cylinder weighs 15 kilogrammes (kg), while a fully-filled one weighs 30kg. When I started my job, my weight used to be 45kg, and not all the buildings where we deliver cylinders have lifts, which means sometimes we have to climb three-four storeys with the cylinder on our shoulders. This drove me to visit a newly opened gym in my locality four years ago,” said Jadhav. That one visit to the gym changed Jadhav’s life forever. He started working out regularly, and makes it a point now to hit the gym six days a week for at least an hour daily. “I can’t afford supplements or fancy diet plans. My diet consists entirely of home-cooked food. I don’t even have a personal trainer. I only perform the basic exercises that I had learned when I first joined the gym. The change that exercising has brought about in my strength and stamina is all the motivation I need to keep going on,” he said. Social media users are already hoping that Jadhav, with his looks and physique, lands a role in a movie or a web series. On Monday, Jadhav’s picture was posted by Marathi actor Kushal Badrike on his Facebook page. “I have assured Jadhav that I will guide him to the best of my capabilities if he gets an offer. I have worked in the media industry for several years now and would be happy if my experience is of some use to him,” said Bhamre. Jadhav, on his part, said he will take each day as it comes. “For now, I am going to stick to my workout regimen and advice everyone to work out. It is never a bad idea to start working out and get in shape. Apart from a good physique and stamina, it also helps build immunity, which has become all the more important amid the pandemic,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cylinderman-how-gas-agency-employee-from-maharashtra-s-ambernath-set-internet-on-fire-101624907533816.html
29-06-2021||Other||Antibody therapy against Covid shows positive results in DMCH Ludhiana||Ludhiana Giving medicines that mimic the activity of the human immune system to fight Covid-19 has shown encouraging results at the Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH), Ludhiana, over the past month. Of six covid patients, with comorbidities, who were administered this line of treatment, at the hospital, five have fully recovered; one patient is still on oxygen support, but is showing encouraging immune response. All six patients were admitted in June.Technically called Monoclonal Antibody Therapy, drug trials of this treatment is being carried out the supervision of a three-member team comprising Dr Rajesh Mahajan, Dr Bishav Mohan and Dr Pawan Kumar. Dr Mohan, who is also a member of the Covid Task Force of the state, said, “Monoclonal antibodies are artificial antibodies that act in a manner, similar to the activity of the human immune system.”Dr Kumar said the six patients volunteered to be given the monoclonal antibody therapy. The antibody cocktail administered to patients is a combination of two drugs, Casirivimab and Imdevimab, he added. “The treatment is showing encouraging results. All six patients came to us in June. Five have been discharged. The sixth, who was offered this cocktail of medicines on June 21 is showing good response. We hope to discharge him in two-three days,” Dr Kumar added. “These medicines are given to Covid patients when symptoms have just manifested. This helps stop the spread of virus in the lungs. The therapy also reduces the risk of worsening of the ailment and cuts down on hospital stay of patients with weak immune system response.”The results hold significance, with two patients in the state found to be carrying the Delta Plus variant of Covid. Besides, increased transmissibility, the Delta Plus variant has stronger binding to receptors of lung cells and potential reduction in monoclonal antibody response, which these cocktail of medicines can help treat, Dr Kumar added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/antibody-therapy-against-covid-shows-positive-results-in-dmch-ludhiana-101624907474388.html
29-06-2021||Other||Antilia explosives scare, Mansukh Hiran murder: Custody of 2 more accused extended till July 1||A special court on Monday extended the National Investigation Agency (NIA) custody of Satish Mothukari and Manish Soni – arrested on June 17 in connection with the Antilia explosives scare and the subsequent murder of Thane trader Mansukh Hiran – till July 1. Special judge Prashant Sitre extended the NIA custody of the duo after the federal agency informed the court that it needs to probe the source of the huge sums of cash recovered from them. Meanwhile, three other accused – Santosh Shelar, Anand Jadhav and former encounter specialist Pradeep Sharma – have been remanded in judicial custody till July 12, as the NIA did not seek their further custody. According to NIA, Mothukari – also known as Tanni or Vicky Baba – Soni, Shelar and Jadhav had smothered Hiran in a red car along Ghodbunder Road in Thane on March 4 and dumped his body in a creek near Mumbra. The 48-year-old auto parts dealer was allegedly killed at the behest of Sharma and former Mumbai cop Sachin Vaze. Mothukari and Soni were produced before the special court as their earlier NIA custody ended on Monday. The agency sought their five-day remand for “finding out certain missing links in the conspiracy.” NIA prosecutor informed the court that after murdering Hiran, the duo had travelled to various places in India and also went abroad. The agency wants to find out who funded their travel. The prosecutor added that their further custody was also required to trace the objects used to allegedly smother Hiran as well as Hiran’s missing belongings –a mobile phone, watch, wallet and credit and debit cards. Soni’s lawyer, advocate Rahul Arote, opposed the plea for the extension of the NIA custody, contending that there was no change in the grounds for additional custody. Arote pointed out that Soni runs a garment business and frequently travels abroad, and the NIA can check his passport to verify which foreign places he had visited. He argued that it cannot be a ground for extending Soni’s custody. Sharma’s lawyer urged the court to direct the jail authorities to send him to Thane prison for security reasons, claiming that the former encounter specialist apprehended threats to his life. He will, however, be lodged in Taloja jail. But the special court has directed the jail superintendent to take appropriate care to ensure Sharma’s security. On February 25, an SUV was found abandoned near industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s home Antilia with 20 lose gelatin sticks and a threatening note. On March 5, Hiran – the owner of the SUV – was found dead in a creek near Mumbra, with six handkerchiefs stuffed in his mouth and his face covered by a scarf. Vaze was originally in charge of the investigation of the Antilia case, but was removed after reports emerged of his links with Hiran, who had reported the SUV stolen on February 17. NIA had arrested Vaze on March 13, claiming that he was the mastermind behind the explosives scare and Hiran’s murder. NIA investigators said that Vaze had planned the Antilia explosives scare in a bid to “regain lost glory” in the police force as he had been suspended in March 2004 for his involvement in a custodial killing case, and reinstated a year later. NIA further alleged that Hiran was killed after he refused to take the blame for planting the SUV and getting arrested in the case. Vaze, who is currently in custody, has denied the charges to the court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/antilia-explosives-scare-mansukh-hiran-murder-custody-of-2-more-accused-extended-till-july-1-101624907413855.html
29-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai activist flags illegal work at Tungareshwar wildlife sanctuary||A city-based environmentalist has written to the Maharashtra forest department, flagging unlawful construction work currently underway in Tungareshwar Wildlife Sanctuary (TWLS), allegedly to expand and rebuild the Sadanand Ashram, which was demolished in August 2019 for violating the Forest Conservation Act, 1980, and Wildlife Protection Act, 1972.Following a protracted legal tussle lasting over a decade, the Supreme Court in May 2019 had ordered the state government to evict the ashram, which at the time was occupying over half-a-hectare (ha) of the protected area. The Bombay Environmental Action Group (BEAG) filed an application in July 2004 in the courts for the eviction of the encroachment.Debi Goenka, a member of the BEAG and executive trustee of non-profit organisation Conservation Action Trust (CAT), on Sunday wrote to Nitin Kakodkar, chief wildlife warden, Maharashtra; Sunil Limaye, additional principal chief conservator of forests (APCCF), wildlife, Mumbai; and to G Mallikarjuna, field director and chief conservator of forests, Sanjay Gandhi National Park (SGNP).“I had visited TWLS on June 26. I was shocked to discover that the road from Parol to the Sadanand Baba ashram is still being used by vehicles carrying devotees to the ashram. It is also evident that the road is being maintained to facilitate the passage of these vehicles,” said Goenka, pointing out that the entry register at Parol chowky is not being assiduously maintained.“This is obvious because none of the vehicles that I saw yesterday had been recorded in the register,” he wrote. Moreover, it is alleged that two sheds within the ashram premises have been built some time following the demolition.“As I didn’t enter the ashram premises, I am not able to comment on other work that may have been carried out within the premises,” Goenka’s letter stated.In a statement to the press on Monday, Goenka wrote, “It seems that the Sadanand baba ashram is slowly being allowed to rebuild and restart all the activities that they were carrying out prior to the demolition.”In response, environmentalists have demanded that the newly constructed structures be speedily demolished, and the entry of vehicles from Parol chowky be halted. Goenka has also asked if a CCTV camera be installed at the chowky, which should be manned by uniformed forest guards, in addition to regular patrols by the range forest officers (RFOs), assistant conservator of forests (ACF), deputy conservator of forests (DCFs) and other higher-ranked officials.In a message to HT on Monday, Mallikarjuna said, “Our officials, including the district forest office, ACF and RFO will visit the site. If at all any encroachment has come up then the same would be demolished.”The Balayogi Shree Sadanand Maharaj Ashram had occupied forest land in the 1970s, before the area was declared a protected sanctuary. Forest officials and environmentalists pointed out that the structure continued to grow in size by encroaching into the surrounding forest even after it was declared a protected area in 2003.Tungareshwar, which is around 85.70 sq km in area, is connected to other protected natural areas like the Nagla block of SGNP and Tansa Wildlife Sanctuary.The sanctuary’s diverse habitats including littoral forests and hills, which are home to leopards, wild boars, barking deer, langurs, bonnet and rhesus macaques, among other animals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mumbai-activist-flags-illegal-work-at-tungareshwar-wildlife-sanctuary-101624907234977.html
29-06-2021||Other||Bombay HC extends stay on declaring Mehul Choksi fugitive economic offender||Extending its interim relief of January 2020 for three weeks, the Bombay high court (HC) has restrained the special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court from pronouncing its final order in the Enforcement Directorate’s (ED) application, seeking the declaration of businessman Mehul Choksi as a fugitive economic offender (FEO) in the Punjab National Bank fraud case. The single-judge bench of justice AS Gadkari was hearing Choksi’s applications challenging ED’s plea before PMLA court to declare him an FEO, and to cross-examine the investigation officer based on whose statement the agency wanted to declare him a fugitive offender. Choksi has sought the quashing of ED’s application in the special PMLA court. Choksi’s advocate Vijay Aggarwal said they needed time to file a brief rejoinder in the case. The court accepted the request and allowed Agarwal to file it within two weeks and posted the further hearing after three weeks. ED had applied before the special PMLA court to declare Choksi an FEO under the FEO Act, 2018, which stipulates that a person can be declared FEO if a warrant has been issued against him for an offence involving an amount of ₹100 crore or more, and if the person has left the country and refuses to return.Choksi had challenged the proceedings through a bunch of petitions in which his counsel argued that he cannot be declared an FEO as ED was relying on the statements recorded under PMLA to build a case against him. He had also sought to cross-examine at least 21 witnesses cited by ED. Both the applications were rejected by the special court in December 2019. Agarwal had argued that the complaint under FEO Act should be dismissed as the affidavit filed by ED’s deputy director is not as per law. Citing anomalies on ED’s part, Choksi’s side argued that the agency did not file the FEO complaint in a prescribed format according to rule 3 of the declaration of Fugitive Economic Offenders (Forms and Manners of Filing Application) Rules, 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bombay-hc-extends-stay-on-declaring-mehul-choksi-fugitive-economic-offender-101624907173826.html
29-06-2021||Other||EOW starts reinvestigation of Mumbai co-op bank fraud case; Oppn leader an accused||The city police’s economic offences wing (EOW) has started a reinvestigation in ₹123 crore Mumbai District Central Co-operative Bank Ltd cheating case after a local court recently rejected the C-Summary filed by the agency claiming that the case is a civil dispute. Leader of Opposition in Maharashtra legislative Council Pravin Darekar is the chairman of the co-operative bank and accused in the case. Darekar did not respond to HT’s phone calls and messages. A C-Summary is filed when a criminal case was filed due to mistake in facts or the offences in the complaint are of a civil nature. The case was first registered by MRA Marg police in March 2015 and later EOW took over its investigation. Darekar and other office-bearers were accused in the case for allegedly causing a loss of ₹123 crore to the bank since 1998 by fraud and embezzlement of funds.The first information report (FIR) was registered on the complaint of an advocate, Vivekanand Gupta, who is also Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Mumbai secretary, alleging that Darekar and others have misused their positions in the bank. The complaint accused the bank officials of making risky investments and carrying out many illegal activities that resulted in the loss to the bank and the money was routed for the benefits of the accused. The police had initially booked the accused under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property), 409 (criminal breach of trust by public servant, or by banker, merchant or agent), 465 (punishment for forgery), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (using as genuine a forged 1[document or electronic record]) and 120 (B) (punishment of criminal conspiracy). EOW officers had carried out an investigation in the case and had closed it in 2019 by filing an application for C-Summary, claiming it to be a civil matter. When the court informed Gupta about the C-summary application, he personally said that he has no objection. However, another complainant, Pankaj Kotecha, who also had levelled similar allegations, moved an application before the court opposing the C-summary. Kotecha informed the court that there should be an audit to detect the irregularities and enlighten on the transactions of the bank, but the investigation officer has not produced an audit report of the relevant period. In its order passed on June 16, the court observed, “In the complaint, serious allegations are levelled against office bearers of the Mumbai District Central Co-operative Bank Ltd. As per their allegations, there is a misappropriation of a huge amount. It is a public fund. Therefore, a detailed investigation is required. Considering the report submitted by the investigation officer, it does not reflect detailed investigation regarding the allegations made in the FIR.” Subsequently, the court rejected EOW’s application for C-summary and directed the investigating officer to further probe the case and submit the report in the court. The EOW will now record Kotecha’s statement in detail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/eow-starts-reinvestigation-of-mumbai-co-op-bank-fraud-case-oppn-leader-an-accused-101624907113742.html
29-06-2021||Other||Sacrilege in Sangrur: SGPC delegation to meet SSP today||AMRITSAR Three days after police arrested a woman for allegedly setting the Sikh holy book, the Guru Granth Sahib, on fire at Johlian village gurdwara under the Bhawanigarh police station on Friday, the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) has said it will pursue the case. “The woman has been arrested, but exposing people who are behind this incident is important. A delegation of the SGPC will meet Sangrur SSP on June 29 (Tuesday) and submit a memorandum, seeking appropriate action against the actual culprits. SGPC will pursue and fight the case,” she said.The delegation will comprise SGPC junior vice-president Baba Buta Singh, executive committee members Satwinder Singh Tohra, Bhupinder Singh Bhalwan, member Baldev Singh Chungan and Bibi Malkit Kaur, along with all SGPC members of the district, and the Sangat (devotees).The SGPC president said repeated incidents of sacrilege are taking place and appropriate action is not being taken even after the culprits are arrested on the spot or later. “This incident is not normal and the police and the administration should work to identify actual culprits,” she added.‘LODGE FIR AGAINST SATKAR COMMITTEE ACTIVISTS’ The SGPC has also written to Amritsar police commissioner Sukhchain Singh Gill, seeking an FIR against Guru Granth Sahib Satkar Committee activists, for forcibly taking away Guru Granth Sahib’s bir from the house of a Sikh family in Amritsar on June 2. Listing its probe findings after the family complained to it, the SGPC states in the letter that the Akal Takht recognises no Satkar committee, nor does it permit anyone to take away the holy bir from any house forcibly by barging into it.“The Sikh family adorned the bir with Sikh Rehat Maryada (Sikh Code of Conduct), yet the bir was taken away from the house. The accused claim they had the consent of the area SHO,” their letter adds.The letter adds, “Police interference into personal religious matters is equal to an offence. A case should be registered against those who took away the bir forcibly under Section 441 (criminal trespass, house trespass) and charges of abetment should also be framed against the SHO.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sacrilege-in-sangrur-sgpc-delegation-to-meet-ssp-today-101624907054338.html
29-06-2021||Mumbai||BMC sero survey: 51.18% kids have antibodies||In a first, a ward-wise sero-prevalence survey among children undertaken by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has revealed that more than 50% of the paediatric populace in Mumbai has antibodies against Covid-19. Following the sudden spike in the infection rate among children in the second wave, the BMC decided to conduct a sero survey among the 1-18 years age group to gauge the prevalence of the virus among the young population. The overall seropositivity rate is 51.18%. It was conducted in association with the BYL Nair Hospital and the civic-run Kasturba Molecular Diagnostic Laboratory. As per data provided by the BMC, the seropositivity rate between the 1-4 age group is 51.04%. Children in the 5-9 age group showed 47.33% positivity rate. The highest positivity rate is between 10 and 14 years which stands at 53.43%. In the fourth category, teenagers between 15 and 18 years had a 51.39% positivity rate. Seropositivity is the highest in the 10-14 age group. Doctors said the results of the survey can help lessen the impact of Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, among children during the anticipated third wave. Serological survey examines how many people in a population have been infected with Covid-19 and recovered from it, which helps gauge prevalence of the virus in a particular area. The blood serum of a group of individuals is tested using an antibody test, also known as a serology test.Medical practitioners said high prevalence of antibodies is a good sign and indicates that children are naturally developing antibodies as a protective shield against Covid-19. “As this age group hasn’t been included in the mass immunisation programme, antibodies have developed naturally after getting exposed to the virus. The results are indicative of development of herd immunity among children. With this, we assume they would be all protected against Covid-19 in the third wave,” said Dr Ramesh Bharmal, dean of Nair hospital. Blood samples were acquired from public and civic-run laboratories. Across 24 civic wards of Mumbai, a total of 2,176 blood samples have been analysed for the survey, of which 1,283 samples were collected from Aapli Chikitsa Network and BYL Nair Hospital. The remaining 893 samples were collected from two private laboratories.In April, when the pandemic curve was at its peak, a total of 4,351 children between the 0-9 age group contracted Covid-19 in Mumbai. In the same month, 12,277 teenagers in the 10-19 age group were diagnosed with the infection. “It is a good sign because we haven’t witnessed a remarkable rise in hospitalisation or severe Covid-19 infections in children. It means these children are probably protected against the infection. Moreover, as adults achieve immunity through vaccination or by natural means, the infection rate in children will automatically decrease,” said Dr Tushar Maniar, head of paediatric department, Nanavati Max Super Speciality hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-sero-survey-51-18-kids-have-antibodies-101624906993812.html
29-06-2021||Mumbai||Vaccination scam: Cops probe complainants for not checking authenticity||The Mumbai Police, which is probing the vaccination scam cases, is now trying to find out why the complainants did not verify the authenticity of the camp when the accused, Mahendra Singh and others, approached them for conducting the camp.Police officers said they are contemplating to book the person or persons responsible for accepting the offer of the accused. The organisers of the seven places did not verify the accused’s claims of affiliation with Kokilaben Dhirubhai Ambani Hospital, or question the open vials of vaccine. Police further said that the complainants also did not question when the accused requested to switch off CCTVs of the venue and refrain from clicking photos saying it was not allowed by the government. The accused also did not register the beneficiaries online at the venue.“These were basic things that raised red flags and the organisers should have taken note of it. The negligence could have endangered lives,” said a police officer. Borivli police registered statements of the organisers of Aditya College and Shimpoli-based share broker to find out whether they were negligent in verifying the authenticity of the accused.Deputy commissioner of police (DCP) Vishal Thakur said, “This is a part of investigation. The investigation is moving in the right direction.” Officers said that they are now investigating to find out the modus of the gang since more first information reports (FIRs) could be filed.Meanwhile, the accused were presented before the court and have been remanded in police custody for two days. Dindoshi sessions court on Monday rejected the anticipatory bail plea of Dr Manish Tripathi, and asked him to surrender.The vaccination scam came to light when Hiranandani Heritage society members approached Kandivli police saying they were duped by Mahendra Singh and four others who gave them fake vaccine on May 30.The society members claimed they got vaccination certificates, but they had names of different hospitals and different dates. When the residents checked the CoWin portal, their status was shown as “yet to receive first dose.”Apart from the case filed by Hiranandani Heritage, six more cases have been filed at Versova, Borivli and Khar police stations against the same group. So far, the police have arrested eight accused and are on a lookout for two more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/vaccination-scam-cops-probe-complainants-for-not-checking-authenticity-101624906933826.html
29-06-2021||Other||Overwhelming response for Mumbai-Pune Deccan Express’ Vistadome coach since Saturday||The 44-seater Vistadome coach on Deccan Express, running between Mumbai and Pune, has received an overwhelming response from passengers after it was attached to the train on Saturday.While all the 44 seats were booked on Saturday, 41 tickets were sold on Sunday. On Monday, 40 seats of the coach were booked. “The response from passengers has been good and the coach was nearly full on all the three days it operated,” said a senior Central Railway official. The glass-roofed Vistadome coach has wide window panes and seats that rotate to 360 degrees to provide passengers with a better sightseeing experience.It also has 12 LCD (liquid crystal display) television screens for entertainment, a mini-fridge, automatic sliding compartment doors, an oven, juicer grinder and toilets fitted with ceramic tiles. “Full house for Vistadome coach in Mumbai-Pune Deccan Express Special Train started from today. Passengers can enjoy unhindered views of river, valley, waterfalls (sic),” the Ministry of Railways had tweeted on Saturday. The Mumbai-Pune Deccan Express halts at Dadar, Thane, Kalyan, Neral, Lonavala, Talegaon, Khadki and Shivaji Nagar railway stations.Initially, the coach was introduced on Jan Shatabdi Express on the Mumbai-Goa route in 2017 for passengers to enjoy the view of the Western Ghats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/overwhelming-response-for-mumbai-pune-deccan-express-vistadome-coach-since-saturday-101624906874285.html
29-06-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC adds supplier of faulty ventilators as respondent||The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court (HC) on Monday directed the inclusion of the Rajkot company, which supplied faulty ventilators, as a respondent in the suo motu public interest litigation (PIL) initiated after it was informed that nearly 34 of the 250 ventilators supplied to Marathwada region were faulty and dysfunctional. The directions were issued after the court was informed that despite court orders, the company has failed to repair or replace the dysfunctional ventilators. The company has been asked to respond by July 5. The division bench of justice Ravindra Ghuge and justice Avinash Gharote was hearing the suo motu PIL which was filed based on news reports pointing to mismanagement of the second wave of Covid and other issues faced by citizens while getting treated for Covid-19 and mucormycosis among other issues including the faulty ventilators which had been supplied to Marathwada region through the Union ministry of home and family welfare. In earlier hearings, the court was informed by the amicus curiae and state counsels that 117 of the 150 ventilators distributed to hospitals in Marathwada region after March had malfunctioned and that doctors were not willing to use them on patients. An expert committee of doctors and technicians had submitted a report stating that the ventilators were not safe for use, following which the court had directed the Union government to ensure that the company, which provided the ventilators, repaired or replaced the faulty machines. The court had also chided the Union government for taking a soft stand against the company — Jyoti CNC, which is based in Rajkot. On Monday, the court was informed that earlier in January this year, Marathwada had also received 100 more ventilators manufactured by the same company and 27 ventilators from that batch were dysfunctional. A total of 34 ventilators — 27 ventilators from the previous batch and seven ventilators from second batch — were faulty. Chief public prosecutor DR Kale told the bench that after the court ordered repair or replacement of the machines, the company had taken back 41 ventilators from the batch of 150 and had repaired them. However, as the court had not passed any orders regarding the faulty ventilators from the earlier batch, the company had not repaired or replaced them. Following the submissions, amicus curiae SS Bora suggested that as the company was not conducting itself properly, it should be impleaded as a party to the suo motu PIL. The court agreed and directed issuance of notice to the company. The company is the 44th respondent to be added in the PIL. The court has posted hearing of the petition to July 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-adds-supplier-of-faulty-ventilators-as-respondent-101624906873793.html
29-06-2021||Mumbai||NMMC steps up testing to delay third wave||The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) has increased Covid-19 testing with more than 20,000 tests done on Saturday and Sunday. NMMC chief Abhijit Bangar said, “The idea is to detect all positive cases and start the treatment soon so that the third wave is delayed. The later the third wave, the smaller the danger because by then the number of people who got vaccinated would increase.” Along with random testing, targeted testing has also been increased. Random tests are conducted at railway stations and malls. “The malls are closed now so the random testing might decrease. The random testing positivity rate was very less,” Bangar added. In targeted testing, the whole family or, in some cases, the whole floor of an affected person is tested. “Even if cases go up a little due to the increase in targeted testing, it will help us in controlling the spread,” he added. On Sunday, the corporation had conducted around 12,000 tests while the number stood at around 9,000 on Saturday. The civic body plans to maintain this pace of testing till the number of positive cases drop to a two-digit figure.Meanwhile, after thousands had gathered on Palm Beach Road over naming of the Navi Mumbai International Airport, NMMC officials said the after effects of this protest in terms of increase in Covid cases can be seen after 10 days. “There would be effects that will reflect later,” an official said.NMMC inoculates 250 pharmacistsThe Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) has vaccinated more than 250 pharmacists – 169 men and 81 women –in their initiative to reach out to people who are at risk and contain the spread of virus. The initiative began on Sunday at Sanpada Chemist Bhavan. The civic body has also begun vaccination for quarry workers and the homeless.NMMC chief Abhijit Bangar said, “We have 78 vaccination centres to ensure that the residents get the facility closer to their homes.We want to make sure that no one is left out of the drive, and hence started vaccinating the quarry workers and also the homeless. Mobile vans have been deployed at several locations to reach out to these categories.” G Mohiuddin Jeddy||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/nmmc-steps-up-testing-to-delay-third-wave-101624906813744.html
29-06-2021||Other||Casteist remarks: Bittu tenders unconditional apology||Chandigarh Ludhiana Member of Parliament (MP) Ravneet Singh Bittu on Monday tendered an unconditional apology before the Punjab State Commission for Scheduled Castes. Chairperson of the commission Tejinder Kaur said that in his written explanation, Bittu tendered an unconditional apology, and clarified that his intention was not to insult anyone. “If my statement has hurt anyone’s feelings, then I offer an unconditional apology,” Bittu has said in his apology.  Speaking to media in New Delhi, Bittu had objected to the handing over of Chamkaur Sahib and Anandpur Sahib assembly constituencies to Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) by Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) for 2022 assembly polls, as part of their pre-poll alliance. Dalit organisations had taken offence at his statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/casteist-remarks-bittu-tenders-unconditional-apology-101624906755554.html
29-06-2021||Mumbai||BJP says will restore OBC quota in 4 months if in power; Sena, Congress hits back||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and ruling parties in the state are at loggerheads again over the political reservation to Other Backward Classes (OBC). The BJP has blamed the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government for quashing of the reservation by the Apex court, and said if the party comes to power it will restore the same in four months. The Congress and Shiv Sena have taken a dig at the BJP, reminding it of the failed promises of reservation to Dhangar community. During its statewide chakka jam protest on Saturday, BJP leaders said MVA failed to provide empirical data to safeguard the political reservation to the OBC community. Leader of Opposition and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis had said he would take sanyas if his party failed to reinstate the reservation. “If power is given back to us, we will restore OBC reservation in just four months. If I fail to do so, I will take political sanyas,” he had said on Saturday. Sena mouthpiece Saamana took pot shot at Fadnavis and questioned if his intention was pure. “Why do they [the BJP] want the power back if they really want to restore OBC reservation? Real politicians do not wait for power to work in the interest of the community. Ahead of 2014 Assembly polls, Fadnavis had assured the Dhangar community of reservation in the first cabinet meeting, but could not fulfil the assurance in five years of the power,” the editorial read. Sena MP Sanjay Raut taunted Fadnavis and said he would not need to take political sanyas and the Indian politics needs a talented leader like him. “We would not allow him to take this extreme step as Maharashtra needs him. We would not allow him become a fakir especially when there is dearth of talented political leaders like him. It would be injustice to BJP if Fadnavis takes sanyas,” he said, adding, “The state government under Uddhav Thackeray is taking every step to ensure that the OBC reservation was restored. The government will ensure that Fadnavis does not need to leave politics.” The Congress too has slammed Fadnavis, calling his claim a sham. “The people of Maharashtra would not fall prey to the tall claims by Fadnavis and his party. OBC reservation has been struck down because the Central government failed to submit the empirical data in the Supreme Court. It was a deliberate attempt of the BJP government at the Centre. This is nothing but the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh’s (RSS) hidden agenda of scrapping reservation in the country. Maratha community, too, was misled over reservation by the BJP,” said Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole. He also took a dig at former rural development (RDD) minister and BJP leader Pankaja Munde, who has announced to not allow local body elections until OBC reservation was restored. Patole said it was the RDD led by her which had issued an ordinance related to the local body polls, endangering the reservation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bjp-says-will-restore-obc-quota-in-4-months-if-in-power-sena-congress-hits-back-101624906756151.html
29-06-2021||Mumbai||Nobody can promise zero flooding in Mumbai: BMC additional chief||Tackling the issue of waterlogging is a gradual and long-term process, and with a focused approach towards tackling individual spots the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has managed to mitigate or completely prevent flooding at various spots across the city, civic authorities said on Monday, in response to HT’s annual audit about Mumbai’s monsoon preparedness. P Velrasu, additional municipal commissioner incharge of the storm water drains department in BMC, said, “When we factor in variables such as very heavy rain in a short duration, we have to be ready that some time will be taken for water to completely drain out from waterlogged spots in the city. Nobody can promise zero waterlogging in the city.” Over the years, the BMC has worked towards bringing down the number of spots. For example, the waterlogging problem at Dahisar subway has almost been solved, Velrasu said. In some instances, water receding time has reduced drastically following civic work, Velrasu added. “This year, the stormwater drains department has cleaned nullahs thoroughly as part of pre-monsoon preparedness. Cleaning a nullah involves removing of muck [silt], as well as floating garbage. But once the nullah has been cleaned, nearby residents throw garbage back into the channel within days. Visible floating garbage does not indicate that the nullah has not been desilted.” “Besides, the BMC has a pre-decided quantity of how much silt needs to be removed from nullah. We never scrape the very bottom of nullah beds to remove silt while doing pre-monsoon desilting work. Hence after the work is satisfactorily completed, some amount of silt is likely to stay in the nullah,” he added. HT’s annual monsoon audit On June 23, Hindustan Times conducted its annual monsoon audit with the help of three experts. HT visited seven spots — three nullahs in the western suburbs, two nullahs in the eastern suburbs, and two chronic waterlogging spots in the island city. The panel of experts comprised Rohit Shinkre, senior urban planner and architect; Dilip Kamlakar Pathak, retired deputy engineer of the storm water drains department, BMC; and Udaykumar Shiroorkar, retired assistant engineer, BMC. In a three-part series on Friday and Saturday, HT reported the panel’s verdict post the audit. The three experts on HT’s panel concluded that Mumbai is not ready to handle the monsoon this year, again. While the BMC’s effort to stay ahead of its pre-monsoon work cannot be denied, not enough has been done on ground to prepare the city for the rains, as nullahs are filled with floating garbage, and silt as well, the experts said. The BMC has claimed it completed 104% of nullah desilting work across the city. 30-35 chronic waterlogging spotsThe BMC has chalked out a list of 30-35 chronic waterlogging spots with help from the civic disaster management cell, where there are waterlogging-related complaints every monsoon. “We have decided to address every area specifically. We are working on tackling these spots with a focused approach,” Velrasu said. The BMC is now focusing on tackling waterlogging at points that choke rail and road traffic on major roads across the city. “Hindmata and Gandhi market areas are waterlogged every monsoon, and affect traffic on Babasaheb Ambedkar Road for several hours at a stretch. We have found dedicated solutions to tackle waterlogging in these two points. Work will be completed within the next 15 to 20 days. The next year, these two spots will not flood, and traffic will remain unaffected,” Velrasu said. Rainfall intensity has increased “I have said this in the past also that we have to factor in climate change when it comes to rainfall. Now, for example, on June 9 this year, we had almost around 250mm of rainfall in five-six hours. We need to understand that the situation becomes difficult in such cases.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/nobody-can-promise-zero-flooding-in-mumbai-bmc-additional-chief-101624906753792.html
29-06-2021||Mumbai||Thane woman claims she was vaccinated thrice||A 28-year-old woman from Thane claimed she was vaccinated thrice at Anandnagar vaccination centre on Friday. Her husband, who works as a peon with the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC), alerted the local corporator, following which the civic body provided support and monitored his wife’s health. Meanwhile, TMC has claimed no such incident took place. However, they have set up a team to inquire further on the complaint. The man (name withheld on request), a resident of Brahmand, said, “My wife visited the centre on Friday afternoon and was taken for vaccination. It was her first dose and she was not really aware of the procedure. She was given the first shot and taken to the observation room. However, soon after, she was called again and given another shot. Within a few minutes they gave her the third shot thinking she was waiting for it. She had fever, which subsided the next morning. TMC doctors and officers visited our residence to ensure her health remained good. We are not keen on taking up this issue and creating politics out of it.” A senior official from the TMC said, “The woman might have had some local reaction on her arm where the vaccine was administered. She was not given three doses. We have set up a team to inquire further on this. Preliminary investigation indicates that no such incident has happened.” 22,042 get jabs on Monday Vaccination centres in Thane, including civic-run and private centres, vaccinated 22,042 beneficiaries on Monday. TMC has initiated a massive vaccination drive with 53 government centres. The civic body has completed 5.5 lakh vaccinations till now. However, on Tuesday both TMC and Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation will not have any vaccination centres open due to unavailability of vaccine. However, for the convenience of students travelling abroad, TMC’s vaccination centre at the post-Covid care at Majiwada will continue to remain functional.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/thane-woman-claims-she-was-vaccinated-thrice-101624906693777.html
29-06-2021||Mumbai||OBC quota: Maharashtra files petition in SC against zilla parishad bypolls||The Maharashtra government on Monday filed a petition in the Supreme Court against bypolls declared by the state elections commission (SEC) in five zilla parishads — Dhule, Nandurbar, Akola, Washim and Nagpur. The state has demanded that the elections be deferred by six months in the wake of the potential third wave of the pandemic and threat of rapid spread of virus after delta plus variant was found in a few districts of the state.Advocate Sachin Patil, standing counsel for Maharashtra government in the Supreme Court, confirmed the development but refused to share details of the petition.SEC has, on June 22, declared bypoll on the seats that got vacated following the Apex court’s verdict against 27% political reservation for Other Backward Classes (OBC) in all local bodies across the state. The state government had requested SEC to postpone the bypoll last week.The state approached the Supreme Court after SEC denied their request saying they were bound by Apex court’s directives.“The Central government has warned of a possible third wave hitting us in the next few weeks. Cases of delta plus variants have also been found in the state, which has raised our concern for public health. Considering this, the state has reduced relaxations and all cities and districts have been brought under level 3 of the five-level relaxation declared by the state earlier,” said a senior official privy to the development.The state had declared a five-level plan under which cities and districts falling under level 1 and 2 were getting maximum relaxations. However, both the levels were removed by the state on June 25.“Following the Apex court’s decision, Palghar zilla parishad seats also got vacated but SEC didn’t declare a bypoll there as Palghar falls under level 3 category. In our petition, we have pointed out that most of the areas are under level 3 restrictions (after the fresh notification issued on June 25) and some also fall under level 4 and 5. This needs to be considered, as the polls may lead to crowding and rise in Covid cases,” he said.All political parties have opposed the bypoll as no seat can be reserved for OBC category candidates following the Supreme Court’s verdict in which it directed the state to appoint a dedicated commission for collecting empirical data, based on which, the reservation of the community is to be fixed. It means no seat is going to be reserved for the community in local bodies until the state completes the process.Many OBC outfits and political parties including the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) have staged protests demanding restoration of the reservation last week. Ruling Congress and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), too, have held protests against the Central government, accusing it of not providing empirical data of the community which led to the situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/obc-quota-maharashtra-files-petition-in-sc-against-zilla-parishad-bypolls-101624906634720.html
29-06-2021||Other||Nearly 40% students in K’taka lack devices for online classes: Minister||Bengaluru: Around 40% of students in Karnataka do not have access to mobile phone and other devices to take online classes, Karnataka’s education minister S Suresh Kumar said on Monday, leaving a significant number of children at a disadvantage in the state. Kumar added, “61% students have some connection devices and 39% do not have any access.” Most of these students, according to Kumar, are in rural or backward regions of the state and are deprived of the benefit of school, which their counterparts in urban areas or affluent households benefit from. The poor access to devices emphasises the stark contrast of fortunes of residents of Karnataka, a state known for its prowess in technology and those who live in abject poverty. The minister’s statements come at a time when the Covid-19 pandemic has forced the suspension of physical classrooms and increased dependence on online courses to help children cope with their syllabus and not lose a year. Kumar said the education department was setting up android mobile banks in taluka headquarters where donors can give their unused or additional smartphones to help these children. He added that around 45,000 phones have been collected so far. “No children should be kept away from learning,” Kumar said. The minister said the department will contact parents of students who are unable to attend online classes and also request their neighbours to allow access to their televisions to these students so that they could learn from the audio-visual content created by the education department. An expert committee led by cardiologist Dr Devi Prasad Shetty on June 22 submitted a 91-page interim report to the Karnataka government, recommending the reopening of schools and colleges in the state despite the looming threat of a third wave of Covid-19 infections. The government-appointed technical advisory committee (TAC), in its recommendations, argued that education is the fundamental right of the child and stated that reopening physical schools would optimise learning, physical and mental health as well as for nutritional aspects of children. “Any further delay in school reopening may push children into malnutrition, child labour, child marriage, child trafficking, begging etc., making their condition further worse,” according to the TAC report. The government has decided to resume online classes from July 1 and is awaiting another report by the TAC on the third wave to reopen physical classes. However, the government seems to lack concrete plans on how it proposes to bridge the gap between students who have access to mobile phones and those who don’t, in order to provide education to all sections of society. The higher education department is conducting vaccination drives for students above the age of 18 to help resume physical classes. Last Wednesday, the Karnataka government launched its ambitious ₹195-crore ‘Digi-learning’ initiative for higher education, which it hopes will bridge the gap between urban and rural geographies faced by students pursuing collegiate education. The state government has also distributed 155,000 tablet PCs to students from across the state, amounting to ₹163 crore. The government said it had developed 2,500 smart classrooms at a cost of ₹27.77 crore and a Learning Management System (LMS) for ₹4.04 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nearly-40-students-in-k-taka-lack-devices-for-online-classes-minister-101624906633737.html
29-06-2021||Mumbai||CM inaugurates 3 key infra works in Mumbai||In the run-up to the polls to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) scheduled early next year, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray inaugurated three key infrastructure projects for Mumbai – an arm of Kalanagar flyover connecting Bandra-Worli Sea Link (BWSL) with Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC), presided over a function in which a memorandum of understanding (MoU) was signed between the BMC and an Israel-based firm for city’s first desalination project at Manori in Malad, and chaired a function of handing over of a 2,170-bed Covid hospital in Mulund by Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) to the BMC. The Thackeray-led party — Shiv Sena — has been ruling the civic body in the city for more than two decades. The BMC, richest civic body in India with an annual budget of over ₹39,000 crore, is considered to be the Sena’s political strength. With snapped political ties between the Sena and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), retaining the power in the BMC is assumed to be a Herculean task for the Sena. In the 2017 civic polls, the BJP emerged the second-largest party with 82 seats, after the Sena winning 84 seats in the 227-member body. The chief minister said his family has been residing in the area since 1966 and he has a lot of memories. “The area is much populated now and BKC has also developed, which is leading to traffic snarls. The arm of the flyover will help in easing the traffic at Kalanagar junction,” Thackeray said, after inaugurating one of the arms of the project. Thackeray inaugurated the second 804-m-long and 7.5-m-wide arm, which is the longest arm of the three-direction flyover at Kalanagar. The first 653.5-m long arm, which connects BKC with BWSL, was opened on February 21. The third arm with a length of 340-m having two lanes will connect Dharavi T-junction with BWSL. The three-arm project criss-crossing over the Kala Nagar flyover will help in decongesting the Kalanagar junction at Bandra and smoothen the commute between the island city and western suburbs. The cost of the project is ₹103.73 crore. An MoU was signed between the BMC and Israel-based firm — IDE Water Technologies Limited – for preparing a detailed project report (DPR) for the desalination project. The chief minister said it is like a dream coming true. “The desalination is not just important, but a revolutionary step for Mumbai. I’m happy to see it happening. It’s like a dream comes true,” Thackeray said. Coming up at a 30-acre plot at Manori, Malad, the project will cost ₹1,600 crore and is expected to be completed by 2025. It was approved by the state cabinet in November last year. While handing over the hospital, the CM said they have to be very careful in the backdrop of warnings of a possible third wave hitting the state. “The spread of the Delta Plus variant is rising and we will have to strictly follow all Covid rules despite the daily cases going down,” Thackeray said. Considering the third wave a reality, four more Covid centres are planned in the city to ramp up health infrastructure to deal with any shortage of hospital beds, in case the possible third wave is bigger than the second one. It has 1,536 oxygen beds, 190 ICU beds, 200 paediatric oxygen beds and 50 paediatric ICU beds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cminaugurates-3-key-infra-works-in-mumbai-101624906394799.html
29-06-2021||Other||Four months after polls, newly elected Banga councillors await swearing in||Jalandhar Newly elected councillors of Banga municipal council in Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar district have expressed their disappointment at not being officially sworn in, even four months after residents chose them as their leaders in February this year. The sub-divisional magistrate is the swearing-in-officer of the council, and as per rule the president of the council is to be chosen immediately after the taking of the oath. SBS Nagar deputy commissioner Sheena Aggarwal issued orders to conduct the polls for the president’s post in the council on April 9.  In the 15-member Banga council, the Congress and Aam Aadmi Party have won five seats each, while the SAD won seats. BJP and Independent have one seat each. Jatinder Kaur Monga, a three-time Congress councillor, said, she had approached Banga SDM Viraj Tidke to conduct the election, but he asked her to take up the issue with the DC. “It is shameful that even after four months, we are still being made to take oath,” said Kaur, adding the office-bearers’ election had already been postponed twice. An AAP councillor alleged that the administration didn’t conduct polls due to fear that ruling Congress party may lose in the election for president. First-time councillor and AAP leader Sarabjit Singh Sabi said, “Till the time we take oath, we are not officially councillors and have no authority to work for our ward.” Banga Shiromani Akali Dal MLA, Sukhwinder Sukhi, said, “The delay is deliberate as the administration fears that the Akali Dal will get the president’s seat.” Banga SDM Viraj Tidke said, “Elections had be called-off twice. The first time, I got ill. Later, three councillors tested positive for Covid-19. Elections and the swearing-in will be conducted in the next 10-15 days. There is no political pressure related to these polls.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/four-months-after-polls-newly-elected-banga-councillors-await-swearing-in-101624906394351.html
29-06-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad: Three of cloth trader’s family shot dead in Loni||A 65-year-old cloth trader and his two sons were shot dead, while his wife suffered critical gunshot wounds after unidentified men opened fire at them in their home in Ghaziabad’s Loni town early Monday morning.The incident took place between 2.30am and 3am in Toli Mohalla of Loni, the police said.The deceased were identified as Haji Raisuddin, the trader, and his two sons, Azhar, 30, and Imran, 25.Raisuddin’s wife, Fatima, sustained gunshot wounds to her face and is undergoing treatment at a hospital, the police said, adding that all the four victims sustained about seven gunshot wounds each.“It is still not known who fired at them as the main entrance to the house was found locked from inside. As of now, we have not found any motive for the robbery and murder. Of the five members in the house at the time of the incident, only Azhar’s wife Afsana was found with zero injuries,” Iraj Raja, superintendent of police (rural), said on Monday morning.Alimuddin, another son of the trader who lives separately nearby, said he gave a complaint to the police at 3pm on Monday.“I have mentioned that ₹20-25 lakh cash, and some gold and silver jewellery were taken away. I gave my complaint to police at 3pm and thereafter I went for the formalities of postmortem and the burial,” he said.But police maintained that they did not receive a complaint from the family till Monday evening.Police said they took leads from the statements made by Afsana, the only one of the five occupants of the house to be found unharmed.OP Singh, station house officer of Loni police station, said Monday evening, “We have not received any complaint in the case. We are speaking to the two women to get more clues.”Later in the day, inspector general (Meerut range) Praveen Kumar visited Loni to take stock of the situation.“We have some vital clues and the investigation is on. We will examine the complaint which, I am told, was received,” the Meerut IG told reporters.Raja said, “We have formed three teams to investigate the case. Prima facie, there was no sign of forced entry. It seems that the assailants were already inside the house, or that they were allowed entry later. It could also be an insider’s job. We are investigating all possibilities.”Since Toli Mohalla is a congested locality, the police are also trying to probe if the assailants entered the house by jumping over the terraces of nearby houses.In the evening, however, senior officials of the Ghaziabad police could not be reached for comments despite repeated attempts.The public relation officer of the Ghaziabad police responded to a call on SSP Amit Pathak’s official number and said he will revert about the query made for the FIR copy.However, he did not respond to HT’s calls later.The other relatives of the family who live nearby said that they heard a number of shots being fired around 2.30am and rushed to the victim’s house.“I saw two assailants fleeing after the incident. They were firing shots in the air. I heard about 15 gunshots. I was sleeping on terrace of my house nearby and rushed to my uncle’s house where I found that my uncle, his wife and my brothers were lying injured,” said Mehraj ali, a relative of the family.“Imran is unmarried. Azhar’s wife, who is three months pregnant, sustained no gunshot injuries but she fell unconscious during the shooting incident,” said Ali.He added that his aunt who sustained gunshot wounds, opened the main door when he rushed to her house.“The family has five shops. It appears to be a case of loot and murder,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-three-of-cloth-trader-s-family-shot-dead-in-loni-101624905853665.html
29-06-2021||Chandigarh||Water supply troubles persist in Chandigarh’s southern sectors||Despite talks of providing 24/7 water supply in the city, residents of various sectors continue to face problems.While some residents alleged that water supply was not enough and it was difficult to get supply in the first and second floors of their houses, some residents were troubled by muddy supply.Speaking about this, chairman of Chandigarh Residents Association Welfare Federation (CRAWFED) Hitesh Puri said, “While the number of complaints have decreased this year, we continue to receive complaints especially from southern sectors regarding water pressure. A permanent solution is needed for this problem.”Jyoti Bhardwaj of Sector 47 said that the situation continued to worsen in the city. “In Sector 47, residents have had to install two water tanks for each house, one on the ground floor and one at the top because it’s impossible to fill the one at the top with the dismal water pressure we get.”Many residents are also complaining about muddy water supply in the city. President of the Sector 38 (West) resident welfare association (RWA) and Federation of Sector Welfare Association Chandigarh (FOSWAC) chief spokesperson Pankaj Gupta said, “Every year in the summers we get muddy water in the morning and the problem goes unchecked despite numerous complaints. Will the MC take responsibility if a resident falls sick?”In Sector 51, Dr KS Johar, a resident here, said, “Though it doesn’t happen every morning, some days we get muddy water and we have to fill a bucket of water and discard it before it can be used. It happens year-round for us and we have approached the authorities on many occasions but to no avail.”Speaking about this, mayor Ravi Kant Sharma said, “I am not aware whether the department has received any such complaint, but I urge people to come forward. There are no problems from our side, usually these are local faults that lead to problems in supply. MC officials will get the faults checked wherever we receive complaints.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/water-supply-troubles-persist-in-chandigarh-s-southern-sectors-101624905674299.html
29-06-2021||Chandigarh||PU online semester exams begin, 42,850 students appear on Day 1||As many as 42,850 students appeared for the even semester exam being conducted online by Panjab University, which started on Monday.As per controller of examination Jagat Bhushan, 60 exams were conducted on Day 1 in two slots- 9.30am to 12.30pm and 1.30pm to 4.30 pm.Bhushan said that students fromf all colleges and departments downloaded the question papers as per the scheduled time from PU’s website. Students also confirmed that the arrangements were adequate. Utkarsh Dwivedi, a sixth semester student of mechanical engineering at University Institute of Engineering and Technology said, “We were able to download the paper and submit it on time. Some leeway was also given in case of any connectivity issues.”While there was no surveillance, an engineering student confirmed that the paper had been set in such a way to discourage cheating. “The questions weren’t straightforward and a little different from what we were taught. Those who didn’t study would have had trouble solving it,” the student said.Vice-chancellor Raj Kumar inquired and remained connected with Bhushan for the smooth conduct of the online exams. Around 2.3 lakh students will be taking the even semester exams over 34 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pu-online-semester-exams-begin-42-850-students-appear-on-day-1-101624905494746.html
29-06-2021||Chandigarh||Anti-rabies vaccine still out of stock at govt clinics in Chandigarh||Already concerned over the increasing cases of dog bite, the residents of Chandigarh are even struggling to get anti-rabies shots at the city’s government clinics as the injections have been out of stock for over a week now.Due to unavailability of the drug at the clinics in Sectors 19 and 38, and at Government Multi-Specialty Hospital in Sector 16, the victims are being asked to purchase the injection from private chemist shops, which cost over ₹300 per injection. As per the UT health department, around 150 anti-rabies injections are used per day at the three clinics.Dinesh Kumar, a Sector-10 resident, said, “A dog had bitten me on May 31 and my fourth anti-rabies vaccine dose was due on Monday. I reached the Sector 19 centre at 9am, the in-charge reached at 9.15am. By the time the centre opened, a huge rush of victims was witnessed and no social distancing was followed. After filling the details on my card, the doctor told me that the vaccine was unavailable at the centre.”“The doctor then told me to buy an injection from a nearby chemist shop. One injection bottle cost ₹330 and since it contains two doses, I had to ask someone else to share,” Kumar added.A woman in her late 40s told the Hindustan Times that she visited the Sector-19 centre last week, but the vaccine was still unavailable. Meanwhile, a similar situation was noticed in the Sector 38 clinic.Dr Paramjyoti, in-charge of the Sector-19 dispensary, said, “Not only the city residents but people from neighbouring states also visit the centre to get the anti-rabies vaccine. Also, when vaccines get dried up at Sector-38 and 16 hospitals, people visit our centre. On an average, Sector 19 centre reports 45-50 dog bite cases every day. We had placed the order for vaccine stock, but due to Covid-19, the supply from Mumbai got delayed.”When contacted, Dr Amandeep Kang, director health services, said, “We had placed a purchase order for the vaccines with a firm, who were supposed to deliver the stock a few days ago, but it got delayed. We bought emergency stock on Monday and vaccines have been made available in all the centres. We are expecting to receive more doses in a day or two.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/antirabies-vaccine-still-out-of-stock-govt-clinics-in-chandigarh-101624905321411.html
29-06-2021||Delhi||Central Delhi second most rain deficient district in Delhi||Central Delhi has received only 8.5mm of rain since June 1 this year, making it the driest place in the National Capital so far this season and the second-most rain-deficient district in the country, data from the India Meteorological Department (IMD) showed. Met officials, however, said that this is not unusual since the monsoon is yet to arrive in the national capital.Central Delhi comprises areas like Chandni Chowk, Daryaganj, Paharganj, Karol Bagh, and Pragati Maidan, and has received less than 15% of its normal rainfall of 55.2 mm since June 1 – a deficiency of nearly 85%. The region falls in the “large deficient” category. Of the nine districts in Delhi, four are in the “large deficient” and “deficient” categories while only one falls in the “normal” category.With a shortfall of 93%, Jammu and Kashmir’s Kishtwar is the country’s most rain-deficient district, showed Met department data, and recorded just 5mm of rain till Monday, against the normal of 68.4mm.Besides Central Delhi, East Delhi, North-east Delhi and South Delhi also fall in the “large deficient” category. While East Delhi has received 19.2mm rainfall against the normal of 55.2mm – a shortfall of 65%, North-east Delhi has recorded 20.7mm rainfall, 63% below normal. Meanwhile, South Delhi got 22.2mm — nearly 60% less than normal.South-west Delhi and New Delhi have recorded 29.6mm and 27.7mm rainfall so far – nearly 52% below their respective normal rainfall. North Delhi has received 37.7mm rainfall — 34% less than normal – while North-west Delhi got 29.8 mm rainfall — 30% below the average precipitation. Only West Delhi has received normal rainfall so far — 53.5mm against the average of 55.5mm.IMD officials did not share district-wise data of rainfall in Delhi last year.The weather office uses separate categories such as “large excess”, “excess”, “normal”, “deficient”, “large deficient” rainfall to describe realised rainfall averaged over various time periods — daily, weekly, monthly — for districts and states. As per the IMD classification, when the realised rainfall is -99% to -60% of long-period average (LPA), the rainfall is categorized as large deficient. LPA of rainfall is the rainfall recorded over a particular region for a given interval (like month or season) average over a long period of years.Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said that since the monsoon is yet to hit the city, such a deficit is not unusual.“Generally during June, thunderstorm activity takes place, which contributes to rain. So far, Delhi has not seen much rain this time. The city mostly witnesses rain during the last week of June but we have not seen significant weather activity so far,” said Srivastava.He said that Delhi’s weather is likely to be dry over the next four-five days. “We will have to wait till the first week of July [for monsoon],” Srivastava said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/central-delhi-second-most-rain-deficient-district-in-delhi-101624905193588.html
29-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi University likely to ask if candidates are vaccinated or not||The Delhi University (DU) is likely to seek details of candidates’ vaccination status at the time of the online registration for admission to various undergraduate, postgraduate, and research programmes across its colleges and departments this year, said officials, adding that it will not affect the eligibility of students and is just to help create a database of students’ vaccination status before the university reopens physically. The varsity is also planning to get the vaccination status of its existing students.The online registration process for admission to DU -- similar to last year -- is likely to begin in mid-July. The admission process got delayed this year due to the cancellation of Class 12 exams in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.“The university is likely to add a column in the registration form asking candidates if they are partially vaccinated, fully vaccinated, or yet to be vaccinated. This has nothing to do with their admission. It will be collected only to create a database for the university so that it can prepare well for the future. At the time of reopening, the colleges and departments can directly contact students who were not vaccinated during admission and help them get the shots,” said a senior DU official.To be sure, DU is yet to take a final call on the matter. The official said that, if included, the registration form will give three options to candidates -- partially vaccinated, fully vaccinated, and not vaccinated.Colleges across DU have been shut since March last year in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The university reopened briefly in November last year for laboratory work of final year research students but it was again closed in April when the second wave of the pandemic hit the country.Meanwhile, DU is also planning to collect data on the vaccination status of all students already enrolled across its colleges. DU acting vice-chancellor PC Joshi said, “I will soon be writing to all the principals to collect information from all students and teachers on their status of vaccination. We will help those students who could not get vaccinated as of now. We want our entire university to be vaccinated before we reopen and re-start physical classes.”The union ministry of education is yet to issue guidelines for the reopening of education institutions after the second wave of the pandemic.Manoj Sinha, secretary of DU Principals Association (DUPA) and principal of Aryabhatta College, said that it would be helpful for the colleges also to keep a record of vaccinated or unvaccinated students. “The university should go ahead with this idea since this will be excellent for the colleges. It won’t be possible to reopen colleges before our students and teachers are fully vaccinated,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/du-likely-to-ask-if-candidates-are-vaccinated-or-not-101624905137456.html
29-06-2021||Delhi||Customs arrest two men with heroin worth ₹125 crore at Delhi airport||Two passengers travelling from South Africa, who landed at the Delhi international airport on Sunday, were arrested with 18kg heroin worth ₹125 crore, the Delhi customs said on Monday.The customs said that the two passengers boarded the plane at Johannesberg to reach Delhi via Doha on June 26. The arrived in India on Sunday(June 27). The two were stopped on the basis of profiling after they crossed the green channel and were on their way to the exit gate, customs officials said.The officials checked their bags found 18kg of the contraband. “The drugs were concealed inside their checked-in trolley bags. On testing the sample of the drugs, it was found to be heroine. We have registered a case under the NDPS Act and arrested both of them,” said Shaukat Ali Nurvi, joint commissioner of Customs, IGI airport.Preliminary investigation has shown that though one of the passengers had come to India once, the second was travelling to the country for the first time. The two men in their documents said they came to India for “tourism and business”.“We are following the leads and are tracing the supply chain. The investigation is on,” said NurviAccording to investigating agencies heroin is one of the most common and expensive drugs smuggled into the country. The drug is concealed in bags, clothes, shoes and also items like iron, shampoo bottles to ensure to escape authorities.About two months ago, the Customs had seized 14kg heroin from two passengers from Zambia. Earlier this month, two Afghans were arrested with nearly 20kg of heroin, which was concealed in shampoo and hair colour bottles.Officials said they calculated the price of heroin based on the rates on the website of the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime. Officials said that while the price of one kilogram of heroin is around ₹40 lakh in its raw form, the drug passes through multiple channels because of which the price increase.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/customs-arrest-two-men-with-heroin-worth-125-crore-at-delhi-airport-101624905133657.html
29-06-2021||Delhi||NDMC sets up Delhi’s first free public toilet for transpersons||The New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) on Monday inaugurated the Capital’s first free public toilet exclusively for transpersons at Raisina Road, said officials, the first in a line of facilities that will be set up across the Lutyens’ Delhi area in the coming months.The facility, built in the parking lot of the Press Club of India complex, was inaugurated by transpersons and civic body officials, and has installed a device that allows users to register complaints.NDMC’s annual 2021-22 budget, tabled in January, laid out plans to build such toilets in the locality.“The facility is Delhi’s first free public toilet service for transpersons. The toilet will remain open between 6am and 10pm every day. The NDMC is also planning to construct more such toilets in the near future after observing challenges and issues with this first one,” said an official who asked not to be named.“The users can give reviews and file complaints using the touchscreen interface there as well as at a register. Whatever issues we will encounter there will be rectified when new such toilets are constructed,” the official added.The Delhi government in February this year made it mandatory for all its departments, offices, district authorities, municipal corporations, state-run companies, as well as the Delhi Police to have separate and exclusive washrooms for transpersons.Transpersons welcomed the initiative.Twenty-year-old Manpreet said, “It has been a big challenge for transpersons to use public toilets. We encounter so many issues, including personal slurs. More such toilets should be constructed across the city. In fact, at all toilet complexes in Delhi, one toilet should be designated for the trans community.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ndmc-sets-up-delhi-s-first-free-public-toilet-for-transpersons-101624905074752.html
29-06-2021||Delhi||Covid-19: Delhi govt begins course to train 5,000 health assistants||As part of its preparation for a potential third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Delhi government, in collaboration with Guru Gobind Singh Indraprastha University (GGSIPU) or IP University, on Monday began a certificate course to train 5,000 health assistants in Covid-related care to assist doctors and nurses in hospitals and also support communities in case of medical emergencies.According to the official data, as many as 150,000 people had applied for the 5,000 posts which were open for anyone above 18 years of age and completed schooling. The project was announced by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on June 16 to build a force of 5,000 “community nursing assistants” in the Capital to help medical professionals.The two-week course was launched by Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Monday. “We want to create a model youth force in Delhi that will be equipped with all the basic skills and knowledge to fight any medical crisis. Not only will our youth be prepared to fight any crisis, but they will also be able to provide medical assistance to their family and people in their community,” he said“Within a matter of four days, 1.5 lakh people applied to be a part of this training programme. This indicates that people are enthusiastic to be a part of this course and learn. While we have inducted 5,000 trainees in the first batch, we plan on scaling this and making it a long-term, ongoing initiative,” Sisodia added.Officials from nine Delhi government hospitals, including Deen Dayal Upadhyay hospital, Ram Manohar Lohia hospital, Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality hospital, Chacha Nehru Child clinic, Sanjay Gandhi hospital, Ambedkar Medical college, ESIC Hospital Basaidarapur, Hindu Rao hospital, and Vardhaman Mahavir hospital, will train the selected applicants.The Delhi government has disbursed an amount of ₹5 crore for this initiative.The two-week-long programme has been divided into two stages – the first week will include didactic and demonstrative training, while trainees will receive practical experience in the second week. IP University vice-chancellor (VC) Mahesh Verma said the initiative is being taken because of shortage of medical staff witnessed during the first and second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. “Under this programme, these health assistants will be trained in basic nursing, paramedical, lifesaving, first aid home care, sample collection, and operating oxygen concentrators, cylinders, and other such tasks. After the successful completion of the training programme, they will be awarded a certificate and a medical kit, consisting of a BP measuring machine, pulse oximeter, digital thermometer, etc, by the university,” he said.Health minister Satyendar Jain said that the certificate course will be extremely important to tackle any future medical crises. “This course will be able to provide individuals with employment opportunities, considering there is an increasing need of health assistants in hospitals who will be able to assist nurses and doctors,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-govt-begins-course-to-train-5-000-health-assistants-101624905073652.html
29-06-2021||Delhi||Temporary design changes make Delhi Gate crossing safer for pedestrians: Study||Officials from the Delhi Traffic Police said the intersection at the Delhi Gate has become more convenient, safe and pedestrian-friendly, two months after they started a trial run at the intersection, in collaboration with World Resources Institute (WRI), India, by introducing road design changes. The Delhi traffic police is in the process of finalising the findings of the trial run and propose necessary infrastructure changes needed at the intersection.Veenu Bansal, additional commissioner of police (traffic), said, “The trial run has shown promising results. The street design interventions have helped in making the intersection more convenient and safe for pedestrians. The trial run has also shown that with the proposed changes, the vehicular traffic load can get cleared very easily. We will submit the observations in the report and the decision regarding implementation of infrastructure changes will be taken at the competent level.”The Delhi Gate intersection in central Delhi is one of the busiest intersections in the Capital with high pedestrian footfall due to its proximity to residential neighbourhoods located in the Walled City areas, commercial centres and offices, sports stadium, educational institutions and two major hospitals on Asaf Ali road. The pedestrian footfall is also high as the Delhi Gate metro station on the violet line-- an important pedestrian node for the surrounding areas--is also nearby.In April, the traffic police and the WRI India, which is helping analyse the major blackspots in Delhi, started the trial run at the Delhi Gate intersection. WRI India recently submitted the draft report to Delhi traffic police.The intersection is crucial as it connects the Old Delhi area with New Delhi. It also connects the New Delhi Railway station with the Ring Road. It is surrounded by major arterial roads such as Asaf Ali Road, Jawahar Lal Nehru Marg (west- east), Netaji Subash Marg, Bahadur Shah Zafar Marg (north -south).Explaining the problems at the intersection, Amit Bhatt, director transport at WRI India, said, “The pedestrian movement is high at the intersection due to the type of developments around it. As per our assessment, 99% of the people living in the vicinity prefer to walk and access various modes of public transport near this intersection. The intersection has become dangerous for pedestrians due to unequal road width and alignment, no dedicated space for pedestrians to stand while manoeuvring the traffic at the intersection. The increase in width of the carriageways near the intersections makes it difficult for pedestrians to cross it in the limited time available.”During the trial, some basic design changes were introduced to create more and safe space for pedestrians.Bhatt said, “Earlier, the intersection was very wide. We have made it more compact by reworking on the turning radius of the road at the intersection. We also reworked on the carriageways by rebalancing the lane width and numbers. This streamlining is helping in faster clearing of traffic load at the intersection at a safe speed. The uneven road width used to result in traffic bottlenecks earlier.”As per the study done by WRI India, nearly 51% people either walk or use public transport. Bhatt added, “We have provided huge corner Islands and efficient median islands. As part of the trial, we had painted the pedestrian zones and put bollards to demarcate lands. The study in the past few months has shown that pedestrians find the crossing much safer now. If these design changes are made permanent, then it will solve the problem to a large extent. The tactical to permanent approach is something that Delhi can adopt for all such road projects.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/temporary-design-changes-make-delhi-gate-crossing-safer-for-pedestrians-wri-study-101624905015664.html
29-06-2021||Other||2 men, minor on way to dispose woman’s body held||Two men were arrested and a minor boy apprehended when they were travelling in an autorickshaw with the body of a homeless woman wrapped in a bedsheet, after allegedly strangling her to death at a flat in outer Delhi’s Balbir Vihar near Aman Vihar on June 23, said police.The three allegedly killed the woman following a dispute over ₹1,000 and were looking for an isolated spot to dump the body, when three constables patrolling the streets caught them in Begampur, said police.Around 3.30am last Wednesday, an autorickshaw being driven with its headlights off in the dark raised the suspicion of the three constables. When the constables signalled the auto driver to stop, the driver tried to speed away. One of the constables chased the autorickshaw and intercepted it after 200 to 300 metres, said a police officer, who asked not to be named.“The driver escaped on foot, while the two persons in the passenger seat were seen holding on to a wrapped bundle. When the constable asked what that was, the suspects untied the bedsheet and to reveal a woman’s body. The suspects were immediately arrested,” said the officer adding that the driver, identified as Rajan Gupta (25), was caught later in the day.Of the two passengers, one was a 16-year-old boy while the other was a man identified as Mahendra Nath (18). The two men were arrested and the juvenile apprehended after the three allegedly admitted to killing the 24-year-old woman, identified by her first name as Shivani. A case of murder and destruction of evidence was registered at Aman Vihar police station.Police said Shivani lived on the streets after her husband left her around a year ago; her family members had disowned her as she was a substance user. For the past few days, she was in the company of the suspects as they too allegedly consumed drugs.Another police officer associated with the case said, “Gupta told police that on June 22, Shivani, Nath and the boy were at his first floor flat in Balbir Nagar and were consuming alcohol and taking drugs. Around midnight, she started demanding ₹1,000 from Gupta.”“When he refused, she became violent and slapped and abused him. This infuriated the suspects and when she tried to scream, Gupta strangled her. The teenager held her mouth shut with his hands and Nath held on to her legs. After she died, they panicked and planned to dispose of the body,” said the second officer, quoting the confession of the three suspects.Police said the suspects wrapped the woman’s body in a bedsheet and put it in the autorickshaw owned by Gupta’s father. They were nearly three kilometers away from the crime scene when the policemen stopped the auto and discovered the body.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/2-men-minor-on-way-to-dispose-woman-s-body-held-101624905014915.html
29-06-2021||Other||Woman, friend held for failed robbery bid at sister’s house||New Delhi: To fund her drinking habit, a 21-year-old woman allegedly planned a failed robbery attempt at her sister’s house in Nilothi Extension in outer Delhi along with two of her friends who executed it on Saturday afternoon, police said on Monday. While the woman, Jyoti alias Pari, and one of friends, Sunny (24), have been arrested, the police are now looking for the third suspect, identified as Saif. Police said the woman had become friends with the two men last year while playing PUBG Mobile, one of the most popular mobile games that was banned in India last September along with 176 other Chinese apps. Police said both Jyoti, who previously worked with a businessman dealing in used cars, and Sunny, who worked in a printing press, had lost their jobs during the lockdown.Jyoti needed money to sustain her drinking habit so she planned a robbery at her sister’s house and included her two friends who were also in need of money. She had told them that her brother-in-law kept ₹50,000- ₹60,000 at home,” said deputy commissioner of police (outer) Parvinder Singh.On Saturday, after Jyoti’s brother-in-law Brijesh, who is into the house painting business, left home, she alerted her two friends. Around 1 pm, the two men knocked at the door and introduced themselves as Brijesh’s friends to his wife, Shashi, who opened the door, the DCP said.“The duo pushed her inside and one of them pointed a pistol at her head. The other man shut her mouth and pinned her on the floor. They searched the house but could not find the money. They fled after locking the house from outside. Shashi raised an alarm and was rescued by her neighbours. She informed the police about the crime,” said DCP Singh, adding that a case was registered and investigation was taken up.During the probe, the police said, investigators scanned the CCTV cameras installed in the neighbourhood and found that the suspects had arrived on a scooter that they had parked some 250 metres away from the complainant’s home. When police noticed that the accused had left the scooter behind, they positioned two police personnel in plan clothes in the area to keep a vigil.The personnel caught Sunny when he came by to take away the scooter after a few hours. During questioning, he also allegedly spilled the beans on Jyoti, who was also subsequently arrested. Police also seized a toy pistol used in the crime from Sunny.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/woman-friend-held-for-failed-robbery-bid-at-sister-s-house-101624905013670.html
29-06-2021||Pune||Sowing of kharif crop in Maharashtra currently at 16.2%, lower than 2020||PUNE The sowing of the kharif crop in Maharashtra is currently at 16.2%, lower than the figures of June 28, 2020, which was at 41.98%. In Maharashtra, the total area for sowing kharif seeds is 14.118 million hectares. As of date, sowing has been completed across 2.275 million hectares. The State agriculture department claims that Maharashtra has received, in the first 21 days of June, 145.3mm rainfall. This is lower than the rainfall received over the same duration last year (175.70 mm).“In the first two weeks of June, most places in Maharashtra received rains with thundershowers and it does not help sowing activity. To collect moisture, soil needs continuous moderate rain for a longer duration, which has not happened until now,” said an official from the state agriculture department, requesting anonymity.With western Maharashtra receiving a few good spells of rain last week, sowing activity is expected to improve in the coming days.“Pune district has received 131.7mm rainfall till now and for sowing, soil becomes favourable after receiving 100 mm rainfall. Farming activities will increase as we go into the second week of July,” the official added.So far in Pune, of 0.867 million hectares available for sowing of the Kharif crop, 0.141 million hectares have been sowed.“Nandurbar, Dhule, Akola and Nashik have still not started as those districts have received very less rainfall,” the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sowing-of-kharif-crop-in-maharashtra-currently-at-16-2-lower-than-2020-101624904234692.html
29-06-2021||Patna||JD-U to fight UP polls, with or without NDA||The Janata Dal (United), which heads the ruling alliance in Bihar, has decided to contest assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh scheduled next year as part of the National Democratic Alliance or alone, its general secretary KC Tyagi said on Monday.“Our first choice will be to contest as part of the BJP-led NDA and we hope it works out. We have had old presence in UP since the days of the erstwhile Samata Party, though we did not contest in 2017. We had MLAs in the UP and we also had ministers in the government. The objective is to revive the party beyond Bihar,” Tyagi said.In the last Delhi assembly elections in 2020, the JD-U, to which Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar belongs, had contested two seats as part of the NDA, pinning its hopes on the migrant Bihari population, but could not win any seat in the AAP sweep. In Jharkhand, it contested 46 of the 81 seats on its own in 2019, but drew a blank.JD-U’s decision to enter the UP fray is significant. In UP, BJP under Yogi Adityanath is unlikely to leave much space for smaller parties even as the Opposition is trying to cobble up a united front to stop it from retaining power. In Bihar, strains are unmistakable in the alliance between the two parties.Tyagi said JD-U was part of the NDA, but at the same time it also wanted to expand its footprint in other states where it has had good organisation in the past.Last year, the party suffered at the hands of its ally in Arunachal Pradesh when six of its seven MLAs there joined the BJP. JD-U had contested 15 seats in Arunachal and won seven in 2019.A senior party leader said that JD-U would continue with its expansion plan to get the required percentage of votes to be registered as a national party. “It may not have won many seats, but it did make its presence felt in several states. The effort is to reach out to more states like Haryana, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan, Kerala, Tamil Nadu etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/jdu-to-fight-up-polls-with-or-without-nda-101624898833231.html
29-06-2021||Pune||Curbs return; businesses struggle for survival, some shut shop in Pune||Pune: It is been a tough decision for Sagar Abnawe who runs a footwear shop in Dhankawadi area. After repeated struggle to run his business for the past few months, he has finally given up owing to the Covid situation and financial unviability. In his 30s, Abnawe closed down his shop this month and is hunting for a job that will guarantee monthly income. “Since the Covid-19 pandemic stuck, we were hardly able to do any business due to many lockdowns. While the number of customers fell, most of the months either went into complete lockdown or restriction of timings which is as good as a lockdown for us,” said Abnawe. Many like Abnawe have decided to move from existing business given the uncertainties that the pandemic-induced lockdowns have brought. In Pune, curbs returned from Monday with timings for non-essential shops revised till 4 pm, from earlier 7 pm. The malls were shut barely two weeks after they resumed activities and restaurants are now allowed to operate for dine-in only till 4pm. The latest restrictions have majorly impacted the business of non-essential traders and shop owners along with hoteliers. Throughout the city, there are several big showrooms, shops and traders who have closed down their business due to losses. Another trader Mahesh Kasat, who owns a wholesale shop in Ravivar peth, said, “We are in the business of steel, aluminium, copper and other household utensils. Customers either come in the morning or after the office hours end by 5.30pm. The revised restrictions will hit our business. I have already been going through losses of over ₹20 lakh due to the pandemic. If the situation continues, I will be left with no alternative but to shut shop.” Many shop owners fear of manpower shortage. “As the state government’s restriction norms keep on changing every month, the labour workers and staff who mostly come from outside the state are not willing to return from home town. We are already facing a crisis of getting workers for the shop and now this timing restrictions have added up to our worries,” said Nitesh Chopada, secretary, Laxmi road Ganpati chowk traders association. Those running shops inside malls are reeling under heavy loss. They were allowed to reopen only at 50% capacity and now had to close down after two weeks. Fatehchand Ranka, president, Federation of Trade Association of Pune (FTAP) said, “We strongly oppose the decision taken by the state government to shift Pune district in Level 3 and reduce business timings. The rise in Covid cases is always blamed on shop owners and traders. We have always been supportive to all the government decisions, but now the state should immediately change the orders and allow us to keep shops open till 8 pm.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/curbs-return-pune-businesses-relive-worst-struggle-for-survival-101624892892870.html
29-06-2021||Pune||8-day curfew in Dehu, Alandi ahead of “Palkhi Prasthan” ceremony||Pune: The administration has clamped eight-day curfew from Monday at Dehu, Alandi and nearby villages to check devotee rush near the Sant Tukaram Maharaj and Sant Dnyaneshwar Maharaj temples ahead of the “Palkhi Prasthan” ceremony scheduled on July 1-2. Citing Covid prevention measure, state deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar had announced on June 12 that the palkhis (palanquins) of the two sants will reach Pandharpur by bus, unlike the wari tradition of pilgrimage by walking. Like last year, palkhis will be taken to Pandharpur by Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) buses. Only 100 devotees will be allowed for the “Palkhi Prasthan” ceremony in Dehu and Alandi. The historic annual wari procession on foot has not be carried out since last year after the Covid pandemic outbreak. After the “Palkhi Prasthan” ceremony, on July 19, palkhis will head to Pandharpur in buses from Dehu and Alandi with 20 warkaris in each bus. Dharamshalas, rest houses, hotels, lodges will remain closed during the 8-day curfew. Check posts have been installed at various entry-exit points of the two towns to restrict the entry of outsiders. Barricades have been put on the roads leading to Sant Tukaram Maharaj temple (Dehu) and Sant Dnyaneshwar Maharaj temple (Alandi). “Entry is banned for outsiders while villagers are barred from gather in. Only essential shops are allowed to function,” said Manchak Ipper, deputy commissioner of police zone 1, Pimpri-Chinchwad. “On July 1, only warkaris designated by respective temple trust will be allowed entry on temple premises,” Ipper said. Sanjay More, head of palkhi procession, Dehu, said, “We abide by the administration’s decision and will only allow 100 devotees inside the temple premises. Sambhajiraje Bhosale will also be present during the occasion.” Vikas Dhage Patil, trustee, Sant Dnyaneshwar Maharaj temple (Alandi) said, “Those attending ‘Palkhi Prasthan’ at the temple on July 2 will need to show negative report of the RT-PCR test undertaken on June 30 in Alandi.” Ban on holy dip in Indrayani The administration has banned entry of people on various riverbeds of Indrayani for taking a dip during the religious event. As a precautionary measure, the riverbeds (ghats) of Indrayani in Dehu and Alandi will be closed for public entry till July 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/8day-curfew-in-dehu-alandi-ahead-of-palkhi-prasthan-ceremony-101624882152457.html
29-06-2021||Dehradun||HC stays U’khand govt Char Dham yatra move||The Uttarakhand high court on Monday stayed the state Cabinet’s decision to allow Char Dham yatra from July 1 for the locals of the three districts of Rudraprayag, Chamoli and Uttarkashi. The Kedarnath shrine is located in Chamoli district, Badrinath shrine in Chamoli district, Yamunotri and Gangotri shrines are in Uttarkashi district. The division bench of chief justice RS Chauhan and justice Alok Verma, while expressing dissatisfaction over the affidavit filed by the state government amid fears of a third wave and the Delta plus variant, said the yatra should not be allowed. The bench said it was not satisfied with the preparedness of the government, especially regarding the healthcare facilities and status of Covid-19 inoculation in these three districts. The high court directed the state government to livestream the daily prayers and ritual ceremonies held at these shrines instead. The state Cabinet had allowed the Char Dham yatra for the locals in the three districts after a meeting chaired by chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat on Friday. On June 23, high court had lashed out at the state government for having announced Char Dham yatra from July 1 amid fears of the third wave and delta plus variant. The court had directed the state government to review its decision in the Cabinet meeting and inform it about the same on June 28. The state government had said that it would be issuing guidelines for the pilgrimage for people from three districts. The high court gave these directions while hearing a bunch of PILs filed by petitioners Sachdanand Dabral, Dushyant Mainali, Anu Pant and Rajendra Arya related to various issues regarding the fight against the Covid-19 epidemic in the state. Mainali said the high court was dissatisfied with the affidavit submitted by the state government. “The court remarked that it seemed the state government had copied the SOP it had prepared for Mahakumbh as there are references about arrangements in Haridwar and Dehradun in it,” he said Mainali said regarding the issue of livestreaming, the advocate general of Uttarakhand SN Babulkar, who represents the state government, raised concerns about security,since these shrines are in districts bordering China. “The high court responded by saying that livestreaming is already happening at noted shrines of the country like Mahakal in Indore. The court also pointed out that it is not asking to livestream the location of the shrines but prayers being offered inside the sanctum sanctorum of these shrines,” he said.  On June 23, the high court stressed that “Perhaps the Char Dham Yatra needs to be postponed or cancelled, as already the Amarnath Yatra has been cancelled by the Jammu & Kashmir administration.” The high court in its June 23 order had also remarked that considering the fact that a large gathering invariably leads to a spike in the Covid-19 pandemic, “This Court is of the firm opinion that a catastrophe like Covid-19 pandemic should not be re-invited by holding and permitting large gathering at religious shrines, and by permitting the Char Dham yatra by the State government. Therefore, this court directs the state government to review its decision to commence the Char Dham Yatra on July 1.” The high court had also pointed out that “Already holding of Kumbh Mela, and permitting a large congregation of lakhs of people on Ganga Dussehra at Har-ki-Pauri at Haridwar, are clear cut proof of the failure of the civil administration, to administer the precautionary SOPs.” On June 20, the state government had announced the opening of Char Dham yatra in two phases, the first phase would commence from July 1 for locals from three districts. Earlier on April 29, the state government had postponed Char Dham yatra, which was scheduled to start on May 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-hc-stays-cabinet-decision-of-allowing-char-dham-yatra-from-july-1-101624876632948.html
29-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai University students mount campaign to fight Covid vaccine hesitancy||Around 2,000 students from colleges affiliated to the University of Mumbai have recently reached out to over 22,500 people through WhatsApp and posted 1,200 messages on various social media websites to help in India’s fight against vaccine hesitancy, proving to be a significant hurdle in several pockets of the country.The students were trained to promote Covid-appropriate behaviour and the importance of vaccines in sessions conducted by United Way Mumbai-- an NGO involved in Covid relief-- in partnership with UNICEF or the United Nations Children’s Fund and the National Service Scheme (NSS) wing of the university.“This training helped bust myths such as the one claiming menstruating women should not be vaccinated. I shared this with my own mother who finally got the vaccine without any hesitation,” said Nishtha Bansal, from VES College Chembur.Several such myths were responsible for a large section of the population staying away from vaccines. Prime Minister Narendra Modi too asked people on Sunday to shed vaccine hesitancy, dispel rumours and deepen their faith in science and scientists, who have toiled to develop the life-saving shots in the year of the pandemic. The NGO said the students are a big help in carrying the government’s message to the doorstep of people.“Vaccination is the silver bullet to fight the pandemic but we have noticed immense vaccine hesitancy among the middle and low income communities.Majority of the students we are working with come from the very same communities. Not only are these students advocating the use of vaccines but also helping people register and get appointments online,” said Sahej Mantri, senior manager for campaigns run by United Way in Mumbai.Mantri said students thoroughly enjoyed the training sessions as it allowed them to pick up social media skills while doing social work. “Social media today is a key professional skill set and students get excited when they can learn new skills and at the same time follow their passion for social work,’’ said Sudhir Puranik, incharge director, NSS wing, MU.India has so far administered 371.8 million doses to 265.4 million people since January 16, 2021, when the national Covid-19 vaccination drive was launched. A total of 209 million people have received one dose, while 56.4 million people have been fully vaccinated till Sunday morning, according to government data.While the threat of the third wave of the disease hovers around, experts say that the pace of India’s immunisation drive still needs to pick up, because even at this rate (of six millions jabs per day), it would take India until February 2022 to vaccinate its entire adult population.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-university-students-mount-campaign-to-fight-covid-vaccine-hesitancy-101624860911632.html
29-06-2021||World||Indians value religious tolerance, practise segregation: Survey||Most Indians - Hindus, Muslims, Christians or Sikhs and others - say they are free to practise their religion and that they consider respect for other religions is “very important” to their own respective faiths and being truly Indian, according to a new poll by Pew Research Center released on Tuesday.The survey also found that members of most major religions - especially Hindus and Muslims - call themselves “very different” from people of other faiths and disapprove of inter-faith marriages, and “overwhelmingly” make friends within their respective religious communities.The survey also found that for a majority of Hindus their religious identify is “closely intertwined” with their perception who is “truly” Indian - 64% say it is very important to be Hindu to be “truly” Indian. And most Hindus - 59% - also believe that Indians should be able to speak Hindi.Pew said the survey was conducted among 30,000 Indians through face-to-face interviews in 17 languages in late 2019 and the beginning of 2020, a period marked by escalation in sectarian tension over the passage of the Citizenship Amendment Act and the revocation of the special constitutional status of Jammu and Kashmir, India’s only Muslim-majority erstwhile state.“While people in some countries may aspire to create a ‘melting pot’ of different religious identities, many Indians seem to prefer a country more like a patchwork fabric, with clear lines between groups,” the report said.But, first, what unites Indians. Most of them agree they are free to practise their faith - 91% Hindus, 89% Muslims and Christians, 82% of Sikhs, 93% of Buddhists and 85% of Jains; 85% of Hindus, 78% of Muslims and Christians, 81% of Sikhs, 84% of Buddhists and 83% of Jains said respect for other religions is “very important” to being “truly Indian; and 80%, 79%, 78, 75%, 86% and 73% of the six faiths say respect for other religions is a very important part of their religious identify.There is more that they agree on - 77% of Hindus believe in karma, as do Muslims; a third of Christians and a majority of Hindus believe in the purifying powers of Ganga; and in northern India the survey found that 12% of Hindus and 10% of Sikhs, and 37% of Muslims identity with Sufism.Now, what sets them apart, according to the Pew survey. Most Hindus - 66% - believe they are very different from Muslims, and Muslims nearly reciprocated that with 64% of them saying they consider themselves very different from Hindus. Two-third of Jains and half of Sikhs, however, say they have a lot in common with Hindus.Difference in self-perception among Hindus and Muslims manifests in opposition to inter-faith marriage. Roughly, two-thirds of Hindus in India want to prevent inter-religious marriages of Hindu women (67%) or Hindu men (65%), the survey said. It was also found that larger shares of Muslims feel similarly - 80% say it is very important to prevent Muslim women from marrying outside, and 76% say it is very important to stop Muslim men from doing so.A majority of those polled say their close friends are from the same religious group - 86% of Indians overall, 86% of Hindus, 88% of Muslims, 80% of Sikhs, and 72% of Jain. But Hindus were divided on who they preferred as neighbours - 45% said they were fine with anyone, 45% said they will not be willing to accept members of at least one of the religions as neighbours, mostly, 39% Muslims.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indians-value-religious-tolerance-practice-segregation-survey-101624990458457.html
29-06-2021||World||African Union warns EU over vaccine certificate 'inequality'||The African Union has warned that the European Union's non-recognition of AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccines manufactured in India risks disadvantaging people who received jabs in Africa.Under new rules to take effect on Thursday, the EU will do away with the need for quarantines and further testing for travellers immunised with Covid-19 vaccines recognised by the European Medicines Agency (EMA).These travellers will receive a digital Covid certificate showing their vaccination status.But the EMA does not currently recognise Covishield -- a copy of the AstraZeneca jab made in India which has been widely distributed to African states through the Covax vaccine scheme.In a joint statement released Monday, the African Union (AU) and the Africa Centres for Disease Control and Prevention said the rules "put at risk the equitable treatment" of people vaccinated in Africa."These developments are concerning given that the Covishield vaccine has been the backbone of the EU-supported Covax contributions to the AU Member States' vaccination programmes," the statement added.The EMA did not respond to a request for comment from AFP.However, European Commission spokesman Adalbert Jahnz said that individual EU governments may decide to allow entry to travellers who have received jabs recognised by the World Health Organization (WHO), which includes Covishield.He nonetheless added that Covishield "is an issue that we are looking at in more detail".The EU-wide Covid certificate comes into force on Thursday.With some 5.4 million reported cases and around 141,000 deaths among its nearly 1.3 billion people, Africa is still the world's least-affected continent after Oceania, according to an AFP tally.However, several African countries such as South Africa and Zambia are experiencing a rapid rise in cases, raising fears about hospital capacity.Matshidiso Moeti, the WHO's Africa director, called the situation "incredibly concerning" at a press briefing last week, and characterised the continent's third virus wave "the worst yet".Concern over the EU's new travel rules also comes as the continent is largely||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/african-union-warns-eu-over-vaccine-certificate-inequality-101624988007804.html
29-06-2021||World||Covid-19: US announces $41mn aid for India||The United States has announced $41 million in additional assistance to India for its fight against Covid-19 as lawmakers cutting across party lines called for more.The additional assistance will support access to Covid-19 testing, pandemic-related mental health services, timely referrals to medical services, and access to healthcare in remote areas, the US Agency for International Development (USAID) said.The agency said the US assistance to India is now up to $200 million with an additional $500 million more in emergency supplies and training for more than 214,000 frontline health workers in infection prevention and control, benefitting more than 42 million Indians.President Joe Biden has promised to help India that supported the US when it was confronting a devastating spike in cases last year. India had lifted an export ban to supply anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine in response to a direct appeal from then president Donald Trump.Lawmakers from both parties called for more aid to India during a debate in the House of Representatives on a bipartisan resolution introduced by the co-chairs of the India Caucus Democrat Brad Sherman and Republican Steve Chabot, “Recognising the devastating impact of the pandemic in India and expressing the sense of the House of Representatives with respect to Covid assistance to India.”Gregory Meeks, the Democrat who chairs the powerful House Foreign Affairs Committee, started the debate with a passionate appeal for help to India. “We’re all saddened by the devastating impact of Covid-19 and what it already has had on the Indian people.”Meeks said that while the Biden administration’s response has been timely and the number of cases has started to come down in India, “we cannot let our guard down, we must do more to prepare for a potential new wave of infections. It’s important to recognise that none of us will be safe until all of us are safe”.Republican Young Kim reminded lawmakers of the help extended by India last year and it is “only fitting” that the United States has quickly delivered much-needed supplies such as PPE, rapid testing kits, and other drugs to India when the latter is facing devastating surge. “This action from the US, the world’s oldest democracy to India, the world’s largest democracy is only fitting,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-us-announces-41mn-aid-for-india-101624988838087.html
29-06-2021||World||Israeli settlers agree to leave flashpoint West Bank outpost: Officials||Jewish settlers agreed on Monday to leave a new outpost in the occupied West Bank that has stirred weeks of Palestinian protests following a deal with Israel’s government, officials said. Under the agreement, confirmed by settler leaders and the interior ministry, the settlers will leave the Eviatar outpost within days but their mobile homes will remain and Israeli troops will establish a base in the area. According to a statement from regional settler leader Yossi Dagan, the defence ministry has agreed to study land claims to assess the prospect of a future recognised settlement. Dagan said the agreement had been approved by Prime Minister Naftali Bennett, defence minister Benny Gantz and interior minister Ayelet Shaked.Shaked’s office confirmed the deal, but spokespersons for Bennett and Gantz were not immediately available to comment. About 50 Jewish families moved to Eviatar last month, erecting huts, tents and caravans - in defiance of international and Israeli law - on land near Nablus in the occupied West Bank, which Palestinians claim for a future state.Eviatar settler Tzvi Succot, a leader in the outpost community, said he supported the agreement because he believed it would ultimately lead to a permanent Jewish community. “The most important thing for us is that the buildings stay here, that a Jewish presence remains on this hill,” Succot told AFP.Palestinians protest Palestinians in the nearby community of Beita have responded with night-time protests, flashing horns, burning tyres and shining laser beams to keep the settlers awake. Those protests continued on Monday when they directed green light beams towards Jewish settler homes and hoisted Palestinian flags. Moussa Hamayel, the deputy head of the Beita municipality, told AFP that the Palestinian community had “completely rejected” the purported compromise. Israeli troops have killed four Palestinians including a teenager in unrest sparked by the protests. Eviatar is named after a settler fatally stabbed near Beita in 2013. Israeli authorities had evacuated an earlier version of the outpost. But Israeli families returned in May after a Palestinian man shot dead a student nearby. Gantz ordered the settlement removed, but Benjamin Netanyahu - who served 12 unbroken years as prime minister before he was unseated on June 13 - froze the decision. Bennett, who ousted Netanyahu by joining a broad coalition including left-wingers and an Arab party, is the former head of the Yesha Council, a settlers’ lobbying group.All Jewish settlements in the West Bank, occupied by Israel since 1967, are considered illegal by most of the international community.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/israeli-settlers-agree-to-leave-flashpoint-west-bank-outpost-officials-101624987698736.html
29-06-2021||World||UK Labour Party draws flak for using PM Modi's image to target Boris Johnson||The UK’s Opposition Labour Party was branded “divisive” and “anti-India” by Indian diaspora groups after a party leaflet for a by-election in northern England used an image of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.The leaflet, in circulation for the Batley and Spen by-poll in West Yorkshire scheduled for Thursday, shows Modi in a handshake with Conservative Party Prime Minister Boris Johnson at the G7 Summit in 2019 with the message “Don’t risk a Tory MP who is not on your side”.It triggered furious reactions across social media after Tory MP Richard Holden posted an image of it on Twitter, questioning whether it implies that Labour Leader Sir Keir Starmer would not be seen in a handshake with the Indian Prime Minister.“Dear Keir Starmer, please can you explain this leaflet and clarify whether a Labour PM/politician would refuse to have any relationship with the world’s largest democracy? Is this your message to 1.5 million members of the Indian diaspora in UK,” questioned the Conservative Friends of India (CFIN) diaspora organisation.Labour double down on this controversial leaflet being put out in Batley & Spen (branded gutter politics by critics). Kim Leadbeater's campaign spox says the leaflet points out a Tory vote means backing a PM "who insults Muslim women and calls it a joke" pic.twitter.com/C35oS6dapAThe outrage was echoed from within the Labour Party ranks, with the Labour Friends of India (LFIN) diaspora group demanding the “immediate withdrawal” of the leaflet.“The Labour Party is right to call out Boris Johnson’s lack of action following the conclusion that anti-Muslim sentiment remains a problem within the Conservative Party. It is unfortunate that the Labour Party used a picture of the Prime Minister of India, the world’s largest democracy and one of the UK's closest friends, from the G7 meeting in 2019, on its leaflet,” LFIN said in its statement.Indian-origin veteran Labour MP Virendra Sharma also condemned the move as “cheap divide and rule” and “dog-whistle” politics not worthy of Labour.“The Labour Party will win by bringing people together and uniting the community, to do anything else will divide our community and play into Tory hands,” said Sharma, who represents Ealing Southall in London – a constituency with a large Indian diaspora presence.Another Indian-origin Labour MP, Navendu Mishra, took to Twitter to declare that “racism is alive and well within Labour”.“A hierarchy of racism exists inside the party and some groups are seen as fair game for attacks based on religion/race/heritage,” said Mishra, MP for Stockport in northern England.“Labour will not win by playing divide and rule politics against our communities. We will win based on a principled stance against racism and discrimination of all kinds inside and outside the party,” he said.The Overseas Friends of BJP (OFBJP) group reacted by organising a letter of complaint to party leader Starmer, criticising the “votebank politics” of the campaign leaflet.“OFBJP objects to this kind of anti-India branding just for votebank politics. Such posters and statements are clearly a sign of divisive politics played by Labour,” said OFBJP President Kuldeep Shekhawat.Angry messages dominated the original Twitter post on social media, with many pointing out that it was Labour’s perceived “anti-India stance" that was among the factors behind its bruising defeat in the 2019 General Election under former leader Jeremy Corbyn.The by-election in Batley and Spen, a traditional Labour stronghold, is seen as a crucial test of Starmer’s leadership after the Opposition party fared poorly in recent byelections.The by-poll this week follows the previous Labour MP, Tracy Brabin, stepping down after being elected Mayor of West Yorkshire and has Kim Leadbeater in the fray for the party, the sister of Jo Cox – the Labour MP murdered near her constituency office in a far-right attack in June 2016.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-labour-party-draws-flak-for-using-pm-modi-s-image-to-target-boris-johnson-101624985313127.html
29-06-2021||World||Biden to visit Florida condo collapse site on July 1 as search for 150 missing people continues||US President Joe Biden along with First Lady Jill Biden will visit the site of the condo collapse in South Florida on Thursday, announced White House on Tuesday as search and rescue teams continue to look for the dozens of people believed to be under the rubble. The 12-storey Champlain Towers South in Surfside, Florida, partially collapsed last week and the search for survivors has stretched into a sixth day. At least 11 deaths have been confirmed and 150 are still unaccounted for."On Thursday, July 1, the president and the first lady will travel to Surfside, Florida," the Biden administration said in a statement, adding that details for the trip would be provided later.Deanne Criswell, the administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, updated the president on the tragedy after visiting the site on Sunday. On Tuesday morning, Criswell testified at a congressional hearing on FEMA’s readiness, saying the devastation was “difficult to put into words.” She apprised the US Congress that FEMA has set up a “recovery centre that is working directly with families and loved ones impacted by this tragic event to get them the assistance that they need.”Also Read | Indian-American family among over 150 missing after building collapse in USAmid intense speculations over the cause of the deadly collapse, US media has reported on multiple warnings about the impending tragedy. Almost three years before the deadly collapse, an engineer had warned about evidence of “major structural damage” to the concrete slab below the pool deck. In the October 2018 report, he had also highlighted “abundant” cracking and crumbling of the columns, beams and walls of the parking garage under the 12-storey building.An April correspondence from the board president of Champlain Towers South, Jean Wodnicki, has shed more light on the condition of the structure. Weeks before the collapse, Wodnicki wrote to neighbours warning that the “garage has gotten significantly worse since the initial [2018] inspection.”“When you can visually see the concrete spalling (cracking), that means that the rebar holding it together is rusting and deteriorating beneath the surface,” the letter read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-to-visit-florida-condo-collapse-site-on-july-1-as-search-continues-101624984053967.html
29-06-2021||World||2 men racially abuse UK minister Priti Patel on social media, held||Two men who were charged with sending a grossly offensive message and accused of inciting "racial hatred" with a social media video targeting UK Home Secretary Priti Patel admitted to the charge in court on Tuesday.Jake Henderson, 28, posted a video using a racially abusive word to describe Patel after a Covid-19 pandemic in January this year and co-accused Robert Cumming, 26, was among those who widely shared it online.Both men admitted sending a grossly offensive message by a public communication network and will next appear at Mansfield Magistrates' Court in Nottinghamshire, East Midlands region of England, on August 12 for sentencing. The duo remains on bail until the sentencing hearing.The 50-second video was played in court, where Henderson can be heard saying: "As a white man, I won't be listening to people of colour."Cumming then shared it along with the caption: "Haters gonna be hating" and four laughing emojis.Prosecutor Daniel Church, appearing on behalf of the UK’s Crown Prosecution Service (CPS), said the video was "motivated by hostility towards members of racial groups".The court heard how members of the public were distressed by the comments linked with the video and feared its contents could incite racial hatred.The duo was summonsed to court on May 29 and charged with sending a grossly offensive message by a public communication network, which comes with a custodial sentence or fine or both."Following complaints in relation to a video targeted at Home Secretary Priti Patel and posted on social media in January 2021, the CPS has authorised Nottinghamshire Police to charge Jake Henderson and Robert Cumming with sending a grossly offensive message by a public communication network,” Janine Smith, Chief Crown Prosecutor for CPS East Midlands, said earlier this month."The function of the CPS is not to decide whether a person is guilty of a criminal offence, but to make fair, independent and objective assessments about whether it is appropriate to present charges to a court to consider,” Smith said.The pair faced charges under Section 127 of the UK’s Communications Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/2-men-racially-abuse-uk-minister-priti-patel-on-social-media-held-101624984265687.html
29-06-2021||World||Moderna shares jump to all-time high amid Delta variant fear||Moderna Inc. climbed to a record high amid growing concern about a more contagious variant of Covid-19 in nations including India, which cleared the import of its vaccine.The shares rose as much as 6.9% to $238.40, breaking through the prior intraday record set earlier this month. Trading volume was about 1.2 times the 10-day average as of 12:16 p.m. in New York.Moderna said its vaccine produced protective antibodies against the delta variant, which emerged in India and has been spreading throughout the world. India’s drug regulator approved the import of the shots for restricted emergency use on Tuesday. The world’s second most-populous country trails richer nations with a little more than 4% of the population fully vaccinated, compared with almost half in the US.Some analysts had expressed concern about Moderna’s recent surge, which has pushed the Cambrige, Massachussetts-based company’s market value past $95 billion. Moderna continues to be driven by momentum, and today’s study results are “clearly showing good coverage of variants with their vaccine,” Michael Yee at Jefferies said in an email.The emergency authorization in India as well as Sanofi’s plans to spend about $480 million to speed development of messenger-RNA vaccines, where Moderna has been spending billions per year, is also adding to today’s rally, he said.He told clients last week that trading appears to have moved beyond the fundamentals of future vaccine sales. “I think there’s machines, I think there’s quants, I think there’s just buying of good charts,” he said. “It’s a momentum stock.”Vaccine stocks like Moderna and BioNTech SE have surged over the past 12 months. Shares of BioNTech rallied around 250% while Moderna gained nearly 280% during the period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/moderna-shares-jump-to-all-time-high-amid-delta-variant-fear-101624984078797.html
29-06-2021||World||In a world-first, captive-bred gorillas give birth in wild in Africa’s Gabon||A baby gorilla has been born in the wild in Gabon to parents who grew up in captivity, a world-first that has boosted the hopes of wildlife conservationists, the zoos announced on Tuesday. The baby western lowland gorilla, classified as a critically endangered species by the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN), is thought to have been born on the night of June 13 in the Batéké Plateau National Park, a milestone under gorilla reintroduction project.The teams on the site analysed videos taken from camera traps and saw the mother gorilla, Mayombe, one last time without a baby on June 13 and with a newborn the next morning, concluding that the birth had taken place on the intervening night of June 13-14.While several other gorillas have been born under this reintroduction program, their parents descended from the wild, were poached and then rehabilitated. Mayombe was born in the ZooParc de Beauval in France on October 21, 2007, and was reintroduced in June 2019. The father gorilla, 15-year-old Djongo, was raised in the Port Lympne Safari Park in southeast England.Also Read | 10-year-old gorilla becomes a mom for first time in Virunga National Park, CongoThe Aspinall Foundation, which runs the Port Lympne Safari Park, shared a 21-second video of the baby Gorilla from its official Twitter handle, adding that it was “delighted to announce the first ever birth to rewilded, captive-born gorillas!”We and our partners at @zoobeauval are delighted to announce the first ever birth to rewilded, captive-born gorillas! The #baby western lowland #gorilla was born in the beautiful forests of our ground-breaking gorilla reintroduction project in the Batéké Plateau National Park pic.twitter.com/j9PODjfPgyDelphine Delord, assistant director of Beauval zoo, told news agency AFP that the birth of the gorilla to captive-born gorillas is very significant world-first for the conservation of this species which is in serious danger of becoming extinct. “The baby is fragile but for the moment Mayombe is holding her new-born in the perfect position and is feeding well,” he added.Djongo has been recorded several times approaching Mayombe with a tense posture to look at the baby but was turned away by the mother. “Djongo is approaching them very gently. We even saw him touch the baby on the camera traps that turn on when an animal passes,” said Delord.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/in-a-world-first-captive-bred-gorillas-give-birth-in-wild-in-africa-s-gabon-101624979291844.html
29-06-2021||World||UAE's Emirates flies 100 tonnes of Covid relief materials to India free of charge||Emirates SkyCargo has flown around 100 tonnes of relief materials to India free of charge to help the country fight the second wave of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, the Dubai-based cargo airline said on Tuesday. Under the Emirates India Humanitarian Airbridge, the long-haul carrier donated cargo capacity to transport essential supplies like relief tents and thousands of oxygen cylinders and concentrators free of charge on flights to Indian destinations during a three-week period in May 2021.“Emirates is deeply connected and committed to India. The Emirates India Humanitarian Airbridge was our contribution to assist the Indian community fight the second wave of the deadly Covid-19 pandemic,” Nabil Sultan, Emirates divisional senior vice president, Cargo, said in a statement.“We are heartened that India is overcoming the virus and we are honoured to have supported the efforts of partners by donating much needed air cargo capacity for moving essential goods quickly and reliably into nine Indian cities,” he added.Emirates set up the India Humanitarian Airbridge in early May 2021 to boost the transportation of urgent medical and relief items to India by offering cargo capacity free of charge on its flights from Dubai to India.Also Read | UAE ban on flights from India, Pakistan, and 12 other countries to continueThe first shipment under the Airbridge initiative, set up in early May 2021 to boost the transportation of urgent medical and relief items to India, flew from Dubai to Delhi on May 13. The shipment comprised 12 tonnes of multi-purpose tent equipment for field hospitals sent by the World Health Organisation (WHO) through International Humanitarian City (IHC), a global hub for humanitarian emergency preparedness and response.“This airbridge done with Emirates, confirms the strong partnership and commitment of the two Dubai entities in facilitating the humanitarian action of the international organizations and United Nations agencies operating within IHC,” said Giuseppe Saba, CEO of the IHC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uaes-emirates-flies-100-tonnes-of-covid-relief-materials-to-india-free-of-charge-101624974795508.html
29-06-2021||World||CPC’s 100-year celebrations: Chinese prez urges loyalty from party members||President Xi Jinping has urged the Communist Party of China (CPC) members to show total loyalty to the party and serve the people ahead of the ruling party’s 100th anniversary on July 1.Xi, also the CPC general secretary, urged all the members to firmly keep the loyalty and love for the party and the people close to their heart, turn loyalty into action, and “…dedicate everything, even your precious life, to the party and the people”.Xi was speaking at a function where he conferred the July 1 Medal, the party’s highest honour, on model CPC members.A total of 29 CPC members who have made “outstanding contributions” to the party and the people received the honour, some posthumously. This is the first time the medal has been awarded.Among the awardees was Chen Hongjun, a People’s Liberation Army (PLA) soldier who died during a brawl with Indian soldiers in Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh in June 2020. Other recipients include soldiers, community workers and professionals in the arts and science.In the run-up to its centenary celebrations, state-run media has said the CPC demonstrated its “…exemplary governance capability by leading the Chinese people in efficiently containing the Covid-19 outbreak and eliminating absolute poverty in the world’s most populous country”.In the context of security, Beijing has left nothing to chance ahead of the July 1 events expected to be held at the city’s historic Tiananmen Square; it has been closed to the public since June 23 and will reopen on July 2.The second and final comprehensive drill for the grand celebration at Beijing’s Tiananmen Square concluded last Sunday; it started at 8pm on Saturday and some 33,000 people took part.“Measures are in place prohibiting the flying of any aerial objects that may affect the safety of flight activities during the celebration,” a state media report said.Beijing has shut down traffic on various routes, decked streets in patriotic flower arrangements and national flags, and ramped up surveillance and security this week in preparation for the centenary event on July 1.As part of the anniversary-week celebrations, the party also staged a gala performance on Monday night at the National Stadium, or “Bird’s Nest” as it is commonly called.“Party leaders and foreign diplomats watched the extravaganza of song, dance and theatre which credited the party with guiding China’s rise into a great power over the past century,” Reuters news agency said.“Darker parts in the party’s history, including a famine in the late 1950s, the decade-long cultural revolution, which started in the 1960s, and the 1989 Tiananmen Square crackdown, were omitted from the show,” Reuters said.“Without the Communist Party, there is no new China,” reads propaganda posters that have sprung up across the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/cpcs-100-year-celebrations-chinese-prez-urges-loyalty-from-people-101624974498020.html
29-06-2021||World||High-grade FFP3 masks can provide up to 100% protection against Covid-19: Study||Wearing upgraded face masks can provide up to 100% protection against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), a new study conducted by Cambridge University Hospitals (CUH) NHS Foundation Trust has found. The study showed a significant drop in infections among frontline hospital staff after their face masks were upgraded from FRSMs (fluid resistant surgical masks) to FFP3 respirators.Since the early days of the Covid-19 pandemic, CUH has been screening its staff for the infection. The screening data was used to track infection rates among the staff. Even after using the recommended PPE kit, staff caring for Covid patients were at a much higher risk of infection compared to staff working in non-Covid wards, the CUH NHS Foundation Trust said in a statement.Dr Mark Ferris, one of the co-authors of the study, said that the researchers developed a mathematical model to look at the risks faced by hospital staff caring for Covid-19 patients. According to their model, the risk of direct infection from working in a Covid ward before the change in respiratory protective equipment was 47 times higher than the risk of community-based exposure.Also Read | As Delta variant cases rise, WHO asks fully vaccinated to keep masks onIn December 2020, the hospital upgraded its respiratory protective equipment to FFP3 respirators, which, once fitted, provide a tight seal around the nose and mouth, helping stop the airborne infection from being breathed in and out. According to the FFP3 respirators can be classified as FFP 1, FFP 2 or FFP 3, with the highest number providing the highest protection.The study concluded that infections from ward-based exposure fell significantly, “with FFP3 respirators providing 31-100% protection (and most likely 100%)” against infection from Covid patients.“Once FFP3 respirators were introduced, the number of cases attributed to exposure on Covid wards dropped dramatically – in fact, our model suggests that FFP3 respirators may have cut ward-based infection to zero,” Dr Chris Illingworth from the MRC Biostatistics Unit at the University of Cambridge, said.The results are available in a pre-print and have not been peer-reviewed yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/highgrade-ffp3-masks-can-provide-up-to-100-protection-against-covid-19-study-101624967377547.html
29-06-2021||World||Green pass not precondition to travel, says EU official||The European Union (EU)’s so-called “green pass” is not a precondition to travel and individual states have the option to accept vaccines approved by the WHO such as Covishield, an EU official said on Tuesday. The EU offered the clarification against the backdrop of speculation on the possible impact of the “EU Digital Covid Certificate” or green pass on Indian nationals as the regime doesn’t include any of the vaccines currently being administered in India. The green pass system is expected to be in place from July 1. As of Monday, the Serum Institute of India (SII) had not applied to the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for approval of Covishield, the EU official said. The EMA has so far approved only four vaccines – Comirnaty, Johnson & Johnson’s Janssen vaccine, Spikevax or the Moderna vaccine and Vaxzevria or the AstraZeneca vaccine. “For the purpose of the Digital Covid Certificate, individual [EU] member states will have the option to also accept vaccinations that have been authorised by the World Health Organization (WHO), such as Covishield,” the EU official said. Also Read | EU’s green pass for Covishield: What is the document all aboutThe Digital Covid Certificate is meant to “facilitate safe free movement during the Covid-19 pandemic within the EU”, and it will serve as “proof that a person was vaccinated against Covid-19, received a negative test result or recovered from Covid-19”, the official added. “The aim of the EU Digital Covid Certificate is to facilitate free movement inside the EU. It is not a precondition to travel,” the official said. Referring to the possible EMA authorisation for Covishield, the official said, “As of yesterday [Monday], the EMA stated that it had not received a request for approval. It will examine any such request when received, as per its procedures.” The EU further clarified that EMA “does not investigate new drugs on its own, unless it is asked by the relevant companies”. The official noted that temporary restrictions on non-essential travel to the EU were currently in place for many non-EU countries, including India, due to the pandemic. “EU member states shall gradually lift these temporary travel restrictions at the external borders, based on developments of the health situation,” the official said. The issue of a “fair travel regime” figured in talks between external affairs minister S Jaishankar and the EU commissioner for international partnerships, Jutta Urpilainen, when they met in Italy on Monday ahead of a meeting of G20 foreign ministers. Jaishankar tweeted that he had a “good conversation” with Urpilainen, adding: “Discussed the Covid challenge, our Connectivity Partnership and development cooperation. Underlined the importance of equitable vaccine access and a fair travel regime.” India has linked the issue of so-called “vaccine passports” to equitable access to doses around the world. External affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi had said on June 17 that many developing countries had not yet been able to vaccinate a large percentage of their population. “We would favour discussions on the subject of vaccine passport with greater focus on vaccine equity,” he had said, hinting that India had no plans to issue vaccine passports. The EMA had said on Monday that is only responsible for the scientific evaluation of medicines and vaccines in connection with their marketing authorisation in the EU, and that it is not responsible for travelling conditions associated with Covid-19 vaccination, such as the Digital Covid Certificate. The agency further said the only Covid-19 vaccine from AstraZeneca that had been authorised in the EU was Vaxzevria and that Covishield did not currently have marketing authorisation. “Even though it may use an analogous production technology to Vaxzevria...Covishield as such is not currently approved under EU rules. This is because vaccines are biological products. Even tiny differences in the manufacturing conditions can result in differences in the final product, and EU law therefore requires the manufacturing sites and production process to be assessed and approved as part of the authorisation process,” an EMA spokesperson said. “Should we receive a marketing authorisation application for Covishield or should any change to the approved manufacturing sites for Vaxzevria be approved, we would communicate about it,” the spokesperson added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/green-pass-not-precondition-to-travel-says-eu-official-101624966769698.html
29-06-2021||World||Multiple cylinder blasts reported in Lahore’s Barkat market||Multiple cylinder blasts rocked Lahore’s Barkat market on Tuesday. According to rescue workers at the site, the gas cylinders blew up one after another making it difficult for rescue operators to get near the blast site. People present at the site told Pakistani news agencies that "so far 10 cylinders have exploded," reported ANI.At least one person sustained burn wounds in the blast, and around 12 vehicles parked nearby have been damaged, reported ANI. Shops located nearby have been shut after some were reportedly damaged by the blast. Police and local authorities have cordoned off the surrounding area and efforts are currently underway to douse the ensuing flames.This comes days after a powerful explosion near the house of the 2008 Mumbai terror attack mastermind and chief of the banned outfit Jamat-ud-Dawa (JuD) Hafiz Saeed in Lahore on June 23.The blast which took place in Johar town killed three people and injured 24 including a police constable. Saeed’s house was undamaged by the explosion but some many other houses and shops falling within a 100 square feet radius of the explosion site were damaged.A car mechanic was arrested for modifying the interiors of a car that was reportedly used in the blast. The arrested individual was detained and moved to an undisclosed location on June 26, reported ANI. Police said around 30 kilograms of explosives were used in the blast, and planted in a car stolen from Gujranwala and parked near the residence of Hafiz Saeed in Board of Revenue Housing Society, Johar Town.Punjab province chief minister Usman Buzdar and Inspector General of Police (IGP) Inam Ghani told reporters at a joint press conference that "anti-Pakistan intelligence agency" was involved in the explosion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/multiple-cylinder-blasts-reported-in-lahore-s-barkat-market-101624964554900.html
29-06-2021||World||South Africa's ex-president Jacob Zuma gets 15 months in prison for contempt of court||South Africa’s former President Jacob Zuma has been convicted of contempt of court and sentenced to 15 months in prison, news agencies reported on Tuesday. The 79-year-old South African leader was found guilty of defying a court order to appear at a corruption inquiry earlier this year. Zuma was facing an inquiry probing wide-ranging allegations of corruption during his tenure from 2009 to 2018. The Constitutional Court ruled that Zuma defied an order by the country’s highest court by refusing to cooperate with the commission of inquiry, chaired by deputy chief justice Raymond Zondo."Mr Jacob Gedleyihlekisa Zuma is sentenced to undergo 15 months' imprisonment," a constitutional court judge said, reading out the court's order.South Africa's apex court has ordered Zuma, who was not present in court for the ruling, to hand himself over within five days to a police station in Nkandla in KwaZulu-Natal province, his hometown, or in Johannesburg.For the first time in South African history, a former president has been sentenced to a prison term.Also Read | Former South Africa President Zuma accused of taking 'hundreds of bribes'Among several allegations, Zuma is accused of allowing three businessmen brothers -Atul, Ajay and Rajesh Gupta- to plunder state resources and influence policy. The Guptas have denied any wrongdoing but left South Africa after Zuma’s ouster, which was orchestrated by the allies of his successor, President Cyril Ramaphosa.Zuma had sent a 21-page letter to the country's chief justice in which he claimed to have been treated unfairly. Commenting on the letter, the judge said that the former president attempts to "evoke public sympathy through unfounded allegations fly in the face of reason.""If his conduct is met with impunity, he will do significant damage to the rule of law," she added.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/south-africa-court-jails-ex-president-jacob-zuma-for-15-months-for-contempt-101624962385880.html
29-06-2021||World||South Africa considers letting women have multiple husbands. Uproar follows||A proposal in South Africa to allow women to have multiple husbands has led to uproar among the conservative section of the country’s society. The green paper containing the proposal has been prepared by the country’s home department.The polyandry proposal is one among the many in the green paper which seeks to make marriage more inclusive. But it has turned out to be the most controversial one.The government has invited comments on the green paper till June 30. The paper was prepared in April, and opened for suggestions in May.The government document has said that the legislation that regulates marriages in South Africa is not based on the provisions of the Constitution of the country. The law has some legacy issues, it further said.“The purpose of the marriage policy is to establish a policy foundation for regulating the marriages of all persons that reside in SA. The envisaged marriage statute will enable South Africans and residents of all sexual orientations, religious and cultural persuasions to conclude legal marriages that will accord with the principles of equality, non-discrimination, human dignity and unity in diversity, as encapsulated in the Constitution,” the document said.The government said that the green paper is based on extensive research and consultation, and the process began in 2019. Consultations were held with religious and traditional leaders as well had human rights activists. The rights activists said that the right to equality demands that polyandry be legally recognised, the government document further said.But the opposition is fierce. One of the prominent faces to oppose the proposal is Musa Mseleku, a reality TV star. “Protecting our existence, our spiritual its important for both the current generation and future generations. Let us defend our culture, tradition and customs by participating in this process. Let us object to Polyandry outright,”. He said in a Facebook post.South Africa has one of the most liberal constitutions and allows polygamy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/south-africa-considers-letting-women-have-multiple-husbands-uproar-follows-101624961675794.html
29-06-2021||World||Sputnik V showed 97.8% efficacy in UAE; no adverse cases seen, says RDIF||The Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) on Tuesday released a statement, citing that its coronavirus (Covid-19) vaccine Sputnik V has confirmed 97.8% efficacy among more than 81,000 people in the United Arab Emirates (UAE), news agency ANI reported.The RDIF said that the UAE’s health ministry confirmed Sputnik V’s efficacy to the former during a vaccination campaign. The Russian government agency added that the analysis of the efficacy is on the basis of data collected on June 8, according to a report published by news agency ANI. The vaccine is fully effective against severe infections and there were no instances of adverse aftermath after vaccination, the report added.RDIF CEO Kirill Dmitriev said that inoculating the Russian vaccine helps in creating “durable immunity among the population and provides for lifting the restrictions and returning to normal life.”He further termed the Sputnik V as “one of the best Covid vaccines in the world” as confirmed by data from Bahrain, Hungary, Mexico, Serbia, Argentina, San Marino, and other nations.Recently, the World Health Organisation (WHO) released a summary report of its preliminary findings during a visit to a Sputnik V vaccine filling site in Russian capital of Moscow from May 31-June 4. The report detailed the identification of around six issues related to the monitoring and control aseptic operation and filling of the vaccine, news agency PTI reported.“Identified concerns with the implementation of an appropriate Environmental Monitoring Program to monitor and control the aseptic operation and filling of Gam-COVID-Vac,” the WHO said in its interim report.The Sputnik V, which has so far been registered in 67 countries worldwide with a total population of more than 3.5 billion people, is awaiting a nod from the WHO. Earlier this month, Dmitriev told reporters that the approval from the public health agency is expected to come within two months.Notably, India had approved Sputnik V for emergency use in April 2021 following “positive results of local Phase 3 clinical study,” the official Twitter account of the vaccine stated.At the time, India had become the 60th nation to give a nod to the vaccine. Dr Reddy’s laboratories tied up with the RDIF earlier this year to roll out the first 125 million people doses of Sputnik V (250 million vials) across India. It has also received at least 3 million doses of the Russian vaccine, which is the third vaccine to have received approval from the Drug Controllers General of India (DCGI) besides Serum Institute of India’s (SII) Covishield and Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/sputnik-v-showed-97-8-efficacy-in-uae-no-adverse-cases-seen-says-rdif-101624961459957.html
29-06-2021||World||Singapore to open up Covid-19 vaccination for non-residents from June 30||Singapore will be opening up vaccination drives for non-residents from June 30, two days earlier than planned, the country’s health minister Ong Ye Kung said, reported Bloomberg.Singapore has been using mRNA vaccines, Pfizer BioNTech and Moderna, for inoculating its citizens, and it plans on administering the first Covid-19 vaccine shot to most of its population by the end of July after successfully securing more supplies.Singaporean authorities have in recent weeks made it clear that Covid-19 will be treated like an endemic, shifting focus from daily infection counts to hospitalisations. The island nation which serves as burgeoning business and tourism hub lost out on two important global events, the World Economic Forum and Formula One night race, both have been scrapped due to the pandemic. The move to vaccinate non-residents lines up with its efforts of opening up much like rival Hong Kong has done.Also Read: Singapore plans to shift to new normal amid Covid. Check detailsThe interval between two doses have also been reduced from six to eight weeks to four weeks to accelerate efforts at opening up. Jeremy Lim, associate professor at the Saw Swee Hock School of Public Health under the National University of Singapore, told Bloomberg that the island nation needs its open borders to survive. “Singapore cannot and will not remain closed. Open borders and trade are our lifeblood,”Singapore reported five new cases of coronavirus on Tuesday, all were linked to cases of earlier infections, reported Bloomberg. The city-state has successfully tackled infection rates and reported 36 fatalities so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/singapore-to-open-up-covid-19-vaccination-for-non-residents-from-june-30-101624961837043.html
29-06-2021||World||‘Torture device’: Scientists develop weight loss tool that locks jaw; spark outrage||Scientists have developed a “world-first” weight loss device with locking bolts that restricts a person’s jaw from opening wide enough to intake solids. A team of researchers from the University of Otago, New Zealand, and the UK collaborated to develop the magnetic device that limits the wearer to a liquid diet, but “allows free speech and doesn’t restrict breathing.”“The main barrier for people for successful weight loss is compliance and this helps them establish new habits, allowing them to comply with a low-calorie diet for a period of time. It really kick-starts the process,” Paul Brunton, the lead researcher and Pro-Vice-Chancellor at the University of Otago Health Sciences, said in a statement.Trial participants lost an average of 6.36 kilograms within two weeks and were motivated to continue with their weight loss journey, the University said. The magnetic device is fitted by a dentist, can be released by the user in the case of an emergency and can be repeatedly fitted and removed.Otago and UK researchers have developed a world-first weight-loss device to help fight the global obesity epidemic: an intra-oral device that restricts a person to a liquid diet. Read more: https://t.co/eLhXwipiqs pic.twitter.com/Of6v3uvVbXAlso Read | Propaganda value, optics behind thinner Kim Jong Un, say analystsThe announcement drew a massive backlash on social media as users termed it a “torture device” meant to force people to go on a liquid diet. “And this, kids, is why ethics needs to be taught in science. Good God, I thought medicine was past these kinds of torture devices,” replied one user.The outrage on social media prompted the University to issue a clarification, saying the device is not intended as a quick or long-term weight-loss solution, but to assist people who need to undergo surgery and who cannot have the surgery until they have lost weight. It stated that users can have the magnets disengaged and the device removed after two or three weeks.“They could then have a period with a less restricted diet and then go back into treatment. This would allow for a phased approach to weight loss supported by advice from a dietician,” the University of Otago tweeted.However, the University, in its earlier statement, had said that the device has been developed to “help fight the global obesity epidemic,” adding that the tool could be “particularly helpful” for those having to lose weight before they can undergo surgery.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/torture-device-scientists-develop-weight-loss-tool-that-locks-jaw-spark-outrage-101624960888959.html
29-06-2021||World||Chinese Covid-19 vaccine found effective in children, adolescents: Lancet study||A study published in The Lancet Infectious Diseases journal has said that two doses of the China-made Covid-19 vaccine CoronaVac are safe and produce a strong antibody response among children and adolescents aged 3-17 years. The study is based on phase 1/2 trial data of the vaccine.The randomised trial on 550 young people found that over 96 per cent of children and adolescents who received two doses of the vaccine, manufactured by Sinovac, developed antibodies against Sars-CoV-2. Most adverse reactions were mild or moderate, with pain at the injection site the most commonly reported symptom, the researchers said, according to news agency PTI."Children and adolescents with Covid-19 usually have mild or asymptomatic infections compared with adults. However, a small number may still be at risk of severe illness. They can also transmit the virus to others, making it vital to test the safety and effectiveness of Covid-19 vaccines in younger age groups,," said Qiang Gao from Sinovac Life Sciences, China.The vaccine - either 1.5 microgram (μg) or 3μg per dose or a control was given by intramuscular injection in two doses, at day 0 and day 28. Among the 550 participants who received at least one dose of vaccine or the control, adverse reactions within 28 days occurred in 56 (26 per cent) of 219 participants in the 1.5μg group. Such adverse incidences were reported in 63 (29 per cent) of 217 participants in the 3μg group, and 27 (24 per cent) of 114 in the control group.Only one serious adverse reaction, a case of pneumonia, was reported in the control group, however, this was unrelated to the Covid-19 vaccination. In phase 1, 100 per cent of participants in both the 1.5μg and 3μg groups generated antibodies against SARS-CoV-2., the researchers said.Stronger immune responses -- determined by the amount of antibodies produced that can neutralise the virus -- were detected among the 3μg group compared with the 1.5μg group. In phase 2, 97 per cent of participants in the 1.5μg group produced antibodies against Sars-CoV-2, compared with 100 per cent in the 3μg group. Participants in the 3μg group again produced a stronger immune response than those in the 1.5μg group, the study stated.The researchers noted that immune responses among children and adolescents were higher than those measured in adults aged 18-59 years and elderly aged 60 years and older. The researchers recommended two 3μg doses of the Covid-19 vaccine for children and adolescents aged 3-17 years based on their results.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinese-covid-19-vaccine-found-effective-in-children-adolescents-lancet-study-101624950956752.html
29-06-2021||World||Google restores services of YouTube, Gmail after several users face outage||Several users complained regarding an outage that affected search engine Google as well as its streaming and email services late on Monday before they were restored, Reuters reported citing outage monitoring website Downdetector. Platforms such as Alphabet Inc’s Google, YouTube, and Gmail were down, with users pointing out issues with logging into their accounts and also accessing the website in parts of North America, according to Downdetector.At one point in time, more than a thousand users faced difficulties with the search engine, the outage monitoring website revealed. Furthermore, users also came across glitches in accessing Google Drive and YouTube. Reports of Google outage on Downdetector declined to single digits early Tuesday.In December last year, Google services were down for a brief period of time globally during which users of the search engine in Europe, India, the US and other parts of the globe could not access their mobile video games, online documents, and Gmail accounts. YouTube was also impacted by the outage as users were unable to watch anything on the video-sharing platform.After nearly an hour passed, the Alphabet-owned firm stated on its support page that services were restored for users. However, the reason behind such a worldwide outage was not reported or mentioned by Google.The December issue occurred after several such outages took place throughout last year, including in January, August and September. In the August issue, Google services – Google Meet, Google Chats, Google Drive, and Google Docs, among others – were down in most parts of the world, including India, and were restored after seven hours. Google, however, did not cite the reason behind the global outage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/google-restores-services-of-youtube-gmail-after-several-users-face-outage-101624951205105.html
29-06-2021||World||Propaganda value, optics behind thinner Kim Jong Un, say analysts||North Korean leader Kim Jong Un has been under the spotlight this time for his weight loss and analysts think it could be related to the "tense" food situation in the country. They say there is propaganda value in showing that Kim Jong Un has lost weight amid food shortages in North Korea, which is one of the most secretive countries in the world.Kim Jong Un, who is said to be 37 years old, reappeared in public after nearly a month earlier in June sparking speculation over the health of the leader and the focus was on his apparently slimmer wrist. Reuters reports that analysts at NK News, a Seoul-based website that monitors North Korea, noted that his watch appeared to be fastened more tightly on his wrist.And then came the tightly controlled state media's rare mention of the issue last week. An unidentified resident of Pyongyang was quoted on KRT that everyone in North Korea is heartbroken over Kim Jong Un's apparent weight loss. "Seeing respected general secretary (Kim Jong Un) looking emaciated breaks our people's heart so much," the man said in an interview aired by the state broadcaster on Friday.Also read | Explained: Why Kim Jong Un’s weight issue is a talking point across the worldJenny Town, director of the US-based 38 North project which monitors North Korea, said the reason behind Kim's weight loss is unclear--whether it is because of an illness or whether he decided that it was time to get fit-- and the intention behind the state media coverage is also unknown, according to Reuters. "It is a little strange that they would show him in such ill-fitting clothes, as the optics do seem to emphasise his weight loss," Town was quoted as saying by Reuters.Also read | US has 'wrong' expectation for dialogue: Kim Yo JongChristopher Green, a Korea specialist at Leiden University in the Netherlands, told Reuters that the emphasis was on the fact that Kim is working hard for the people at a time of widespread hardship. "What matters is that the North Korean regime will have received word from its many, many, many informants that Kim's condition was a talking point among ordinary people," he said. "From there it is a simple matter to respond by designing a propaganda strategy to use the existing public discussion to the regime's advantage," he added.Kim has talked about a "tense" food situation that could worsen if this year's crops fail, worsening economic problems amid strict self-imposed border and movement restrictions that have massively affected trade.Also read | Kim Jong Un 'solemnly swears' to salvage North Korea's economyChad O'Carroll, CEO of the Seoul-based Korea Risk Group, said in his opinion the most likely reason they would mention his declining weight would be related to ongoing Covid-19-related border measures. "Regardless of the motivation for Kim's rapid weight loss, it seems there is propaganda value in showing that even the leader of North Korea is enduring the same food shortages that are hitting the country at the current time," O'Carroll told Reuters.This is not the first time that the North Korean state media has mentioned Kim Jong Un's health. Kim suffered from "discomfort" after a prolonged period out of the public eye, it reported in 2014. Speculation about Kim’s health spilled over after he missed the birth anniversary celebrations of state founder Kim Il Sung on April 15 last year. However, he reappeared the very next month.(With Reuters inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/propaganda-value-optics-behind-thinner-kim-jong-un-say-analysts-101624948448353.html
29-06-2021||World||Nine Indian-Americans make it to US Spelling Bee final 2021||Nine of the 11 finalists for this year’s US Spelling Bee contest are Indian-Americans, the organisers said on Monday. The 11 spellers, of which nine are Indian-Americans, will compete for the champion title during the 2021 Scripps National Spelling Bee Finals on July 8, a statement from the organisers said, according to news agency PTI.The 11 finalists are Roy Seligman, 12, from Nassau, The Bahamas; Bhavana Madini, 13, from New York; Sreethan Gajula, 14, from Charlotte, North Carolina; Ashrita Gandhari, 14, from Leesburg, Virginia; Avani Joshi, 13, from Illinois; Zaila Avant-garde, 14, from New Orleans; Vivinsha Veduru, 10, from Texas; Dhroov Bharatia, 12, from Dallas; Vihaan Sibal, 12, from Texas; Akshainie Kamma, 13, from Texas and Chaitra Thummala, 12, from San Francisco.Over the past 20 years, Indian-Americans have been dominating the Spelling Bee contest even though they comprise only about 1 per cent of the US population. The Spelling Bee was cancelled last year due to the coronavirus pandemic.The US Spelling Bee reflects the dominance young kids from the small ethnic community have had on this prestigious and high-pressure endurance test for more than a decade now.During the in-person finals, the Bee will have the option of activating a spell-off if needed. The spell-off would be activated in the closing minutes of the competition if a champion has not yet been declared in a traditional, one-person, one-word round, the statement added."We are honoured to introduce our 2021 Scripps National Spelling Bee Finalists. Round after round, this group of spellers proved their mettle, and we look forward to seeing them show off their knowledge and hard work as they square off against the dictionary on the national stage,” said Dr J Michael Durnil, executive director of the Bee, reported PTI.“Congratulations to all of this year’s 209 national qualifiers – they’ve persevered over a year that has been challenging in many ways, and our team is proud to have witnessed their journey,” he added.The National Bee is a high-profile test as much as a nerd spelling match and spellers spend months preparing for it. The final rounds of this year’s contest will be hosted in person at ESPN Wide World of Sports Complex at Walt Disney World Resort near Orlando, Florida and will be broadcast live in prime time on ESPN2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nine-indian-americans-make-it-to-us-spelling-bee-final-2021-101624940469946.html
29-06-2021||World||Loudest cheers, standing ovation for Oxford Covid-19 vaccine developer Sarah Gilbert at Wimbledon||Sarah Gilbert, one of the British scientists behind the Oxford/AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine, was given a standing ovation on Wimbledon's Centre Court. Wimbledon spectators on Monday paid tribute to Gilbert before play began in the annual tennis tournament.The crowd also applauded the efforts of organisations that have contributed to Britain's fight against Covid-19, but the loudest cheers were reserved for Gilbert as well as the staff of the National Health Service (NHS).The announcer of the event said that throughout the coming fortnight, individuals and representatives of organisations who have significantly contributed to the nation's response to the pandemic and made the tournament possible have been invited to the prestigious Royal Box at the Centre Court."Today they include leaders who have developed the anti-Covid vaccine, NHS," said the announcer, according to news agency Reuters, as the audience started applauding.The claps kept getting louder as people gradually got on their feet. Seated in the Royal Box, Gilbert was seen smiling in the video tweeted by Wimbledon's official handle. "An opening day on Centre Court with a difference...A special moment as we say thank you to those who have played such an important role in the response to COVID-19," Wimbledon tweeted.An opening day on Centre Court with a difference...A special moment as we say thank you to those who have played such an important role in the response to COVID-19#Wimbledon pic.twitter.com/16dW1kQ2nrThe narrator went on to list NHS clinical trial leaders, as well as individuals involved in critical care, nursing staff, and community workers. Captain Sir Tom Moore, who won hearts with a Covid-19 fundraising drive before succumbing to the coronavirus in February, was also honoured on the occasion.The Grand Slam event also plans to invite other individuals who have played a big part in combating the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) to watch the action at this year's Championships seated in the royal box.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/loudest-cheers-standing-ovation-for-oxford-covid-19-vaccine-developer-sarah-gilbert-at-wimbledon-101624933365920.html
29-06-2021||World||'Mix and match' of Covid-19 vaccines generate robust immune response: Oxford study||A study led by the Oxford University has discovered that alternating doses of the AstraZeneca and Pfizer-BioNTech vaccines generate robust immune responses against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The researchers, who are looking into the feasibility of using a different vaccine for the initial “prime” vaccination to the follow-up “booster” vaccination, discovered that alternating doses of the two vaccines generated strong immunity.The study, published on the Lancet pre-print server, says "mixed" doses of these vaccines induced high concentrations of antibodies against the SARS-CoV2 spike IgG protein when they were given four weeks apart. The study indicated that all possible vaccination schedules involving the Oxford-AstraZeneca and Pfizer-BioNTech vaccines could potentially be used against coronavirus disease (Covid-19)."The Com-COV study has evaluated 'mix and match' combinations of the Oxford and Pfizer vaccines to see to what extent these vaccines can be used interchangeably, potentially allowing flexibility in the UK and global vaccine roll-out," Matthew Snape, an associate professor in paediatrics and vaccinology at the University of Oxford and the chief investigator, said.The results show that when given at a four-week interval both mixed schedules induce an immune response that is above the threshold set by the standard schedule of the Oxford/AstraZeneca vaccine," he noted.However, the study found that the immune responses differed according to the order of immunisation, with the Oxford-AstraZeneca shot followed by the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine generating the better immune response out of the two mixed schedules.Snape said that these results are an invaluable guide to the use of mixed dose schedules, but the interval of four weeks studied is shorter than the eight to 12-week schedule most commonly used for the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine.The United Kingdom's vaccination program has been applauded for its speed and agility so far. It was quick to authorise and deploy vaccines and is now offering all over-18s their first shots while giving the remainder of people their second doses. To date, 84.1% of all UK adults have had the first dose and 61.6% have had two doses of a Covid-19 vaccine, government data shows.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/mix-and-match-of-covid-19-vaccines-generate-robust-immune-response-oxford-study-101624930160887.html
29-06-2021||World||Do Talibans live in Pakistan? Minister answers||Pakistan's interior minister Sheikh Rashid Ahmed has said families of Afghanistan's Taliban live in his country, including in the capital city of Islamabad, and sometimes the members of the insurgent outfit are treated in local hospitals. Sheikh Rashid Ahmed comments come after another senior minister denied claims that there are any safe havens for the Taliban in Pakistan."Taliban families live here in Pakistan in areas like Rawat, Loi Ber, Bara Kahu and Tarnol," Sheikh Rashid Ahmed said in an interview aired by private Pakistani TV channel Geo News on Sunday as he mentioned Islamabad's suburbs. "Sometimes their (fighters) dead bodies arrive and sometimes they come here to hospitals to get medical treatment,” Rashid told the Urdu-language network.Pakistan is often accused of hosting and supporting the Taliban, who have been fighting the Afghanistan government for about the last two decades, and has always rejected allegations levelled by Afghan leaders that the Taliban use Pakistani soil to direct and sustain insurgent activities in Afghanistan.Also read | Pakistan providing pension to terrorists, must be held accountable: IndiaEarlier this month, Pakistani foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi denied the presence of Taliban sanctuaries in Pakistan. Qureshi in an exclusive interview to Afghanistan news channel Tolo News said that the terrorist group's leaders "are in Afghanistan." He also denied the existence of such institutions in Pakistan and said he "has been hearing of these terms for now decades.""If you try and create this impression that the violence is high because of Taliban, again, that would be an exaggeration. Why do I say that? Aren't there other elements over there who are playing the role of a spoiler?" Qureshi said in the interview.Also read | Rise of Taliban in Afghanistan is ominous for South and Central AsiaQureshi was also asked whether the Taliban are "funded in Pakistan". To which he said, "These are very--those many things that have been going on for years. You're stuck in the old groove. Get out that groove, please. Get out of that groove. Now, listen, if you remain stuck in this, believe me, you will not be able to travel far. And we want you to travel far. We want reconciliation and peace."The Taliban has intensified attacks against Afghan government forces since May 1 when the US-led international forces formally began withdrawing from the country.Last week, Prime Minister Imran Khan ruled out hosting American bases in Pakistan for military action inside Afghanistan, fearing it might lead to his country being "targeted in revenge attacks" by terrorists. “If Pakistan were to agree to host US bases, from which to bomb Afghanistan, and an Afghan civil war ensued, Pakistan would be targeted for revenge by terrorists again," he wrote in an opinion piece in The Washington Post.Khan has also said Pakistan will seal its border, the Durand Line, with Afghanistan if the Taliban attempts to take over the country.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/do-talibans-live-in-pakistan-minister-answers-101624927938872.html
29-06-2021||World||Boeing asked to undergo more safety checks, no certification for 777x just yet||Boeing may not be getting certification in the United States for its newest wide-body aircraft -- the 777x series -- just yet, news agencies reported on Tuesday. The Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), the US aviation regulator, has pushed the tentative date for certification back to "mid to late 2023", noting that two more years from now are needed for additional testing and safety checks. The American manufacturer of airplanes has faced heavy critique in recent years after the lengthy grounding of its infamous 737 MAX series following two fatal crashes.Boeing, it seems, can't escape the legal scrutiny that it has been subjected to following the unfortunate accidents, and neither is the FAA willing to let the company have a free pass -- both of them were hounded by the legislators at the Capitol Hill over the question of aviation safety.The FAA has sent a letter to Boeing informing the aviation giant that the 777x jet requires a "root cause" investigation following an "uncommanded pitch" event on December 8, in which the airplane performed unexpectedly, news agency AFP reported. Ian Won, an acting manager in the FAA's aircraft certification service, said that Boeing is expected to undergo comprehensive validation, verification reviews and must also document the process improvements and the lessons learned. All of these measures will "realistically" push the expected timeframe of certification at least by two more years, he said.Boeing's newest 777x series and the popular 737 Next Generation (NG) airplanes are both going to undergo reevaluation, with the later models having already finalised a set of three safety enhancements to prevent debris from escaping in case of a failure.There have been several recent episodes in which debris broke loose from the engine inlets. A chunk of metal flew off a Southwest Airlines Co. engine over Pennsylvania on April 17, 2018, killing a woman who was seated where the metal hit a window. Following this incident, the National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB), had also recommended improvements in the engine designs on how to strengthen the smooth curved surface at the front of the engine that guides air into the turbine.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/boeing-asked-to-undergo-more-safety-checks-no-certification-for-777x-just-yet-101624923827677.html
29-06-2021||World||EU’s ‘green pass’ for Covishield: What is the document all about||India will take up the issue of approval of the Serum Institute of India’s Covishield vaccine by the European Medicines Agency (EMA) with the European Union during discussions between Indian and EU officials on the margins of the G20 meeting in Italy on Tuesday. Those vaccinated with Covishield, the version of the AstraZeneca vaccine being manufactured in India by SII, are not eligible for the EU Digital Covid certificate or “green pass”. It is an immunity document to ease travel within and to the 27-member bloc. It will be in place by July 1.Comirnaty of Pfizer/BioNTech, Moderna, AstraZeneca’s Vaxzervria and Janssen by Johnson & Johnson are the only four Covid-19 vaccines approved by EMA, which have received EU-wide marketing authorisation. Covishield is also a version of AstraZeneca Covid vaccine and is being manufactured by Pune-based Serum Institute of India.Also read | Covishield’s green pass approval by EMA to be discussed on G20 sidelinesSerum Institute of India’s chief executive officer Adar Poonawalla said on Monday he has taken up the matter “at the highest level” to ensure Indians don’t face any travel restrictions. “I realise that a lot of Indians who have taken Covishield are facing issues with travel to the EU. I assure everyone, I have taken this up at the highest levels and hope to resolve this matter soon, both with regulators and at a diplomatic level with countries,” Poonawalla tweeted.The Serum Institute of India is approaching the EMA for approval of its Covid-19 vaccine, Covishield, for the European Union’s Green Pass.What is the EU Digital Covid Certificate?An EU Digital Covid Certificate is digital proof that a person has either been vaccinated against Covid-19, received a negative test result or recovered from Covid-19. The certificate is both in digital and paper format, comes with a QR code is free of charge, is in the national language and English, is safe and secure and valid in all EU countries.How can one get the certificate?National authorities are in charge of issuing the certificate, for example, it could be issued by test centres or health authorities or directly via an eHealth portal. The digital version can be stored on a mobile device and at the same people can also request a paper version. Both versions will have a QR code with essential information and a digital signature to make sure the certificate is authentic.How will it help free movement?The EU Digital Covid Certificate will be accepted in all member states of the EU and will help ensure that restrictions currently in place can be lifted in a coordinated manner. The EU Digital Covid Certificate holder should in principle be exempted from free movement restrictions when travelling and member states should refrain from imposing additional travel restrictions on them. Also read | Covishield excluded from new EU Covid 'Green Pass' eligibility listThey can stop holder from travelling if it is necessary and proportionate to safeguard public health. In such a case – for instance as a reaction to new variants of concern – that member state would have to notify the Commission and all other member states and justify its decision.Also watch | Travel hurdle over made-in-India vaccine: What SII CEO said on Covishield-EU row How will the certificate work?The EU Digital Covid Certificate contains a QR code with a digital signature to protect it against falsification. When the certificate is checked, the QR code is scanned and the signature verified. Each issuing body (e.g. a hospital, a test centre, a health authority) has its own digital signature key. All of these are stored in a secure database in each country.The European Commission has built a gateway through which all certificate signatures can be verified across the EU. The personal data of the certificate holder does not pass through the gateway, as this is not necessary to verify the digital signature. The European Commission also helped member states to develop national software and apps to issue, store and verify certificates and supported them in the necessary tests to onboard the gateway. Can unvaccinated people travel to another EU country?Yes. The EU Digital Covid Certificate should facilitate free movement inside the EU. It will not be a pre-condition to free movement, which is a fundamental right in the EU.The EU Digital Covid Certificate will also prove the results of testing, which is often required under applicable public health restrictions. The certificate is an opportunity for member states to adjust the existing restrictions on public health grounds. The currently applicable recommendation on coordinating free movement restrictions in the EU will also be amended by mid-June with a view to the holiday season.Does the vaccine matter? Vaccination certificates will be issued to a vaccinated person for any Covid-19 vaccine. Member states will have to accept vaccination certificates for vaccines, which received EU marketing authorisation, when it comes to waiving free movement restrictions. They may decide to extend this to EU travellers who received another vaccine as well. Member states can also decide whether they accept a vaccination certificate after one dose or after a full vaccination cycle has been completed.What data does the certificate include?The EU Digital Covid Certificate contains necessary key information such as name, date of birth, date of issuance, relevant information about vaccine/ test/recovery and a unique identifier. This data remains on the certificate and is not stored or retained when a certificate is verified in another member state. The certificates will only include a limited set of information that is necessary. This cannot be retained by visited countries. For verification purposes, only the validity and authenticity of the certificate is checked by verifying who issued and signed it. All health data remains with the Member State that issued an EU Digital Covid Certificate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/eus-green-pass-for-covishield-what-is-the-document-all-about-101624923539169.html
29-06-2021||World||Covid pass to come into force amid fears of Delta variant||An EU-wide Covid-19 certificate for easier travel will come into force on Thursday, just in time for Europe’s busy summer vacation period, but the highly infectious Delta variant of the coronavirus is threatening to curtail its use.The EU document - sporting a QR code and available in digital form on smartphones or hard copy - shows whether the bearer is vaccinated with one of the EU’s approved jabs (from Pfizer, AstraZeneca, Moderna or Johnson & Johnson), has recovered from a Covid-19 infection, or has a recent negative test.Under an EU law adopted this month, the certificate does away with the need for quarantines or further testing when travelling between the EU’s 27 countries or four associated European nations: Iceland, Norway, Switzerland and Liechtenstein.Twenty EU countries have already started issuing and accepting it. But a surge in the Delta variant, now rampant in the UK, could trigger an “emergency brake” provision suspending its acceptance.Portugal and Spain on Monday announced entry restrictions for travellers from Britain, with Lisbon requiring them to be fully vaccinated and Madrid demanding proof of vaccination or a negative Covid test.Earlier, Britain’s senior military commanders were self-isolating after chief of defence staff Nick Carter tested positive for Covid-19.In Australia, new cases popped up in various cities on Monday, prompting local authorities to impose restrictions. Brisbane, Darwin, Perth and Sydney have all reported new cases of the Delta variant.In Luxembourg, PM Xavier Bettel has tested positive for Covid-19 with mild symptoms and is self-isolating for 10 days.Italians were able to go outside without masks on Monday after the whole country became a “low-risk” zone, a milestone for the country hit badly by the pandemic in 2020. In a decree, the health ministry for the first time said masks were not compulsory in outdoor areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-pass-to-come-into-force-amid-fears-of-delta-variant-101624922392943.html
29-06-2021||World||Donald Trump’s business empire targeted||New York prosecutors have told lawyers for former US president Donald Trump they must respond by Monday with any last arguments as to why criminal charges should not be filed against his family business, The Washington Post reported on Sunday.The Post, citing two people familiar with the matter, said the deadline was another strong signal that Manhattan district attorney Cyrus Vance and New York attorney general Letitia James are considering criminal charges against the company as an entity.On Friday, The New York Times reported Vance could announce charges against Trump Organization and its chief financial officer, Allen Weisselberg, likely next week.Vance’s office said it was investigating “possibly extensive and protracted criminal conduct” at Trump Organization, including tax and insurance fraud and falsification of business records.Meanwhile, Trump’s attorney general Bill Barr told him a month after the 2020 election that allegations of voter fraud were groundless, but he rejected that, the Atlantic magazine reported. “We realised from the beginning it was just bullshit,” Barr told Jonathan Karl, an ABC News reporter who will publish a book on Trump’s last days in office.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-s-business-empire-targeted-101624922350881.html
29-06-2021||World||Brazil senators file case against President Jair Bolsonaro for malfeasance||Three Brazilian senators formally accused President Jair Bolsonaro of malfeasance before the Supreme Court Monday over allegations he failed to have a top ally investigated for suspicions of massive corruption in the purchase of Covid-19 vaccines.The criminal complaint comes after a Senate commission investigating the administration's pandemic response uncovered explosive accusations last week that Bolsonaro knew about suspected corruption in Brazil's $300 million deal for Indian-made vaccine Covaxin and failed to intervene."I filed a criminal complaint today with the Supreme Court because of the serious accusation that the president took no action after being notified of a gigantic corruption scheme at the health ministry," said opposition Senator Randolfe Rodrigues, the commission's deputy chair.A criminal case against Bolsonaro before the Supreme Court could see him removed from office -- though Prosecutor General Augusto Aras, an ally, would have to bring charges.More immediately, the case risks damaging Bolsonaro politically at a time when his support is dwindling and polls place him far behind leftist ex-president Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva heading into elections next year.Massive overbillingThe allegations emerged when a Singapore-based firm now suspected of being a shell company billed the Brazilian health ministry $45 million for yet-to-be-delivered doses of Covaxin, which did not have regulatory approval in Brazil.That raised red flags for a health ministry official named Luis Ricardo Miranda.He refused to sign off on the advance payment, given that Brazil's contract for Covaxin did not mention any firm in Singapore and said payment was to be made on delivery.Miranda told the Senate inquiry his superiors at the ministry exerted "atypical, excessive" pressure on him to approve the transaction.He took his concerns to his brother, Luis Miranda, a congressman and Bolsonaro supporter, who arranged a meeting for them with the president.Congressman Miranda testified Friday that Bolsonaro told them at the March 20 meeting he suspected the Covaxin deal was a corrupt scheme set up by Ricardo Barros, a powerful lawmaker who is head of Bolsonaro's coalition in the lower house.Congressman Miranda said Bolsonaro told him he would order the police to investigate, but never did.Other irregularities in Brazil's Covaxin deal soon emerged, forcing the administration to cancel it under pressure.According to newspaper Estado de Sao Paulo, the vaccine's manufacturer, Bharat Biotech, initially quoted a price of $1.34 a dose.But Brazil agreed to pay $15 a dose, more than for any other vaccine it purchased.Pro-impeachment protestsThe scandal could mark a turning point in the Senate investigation, which has already been damaging for Bolsonaro.For two months, a parade of witnesses have testified how the far-right leader and his government blatantly flouted expert advice on containing Covid-19, which has now claimed more than half a million lives in Brazil, second only to the United States.Bolsonaro minimized the virus as a "little flu," fought lockdowns, questioned face masks and rejected various offers of vaccines -- including shots that were cheaper and more effective than Covaxin -- meanwhile pushing unproven drugs such as chloroquine and urging Brazilians to get back to work.Now, however, he faces accusations his pandemic response has been not only inept, but criminal.Opposition leaders have called mass protests for Wednesday and Friday demanding Bolsonaro's impeachment.The polarizing president already faces more than 100 impeachment requests in Congress, but has been shielded so far by his alliance with the powerful "Centrao," a loose coalition of conservative parties.Barros, the congressman now suspected of masterminding the Covaxin deal, is a top figure in that coalition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/brazil-senators-file-case-against-president-jair-bolsonaro-for-malfeasance-101624917307648.html
29-06-2021||World||Abu Dhabi to only allow people vaccinated against Covid-19 in some public places||Abu Dhabi, the oil-rich capital of the United Arab Emirates, has announced that a wide range of public places will soon be accessible only to those vaccinated against the coronavirus in a bid to encourage more people to get shots.The Emirati government on Monday said that starting August 20, authorities will begin restricting access to shopping malls, restaurants, cafes, sporting activities, museums, gyms, schools and universities. The unvaccinated will effectively be barred from entering any business in the city except for supermarkets and pharmacies.Abu Dhabi has already rolled out a “green pass” system that limits public access to those who have either received the shot or can show a negative virus test.It comes as the country increasingly bets its economic reopening on its speedy vaccination campaign. The government says at least 93% of Abu Dhabi's population has received at least one dose of the vaccine.The neighbouring travel hub of Dubai, home to long-haul carrier Emirates, also has introduced some vaccination restrictions on mass entertainment and sporting events. However, malls and other businesses remain open to the unvaccinated.The UAE boasts one of the world's fastest inoculation campaigns, with 15.1 million doses administered to its population of some 9 million. The country has relied heavily on the Chinese state-backed Sinopharm shot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/abu-dhabi-to-only-allow-people-vaccinated-against-covid-19-in-some-public-places-101624912383853.html
29-06-2021||World||Belarus asks EU envoy to go in response to sanctions, says won't help bloc in fighting illegal migration||Belarus on Monday told the European Union's representative in Minsk to return to Brussels for consultations and said it would stop helping the 27-nation bloc combat illegal migration as retaliation against EU sanctions.The EU last week imposed wide-ranging economic sanctions on Belarus targeting its main export industries and access to finance over its interception of a Ryanair flight last month.Belarusian authorities intercepted the flight, from Athens to Vilnius, on May 23 and arrested dissident journalist Roman Protasevich and his girlfriend Sofia Sapega who were on board, sparking international outrage.The Belarusian foreign ministry set out its response to the EU sanctions on Monday and said it was recalling its own permanent representative to Brussels for consultations.It announced an entry ban on EU officials responsible for the sanctions and said it was working on economic retaliatory measures against the bloc."We hope that EU officials and those from its member states are aware of the damage and futility of using a forceful approach in their relations with Belarus," the foreign ministry said in a statement.The ministry added that Belarus was suspending its participation in the EU's Eastern Partnership, a policy initiative that aims to deepen the EU's ties with neighbouring former communist countries.Belarus said it would also suspend a readmission agreement with the European Union, which defines the procedures to readmit people who illegally cross the joint border."(This will)...negatively affect cooperation with the European Union in the illegal migration and organised crimes spheres," the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/belarus-asks-eu-envoy-to-go-in-response-to-sanctions-says-won-t-help-bloc-in-fighting-illegal-migration-101624911093289.html
29-06-2021||World||Tropical Storm Danny forms off South Carolina, nearing land||Tropical Storm Danny formed Monday afternoon off South Carolina's coast, and forecasters said the storm is expected to race inland over the US Southeast while dumping several inches of rain in some spots.The fourth named storm of the 2021 Atlantic hurricane season formed close to South Carolina's coast and had top sustained winds of 40 mph (65 kph) with higher guests.Tropical storm force winds were already being felt in South Carolina on Monday afternoon. A weather station at Folly Beach — just outside Charleston — recorded a wind gust of 41 mph (66 kph), according to the National Hurricane Center in Miami.At 3 p.m., the storm was about 45 miles (70 kilometers) southeast of Charleston, the hurricane center said.The storm was headed to the west-northwest at 16 mph (26 kph) and was expected to dump several inches of rain on some parts of South Carolina and Georgia during its trek inland.Danny emerged from a tropical depression off the coast, and forecasters said rapid weakening is expected after landfall.A tropical storm warning was posted earlier Monday for a swath of the Southeast coast from Edisto Beach to South Santee River, South Carolina.The storm could produce between 1 and 3 inches (3 to 8 centimeters) of rain with higher amounts in some coastal areas.In Savannah, Georgia, all systems were go for Tuesday night’s Savannah Bananas home baseball game as organizers eyed the storm. Officials for the collegiate summer league team planned to cover the field with tarp on Monday in preparation for the game.“For us, being on the coast and being in Savannah, we get some nasty pop-up storms that can dump an inch of rain in just a few hours,” Bananas President Jared Orton said Monday. “This one doesn’t look like much more than just a nice, passing day of rain. I think we’re good to go as long as the sun comes out tomorrow and it should be a beautiful night in Savannah, I would think.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/tropical-storm-danny-forms-off-south-carolina-nearing-land-101624909494821.html
29-06-2021||World||UK health secretary Sajid Javid says confident of removing Covid-19 restrictions by July 19||Britain's new health secretary said Monday he is confident that England is on track to remove the country's remaining coronavirus restrictions on July 19, stressing that the rapid vaccination rollout is “breaking the link” between soaring infection numbers and serious illnesses and deaths.Sajid Javid told Parliament that all the figures he's seen suggested that the country is “heading in the right direction,” and said that “the restrictions on our freedoms must come to an end.”His confident tone came despite widespread concerns about a third surge in infections in the UK driven by the spread of the more contagious delta variant. Government figures on Monday showed another big spike in infections, with 22,868 confirmed cases.That's the highest daily figure since late January, though the number was likely inflated by the fact that the previous day's figure of 14,876 was artificially low because of incomplete data for England."No date we choose comes with zero risk for COVID — we know we cannot simply eliminate it, we have to learn to live with it,” Javid said. “People and businesses need certainty, so we want every step to be irreversible."Javid was named health secretary Saturday after his predecessor, Matt Hancock, stepped down following revelations that he was having an affair with an old friend he had hired as an adviser to the Department of Health and Social Care.Hancock was forced to step down amid outrage that he had broken social distancing rules by kissing his adviser in his office.Critics saw Hancock's exit as the latest example of cronyism and hypocrisy at the heart of Prime Minister Boris Johnson's Conservative government, which has been accused multiple times of not practising what it preaches throughout the pandemic.Though the number of people in hospitals and dying have been edging up over the past couple of weeks, they haven't risen at the same rate as infections. A large proportion of infections were reported among younger people.On Monday, another three virus-related deaths were reported, taking the UK's total to 128,103. Throughout the pandemic, death figures on Monday have traditionally been lower because of weekend reporting lags.Still, many virus experts and National Health Service officials urged the government not to speed up the timetable, saying they need time to vaccinate as many people as possible amid the rapid spread of the highly infectious delta variant, first discovered in India.“It's so important that we get the vaccination rates as high as we can before there's any consideration of easing the current restrictions, which are not really holding the outbreak,” Peter Openshaw, a professor of experimental medicine at Imperial College London, told Sky News.The speed of the UK's vaccination rollout has been widely praised. As of Monday, around two-thirds of the British population had received one dose of vaccine, while nearly 50% has had two.Johnson disappointed some members of his Conservative Party earlier this month when he extended the COVID-19 restrictions until July 19, saying it was “sensible” to provide more time for people to be vaccinated.The Hancock scandal fuelled anger over the continued restrictions after the Sun published photos of the health secretary kissing his adviser, Gina Coladangelo, on May 6. At the time, people were barred from meeting indoors with people from outside their household, except when it was necessary for work, and were supposed to stay apart.Coladangelo, a friend of Hancock's since university days, was appointed to the Health Department's board of directors in September, a role that pays 15,000 pounds ($20,800) a year.As the chief enforcer of the government's coronavirus measures, Hancock's position became untenable when he was seen to have violated the rules.“Those of us who make these rules have got to stick by them, and that's why I've got to resign,” Hancock said in a video posted on Twitter.Public trust in Johnson's government has also been eroded after allegations that officials handed contracts for personal protective equipment and other supplies to friends and party donors during the early days of the pandemic.In November, Johnson said he had “full confidence” in Home Secretary Priti Patel, even after his own ethics adviser found that she had violated the rules governing ministerial conduct.Johnson was caught up in his own ethics scandal in April, when newspapers reported that he had failed to disclose that wealthy supporters had donated 58,000 pounds to cover the cost of redecorating his official residence. An ethics adviser cleared Johnson of breaking the law, but said he should have been “more rigorous” in finding out who was funding the project.Ian Murray of the Labour Party said Hancock's affair was just “the tip of the iceberg.”“There are huge problems in this government in terms of its secrecy and in terms of the way operates,” Murray told the BBC.Justice Secretary Robert Buckland defended Johnson's handling of the Hancock situation and said “due process” had been followed in Coladangelo's appointment as an adviser.“The truth is a lot of people just don't like the PM,” he told the BBC. “They can't get over the fact he's popular.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-health-secretary-sajid-javid-says-confident-of-removing-covid-19-restrictions-by-july-19-101624905899269.html
29-06-2021||World||Ethiopia declares immediate, unilateral cease-fire in Tigray||Ethiopia’s government on Monday declared an immediate, unilateral cease-fire in its Tigray region after nearly eight months of deadly conflict and as hundreds of thousands of people face the world’s worst famine crisis in a decade.The cease-fire could calm a war that has destabilized Africa's second most populous country and threatened to do the same in the wider Horn of Africa, where Ethiopia has been seen as a key security ally for the West. It comes as the country awaits the results of national elections that Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed promoted as the centerpiece of reforms that won him the 2019 Nobel Peace Prize.Abiy's transformation from making peace to waging war has appalled many observers since the fighting in Tigray erupted in November. Since then, the world has struggled to access much of the region and investigate growing allegations of atrocities including gang rapes and forced starvation.Ethiopia's statement was carried by state media shortly after the Tigray interim administration, appointed by the federal government, fled the regional capital, Mekele, and called for a cease-fire on humanitarian grounds so that desperately needed aid can be delivered. Meanwhile, Mekele residents cheered the arrival of Tigray forces.The cease-fire “will enable farmers to till their land, aid groups to operate without any military movement around and engage with remnants (of Tigray's former ruling party) who seek peace,” Ethiopia's statement said, adding that efforts to bring Tigray's former leaders to justice continue.Ethiopia said the cease-fire will last until the end of the crucial planting season in Tigray. The season’s end comes in September. The government ordered all federal and regional authorities to respect the cease-fire — crucial as authorities and fighters from the neighboring Amhara region have been accused of atrocities in western Tigray.“The government has the responsibility to find a political solution to the problem,” the head of the interim administration, Abraham Belay, said in calling for the cease-fire, adding that some elements within Tigray’s former ruling party are willing to engage with the federal government.There was no immediate comment from the Tigray fighters, with whom Ethiopia had rejected talks. And there was no immediate comment from neighboring Eritrea, whose soldiers have been accused by Tigray residents of some of the worst atrocities in the war.Thousands of people have been killed in the conflict as Ethiopian and allied forces pursue Tigray’s former leaders and their supporters, and as humanitarian groups plead for more access to the region of 6 million people.The region in recent days has seen some of the fiercest fighting of the conflict. International pressure on Ethiopia spiked again last week after a military airstrike on a busy market in Tigray killed more than 60 people.Amid the upheaval on Monday, the United Nations children’s agency said Ethiopian soldiers entered its office in Mekele and dismantled satellite communications equipment, an act it said violated the world body’s immunity. UNICEF last week warned that at least 33,000 severely malnourished children face “imminent risk of death” without more aid reaching Tigray’s people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/ethiopia-declares-immediate-unilateral-cease-fire-in-tigray-101624905923317.html
29-06-2021||India||India, China to discuss disengagement at Gogra and Hot Springs||New DelhiThe dates of the agreed 12th round of the India-China senior commanders’ dialogue will be fixed through military channels, but the discussion will be restricted to disengagement and de-escalation of armies of the two countries from general areas Gogra and Hot Springs. The issue of Depsang Bulge will be dealt with by local commanders as it was a 2013 legacy issue, HT learns.According to South Block officials, the decision to discuss Hot Springs (patrolling point 14) and Gogra (patrolling point 17A) was taken at the virtual meeting of Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination on India China border affairs on June 25.The two friction points, which are near the Kugrang and Chang Chemmo rivers respectively, were transgressed by the PLA on May 17-18, 2020 (apart from north banks of Pangong Tso).The 2013 friction point of Depsang Bulge, south of Daulet Beg Oldi, will not be taken up by the senior military commanders but dealt at the local commanders level, the officials added, asking not to be named. In April 2013, PLA transgressed the Raki and Jeevan nullah with the aim of blocking Indian Army from patrolling points 10 to 13A within the bulge area.While disengagement has taken place from the north and south banks of Pangong Tso, a larger de-escalation remains work in progress due to mutual mistrust and suspicion after the PLA’s 2020 transgressions.Both the Indian Army and the PLA Army have three divisions of troops with support elements all along the 1597 kilometre-long Line of Actual Control (LAC) in East Ladakh with artillery, armour and rocket elements in addition. The Indian Army troops led by Lt General P G K Menon of 14 Corps are on constant vigil and are conducting patrols within limits defined by the Cabinet Secretary in 1976. There has been no accretion of troops from the Indian side since the August 29-31, 2020 incident on south banks of Pangong Tso. That was when the Indian army beat the PLA in the race to occupy commanding heights in the southern bank. While the Army is monitoring the Chinese activity along the LAC, the Indian Navy is keeping a close watch on PLA warship from the Gulf of Aden to the Malacca Straits including the south Indian Ocean. Apart from some research activity in deep south Indian Ocean which is being monitored, the Chinese ships are confined around the Gulf of Aden or Makran Coast off Pakistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-to-discuss-disengagement-at-gogra-and-hot-springs-101624991237602.html
29-06-2021||India||Centre nudges states again to calibrate relaxations of Covid restrictions||New Delhi: The Centre on Tuesday told all states and union territories to consider implementation of “targeted and prompt” action for Covid-19 management and told them to focus on a five-fold strategy for effective Covid-19 management.Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla’s communication also reiterated that states must not stop laying emphasis on adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour which it said, was crucial to guard against any surge in the number of cases.Bhalla, who pitched for a calibrated relaxation of restrictions, asked district magistrates to use Section 144 of the Criminal Procedural Code (CrPC) to enforce social distancing and to charge people under the Disaster Management Act if they violate social distancing protocol. “With the decline in the number of active cases, many States and UTS have started relaxing restrictions. The process of relaxing restrictions should be carefully calibrated; and prompt and targeted actions need to be implemented by the States and UTs in line with the advisory of MoHFW (ministry of health and family welfare),” Bhalla said in his letter to state chief secretaries and administrators of union territories.Home secretary Bhalla told states to regularly monitor districts with a higher number of active cases per million population, asserting that this would be important to predict the need for upgrading health infrastructure and logistics.The home ministry letter comes on a day the country reported the lowest single-day spike since March 17 and less than 40,000 daily cases after 102 days. India recorded 37,566 new Covid-19 cases in the 24 hours ending 8 am Tuesday, taking the country’s total to 3.03 crore. With 907 new deaths, the toll is now at 3.97 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-nudges-states-again-to-calibrate-relaxations-of-covid-restrictions-101624989201916.html
29-06-2021||India||A drama to fool people: Congress hits out at Arvind Kejriwal’s ‘powerplay’ in Punjab||Congress hit out at Aam Aadmi Party chief Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday over his press conference, calling it a “drama to fool people”. Congress minister Charanjit Singh Channi told reporters that following the Punjab government’s announcement of free electricity, Kejriwal “rushed from Delhi”.“Arvind Kejriwal's press conference in Punjab was a drama to fool people. Soon after our government announced 300 units of free electricity for the people, he rushed from Delhi to here,” Channi told news agency ANI.Delhi chief minister and AAP national convener on Tuesday made the pre-poll promise of 300 units of free electricity to each and every household. Calling it “Kejriwal’s guarantees, not the Captain’s (Amarinder Singh) promises” the chief minister also promised to write off pending bills of consumers of domestic supply”, adding that his promise is bound to make women “especially happy”.Kejriwal accused the Punjab government of forming a “nexus” with private power companies and assured citizens that AAP if chosen will ensure round the clock power supply.Following Kejriwal’s announcement former chairman and managing director of the Punjab State Power Corporation limited, B S Sran, told news agency PTI that his particular promise will cost the state exchequer an additional financial burden of additional financial burden of ₹4,000- ₹5,000, in addition to the ₹10,000 plus crore spent by the government in power subsidies. Sran added that the promise of 300 units of free power is most likely to bring little to no benefit for the people since during the summer months electricity consumption exceeds that particular ceiling.This will be the second foray into Punjab for AAP, the first being the 2017 legislative assembly elections. Kejriwal has promised to replicate the Delhi Model in Punjab, however the ruling Congress has expressed doubts, Channi told reporters that AAP’s efforts leading up to the elections “will not help, he failed 5 years ago and will fail now too,”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-drama-to-fool-people-congress-hits-out-at-arvind-kejriwal-s-powerplay-in-punjab-101624988601773.html
29-06-2021||India||Punjab Congress crisis: Rahul Gandhi says no meeting scheduled with Navjot Sidhu||Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday denied that there was any meeting scheduled with Punjab Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu, a day after former minister’s aide claimed he will meet the Gandhis in Delhi vis a vis the internal conflict within the state unit of the party.“No meeting with Sidhu,” Rahul told reporters waiting outside his Tughlak Lane bungalow in Delhi, as he left for his mother and Congress president Sonia Gandhi’s residence on 10 Janpath.The question on possible meeting with Sidhu arose due to his aide claiming on Monday that the Amritsar East MLA would meet Rahul and party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra in Delhi.Sidhu, said to have left for the national capital to meet the Gandhis, did not respond to phone calls and messages.Rahul Gandhi had held one-to-one meetings with more than 20 leaders, including ministers, MPs and MLAs, from Punjab last week as part of ongoing efforts to find a solution to factionalism in the state unit of the party. A three-member committee constituted by Congress President Sonia Gandhi had suggested in its report on June 10 that Sidhu should be suitably accommodated in the state unit.However, the former minister, who has been critical of chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh for months, upped the ante about a week ago with a spate of interviews in which he accused Amarinder of colluding with Badals. Sidhu, whose relations with Amarinder were frosty from the start, had quit the state cabinet in 2019 after his portfolio was changed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-congress-crisis-rahul-gandhi-says-no-meeting-scheduled-with-navjot-sidhu-101624986658228.html
29-06-2021||India||Parliamentary panel seeks Twitter’s response within 2 days on locking accounts of Ravi Shankar Prasad, Shashi Tharoor||The Parliamentary panel for Information Technology on Tuesday had sought the response of microblogging site Twitter within two days, regarding locking the handles of IT minister Ravi Shankar Prasad and Congress leader Shashi Tharoor, news agency ANI reported. The panel’s secretariat had also sent a letter to this effect to the company on the day.The panel, headed by Congress MP Shashi Tharoor, had also directed its secretariat to seek the company’s reply on the issue in writing within the mentioned time frame.“Twitter will have to give [a] written answer to the committee within 48 hours, why and under what rule Twitter blocked Twitter accounts of IT minister Ravi Shankar Pradesh and senior Congress MP Shashi Tharoor,” news agency ANI said, citing unnamed sources.Also, if the committee does not receive a satisfactory reply from Twitter, the panel has also asked to summon the Twitter official regarding the issue.Earlier on June 25, electronics and Information Technology minister Ravi Shankar Prasad took to Twitter to announce that his access to his account was denied for a violation of the Digital Millennium Copyright Act of the USA and access was later restored.Also read | Madhya Pradesh government to take action against Twitter over wrong mapHe called the incident “peculiar” and said “Twitter’s actions were in gross violation of Rule 4(8) of the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules 2021 where they failed to provide me any prior notice before denying me access to my own account.”Tharoor also tweeted about a similar experience and said that one of his videos was deleted for the violation of the same rule. He said that the IT minister had pointed to possible violation of Indian regulations while Twitter tried conforming to foreign rules.“As Chairman of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information Technology, I can state that we will be seeking an explanation from @TwitterIndia for the locking of @rsprasad's & my accounts & the rules & procedures they follow while operating in India,” Tharoor tweeted on June 25, affirming that Twitter would be asked for an explanation.Subsequently Twitter also landed in another trouble after a distorted map of India was depicted in their site’s careers section under the header ‘Tweep Life.’ The controversial map showed Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh as separate entities. Following severe backlash, Twitter removed the map on Monday. However, legal complaints have been filed against the company by police in some states such as Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliamentary-panel-seeks-twitter-s-response-within-2-days-on-locking-accounts-of-ravi-shankar-prasad-shahshi-tharoor-101624985566804.html
29-06-2021||India||Jaish terrorists kicked 18-month-old baby before killing police officer's family||Heart-wrenching details have emerged out of the gruesome killing of a special police officer (PSO) and his family by Jaish-e-Mohammed terrorists who did not even spare an 18-month-old girl and kicked her as well as her mother, officials said here on Tuesday.Two terrorists, including a foreigner, knocked at the door of ailing SPO Fayaz Ahmed in south Kashmir on Monday night and started thrashing him. His wife Raja Begum and 22-year-old daughter Rafia made an unsuccessful attempt to save him as the terrorists started spraying bullets on him.In the process, Raja Begum and Rafia were injured and died at a hospital on Tuesday.During investigation it came to light that Ahmed's 18-month-old granddaughter and daughter-in-law were mercilessly kicked by the terrorists.As the terrorists reached their house in Hariparigam village in Awantipora around 10:30 pm, Ahmed's daughter-in-law placed her 18-month-old daughter at the feet of the terrorists pleading them to spare the family.However, the terrorists, devoid of any humanity, kicked the infant away and committed their gruesome act, said a senior security officer."Which culture teaches such barbarity...kicking an 18-month-old baby and spraying 20-25 bullets on an innocent family," a senior officer probing the case said, adding that Pakistan-based terror groups have no love for the people of Kashmir Valley.A senior official conveyed to Ahmed's neighbours that "souls when soaked in guilt are the heaviest, and not voicing against brutality is a guilt many of us bear. Let's stand together for whom we care".The gruesome killing of the SPO and his family has sent shock waves across Jammu and Kashmir with political parties terming it a "dastardly and cowardly" act and a blot on the security scenario in the valley.Inspector General of Police (Kashmir range) Vijay Kumar had said on Monday that two JeM terrorists, including a foreigner, were involved in the killing.Kumar said the loss of the SPO along with his wife and daughter has "pained us a lot" and assured that the terrorists involved in the act will be neutralised soon.Terrorists have intensified attacks on police and security forces recently. While an inspector and a constable were killed in Nowgam and Eidgah areas of Srinagar last week, a civilian died in a grenade attack on security forces at Barbarshah in the heart of the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jaish-terrorists-kick-18-month-old-baby-before-killing-police-officer-s-family-101624985203394.html
29-06-2021||India||‘Serious threat of kidnapping’ in Afghanistan: India alerts nationals||India on Tuesday issued a detailed and specific security alert for its nationals in Afghanistan against the backdrop of an escalation in violent attacks by terror groups, warning that they should exercise utmost vigilance as they faced a “serious threat of kidnapping”.The security advisory was issued by the Indian embassy amid a massive surge in violence by the Taliban, which has enhanced its efforts to wrest control of territory from Afghan government forces as the US continues withdrawing its forces from Afghanistan.The alert, also tweeted by the Indian embassy’s handle, said terror groups had “escalated violent activities and carried out a series of complex attacks in various parts of Afghanistan, including targeting Afghan defence and security forces and Afghan government institutions and even civilians”.The advisory specifically warned that Indian nationals are “not exceptions” amid the escalation of violence, and they “additionally face a serious threat of kidnapping”.“In view of the heightened security threats, all Indian nationals visiting, staying and working in Afghanistan are advised to exercise utmost vigilance and caution with regard to security at workplace, place of residence and also during movement to their places of work,” the advisory said.“All Indian nationals are also strongly advised to avoid all types of non-essential movements. Movements especially during peak commuting hours should also be avoided. While travelling on roads, maintain distance from possible targets like military convoys, vehicles of government ministries/offices, high ranking officials, law enforcement agencies, and avoid visiting crowded markets, shopping complexes, mandis, restaurants and other public places,” it added.Indian firms operating in Afghanistan were advised to put in place security measures for Indian employees deployed at project sites. They were also asked to contact the security wing of the Indian embassy for guidance and assistance.There was no official word from the external affairs ministry on the development. However, Indian authorities have been keeping a close watch on security-related developments in Afghanistan ever since the US administration announced its plans to pull out all troops from the country by September 11. Indian officials believe the US drawdown could be completed as early as July.A majority of Indian nationals in Afghanistan are engineers and staff working on hundreds of development projects being implemented across the country. India is the largest regional donor in Afghanistan, with pledges of around $3 billion.The security advisory said targeted attacks were on the rise in various Afghan provinces and districts in recent weeks, and were directed against government establishments and security posts. Civilians have been caught in the middle of the conflict, and incidents of roadside blasts using improvised explosive devices (IEDs) and use of magnetic IEDs to target civilian vehicles were being reported from many parts of Afghanistan.All Indian nationals arriving in Afghanistan were advised to register with the embassy in Kabul and two functional consulates in Kandahar and Mazar-e-Sharif.“Any essential movement may please be kept as discreet as possible. Movements generally should not have a predictable pattern and timing and routes taken should be changed wherever possible to maintain an element of surprise,” the security advisory said.It further advised that travel outside the main cities should be avoided, and if necessary, such visits be undertaken by air as “many highways and roads are unsafe and prone to attacks” and illegal check posts have been set up by anti-government elements. Before any such trips, Indian nationals should contact the embassy or consulates in Kandahar and Mazar-e-Sharif for updates on the security situation and precautions to be taken, it said.Indian nationals were also told to keep contact numbers of the nearest police station, the Indian embassy and consulates, colleagues or other Indians known to them handy in case of emergency. The alert also pointed out that the availability of flights between India and Afghanistan and between major cities within Afghanistan changes often because of security reasons and Covid-19 restrictions.Meanwhile, the Afghan Taliban, in a statement issued through its website, said “all civilian and non-military foreign nationals, diplomats, embassies, consulates and workers of humanitarian organisations” would not “face any problems or security risks” from the organisation.“They may continue their diplomatic work and humanitarian activities per normal routine. As far as it is related to the [Taliban], we have fulfilled our responsibility regarding their safety,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/serious-threat-of-kidnapping-in-afghanistan-india-alerts-nationals-101624984397927.html
29-06-2021||India||As Covid-19 cases go down, MHA asks states to focus on 5-fold strategy||The Union Ministry of Home Affairs on Tuesday issued directions to all state governments and Union territory administrations asking them to focus on the five-fold strategy for effective Covid-19 management. The process of relaxing restrictions in the country as the cases go down, signalling the decline of the second wave, should be carefully calibrated, the home ministry advisory said.Laying out some key points to focus on as the unlocking process gets underway, Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla asked the states to regularly monitor the districts with a high number of active coronavirus cases per million (10 lakh) population as it is an important indicator to predict the need for upgrading the health infrastructure and logistics, so that early and prompt action can be taken.With a decline in the number of active coronavirus cases, many states have started relaxing the restrictions.The process of relaxing restrictions should be "carefully caliberated", the MHA order said, underlining states need to take prompt and targeted action in sync with the MHA advisory.Bhalla said the process of relaxing the restrictions should be "carefully calibrated", and prompt and targeted action needs to be taken by the states, in line with the advisory issued by the Union health ministry."States, UTs should closely monitor case positivity and bed occupancy on a regular basis, taking the districts as administrative units," Bhalla said."On witnessing any early sign of an increase in the case positivity rate and higher bed occupancy, necessary action should be taken for containment and upgrading the health infrastructure," the advisory said.In the districts with a high positivity rate and bed occupancy, the states may consider imposing restrictions, the advisory said."There should be a continuous focus on the five-fold strategy for an effective management of Covid-19 i.e. test-track-treat-vaccination and adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour," he said.Bhalla said as has been emphasised in previous home ministry orders and advisories, adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour is crucial to guard against any surge in the number of cases.The MHA has highlighted the need to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour like mandatory use of face masks, hand hygiene, physical and social distancing and proper ventilation of closed places.There should be no let-up in adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour as the country eases up restrictions, the home secretary said."I would, therefore, urge you to issue directions to the districts and all other authorities concerned to take necessary measures as advised by the health ministry in its letter dated June 28 for the management of Covid-19," the Union home secretary said."I would also advise that the orders issued by the respective state governments, UT administrations, district authorities in this regard should be widely disseminated to the public and the field functionaries for their proper implementation," he added.India on Tuesday recorded Covid-19 below 40,000 after 102 days, bringing the country's infection tally to 3,03,16,897, the Union health ministry data showed.India saw 37,566 new cases being reported in a day, while the Covid-19 death toll rose to 3,97,637 with 907 daily fatalities, the lowest in 77 days. The 907 new fatalities include 287 from Maharashtra, 110 from Kerala, 98 from Tamil Nadu and 93 from Karnataka.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-covid-19-cases-go-down-mha-asks-states-to-focus-on-5-fold-strategy-101624981143974.html
29-06-2021||India||Niti Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant's tenure extended till June 2022||Niti Aayog Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Amitabh Kant was on Tuesday given one-year extension till June 2022, according to a Personnel Ministry order.This is a third extension for the 65-year-old civil servant in the post.The Appointments Committee of the Cabinet has approved the extension in tenure of Kant for a further period of one year beyond June 30, 2021 i.e upto June 30, 2022 or until further orders, it said.He was appointed as the CEO of the National Institution for Transforming India (Niti Aayog) on February 17, 2016, for a fixed two-year term.Kant was later given an extension till June 30, 2019.His term was further extended for two years, till this month end, in June 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/niti-aayog-ceo-amitabh-kant-s-tenure-extended-till-june-2022-101624983183643.html
29-06-2021||India||Russian agency begins work on 5th reactor at Kudankulam nuclear power plant||Russia’s state-run atomic energy corporation on Tuesday began work on the fifth of six nuclear reactors at the Kudankulam nuclear power plants and said it was ready to launch the construction of more advanced units at a new site in India. An official ceremony was held to mark the first pouring of concrete for the foundation plate of the fifth reactor building at the Kudankulam nuclear power plant (NPP). Work on the crucial project has continued despite disruptions caused by the Covid-19 pandemic, with Russia delivering several critical components on schedule over the past year. “For many years the Kudankulam NPP construction project has been a symbol of close cooperation between Russia and India. However, we do not want to stop at what had already been achieved,” Alexey Likhachev, the director general of Rosatom or Russia’s state-run atomic energy corporation, told the ceremony. “Rosatom has all the most advanced nuclear power technologies. Together with our Indian colleagues we are ready to launch the serial construction of the state-of-the-art Generation III+ Russian-designed nuclear power units at a new site in India. It is stipulated by the existing agreements,” he added. Russian ambassador Nikolay Kudashev described the start of construction of the fifth nuclear reactor at Kudankulam as “one of the significant moments in Russian-Indian nuclear energy cooperation”. He added, “It demonstrates our firm devotion to achieve success in all bilateral undertakings.” Russia is currently building the 6,000-MW project at Kudankulam in Tamil Nadu, which will have six VVER-1000 nuclear reactors, and is in talks with India to construct six more reactors at a new site that is yet to be identified. Two reactors at Kudankulam are currently operational, and India signed a framework agreement with Rosatom in 2017 for constructing the fifth and sixth units. The ceremony was held via videoconference because of Covid-19-related restrictions. The pouring of the concrete marked the official beginning of the main stage of construction of the fifth nuclear reactor. This was preceded by other preliminary works, including the concrete bedding for the foundations of the reactor building, the auxiliary reactor building with the main control room, the emergency power supply and the safety control systems. Russian enterprises are manufacturing the equipment required for the reactor facilities and turbine hall. Rosatom said the technical solutions implemented in the Kudankulam project characterise the “further evolutionary development” of the VVER high-power reactors and that the new units meet the latest safety requirements of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA). Rosatom said it has resources and competencies to offer solutions across the nuclear supply chain since it possesses assets in design, construction and operation of nuclear power plants, uranium mining, conversion and enrichment, supply of nuclear fuel, decommissioning and storage of spent fuel and safe nuclear waste disposal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/russian-agency-begins-work-on-5th-reactor-at-kudankulam-nuclear-power-plant-101624982658115.html
29-06-2021||India||India jumps 37 places to rank 10 in ITU’s Global Cybersecurity Index 2020, fourth among Asia-Pacific countries||India is ranked 10th in the Global Cybersecurity Index 2020 (GCI) released by the International Telecommunication Union (ITU), the United Nations (UN) agency for information and communication technologies (ICT).“In a big leap, India jumps 37 places to be ranked 10th in Global Cybersecurity Index (GCI) 2020 launched by @ITU,” Permanent Mission of India to the UN, Geneva, tweeted earlier on Tuesday. The Indian mission also said that the country was the fourth among Asia-Pacific nations and said that the rankings demonstrated India’s success and commitment to cybersecurity.📣In a big leap, India jumps 37 places to be ranked 🔟th in Global Cybersecurity Index (GCI) 2020 launched by @ITU 4️⃣th in Asia-Pacific, demonstrating India's success and commitment to cybersecurity. @PMOIndia @DrSJaishankar @GoI_MeitY @MEAIndiahttps://t.co/DvBcw4RVIG pic.twitter.com/xnXo2qRpdkThe third iteration of the GCI was released in 2018 and India was ranked 47 with a global score of 0.719. Also, South Korea, Singapore, Malaysia and Japan were the other countries in the Asia-Pacific that were ahead of India in the rankings. South Korea and Singapore tied for first place in the regional ranking.For the fourth edition of the index last year, the ITU assessed each member country’s level of development or engagement along five pillars namely, legal measures, technical measures, organisational measures, capacity development and cooperation. An aggregate score of all the measures determined the rank of each country.“For each of the pillars – (i) legal, (ii) technical, (iii) organizational, (iv) capacity development, and (v) cooperation – country commitment was assessed through a question-based online survey, which further allowed for the collection of supporting evidence. Through consultation with a group of experts, these questions were weighted in order to arrive at an overall GCI score,” according to the ITU.India scored 97.5 in GCI, the ITU report showed. Meanwhile, the US was ranked first with a score of 100 and the UK and Saudi Arabia shared the second rank with a score of 99.54 each. Estonia followed closely at third rank with a global score of 99.48.While the Republic of Korea (South Korea), Singapore and Spain scored 98.52 each and shared the fourth position, Russia, UAE and Malaysia tied for fifth place with a score of 98.06. Lithuania, Japan, Canada and France followed in subsequent positions in the list.Among other nations, Turkey (score - 97.49) was ranked 11, Germany (score - 97.41) was ranked 13, China (score - 92.53) ranked 33 and Israel (score - 90.93) was ranked 36.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-jumps-37-places-to-rank-10-in-itu-s-global-cybersecurity-index-fourth-among-asia-pacific-countries-101624980575046.html
29-06-2021||India||NHRC team member visiting Kolkata alleges attack; no police complaint lodged||Atif Rasheed, vice-chairperson of the National Commission for Minorities and a member of the team constituted by the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) to look into complaints of post-poll violence in West Bengal, alleged on Tuesday that he was attacked by “goons” while visiting the Jadavpur area in south suburban Kolkata. The incident took place in the Dompara area where people who burn corpses at crematoriums or work in morgues live as a community. Rashid Munir Khan, deputy commissioner of police (south suburban division), told HT that no police complaint was lodged by Rasheed or any NHRC member. “A police team was escorting the NHRC team. It gave me a report. At Dompara, some people shouted slogans against the NHRC team. Some of the agitators were apparently under the influence of alcohol which is not unusual among these people. Rasheed did not lodge any police complaint. If he files one, we will certainly look into it,” Khan said. Rasheed’s allegations comes on a day when another fact finding team set up by a civil society initiative, Call for Justice, said that the simultaneous incidents of violence across villages and towns in West Bengal hours after the assembly poll verdict came in were “not sporadic but premeditated, organised and conspiratorial”. The violence seen post assembly results in Bengal was a point of friction between Mamata-Banerjee government and the Centre.Rasheed was among the seven people in the NHRC panel which includes a member of the West Bengal Human Rights Commission and a member of the West Bengal State Legal Services Authority. The panel is led by Rajiv Jain, the former Intelligence Bureau chief who assumed charge as NHRC member on June 2. The other constituents are National Commission for Women member Rajulben L Desai, NHRC’s (director) investigation Santosh Mehra and deputy inspector general (investigation) Manzil Saini, West Bengal Human Rights Commission registrar Pradip Kumar Panja and West Bengal State Legal Services Authority member secretary Raju Mukherjee. The panel members, split in two teams, are visiting north and south Bengal districts. They have already met members of more than 100 families. A camp was held in the eastern outskirts of Kolkata on Monday where many people came to give their statements. On June 21, the Calcutta high court dismissed a petition by the West Bengal government seeking recall of the June 18 order that asked the NHRC to probe allegations of human rights violation during violence after the recent assembly polls. The high court asked the NHRC to submit its report by June 30 which is the next date of hearing of this case. Leader of the opposition in the Bengal assembly Suvendu Adhikari and Lok Sabha member Locket Chatterjee raised the issue on social media and demanded action. Debabrata Majumdar, the Trinamool Congress (TMC) legislator from Jadavpur, said, “I heard local people protested because the NHRC team was accompanied by many outsiders. Nobody was attacked.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nhrc-team-member-visiting-kolkata-alleges-attack-no-police-complaint-lodged-101624978997670.html
29-06-2021||India||Deceased Covid patient’s body can be taken home for up to an hour: Kerala CM||Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday announced that deceased bodies of those who succumb to coronavirus (Covid-19) will be allowed to be taken home, news agency ANI reported. “The body can be kept for up to one hour,” Vijayan was quoted as saying by ANI.He added that family members and relatives of those who lose their lives due to Covid-19 are unable to pay their last respect, which is in turn, “adding to [their] emotional distress.” The latest decision is to address this issue, the chief minister told ANI.Ever since the pandemic hit India, there have been controversies related to the cremation of a Covid-19 positive patient’s body. While in the initial months, only those associated with the health authorities were allowed to take care of the last rites and paying last respects, over time, certain relaxations were provided.Last year in September, West Bengal became the first Indian state or Union territory to allow the family members and relatives to take the deceased Covid positive person’s body for completion of last rites, while following all safety protocols, ruled the Calcutta High Court.The petitioner in the case, Vineet Ruia, had told the court that bodies of Covid patients were being “disposed of by the administration unceremoniously and in an undignified manner” without showing any “resemblance of respect to the mortal remains of the dead person.”The court’s ruling laid down nine guidelines that the deceased’s kin have to follow, of which one is to perform no religious rites that require touching the body.Vijayan’s announcement comes at a time when the Union health ministry confirmed that the number of Delta plus cases of Covid-19 has now climbed up to 51 from 48. According to data shared by the ministry earlier, Kerala has reported three such cases so far, with Maharashtra accounting for the majority of the 51 cases.With the fear of a possible third wave looming over, several states, including Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Punjab and West Bengal, among others, have either brought back lockdown-like curbs or extended the earlier ones.Meanwhile, Kerala reported 13,550 new coronavirus cases in the last 24 hours till 2pm on Tuesday, taking the cumulative tally of the state to 2,910,507, the state Covid-19 bulletin data showed. With 104 new fatalities reported, Kerala’s death toll has reached 13,093, the data added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/deceased-covid-patient-s-body-can-be-taken-home-for-up-to-an-hour-kerala-cm-101624977581201.html
29-06-2021||India||Latest survey shows ‘woke’ politics is a liability in India||Indians, across religions, are not just believers but also conservative in their attitude towards religion. Political support, even for the rationalist and communist political formations, does not change this fact. While they claim to have respect for people from other religious persuasions, they are not very keen on promoting western style secularism, which calls for separation of religion and politics.Some of the most controversial and divisive political positions around religion, such as the bogey of Love-Jihad sustain themselves not on facts but the widespread disapproval of such ideas in principle. These findings, if true, suggest that radical secularism or ‘woke’ politics is unlikely to work politically in India and mainstream politics will continue to pander to conservative values around both caste and religion.These are among the interesting findings of a survey conducted by the Pew Research Centre, a Washington based “nonpartisan fact tank” that offers some useful insights on the role of religion in politics. The survey, Religion in India: Tolerance and Segregation, is based on 30,000 interviews conducted between November 2019 and March 2020.The intersection of religion and politics has always been a contested terrain in India. The Indian nation suffered a partition on religious lines at birth, yet adopted a secular form of state. This question has gained renewed salience since the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), a political affiliate of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), stormed to a parliamentary majority in 2014, becoming the first party to get a majority after 1984. It replicated that feat in 2019. The BJP’s political victory has come on the back of a massive consolidation of Hindu votes, and almost negligible representation of Muslims in the ruling party’s support base or elected representatives.The Opposition, having realised the gravity of political challenge, has tried many tricks to counter the BJP. The most common among them has been what is often described as the “soft-Hindutva” approach. This is characterised by political leaders openly associating with Hindu religious symbols such as visiting temples or even reciting scriptures during political campaign. The success of such an approach has been mixed, which also means it is difficult to establish a cause-effect relationship. There is also a small but vocal minority which advocates a radical approach to questioning and undermining established religious and cultural norms.It is this background that makes the findings of the survey interesting. Here are some of the key ones:Most Indians are believersIndians are overwhelmingly believers when it comes to God. This trend holds across religions, except among Buddhists where one-third list themselves as non-believers. While the overall share of non-believers is small across major religions, the probability of finding a Muslim or Sikh non-believer is three times that of finding one among Hindus and Christians. The disproportionately large share of non-believers among Buddhists seems to be driven by the conversion of Bhim Rao Ambedkar to Buddhism in 1956. 89% of Buddhists identified themselves as members of the Scheduled Castes (SC) in the survey.“It does seem like the concentration of Buddhists who are also Dalit and atheist is higher in Maharashtra (5% of Maharashtra’s total population vs. 0.5% nationally). Of course, though, the overwhelming majority of Indian Buddhists (85%) are located in Maharashtra”, Neha Sahgal, associate director of research at Pew Research, told HT.Voting for communists and rationalists does not change faith in a big wayWhat is also interesting is that one’s attitude to God does not change significantly with political persuasion. The share of believers among those who voted for the Communist Party of India (CPI), Communist Party of India (Marxist) or CPI (M) and the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) does not differ significantly from the group which did not vote for such parties.This is contrary to perceived wisdom, given the fact that the leadership of the communists and DMK does not acknowledge religion in their political positions. However, this statistic does explain why the CPI (M) was so vulnerable to a Hindu backlash when it supported a Supreme Court decision (now stayed) allowing entry to women of all ages in the Sabarimala shrine in Kerala, which was against established custom.On the face of it, communal harmony coexists with segregationA large majority of Indians, across religious persuasions, sees respecting other religions as an important part of being Indian and true to their own religion. This feeling exists despite a majority of Hindus, Muslims and Christians seeing each other as very different from other religions and displaying a high desire for religious segregation, especially when it comes to marriage.The statistics speak for themselves. 80% and 79% of Hindus and Muslims believed that respecting other religions is a very important part of their religious identity. To be sure, experts believe that such responses might not reveal the true picture.“That people tend to hide or underreport politically incorrect views or responses in surveys is a well-known fact and the scale of communal polarisation in India could be far greater”, said Neelanjan Sircar, assistant professor of political science at Ashoka University and a visiting fellow at Centre for Policy Research.66% Hindus and 64% Muslims also thought that they were very different from each other. 67% and 80% of Hindus and Muslims, respectively, believed that it was very important to stop women from their community from marrying outside their religion. The numbers are not very different even when it comes to men marrying outside their religion.To be sure, the high preference levels for communal harmony could be a result of a tendency to appear as being politically correct among respondents. When asked whether they saw religious diversity as beneficial to their country, only 53% (52% Hindus and 56% Muslims) said yes.What makes people outcastes from their religion?Eating prohibited meat (beef among Hindus and pork among Muslims) is the biggest disqualifier when it comes to being seen as part of the community. 72% Hindus and 77% Muslims believe that a person cannot be a Hindu/Muslim if they eat beef/pork. Sikhs and Jains are also highly disapproving of eating beef. While this is the common factor among both Hindus and Muslims, the two groups differ on other triggers of being considered outcastes.Observing festivals of other religious communities is a bigger taboo among Hindus than Muslims. Muslims are relatively more forgiving when it comes to observing other religious festivals than not participating in their own rituals and festivals. “Disrespecting India” is also a big trigger for being considered an outcaste, both among Hindus and Muslims. These statistics underline the political risk which a politician advocating tolerance of eating beef or pork, or questioning “nationalism” would attract.The fear of perceived religious transgressions is what feeds communal politicsWhy does something like ‘Love-Jihad’, a term used by many Hindu majoritarian organisations to claim large scale inter-religious marriage and conversion of Hindu women, manage to find political traction in India? Almost all Indians do not report having ever faced religious conversion in their lives. The occasionally rare instances of conversion, even when they occur, are present across all religions. What explains the paranoia such issues generate then?One possible explanation could be the fact that most Indians are not averse to politicians influencing religious affairs. Politicians may be exploiting entrenched religious fears, such as aversion to inter-religious marriage or the disproportionate opposition to a uniform civil code among Muslims – 74% Muslims support allowing Muslims to go to their own religious courts to settle a family dispute as opposed to just 30% Hindus – to build a political constituency around such issues. That preference for an authoritarian leader is almost the same among many Indian religions, including Hindus and Muslims, must be encouraging such tendencies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/latest-survey-shows-woke-politics-is-a-liability-in-india-101624977341019.html
29-06-2021||India||Drone attacks increase risk factor to defence installations||Early Sunday, two drones attacked the highly secure Indian Air Force Station in Jammu injuring two personnel. Within 24 hours of the incident, two similar devices were spotted hovering over the Ratnuchak-Kaluchak military areas in the region late Monday, prompting soldiers to open fire at them. A senior army officer said the attack is the first of its kind in India and poses a serious challenge to defence installations. “Jammu and Kashmir being a border region has Indian Air Force stations. Besides, Indian army aviation’s choppers fly daily from one station to another. Though basic protection parameters are there, drones and other low-flying objects can’t be detected by radars and air defence systems.” Also Read | After drone attack, PM talks future hurdles of defence with Shah, Rajnath SinghA majority of defence installations in Jammu are surrounded by densely populated localities from where drones can be easily operated at night.“Undoubtedly, it’s a new threat and has exposed vulnerability. There are several military stations in Jammu and Kashmir. Though high alert has been sounded across the defence installations, we can’t do anything immediately. The deployment of guards has been increased 24x7,” said the officer. “But how to cope with the new challenge with foolproof technology has to be thought of urgently,” he added. The army’s aviation wing and IAF fly their machines at night for various strategic purposes in Jammu and Kashmir.“Drones are low-flying objects. They travel at a fast speed and can smash against helicopters while they are landing or taking off. However, the pilots are well-trained and know multiple procedures to deal with emergency situations,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drone-attacks-increase-risk-factor-to-defence-installations-101624978157930.html
29-06-2021||India||Sikh leader apologises to Kashimiris for provocative statements over alleged kidnapping||Shiromani Akali Dal (Delhi) leader Paramjit Singh Sarna on Tuesday apologised to the people of Kashmir for any hurt caused by the statements of a Sikh leader from Delhi in the backdrop of the alleged kidnapping of a woman from the community. He praised the support of local Muslim organisations, Kashmir’s top cleric Mirwaiz Umar Farooq and administration, saying the woman got married to a man of her choice on Tuesday while insisting the matter has been settled.“I met the family of the girl. This issue was settled today. She knew the person, who she got married to,” said Singh.The alleged abduction of the woman triggered protests on Sunday. Police said that she was allegedly abducted by a 29-year-old Muslim man. There was no clarity on whether the woman converted to Islam of her free will or if the abduction charges were genuine. Police said the man was arrested on kidnapping charges on Saturday, days after the woman’s parents filed a complaint against him. They also denied charges of conversion, a charge levelled by the protesters. The woman was presented before a court, and she went with her family members thereafter.Also Read | After drone attack, PM talks future hurdles of defence with Shah, Rajnath SinghManjinder Singh Sirsa, president of the Delhi Gurdwara Prabhandak Committee, earlier said they will not tolerate “forced conversions” of Sikh women and called for a law that mandates permission of parents in inter-religion marriages. He also said he spoke to Union home minister Amit Shah.Sarna said if the woman had married the man arrested over alleged kidnapping, then the administration would not have handed over her to her family. “We also met people such as the Mirwaiz and Muslim organisations. The way all of them collaborated with us, we would not forget that for the rest of our lives,” he said. “We were provided support.”Sarna condemned the provocative statements made over the issue. “Although I have no association with them, but since a Sikh (Sirsa) came from Delhi and gave a statement, I apologise for that. Any hurt which was caused by his statement to the people here, it is my responsibility as a representative to apologise on his behalf,” he said“ We are thankful to the lieutenant governor (Manoj Sinha), the administration, and all the Muslim organisations and Imams of many mosques who met us. I also told them that since we are in minority, so you (majority) have to take care of us.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sikh-leader-apologises-to-kashimiris-for-provocative-statements-over-alleged-kidnapping-101624977377790.html
29-06-2021||India||Govt announces ₹6.28 lakh crore economic stimulus focused on healthcare||India had administered over 328 million Covid vaccine doses by Monday, June 28, even as the government announced a ₹6.28 lakh crore economic stimulus focused on ramping up healthcare facilities, particularly for children.Elsewhere, the Serum Institute of India said it is approaching the European Medicines Agency for approval of Covishield for the EU’s Green pass, a document which will ease travel within and to the bloc.Meanwhile, by 7pm on Monday, 328,554,011 vaccine doses were given across the states and UTs. As many as 4,801,465 doses were given to the 18-45 age group on the day itself of which 2,863,823 were given as the first dose while 91,640 doses were given as the second dose. Cumulatively, 87,567,172 persons across the country have received their first dose and total 1,994,410 have received their second dose since the start of Phase-3 of the vaccination drive.Also Read | Efficacy against Covid-19, safe for kids? All you need to know about Moderna vaccineAndhra Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Gujarat, Haryana, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Odisha, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal have each administered the first dose to more than a million beneficiaries of the age group 18-45 years.India on Tuesday reported 37, 566 fresh cases, while 907people lost their lives in the last 24 hours, according to the Union health and family welfare ministry. The new additions to the country’s Covid-19 tally are lower than that reported on Monday when 46,148 new infections were recorded in the previous 24 hours. The active caseload of the country declined to 552,659 after Tuesday’s inputs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-announces-rs-6-28-lakh-crore-economic-stimulus-focused-on-healthcare-101624977317651.html
29-06-2021||India||No meeting with Navjot Singh Sidhu, says Rahul Gandhi amid Punjab Congress infighting||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday denied having any meeting scheduled with Navjot SIngh Sindhu, leader from the party's Punjab unit. This comes a day after the former cricketer said he will meet Gandhis in the national capital amid his feud with Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh.Earlier in the day, news agency ANI reported that Sidhu has left his residence in Patiala to meet Rahul Gandhi and general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra.Over the last few days, Rahul Gandhi has been meeting Congress MLAs, MPs and prominent leaders from Punjab at his residence. Both the chief minister and Sidhu have met Rahul Gandhi more than once, however the talks failed to diffuse the tensions between the senior party leaders.Party president Sonia Gandhi has also set up a three-member panel to end factionalism in the party's Punjab unit.On Friday, the leaders who reached Rahul Gandhi's residence to attend a meeting included Vijendra Singla, Rana Gurjit Singh, Rajya Sabha MP Shamsher Singh Dhillon, and MLA Lakhvir Singh.Rajya Sabha MP Shamsher Singh Dhillon while speaking to the mediapersons had said that the meeting was held to resolve infighting in the Punjab Congress and added that decisions were made to strengthen the party in the upcoming elections in the state.Notably, Singh during his recent three-day visit to Delhi did not meet Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi. Sidhu, who was earlier with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is known to have a support of Rahul Gandhi.In 2019, Sidhu quit the Amarinder Singh cabinet over change in his portfolio. The bitterness mounted in May after the government suffered a legal setback in a 2015 police firing case.His attacks have been public where Sidhu has called the chief minister a liar and accused him of not doing enough about issues like loan waiver.In the flashpoint Sidhu criticised the Punjab chief minister after Singh gave government jobs to the sons of two Congress MLAs -- Fateh Jung Singh Bajwa and Rakesh Pandey-- on "compassionate" grounds. It triggered a stormin the Punjab Congress, while Sidhu accused him of giving jobs to "elitists".The infighting has come in the midst of the elections season as Punjab is set to go to polls next year. The state is crucial for Congress as it is one of the few states where the party is in power and the outcome will have an impact on the party's prospects outside the state as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-meeting-with-sidhu-says-rahul-gandhi-amid-punjab-congress-infighting-101624976958087.html
29-06-2021||India||Andhra man killed techie wife, burnt her body; told relatives she died of Covid||Hyderabad: The police in Andhra Pradesh’s Tirupati town said on Tuesday that they were on the lookout for a 30-year-old man, who allegedly killed his 27-year-old wife, stashed her body in a suitcase and set it ablaze six days ago. On June 23, Alipiri police in Tirupati found the charred body of the woman in a suitcase in bushes near Sri Venkata Ramana Ruia (SVRR) government general hospital. With the help of forensic experts, police identified the body as that of M Bhuvaneshwari, from Ramasamudram village in Chittoor district. Police said she was working as a software engineer with an IT company in Hyderabad. Alipiri circle inspector Devendra Kumar said the woman, along with her husband M Srikanth Reddy, from Badwel in Kadapa district, and their 18-month-old daughter, had been residing in Tirupati for the last three months due to Covid-19 pandemic. According to the police, the video footage obtained from the CCTV cameras showed Reddy entering the apartment complex with a red suitcase and after sometime, leaving the apartment, rolling it along, and carrying his daughter in one hand. The CCTV camera footage also showed him moving around the hospital area in cab. Police picked up the cab driver, who confessed to have helped Reddy in disposing the body. “We have launched the manhunt for Srikanth Reddy, who had been absconding since the incident happened. We are yet to gather complete details about him,” Kumar told HT. Preliminary investigations have revealed that Reddy, also a techie, lost his job during the pandemic, which led to frequent quarrels between the wife and husband. “He might have killed Bhuvaneshwari in a fit of rage during an argument,” a police officer said. Before absconding, Reddy told his wife’s family that she died of Covid-19 and hospital authorities conducted the last rites as per protocol, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-man-killed-techie-wife-burnt-her-body-told-relatives-she-died-of-covid-101624977137875.html
29-06-2021||India||Biden administration names Atul Keshap as new chargé d’affaires in India||The Biden administration on Tuesday named Atul Keshap, a career diplomat and an old South Asia hand, as the new chargé d’affaires in India, saying the appointment will reinforce the bilateral partnership and collaboration in the fight against Covid-19. Keshap will replace former deputy secretary of state Daniel Smith, whom the US had appointed the chargé d’affaires in New Delhi in May to spearhead cooperation on shared priorities, including overcoming the global pandemic. Keshap will depart for New Delhi following the retirement of Smith, the US state department said. A chargé d’affaires is a diplomat who serves as an embassy’s chief of mission in the absence of the ambassador.“Ambassador Keshap will bring a wealth of experience to the role, having served previously at US embassy in New Delhi and as deputy assistant secretary of state for South Asia,” the state department spokesperson said. Keshap most recently served as the principal deputy assistant secretary of state for the bureau of East Asian and Pacific affairs in the state department and as the US envoy to Sri Lanka and the Maldives. He has also been active in advancing the US agenda for the Indo-Pacific. The appointment of Keshap, a career member of the senior foreign service, “will reinforce the close US partnership with the government and people of India, demonstrated by our collaboration to overcome global challenges like the Covid-19 pandemic”, the spokesperson said. The ambassadorial position in New Delhi is among several key posts around the world that are yet to be filled by the Biden administration. The previous ambassador, Kenneth Juster, was a political appointee of the previous administration and stepped down following Donald Trump’s defeat in the 2020 election. Smith carried the highest US foreign service rank of career ambassador. His appointment was announced a day after the US began rushing equipment and materials, including oxygen-related gear and raw materials for Covid-19 vaccines, to support India’s response to a deadly second wave of Coronavirus infections. Keshap’s appointment comes at a time when the focus in the region is on the fallout of the withdrawal of US and NATO troops from Afghanistan. Indian officials believe the drawdown of American forces could be completed as early as July, well ahead of the Biden administration’s deadline of September 11. The deteriorating security situation in Afghanistan amid a surge in attacks by the Taliban has become a cause for concern across the region. The son of Keshap Chander Sen, a UN development economist from the Punjab, and Zoe Calvert, a member of the US foreign service, Keshap served at the US embassy in New Delhi during 2005-08 and was involved in negotiations that led to the India-US civil nuclear agreement. His parents met and married in London and Keshap was born in Nigeria in 1971. He also served as deputy assistant secretary of state for South Asia during 2013-15 and did a stint as director of the office of human rights, humanitarian and social affairs during 2008-10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/biden-administration-names-atul-keshap-as-new-charg-d-affaires-in-india-101624976717509.html
29-06-2021||India||Madhya Pradesh government to take action against Twitter over wrong map and comments against 'Bharat Mata'||The Madhya Pradesh government said it will initiate legal action against Twitter for putting up a distorted map of India on their site, state home minister Narottam Mishra said on Twitter on Tuesday. Calling it a “serious issue” the minister added that besides putting up wrong maps “comments against Mother India” can also be sighted on the microblogging site."This (putting up the wrong map) is a serious issue and we have seen it has been going on for a long time. Sometimes there are comments against Bharat Mata and sometimes it comes up in this way on Twitter. These issues cannot be taken lightly,” Mishra said in a video clip uploaded to his twitter accountThe minister also said that he has directed the Director General of Police (DGP) Vivek Johri to investigate the matter and register a First Information Report (FIR)."The Central government has taken it seriously and the Madhya Pradesh Government is also taking it seriously. I have directed the DGP to investigate all aspects and register FIR and file a case," he added.Twitter came under fire once again on Monday night, this time for displaying a controversial map of India which showed Jammu and Kashmir, and Ladakh as a separate country. The Uttar Pradesh police booked the Managing director of Twitter, Manish Maheshwari, and another individual named Amrita Tripathi under section 505(2) of the Indian Penal Code -- statement conducing to public mischief -- and section 74 of the IT (Amendment) Act, 2008. Maheshwari has also been booked by the UP police in the Loni incident.The latest development comes amidst an ongoing standoff between the microblogging site and the Indian government over new IT rules.Union minister for information technology Ravi Shankar Prasad's account was blocked for nearly an hour over alleged violations of the US Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA), on June 25, for a tweet featuring AR Rahman’s song. Mishra in his recent tweet announcing legal action against Twitter tagged Prasad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madhya-pradesh-government-to-take-action-against-twitter-over-wrong-map-and-comments-against-bharat-mata-101624974618222.html
29-06-2021||India||Over 16,000 pre-activated SIM cards seized from cybercriminal gang in Odisha||The Odisha Police busted a gang selling pre-activated SIM cards to cyber criminals outside the state with help from employees of private telecom operators and recovered 16,000 pre-activated SIM cards and more than 150 mobile phones from the seven accused, a police officer said.“The racket was operating by arranging pre-activated SIM cards which they used to send gangs sitting outside, mostly [in] Rajasthan, for various cyber crimes. While investigating a case in Bhubaneswar, we learnt that such a racket is operating out of Bhadrak town,” said Saumendra Priyadarshi, police commissioner, Bhubaneswar-Cuttack commissionerate.Pre-activated SIM cards are preferred by criminals as they are obtained on forged identity documents and thus can’t be traced back to the persons using them. Priyadarshi said the accused used to activate SIM cards by submitting false identity credentials.“As distributors are under pressure to sell more SIM cards, the gang exploited this situation to their advantage. The gang subsequently activated multiple SIM cards by using the same credentials,” he said.The arrests have brought the loopholes in the SIM verification system into sharp focus and the potential it has for misuse by unsavoury elements, posing various risks to individuals and also national security.“This is something very serious as it is related to not just routine cybercrime through portals like olx, but also national security. By committing a serious offence through these SIM cards, the criminals can get away and put an innocent man in trouble because police will investigate the man in whose name the SIM card has been issued,” said Ishaan Sinha, a renowned cyber crime investigator who has trained police forces of several states on ways to fight cyber crime.Sinha said serious action should be taken against the distributors of these SIM cards as well as telecom operators. “The Department of Telecom in 2012 had banned sale of pre-activated SIM cards and recommended ₹50,000 [penalty] in case of such sales,” he added.During Covid-19 pandemic last year, Odisha saw at least 31% jump in cybercrime, mostly related to online transactions, which gained prominence due to the restrictions imposed to fight the contagion.Odisha Police recently warned that cyber criminals were likely to defraud citizens through phone calls, e-mails and social media platforms and steal personal details on the pretext of registration for Covid vaccination, supply of oxygen and medicines, telemedicine service and charity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-16000-pre-activated-sim-cards-seized-from-cybercriminal-gang-in-odisha-101624974857619.html
29-06-2021||India||Panel asks Facebook, Google to comply with new IT rules on social media misuse||The Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information Technology on Tuesday directed social media platforms Facebook and Google to comply with new IT rules and follow rules of the country. Led by Congress leader Shashi Tharoor, the committee was hearing the views of the companies about safeguarding the rights of the citizens and how to stop the misuse of social media.Facebook and Google representatives were asked to appear before the Parliamentary Standing Committee to offer views on prevention of misuse of social and online news media platforms including special emphasis on women security in the digital space.Facebook India associate general counsel Namrata Singh and the company's director of public policy Shivnath Thukral attended the meeting and discussed several issues. Google was represented by its country head (government affairs and public policy) Aman Jain and director (legal) Gitanjali Duggal.Facebook officials in their response to the committee cited the company's rules prohibiting officials to attend meetings in person during the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic and said the officers could not attend the meeting.However, panel chief Shashi Tharoor turned down Facebook's request to attend the meeting virtually.In the coming days, representatives of YouTube and other social media platforms are also expected to be summoned by the parliamentary committee.Facebook and Google representatives were called days after Twitter officials deposed before the panel.On June 20, India's permanent mission at the United Nations had clarified that India's new IT rules are "designed to empower ordinary users of social media" and that they were finalised after the government held broad consultations with civil society and other stakeholders in 2018.The Central government has framed the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021 ('new IT Rules') and notified the same on February 25, 2021. The Rules have come into effect from May 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/panel-asks-facebook-google-to-comply-with-new-it-rules-on-social-media-misuse-101624973531608.html
29-06-2021||India||Tripura CM asks BJP workers to strengthen, expand party||Tripura chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb asked his party leaders and activists to follow a “triple S” formula to strengthen and expand the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). By “triple S” formula, Deb meant Sambad (dialogue) , Swabhab (nature) and Sadachar (good behaviour). “The BJP will remain in power for a long period if all party leaders and activists follow the ‘triple S’ formula and expand organisational activities to booth-level. No power can defeat our party then,” said Deb after the party’s working committee meeting held on Monday. Also Read | 3 FIRs registered over clashes between CPM-BJP activists in TripuraLater, explaining the three terms, he said that an ideal organiser needs to be a good listener first. He advised them to give special emphasis on positive discussion and focus on their speech, language, behaviour and nature.Later, speaking on the socio-economic development of farmers , Deb said that the farmers in the state are now earning ₹11,096 per month on an average, which was hiked from ₹6,080 per month on an average during the previous Left Front regime. “ We have targeted increasing the farmers’ monthly income to ₹13,590 by 2022,” said Deb, adding that nearly 2.30 lakh farmers are getting benefits due to Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-cm-asks-bjp-workers-to-strengthen-expand-party-101624974437644.html
29-06-2021||India||After drone attack, PM talks future hurdles of defence with Amit Shah, Rajnath Singh||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday held a high-level meeting with defence minister Rajnath Singh, Union home affairs minister Amit Shah and national security advisor (NSA) Ajit Doval on futuristic challenges in the defence sector and equipping our forces with modern equipment, sources familiar with the matter said, news agency ANI reported.Aspects related to more involvement of youth, start-ups and strategic community were also expected to be discussed, sources told ANI.This development comes after the twin drone explosions at an Indian Air Force (IAF) station at Jammu airport in the early hours of Sunday wherein two IAF personnel were also injured. The bombs went off within five minutes of each other with the first one ripping off at the roof of a single-storey building at 1.37am, and the second one at 1.42am on the ground.Notably, the Jammu airport is used for VVIP movements and armed forces’ strategic operations. As per the latest media update, the union ministry of home affairs earlier in the day handed the investigation into the matter to the National Investigation Agency (NIA). Two persons were detained earlier for questioning.Initial probe conducted by security agencies and the Jammu and Kashmir Police have indicated the involvement of Pakistan-based terror group Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) in the drone blasts at the IAF station.Sunday’s incident came during Rajnath Singh’s visit to Ladakh for a three-day visit to check the security situation in the Union territory. According to a report by ANI, sources cited that the minister is supposed to be given a detailed presentation on the drone attack by a team of top IAF officials along with other defence officials.Furthermore, Singh would also be briefed about the sudden rise in drone sighting cases in Jammu and Kashmir by the Army. Security experts have said Pakistan uses drones to drop weapons, drugs, ammunition, arms and Hawala money to fuel terrorism in the Union territory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-drone-attack-pm-modi-talks-future-hurdles-of-defence-with-shah-rajnath-s-101624973183382.html
29-06-2021||India||Efficacy against Covid-19, safe for kids? All you need to know about Moderna vaccine||Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) has approved the Cipla, a Mumbai-based pharmaceutical company, to import Moderna vaccine for restricted emergency use in the country, VK Paul, member of NITI Aayog announced on Tuesday. "New drug permission has been granted to Moderna, the first internationally developed vaccine. This new drug permission is for restricted use," Paul also said in the press briefing.It will be the fourth vaccine to be used for the vaccination drive in the country. The other three vaccines that are being used in India are Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute of India, Bharat Biotech's Covaxin and the Russian vaccine, Sputnik V.The Moderna vaccine has been manufactured by the American pharmaceutical company with the same name. Here is all you need to know about the international vaccine:How many shots are required?The Moderna vaccine is a two-dose regimen at an interval of 28 days. In India as well, it will be administered in two doses, Paul confirmed in the briefing. However, the interval between the two doses in India is yet to be announced.Is it WHO approved?The Moderna vaccine is approved by the World Health Organisation (WHO). The world health body approved on April 30 on the basis of the recommendations of its strategic advisory group of experts (SAGE).How effective is the vaccine?The Moderna vaccine has been shown to have an efficacy of approximately 94.1% in protecting against Covid-19. The immunity starts to develop after 14 days of the first dose, WHO mentions on its site.Does it work against new variants?According to the studies done so far, the Moderna vaccine is effective against the new variants of SARS-CoV-2, including the Alpha variant, also known as B.1.1.7 and the beta variant (501Y.V2).However, researchers are still testing the vaccine's efficacy against the new variants.How many countries have approved the Moderna vaccine?So far, the vaccine has been approved in more than 40 countries including Canada, the United States, Germany, France, United Kingdom, Italy, Israel, Japan and South Korea.Any side effects?The Moderna vaccine has no major side effects. However, after a person is administered with the dose there may feel slight fever, soreness in the arm, chills. The after effects include body ache, nausea and fatigue.Age groups that it is safe for?The WHO has approved the vaccine for all above the age of 18-years. Recently Modenra filed a request with the European Medicines Agency seeking authorisation for use in adolescents in the 12-17 age group. The US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) is also reviewing its medical trial data for emergency use authorisation of its vaccine in kids 12 and up.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/efficacy-against-covid-19-safe-for-kids-all-you-need-to-know-about-moderna-vaccine-101624973425934.html
29-06-2021||India||JP Nadda says BJP will win next election in West Bengal, slams TMC for violence||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president Jagat Prakash Nadda on Tuesday said that the party will win the next state assembly election in West Bengal and form the government in the state. “In the next 5 years, the BJP will take another big leap and will form the government in the next elections. We will fulfil this vision,” Nadda said while addressing the state BJP executive meeting via video conferencing.The BJP leader also said that the party has covered a long distance in a short time in West Bengal, highlighting the election performance in the recently concluded state assembly elections.“We had won just 2 LS (Lok Sabha/lower house of Parliament) seats in 2014, and had got 18% votes. In 2016 VS (Vidhan Sabha/state legislative assembly) polls, we had won just 3 seats and 10.16% vote share,” he said.Also read | Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee calls Jagdeep Dhankhar ‘corrupt’, guv hits back“In 2019, we won 40.25% votes and 18 seats out of 42 in the LS elections. In the recently concluded VS elections, our vote share was 38.1% and we got 2.27 crore votes, winning 77 seats,” Nadda added.Post-poll violenceNadda attacked the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) in the state for the incidents of post-poll violence after the elections. “Where there is TMC, there is violence,” he said.He further said that there was no post-poll violence in other states like Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Assam and Puducherry where assembly elections were held because the TMC is not there in those states.Calling the post-poll violence in West Bengal “unprecedented”, Nadda said that 1,399 properties of BJP workers have been destroyed, 676 incidents of loot have taken place and 108 families have received threats. BJP offices in Arambagh and Bishnupur have been burnt down by the TMC, he further said.“All of this happened under a female CM. A lot of atrocities have been faced by women. If the women are not safe, what sort of governance are the people of West Bengal receiving from TMC?” Nadda asked, directing his attack towards chief minister Mamata Banerjee. “ Where there will be TMC and Mamata ji, there will be anarchy, there will be corruption,” he further said.Covid-19 vaccinationNadda said, “If there can be corruption on even [Covid-19] vaccines, then it happened in West Bengal. Mimi Chakraborty was given a fake vaccine. If you support the corrupt, then even ministers will get fake vaccines.” He also mentioned that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been giving free Covid-19 vaccines to all people since June 21 and the campaign has been going on well.He also called on the BJP workers to work towards bringing the full benefits of the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana to the beneficiaries in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jp-nadda-says-bjp-will-win-next-election-in-west-bengal-slams-tmc-for-violence-101624972711285.html
29-06-2021||India||How many mutations can Delta variant have? Here’s what government says||Known for its deadly nature, the Delta plus variant of Covid-19 has lately been grappling the country. Amid this, the Centre on Tuesday said that the Delta variant of the SARS-CoV-2 can have about 15 to 17 mutations.Taking to Twitter, the government said the B.1.617, also known as Delta variant, which was first reported in India in October 2020, has three subtypes, including B.1.617.1, B.1.617.2, and B.1.617.3. Of these, the first and the third variants have been hailed as “variant of interest,” while the second variant – Delta plus, has been classified as “variant of concern.”#IndiaFightsCorona:📍FAQs on Delta and Delta Plus Variants✅What is Delta variant of Novel Coronavirus❓❓➡️Delta variant(B.1.617) has about 15-17 mutations. It was first reported in October 2020.➡️It has 3 subtypes:- B.1.617.1- B.1.617.2- B.1.617.3#Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/Zs5xVYxKMaThis update comes after the Centre on Tuesday stated that the number of Delta plus variant of Covid-19 cases has increased to 51 cases, up from 48, in India. The Centre on Monday pointed out that 12 Indian states and Union territories, and an equal number of countries so far have reported the presence of the variant. This was detailed on the basis of the data provided by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), which identified the Delta Plus variant from among more than 45,000 samples collected during April, May and June.The ICMR further stated that the Delta plus variant is very localised in India, and that it has been isolated and cultured at National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune.Of the 51 Delta plus cases, Maharashtra has the majority number of cases. The state is followed by Madhya Pradesh with seven cases, Punjab and Gujarat with two each, and one case each in Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, Jammu and Kashmir, Karnataka and Rajasthan. Tamil Nadu has also reported nine Delta Plus cases, being the worst-affected among all southern states, along with Kerala that has reported three such cases.In view of the upward swing of the Delta plus variant, several states have either brought back Covid-19 restrictions or extended the same in order to combat it. Maharashtra has reduced its relaxations from ‘level five’ to ‘level three’ thereby allowing malls and shops in Mumbai, Pune, Thane, and other major cities, to remain open only till 4pm as opposed to regular timings earlier. On the other hand, Tamil Nadu has also extended the lockdown till July 5 with certain relaxations in Chennai and other districts where daily Covid-19 caseload has declined.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-many-mutations-can-delta-variant-have-here-s-what-government-says-101624971998662.html
29-06-2021||India||More than 1 lakh Covid-19 vaccine doses wasted in Karnataka since January||Karnataka has reported wastage of more than 100,000 vaccines since the beginning of inoculation drive in January, 2021. The state wasted 2.29% of doses per district on an average, according to a health department official. Among the districts, Bagalkot reported the highest vaccine wastage with 22,196 doses at 12.66% followed by Hassan district with 17,028 at 8.01%, leading Kannada daily Prajavani cited state health officials .One of the reasons for the wastage has been the requirement to vaccinate10 people for each vial during the first vaccination drive, the state health officials told to local media, on condition of anonymity. Ideally, at least 10 persons should get vaccinated within 4 hours of opening a vial containing 11 ml vaccine that remains efficacious for 4 hours.Bagalkot district health officer, Dr Ananth Desai informed that wrong statistics on the CoWIN portal about the doses administered has also caused wastage in Bagalkot’s Gulegagudda taluk. He clarified that the portal showed only 34,000 doses as being used up, even though Guledagudda taluk had used 54,800 vials of both Covaxin and Covishield vaccines. “Due to this erroneously published data, Guledagudda taluk had wasted over 20,000 vials of vaccine. It is a human error however, and we are rectifying the data on the portal”, Dr. Desai said to Prajavani.Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad district, Nitesh Patil has assured saying “all precautions have been taken to completely stop the vaccine wastage or minimise it in the district". Despite the wastage of vaccines, 10 districts of the state have also achieved more than the targeted vaccination. Shivamogga, by administering 6% more doses than the target, has topped among these 10 districts. This could be achieved due to increased awareness and monitoring of the optimum use of vaccines, informed Shivamogga Deputy Commissioner KB Shivakumar. Other nine districts that have vaccinated above the target are Udupi with 5.57 %, Dakshina Kannada - 4.71%, Dharwad -4.25%, Haveri- 4.16 %, Uttara Kannada- 3.65%, Chikkamagaluru-2.25 %, Belagavi-1.72 %, Kodagu- 1.36 %, Bengaluru (BBMP area)- 1.29 % and Mysuru with 0.13% . The supply of vaccines had also played a role in achieving above the target in these 10 districts, reported local media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-than-1-lakh-covid-19-vaccine-doses-wasted-in-karnataka-since-january-101624969869838.html
29-06-2021||India||Moderna Covid vaccine enters Indian market; Pfizer next, says govt||The Centre on Tuesday announced the official entry of Moderna Covid-19 vaccine in the Indian market as the fourth drug in its arsenal to fight the deadly infectious disease and said that the focus is now on the Pfizer vaccine."New drug permission has been granted to Moderna, the first internationally developed vaccine. This new drug permission is for restricted use," VK Paul, NITI Aayog's member of health said in a press conference. Moderna will be administered in two doses, Paul said.Moderna's shot is the fourth vaccine in India after AstraZeneca's Covishield, Bharat Biotech's Covaxin and Sputnik V developed by Russia's Gamaleya Institute. The country will soon make way for Pfizer's vaccine as well, officials said."There are four vaccines now Covaxin, Covishield, SputnikV and Moderna. We will soon close the deal on Pfizer as well," Paul said on Tuesday.Mumbai-based pharmaceutical drug company Cipla Ltd on Tuesday received approval from the country's drugs regulator to import the Covid-19 vaccine developed by Moderna Inc for restricted emergency use.Cipla had filed an application with the Drugs Controller General of India on June 28 to import the vaccine.After a fall in infections from a daily peak of 400,000 cases in May, India has doubled down its efforts to vaccinate the country's 940 million adults amid supply constraints and fears of the third wave of pandemic.In a bid to accelerate its vaccination rollout amid a deadly second coronavirus wave, India in May scrapped local trials for "well-established" foreign coronavirus vaccines.Earlier in the day, Johnson & Johnson said it was in talks with the Indian government to explore ways to speed up the delivery of its single-shot Covid-19 vaccine in the country.So far, India has administered 323.9 million doses, the most in the world after China and the United States. An estimated 13.8 crore people, that is 49 per cent of the population, aged 60 years and above have been vaccinated with the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine, health ministry officials said on Tuesday.About 59.7 crore people aged 18-44 years, that is 15 per cent of the population, have been vaccinated with the first dose of the vaccine, it said.The country has held talks with several vaccine makers including Pfizer, Moderna and Johnson & Johnson, but no deal has been signed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/moderna-covid-vaccine-enters-indian-market-pfizer-next-says-govt-101624966447008.html
29-06-2021||India||Kerala HC stays demolition of Lakshadweep houses in coastal hamlets||The Kerala high court on Tuesday stayed the demolition of more than 100 houses and structures located near the sea in Lakshadweep that were served notices by the island administration for allegedly flouting coastal norms. The island residents had petitioned the court against the order calling it “illegal” and “arbitrary”, arguing that they have been living close to the sea, their main source of living, for years together before the integrated island management plan came into being last month and declared structures within 20 metres of the high- tide line as illegal. They also said that a special permit was not required to construct on their private land and the notices were a clear infringement on the rights of scheduled tribes.The administration claimed that most of the buildings under notice were constructed illegally and were in conflict with the integrated island management plan. After hearing both sides, the single bench of justice Raja Vijayaraghavan stayed all proceedings till further notice.The court order is seen as another blow to attempts to push controversial rules in Lakshadweep islands by administrator Praful Khoda Patel. On June 23, the Kerala high court stayed the order to close dairy farms and exclude meat products from the midday meals in the island’s schools while three more petitions challenging the rules, including those seeking relocation of islanders from their property for town planning and tourism promotion, are pending before the high court.Residents of the archipelago have been protesting these new rules including the draft Lakshadweep Development Authority Regulation (2021) that proposes to develop the islands as a major tourist destination, a proposal to notify the Goonda Act and a plan to ban cow slaughter. Patel’s critics in the islands argue that these steps will destroy the islands’ character and identity since 97% of the islands are covered by pristine forests and inhabited by Muslim majority. About 90% of the island population is Muslim by faith and they come under the scheduled tribe category.The administration has however rejected the allegations.Kerala-based filmmaker Aisha Sultana, who was booked in a sedition case for calling the administrator a bio-weapon, returned to the state on Tuesday after five- day grilling by the police in the island. She said she will continue her fight for preserving the self-respect and identity of the island people.She claimed there were many attempts to harass her by the administration while she was on the island.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-hc-stays-demolition-of-lakshadweep-houses-in-coastal-hamlets-101624968257571.html
29-06-2021||India||Corbett Tiger Reserve opens for day visits in monsoon season for the first time||The Corbett Tiger Reserve in Uttarakhand’s Ramnagar opened for day visits in the monsoon season for the first time from Tuesday. Tourists can book safaris in five zones of the reserve while night stay facilities will remain banned and will only be permitted from October 15 as usual, said an official.“Day visit facilities in the reserve have been permitted for the first time in the monsoon season. ...online booking is open for the safaris. If the incessant rain starts, the day visit facility will be stopped for safety and the booking amount of the tourists will be returned,” said Rahul Kumar, director, Corbett Tiger Reserve.Also Read | Rajasthan seeks relocation of tigers to MHTR, conservation team plans visitThe reserve remains closed every year from June 15 to October 15 because of the monsoon when it often gets flooded and poses a threat to human life. This year, the reserve was closed from May 1 due to the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. The authorities were forced to return the money of tourists after the cancellation of around 60,000 bookings due to the closure.The government sought to open the reserve to compensate for the losses incurred. Tourists as well tour operators and hoteliers were also demanding the opening in the monsoon season.Uttarakhand forest minister Harak Singh Rawat last week issued instructions for the day visits to the reserve’s Dhela, Jhirana, Garjiya, Bijrani, and Pakharo zones.Kumar said around 30,00,00 tourists visit the reserve annually, but they were forced to close it twice because of the pandemic. “Since Covid-19 cases are declining and tourism is coming back on the track, day visits (are being allowed)....”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/corbett-tiger-reserve-opens-for-day-visits-in-monsoon-season-for-the-first-time-101624968197229.html
29-06-2021||India||Have objective standards for opt-out scheme: SC tells ICAI||The Supreme Court on Tuesday asked the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) to consider in its “opt-out” scheme the plight of those candidates, who have recovered from Covid-19 but are unable to take the examination due to the “horrible” after-effects of the disease.The opt-out scheme was announced by ICAI for candidates, who either tested positive or had family members infected by the virus on or after June 21. The candidates are required to produce RT-PCR positive in support of the “opt-out” claim to be allowed to take the exam in the November 2021 examination cycle.Hearing a set of three petitions challenging the ICAI decision to conduct examinations in July during the pandemic, a three-judge bench of Justices AM Khanwilkar, Dinesh Maheshwari and Aniruddha Bose said, “When you allow opt-out scheme, it must be for good reasons based on objective standards.”Also Read | SC okays ₹1 lakh fine on ‘motivated’ plea seeking stop on Central Vista workThe bench said that the RT-PCR report alone cannot be the sole basis of determination for opt-out as in many cases the report is negative, but the person shows symptoms of the disease. “You have to identify a competent authority who will certify whether a candidate is incapable of appearing or was disabled to prepare due to the after-effects or Covid-19 situation at home.”Two of the judges, Justice Khanwilkar and Justice Maheshwari, who recovered from Covid-19, recounted their experience. “We may not be experts but have personal experience of Covid-19. Fatigue is a big factor. It is horrible. Even after recovering from Covid-19, for three weeks we were unable to work or concentrate. You cannot expect CA students to prepare for the exams under these conditions.”The bench sought ICAI’s response on a host of other suggestions given by the petitioners. These included the choice of change of examination centres, Covid-19 testing facility for teachers, invigilators ahead of the examination, maintaining the exclusivity of examination halls (not to be used for any other purpose), and arranging transport facility till the centres. The ICAI was given a day for filing its response. The court will take up the matter on Wednesday.Later in the day, the ICAI submitted a short note in the Supreme Court agreeing to extend the opt-out scheme to those candidates who are yet to recover from COVID-19 after-effects. This will be in addition to the requirement for candidates to produce RT-PCR positive reports of their own or any member in their family.The ICAI said, “The opt-out option shall also be extended to those candidates (whether under the Old or New Syllabus) who have recently suffered from COVID-19 or yet to recover from the after-effects of the COVID-19 and consequently unable to appear in the Examinations.” Such candidates will have to produce a Medical Certificate issued by a Registered Medical Practitioner stating that the candidate has recently suffered from COVID-19 and is yet to recover.This Certificate could also be issued by District Medical Officer, Primary Health Centres, Government General Hospitals, Private Hospitals too. Further, the ICAI note stated that in the event of an inter-city change of examination centre at the last minute, candidates will get the option to opt out. No opt-out option will be given if the change is within the same city. The institute has also refused to provide transportation facilities or vaccination to candidates.Nearly 3,74,000 students are scheduled to appear for the chartered accountancy (CA) examinations in July. Rights activist Anubha Shrivastava Sahai and several students’ have challenged the ICAI’s decision to hold the examination. Senior advocate Ramji Srinivasan, appearing for ICAI, submitted the Chief Medical Officer of each district can be asked to give a certificate of fitness to candidates.The bench asked ICAI if candidates, who fall sick during the examination, would be given a chance to appear in the remaining papers in the November cycle of examinations.The bench noted ICAI has been holding the examination for 74 years. “The issue we are considering is limited to opting out scheme, and the situation in which opt-out is to be permitted...”Senior advocate Meenakshi Arora, appearing for some of the petitioners, requested the court for maintaining the exclusivity of examination centres. She said last year, some of the examination centres were used for marriage parties. “We cannot afford to turn any examination into a super spreader and expose examinees to infection,” Arora said. She suggested that invigilators should be allowed in the examination centre on the production of RT-PCR negative reports.The petitioners argued for mandatory vaccination of candidates, accommodation facilities near examination centres. “Logistics is the responsibility of candidates. The institute can take responsibility for the examination hall,” the bench said. The judges did not wish to interfere with the vaccination policy as it was unconnected with the holding of the examination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/have-objective-standards-for-opt-out-scheme-sc-tells-icai-101624967657383.html
29-06-2021||India||Delta Plus cases above 50 now, says govt; Punjab extends Covid-19 curbs||The government on Tuesday said that the number of Delta Plus variant cases in the country have gone above 50. The fast-spreading variant is a mutated form of Delta which emerged in India.“A total of 51 Delta plus variant cases reported in India,” the officials of Union health ministry said at a press briefing on Tuesday.The Punjab government has taken cognisance of the rising number of Delta Plus cases and extended the coronavirus restrictions till July 10. However, more relaxations such as opening of bars and pubs with 50 per cent capacity have been given.The orders will come into effect from July 1, the state government said. The decision was taken after a high-level review meeting chaired by chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh.The Maharashtra government too has started preparing for the expected third wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) with the particular focus on protecting children. Maharashtra has the highest number of Delta Plus cases in the country.The Delta Plus variant is an offshoot of the highly infectious Delta variant that caused a spike in cases in April and May which overwhelmed healthcare facilities, swamping crematoriums.The variant shows more resistance to some vaccines and therapies generally used to treat Covid-19. India has already declared Delta Plus as ‘variant of concern’.However, Niti Aayog member and Covid task force chief Dr VK Paul has said that there is no scientific data so far to establish that the new variant reduces vaccine efficacy."The so-called Delta plus variant exhibits an additional mutation in the Delta variant and since this is a new variant, scientific knowledge is still in the early stage,” he said on Monday.Meanwhile, India’s daily fresh cases of Covid have come down from four lakhs during the peak of the second wave to around 50,000 in the past few days and the unlock process or lifting of restrictions is underway in many parts of the country.On Tuesday, it further dropped to below 40,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delta-plus-cases-above-50-now-says-govt-punjab-extends-covid-19-curbs-101624967045903.html
29-06-2021||India||News updates from HT: Char Dham yatra suspended following high court order and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Uttarakhand government suspends Char Dham yatra after HC orderThe Uttarakhand government on Tuesday suspended the Char Dham Yatra by issuing a revised standard operating procedure (SOP). Read MoreRectal bleeding reported in 5 Covid-19 patients in Delhi, one deadIn a first such post Covid-19 complication in India, five cases of Cytomegalovirus (CVM) related rectal bleeding in patients diagnosed with Covid-19 have been reported from Delhi's Sir Ganga Ram Hospital on Tuesday. Read MoreSrinagar lake dying for 30 yrs restored to revive old water channelKhushal Sar lake in Kashmir’s summer capital of Srinagar has been revived after it turned into a cesspool in the past 30 years. Read MoreMultiple cylinder blasts reported in Lahore’s Barkat marketMultiple cylinder blasts rocked Lahore’s Barkat market on Tuesday. According to rescue workers at the site, the gas cylinders blew up one after another making it difficult for rescue operators to get near the blast site. Read MoreT20 World Cup shifted out of India, to be held in UAE, Oman: ICCICC on Tuesday confirmed that the T20 World Cup 2020 has been shifted out of India and will be held in the UAE and Oman. Read MoreLarge sea snail washes up near Andhra Pradesh river, auctioned for ₹18,000An orange-coloured snail was found on the banks of a river in Andhra Pradesh that has sparked much interest among netizens. Read MoreTaapsee Pannu says she doesn't miss Kangana Ranaut on Twitter at all: 'She's too irrelevant'Taapsee Pannu has said that she doesn't miss Kangana Ranaut's absence from Twitter, and that the Queen actor is 'irrelevant' to her, personally speaking. Read MoreAsia's longest high-speed track for automotive testing inaugurated in IndoreAsia's longest high-speed track for automotive testing, measuring 11.3 kilometres, was virtually inaugurated in Indore, Madhya Pradesh on Tuesday by Union Minister Prakash Javadekar. Read MoreSara Ali Khan returns to work in a ₹29k pink jacquard mini dressFirst popular in Britain in the 1820s, the same Regency fashion era when Bridgerton takes place, Jacquard or a group of intricately decorated woven fabrics are currently making a comeback this season. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-char-dham-yatra-suspended-following-high-court-order-and-all-the-latest-news-101624964830257.html
29-06-2021||India||India vaccinated 32 crore people in 163 days, surpassed US: Govt||A day after India announced that it surpassed the United States in terms of the number of people vaccinated against Covid-19, the Union health ministry officials said on Tuesday that the country achieved the milestone faster than the US."India has taken a distinct lead in total vaccine doses administered in the world. India surpassed the US and took 163 days to reach the 32 crore benchmark. The US took 193 days," the Union health ministry official said in a weekly press briefing. Giving a break-down, health ministry's joint secretary Lav Agarwal said, "A total of 27.27crore people covered with the first dose of vaccine and 5.84 crore people covered with the second dose of vaccine."From May 1 to June 24, 56% of the Covid-19 vaccine doses were given in rural areas, 44% in urban areas, officials said.Confirming the downfall of India's deadly second wave, the joint secretary said India's recovery rate has been logged at 96.9%. "There has been a continuous decline in cases since India reported a peak, including a progressive decrease in cases in districts," Agarwal said. The health ministry officials also confirmed approval for Moderna Covid-19 vaccine by India's drug controller DCGI. "New drug permission has been granted to Moderna, the first internationally developed vaccine. This new drug permission is for restricted use. There are four vaccines now Covaxin, Covishield, SputnikV and Moderna," health secretary VK Paul said. India will soon close the deal on Pfizer as well, Paul said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-vaccinated-32-crore-people-in-163-days-surpassed-us-govt-101624964406157.html
29-06-2021||India||Kerala state lottery result declared, first prize ₹70 lakh||The Kerala state lottery department announced the winners of Akshaya AK-496 lottery. The results were announced at 3pm.The first prize of the Akshaya AK-496 lottery is ₹70 lakh, while the second and third prizes are ₹10 lakh. The results of the lottery are announced very Wednesday on keralalotteryresult website.The first prize has been won by the ticket AU-258505. One ticket has been given the second prize, while 12 have bagged the third prize.The consolation prize is ₹8,000.The fourth prize in Akshaya-496 lottery is ₹5,000, the fifth is ₹2,000 and sixth ₹1,000. The seventh and eighth prizes are for ₹500 and ₹100 respectively.Revenue from lottery is one of the major earnings of the state government. Every day there is a lottery and more than 2 lakh people are engaged in the trade as agents and retailers. Many differently-abled and others eke out a living by selling lucky numbers.The annual revenue from the sale of tickets is between ₹10,000 core to 12,000 crore. The lottery sale was suspended in Kerala for three months last year due to the Covidpandemic.The lottery department was established in Kerala in the year 1967.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-state-lottery-result-declared-first-prize-rs-70-lakh-101624964938449.html
29-06-2021||India||Srinagar lake dying for 30 yrs restored to revive old water channel||Khushal Sar lake in Kashmir’s summer capital of Srinagar has been revived after it turned into a cesspool in the past 30 years. The transformation was made possible by a collaboration of locals, environmentalists and the government.Situated between Hawal and Zadibal in the Old City and part of a historic water circuit of lakes in Srinagar such as Dal, Nigeen, Gilsar and Anchar, Khushal Sar lake was covered with weeds, animal waste, plastics and sewage till three months ago while many of its sides had been encroached upon. In late February, a local environmental organisation Nigeen Lake Conservation Organisation (NLCO) took the initiative to clean the water body.“I didn’t believe that we had a water body like Khushal Sar which was on the brink of its end. The lake was full of dead animals, animal skins, polythene, grass, weeds and it was encroached upon from all sides,” NLCO’s chairman Manzoor Wangnoo said. He says he was promised full support in his mission by divisional commissioner Pandurang K Pole. “I told them that I need their support as we feared the encroachers. We brought boats, volunteers and labourers while the administration promptly provided police protection while the trucks [for carrying the waste out] came from Srinagar Municipal Corporation (SMC),” he said.Within weeks, the lake started to show improvement and the locals also joined the cleaning process. “The work was huge so we also collected some money and hired machines for [some] more days,” said M Shafi Malik, president of a local Zaripora Mohalla Committee. Malik said many locals had migrated from the area due to the stench and pollution in the lake, which once held such clear water that people would drink it and bathe in it.“Tourists and foreigners used to visit this lake in boats. From Dal Lake through Nallah Amir Khan, they would pass through Gilsar and Khushal Sar and would reach Anchar Lake and then ultimately to Manasbal Lake (in central Kashmir’s Ganderbal district),” said 47-years old Malik, who is a Pasmina artist.“I have very fond memories of this lake. It was famous for golden colored fish and lotus roots which became elusive after its state deteriorated,” he said.The lake had become a dumping ground in the past 30 years and even local administrations didn’t care about it during the militancy years,” he said, referring to the time when terrorism was at its peak in the Union Territory.During the restoration attempt, about 15-20 truckloads of weed, silt and waste were taken out of the lake every day for about three months.“We were able to clear some 1000 truckloads of unwanted material and within 100 days, the lake was restored and three navigational tracks were made up-to Saidpora,” Wangnoo said. The locals were delighted to see the lake restored and were determined not to let it get polluted again.“People are very cautious now. They don’t litter into the lake. They understand that it is an important asset and we need to protect it,” said Abdul Rashid, a local who owns a handloom.Following the success, the administration has started the work to revive the adjoining Gilsar Lake.“The rejuvenation of Khushal Sar and Gilsar Lakes in Srinagar is one of the best examples of civil society and government working together to rejuvenate water bodies. The SMC has lifted around 820 trucks of muck, silt and weed from these two lakes in the past 60 days alone,” said SMC commissioner, Athar Amir Khan.Srinagar’s district development commissioner (DDC) Mohammad Aijaz Asad said the restoration of lakes will reactivate the original water navigation circuit in Srinagar district. Asad said he has asked for surveillance and intensification of anti encroachment drives to ensure these lakes remained protected. “We will take strict action as per law against those indulging in littering and dumping of garbage into these natural resources,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/srinagar-lake-dying-for-30-yrs-restored-to-revive-old-water-channel-101624965077117.html
29-06-2021||India||LSR final year student wins Diana Award for work in UN SDG||Devanshi Ranjan, a 21-year-old student of the Lady Shri Ram (LSR) College has received the coveted Diana Award for her contribution to the UN sustainable development goals.The award was established by Princess Diana, the Princess of Wales and is considered the 'highest accolade' a young person can achieve for social action. The award is given out by the charity of the same name and is supported by her both sons-the Duke of Cambridge, Prince William and the Duke of Sussex, Prince Harry.Also read: 15-year-old boy from Delhi receives Diana AwardRanjan, who is a final year student at the Delhi University college, has been working with NGO Ladli Foundation Trust to help underprivileged children with their studies, especially girls amid the coronavirus pandemic. She is also the founder of Project MicDrop that claims to be an intergenerational and intersectional forum for discussion around gender and sexuality."I found out that I will be honoured with the Diana award on May 5. I was extremely elated but couldn't share the news with anyone except for my immediate family till the commencement of the virtual ceremony on June 28," PTI quoted Ranjan as saying."My work is centered around the Covid-19 pandemic relief work. A number of surveys and reports showed an increase in the number of drop-outs in schools, especially the female students, as availing education online was not affordable for all. I worked with NGO Ladli Trust and under its programme 'Pathanshala' conducted workshops and educated students from slums and villages," she told the news agency.The young woman taught more than 1,000 children in the slums across Delhi during this period and also distributed books, stationary and other resource material in the semi-urban and rural areas of Delhi-NCR."We congratulate all our new Diana Award recipients from the UK and all over the globe who are changemakers for their generation. We know by receiving this honour they will inspire more young people to get involved in their communities and begin their own journey as active citizens," Tessy Ojo, CEO of The Diana Award said during the virtual award ceremony, PTI reported.The award, which is given to people in the age group of 9-25 years, was conferred on 400 people worldwide.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lsr-final-year-student-wins-diana-award-for-work-in-un-sdg-101624962165158.html
29-06-2021||India||Uttarakhand government suspends Char Dham yatra after HC order||The Uttarakhand government on Tuesday suspended the Char Dham Yatra by issuing a revised standard operating procedure (SOP) a day after the high court stayed a Cabinet decision allowing the pilgrimage to four revered Hindu temples in the state from July 1.The revised SOP was issued after the government said the yatra would be allowed in two phases from July 1 and July 11. The pilgrimage was first to begin for the residents of three districts, where these shrines are located. It was to be later opened for residents of the rest of the state’s 10 districts. But on Tuesday, the government issued the revised SOP announcing the suspension of the pilgrimage until further orders in light of the court order.The court on Monday stayed the Cabinet’s decision permitting the yatra with a limited number of pilgrims from July 1 and ordered live streaming of rituals at Char Dham shrines instead. A division bench of chief justice RS Chauhan and justice Alok Verma said the yatra should not be allowed amid fears of a third wave and the spread of the Delta variant of the virus.Also Read | Rajnath Singh inaugurates 3 bridges near Indo-China border in UttarakhandThe bench said it was not satisfied with the preparedness of the government, especially regarding the healthcare facilities and status of Covid-19 inoculation in the three districts.The state Cabinet allowed the Char Dham yatra on Friday. On June 23, the high court pulled up the government for announcing the yatra from July 1 and directed it to review its decision.The high court in its June 23 order remarked that large gathering invariably leads to a spike in the Covid-19 pandemic. “Already holding of Kumbh Mela and permitting a large congregation of lakhs of people on Ganga Dussehra at Har-ki-Pauri at Haridwar, are clear cut proof of the failure of the civil administration, to administer the precautionary SOPs.”Mahakumbh in April coincided with the worst surge in Covid-19 cases that overwhelmed hospitals and triggered a shortage of medical oxygen, medicines, and beds.Uttarakhand has separately also extended the Covid-19 curfew till July 6. The curfew was imposed amid a rise in the Covid-19 cases last month. It has been extended on a weekly basis since. The district magistrates have been given powers to decide whether they want to provide some more relaxation in rural areas. The state’s protected areas, tiger reserves, and zoos will remain open for tourists. The forest department will come up with a separate SOP for the same.Markets will remain open from 8 am to 7 pm. All the gyms will be allowed to function with 50% occupancy. All vegetable vendors, dairy, sweets, and flower shops will remain open from 8 am to 7 pm. Hotels and resorts will function with 50% capacity. RT-PCR tests will remain mandatory for wedding attendees, whose number has been increased to 50. The number of people attending funerals will not be more than 50.Uttarakhand has so far reported over 33,90,00 Covid-19 cases and 7,090 deaths. On Sunday, the state reported 120 fresh cases and three deaths. The positivity rate in the state has come down to 6.2% while the recovery rate stands at 95.52 %. There are 2,294 active cases and the fatality rate is 2.09%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-government-suspends-char-dham-yatra-after-hc-order-101624964597351.html
29-06-2021||India||Education minister Ramesh Pokhariyal discharged from AIIMS after recovering from Covid-19||Union education minister Dr Ramesh Pokhriyal was discharged from the All India Institute Of Medical Science (AIIMS) hospital in Delhion Tuesday, news agency ANI reported. He was admitted to the hospital on June 1 after he developed complications related to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). He was complaining of difficulty breathing at that time.The Union minister tested positive for Covid-19 on April 21. He later resumed work after making a full recovery.While Pokhriyal was in the hospital, he wrote a poem narrating his struggles and how he managed to overcome the viral disease. In the poem Pokhriyal also called himself a "candle of hope" lighting against the darkness symbolic of the Covid virus.The minister has authored more than 70 books. He has also received many national and international awards for his literary work. In January, Pokhriyal was virtually conferred ‘Canada Sahitya Gaurav’ by Hindi Writers Guild of Canada.In December 2020, he was honoured with a lifetime achievement award by London-based Vatayan-UK literary organisation.He has also received the prestigious Sahitya Bharati Award from former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/education-minister-ramesh-pokhariyal-discharged-from-aiims-after-recovering-from-covid19-101624963817740.html
29-06-2021||India||Third Covid wave in Mumbai likely to be less deadly than second: Study||Mumbai is unlikely to experience the peak of the possible third wave of coronavirus pandemic as massive as one experienced during the second wave because 80 per cent of the city’s total population has possibly been exposed to SARS-CoV-2, scientists at the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR) projected, according to a report.Sandeep Juneja, the TIFR study’s main author and the dean of its school of technology and computer science, said that reinfections will “hold the key in the third wave”, according to the Times of India.The study said that those who contracted the coronavirus during the first wave last year could again be vulnerable due to declining levels of antibody. Therefore, looking out for and monitoring cases of reinfection would help authorities combat the possible third wave efficiently. The probable third wave can also be checked if 20 per cent of Mumbaikars, who are yet to be down with Covid-19, are vaccinated soon, the report cited Juneja as saying.The TIFR study also pointed out, the report said, that of 80 per cent who have recovered, 10 per cent are vulnerable to reinfections, and if infected, they can either follow the same progression as the first time or possess a new Covid-19 variant that is 50 per cent more virulent and 50% more infectious than the Delta variant.The group of TIFR scientists highlighted that the third wave would only barely be detected in September if four factors match – reinfections are mild, absence of any dangerous variant, coverage of Covid-19 vaccination is widespread in the preceding months of July and August, and vaccines are 75-95 per cent effective.A recent ward-wise serosurvey conducted by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) revealed that over 50 per cent of Mumbaikars aged between 1-18 years have antibodies against the coronavirus. According to the data provided by the civic body, the seropositivity rate between the 5-9 age group is 47.33 per cent, and between the 1-4 age group is 51.04 per cent. Teenagers between 15-18 years have a seropositivity rate of 51.39 per cent, while the highest positivity at 53.43 per cent was noticed in the 10-14 age group.Mumbai on Monday reported as many as 608 fresh cases, taking the city’s overall case count to 720,964, the official BMC data showed. With 714 new recoveries, the total number of recoveries has reached 694,796, the data added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/third-covid-wave-in-mumbai-likely-to-be-less-deadly-than-second-study-101624962449046.html
29-06-2021||India||Heed expert advice, don’t manage headlines: Congress to govt on drone threat||Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala on Tuesday urged the government to follow a “credible, comprehensive and strategic policy” to tackle the threat of drones two days after they were used for two “low-intensity” explosions at Jammu’s Indian Air Force station. Two personnel were injured in the explosions and similar devices have since been spotted hovering over the military installations in the region.Also Read | BJP says will restore OBC quota in 4 months if in power; Sena, Congress hit backIn a series of tweets, Surjewala said the entire nation stands with the security forces and the government in the fightback against such attacks. He added the government should “act on the advice of defence experts with experience of modern warfare rather than relying upon mere headline management”.“Armed Drones attack are a real threat to security forces & Govt establishments. A credible & comprehensive policy and measures are the need of hour to tackle attacks by the Pak based terror outfits, backed by the infamous ISI (Inter-Services Intelligence), instead of mere circulars & amendments of rules.”He added ISI and Pakistan-based terrorist organisations were using Chinese Hexacopters drones and Wing Loong II to drop arms across the border gifted by China to Pakistan. Surjewala said members of Parliament have repeatedly raised the issue of drone attacks through Parliamentary questions in 2019 and 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heed-expert-advice-don-t-manage-headlines-congress-to-govt-on-drone-threat-101624963217343.html
29-06-2021||India||Monsoon Session likely from July 19, to continue till Aug 13||The Monsoon session of Parliament is likely to begin on July 19 and will conclude on August 13, news agency ANI reported on Tuesday. The duration of the session was recommended by the Cabinet Committee on Parliamentary Affairs (CCPA), earlier in the day.The Monsoon session of Parliament usually commences in the third week of July and concludes ahead of the Independence day. The session will be conducted under mandatory adherence to the Covid-19 protocol. All members of Parliament will be required to wear face masks and follow social distancing norms at the premise.The committee is hoping that all those entering the complex during the session have taken at least one dose of the vaccine against the viral disease.According to the data available with the Rajya Sabha secretariat, at least 179 Rajya Sabha members are fully vaccinated against the Covid-19. Another 39 members of the House have received their first dose.The Upper House has a total strength of 232 members currently.Meanwhile, in Lok Sabha, at least 403 members, nearly three-fourth of its current strength have been administered with both doses of the vaccine. The lower house has a current strength of 540 members.The Covid-19 pandemic has affected Parliament sessions since March 2020, forcing early closure of last year’s budget and monsoon sessions and this year’s budget session. The 2020 winter session was skipped altogether due to the public health crisis.The high rate of vaccination among the lawmakers and parliament staff improves chances of a longer parliament session and higher productivity. More than 40 bills and five ordinances are pending before Parliament.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-session-likely-from-july-19-to-continue-till-aug-13-101624962938198.html
29-06-2021||India||Longest high speed track of Asia now in India. All you need to know||India on Tuesday got the longest high-speed track in Asia in Madhya Pradesh's Indore. The Union minister of heavy industries and public enterprises Prakash Javadekar inaugurated National Automotive Test Tracks (NATRAX) — the 11.3km-long High Speed Track (HST) -- and said that India is destined to become a hub of automobiles and manufacturing and spare parts.Javadekar also said that projects in railways, highways and waterways which were languishing for years are today getting completed because of the strong political will, as he highlighted the 'AatmaNirbhar Bharat Mission'.Also read: Reforms under Aatmanirbhar Bharat improved ease of living, writes PM ModiAll you need to know about the track:NATRAX is developed in an area of 1,000 acres of land and is claimed to be a one-stop solution for all sorts of high-speed performance tests for widest categories of vehicles from two wheelers to heavy tractor-trailers.The NATRAX centre has multiple test capabilities like measurements of maximum speed, acceleration, constant speed fuel consumption, emission tests through real road driving simulation, high-speed handling and stability evaluation during manoeuvring such as lane change, high speed durability testing, etc. and is a centre of excellence for vehicle dynamics, as per an official statement by the ministry.Vehicles can achieve the maximum speed of 375km per hour on the curves with steering control and the track has less banking on ovals making it one of the safest in the world.It is used to measure the speeding capabilities of high-end cars like BMW, Mercedes, Audi, Ferrari, Lamborghini, Tesla among others, which cannot be measured on any of the test tracks in India yet. The central location of the track will help attract foreign Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM)s as it will become more accessible for the development of prototype cars for Indian conditions. Currently, foreign OEMs go to their respective high-speed tracks abroad to test the speeding requirements.Being the fifth largest in the world, the track can cater to a wide category of vehicles, from two wheelers to the heaviest tractor trailers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/longest-high-speed-track-of-asia-now-in-india-all-you-need-to-know-101624959652783.html
29-06-2021||India||India opens gate for Moderna Covid-19 vaccine as Cipla gets DCGI nod||India on Tuesday made way for the fourth coronavirus vaccine in its drug basket after Mumbai-based pharmaceutical company Cipla got a nod from India's drug regulator DCGI to import the vaccine for restricted emergency use in the country, officials told HT.India is already administering Oxford's Covishield, Bharat Biotech's Covaxin and Russia's Sputnik V in its fight against the deadly disease outbreak.This comes a day after Cipla, on behalf of the US pharma major, requested the drug regulator for import and marketing authorisation of these jabs."Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) has granted permission to Cipla to import Moderna's Covid-19 vaccine for restricted emergency use in the country as per the provisions of the New Drugs and Clinical Trial Rules , 2019 under Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940," a source told HT.In separate communications, Moderna on June 27 informed DCGI that the US government has agreed to donate a certain number of doses of its Covid-19 vaccine through COVAX to India for use here and sought an approval from the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) for the vaccines.Moderna's Covid-19 vaccine mRNA-1273, sold under the brand name 'Spikevax' in the United States, was developed by the pharmaceutical company in collaboration with the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID) and the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority (BARDA) in the US. It is composed of nucleoside-modified mRNA (modRNA) and encodes a SARS-CoV-2 spike protein encapsulated in lipid nanoparticles, according to the European Medicines Agency (EMA).Earlier this month, Cipla had indicated its plan to fast-track approval to bring Moderna’s single-dose Covid-19 booster vaccine into India expeditiously, and that it has requested the government for indemnification and exemptions from price capping, bridging trials and basic customs duty. Cipla had not named the vaccine then.Cipla was reportedly close to committing over $1 billion as advance to the US major for the import of close to 50 million doses, reports PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-opens-gate-for-moderna-covid-19-vaccine-as-cipla-gets-dgci-nod-101624960868033.html
29-06-2021||India||Spent under half of amount allowed for campaigning, say over 80% Puducherry MLAs||Over 80% of newly elected lawmakers in Puducherry have told the Election Commission of India (ECI) that they spent under ₹11 lakh on their campaigning, according to a Puducherry Election Watch and Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR) analysis. The analysis is based on expenditure statements, which every contestant is mandated to file within 30 days after results are declared.The expenditure limit was ₹22 lakh. But the average amount of money spent by the lawmakers was ₹7.3 lakh, which is just 33% of the expense limit. All India NR Congress (AINRC ) lawmakers have declared to have spent the lowest, just 28%. The Congress lawmakers have declared the highest spending.AINRC won the highest seats (10) while Congress managed to get just two.Also Read | 5 ministers take oath in Puducherry’s 1st NDA cabinetAINRC’s P R N Thirumurugan spent the highest or over ₹15.4 lakh, which is nearly 70% of the expenditure limit. Independent candidate M Sivivasankar has claimed to have spent the lowest or just ₹2.17 lakh.An ADR report said over 40% of lawmakers, including star campaigners, said they did not even spend even a single rupee on “public meetings or processions”. As many as 77% of lawmakers said they have not spent any amount on “campaigning through any electronic or print media.”As many as 24 of 30 lawmakers said they did not receive any funds for campaigning from their political parties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/spent-under-half-of-amount-allowed-for-campaigning-say-over-80-puducherry-mlas-101624960697303.html
29-06-2021||India||Monsoon to ditch Delhi for next 5 days, humidity likely to go down: IMD||The discomfort due to waiting for rains and cool winds is likely to extend till the end of this week as the India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Tuesday junked the possibility of rain in the next five days. "For at least the next five days there is no chance (of monsoon) in Delhi. We're monitoring the situation. The discomfort because of moisture & humidity will decrease because of the westerly winds," IMD senior scientist RK Jenamani told news agency ANI. India is witnessing a weak monsoon this year, due to which some states are already witnessing a deficit. Jenamani said India will get a large amount of rainfall over Assam, Meghalaya, Arunachal Pradesh, Sikkim, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh till July 5. There is a chance of flooding also in these regions so we have issued a red alert, the IMD scientist said. In India, June 1 to September 30 is officially considered the monsoon season. The normal date for monsoon arrival over Delhi is June 27.However, this year the monsoon progress continues to be slow and rainfall is subdued across the country. The northern limit of monsoon (NLM) continues to pass through Barmer, Bhilwara, Dholpur, Aligarh, Meerut, Ambala and Amritsar.IMD on Monday said that Central Delhi is the second most rain-deficient district in the country as it has recorded just 8.5 mm of rainfall this year. Central Delhi has received only 8.5 mm rainfall against the normal of 55.2 mm since June 1 -- a deficiency of 85%, officials said.The top most parched district in terms of rain is Kishtwar district of Jammu and Kashmir. It has recorded 5 mm precipitation against the normal of 70.6 mm -- a shortfall of 93%.Normally, the monsoon reaches Delhi by June 27 and covers the entire country by July 8. Last year, the wind system had reached Delhi on June 25 and covered the entire country by June 29||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-to-ditch-delhi-for-next-5-days-humidity-likely-to-go-down-imd-101624958543802.html
29-06-2021||India||Madras HC orders notice on TN BJP’s plea to quash committee to study NEET impact||The Madras high court has ordered a notice on a petition moved by the state Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) unit, challenging the former justice AK Rajan-headed committee constituted by the new Tamil Nadu government to study the impact of National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) on students from socially backward classes. The court has directed the state to respond in a week and the Union government is also at liberty to submit its stance on the issue. The interim orders were passed by the first bench comprising chief justice Sanjib Banerjee and justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy on a writ petition filed by BJP’s state general secretary Karu Nagarajan seeking to quash the order that constituted the nine-member committee. The court took note of the plea, which stated that there wasn’t much room for the state to look for an alternative in the light of the Supreme Court’s August 2017 judgement (in the case of R Nakkiran versus the state of Tamil Nadu) that directed the state to implement NEET. Also Read | JEE mains likely in July-August, NEET may be postponed to SeptemberThe justice Rajan committee had also sought suggestions and objections from the public before June 26 on the matter. The plea had stated that the committee is “arbitrary, illegal, unconstitutional and unreasonable”. Advocate general R Shunmugasundaram submitted that the move was backed by the party’s election manifesto as well as people’s demand. Before NEET was started in Tamil Nadu in 2017, entrance to medical colleges was based on Class 12 marks. The state is of the view that medical aspirants from rural and poor backgrounds are discriminated against by competing with other students who can afford coaching for NEET from top institutions. The previous All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam regime had introduced a reservation of 7.5% for government school students who clear NEET for admissions into medical colleges.The case hearing has been posted to next Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madras-hc-orders-notice-on-tn-bjp-s-plea-to-quash-committee-to-study-neet-impact-101624959016971.html
29-06-2021||India||Driver rams Audi in 'reckless drunk driving' accident, kills 1||One person was killed near Cyberabad's Inorbit Mall in Hyderabad on June 27 after a speeding Audi car hit an auto-rickshaw on its route. The video of the car hitting the auto-rickshaw on the rain-drenched road was released by Cyberabad Traffic Police on Tuesday. Three people have been arrested in connection with the road accident.The police arrested the driver, co-passenger and father of the driver of the luxury vehicle, who were returning from a party and were under the influence of alcohol. A case has been registered against them under multiple sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Motor Vehicle Act, as per the news agency ANI.Also read: Leopard dies in suspected road accidentThe Cyberabad Traffic Police released the video on Twitter as part of its ongoing series on road safety awareness by showcasing accidents. The police said it was "reckless speed and drunk driving". The car rushed without stopping and the police said a case of culpable homicide not amounting to murder has been booked against the driver and his associates.Reckless speed and drunk driving of an Audi car kills a passenger (an employee of Prism Pub !! ) in the auto yesterday early morning near Inorbit Mall. A case of culpable homicide not amounting to murder has been booked against the Audi driver and his associates.#RoadSafety pic.twitter.com/vhJfsiL9cS"Reckless speed and drunk driving of an Audi car kills a passenger (an employee of Prism Pub !! ) in the auto yesterday early morning near Inorbit Mall. A case of culpable homicide not amounting to murder has been booked against the Audi driver and his associates," the police tweeted along with the video.In the 29-second video, the luxury car driver was seen speeding away on the road and hitting the auto-rickshaw from behind with full force. The auto-rickshaw can be seen going for an uncontrollable spin before crashing on the roadside. The passenger in the auto-rickshaw is reported to have been killed in the accident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/driver-rams-audi-in-reckless-drunk-driving-accident-kills-1-101624953478520.html
29-06-2021||India||Rectal bleeding reported in 5 Covid-19 patients in Delhi, one dead||In a first such post Covid-19 complication in India, five cases of Cytomegalovirus (CVM) related rectal bleeding in patients diagnosed with Covid-19 have been reported from Delhi's Sir Ganga Ram Hospital on Tuesday. Patients with Cytomegalovirus have complained of bleeding in stools and abdominal pain, officials said.The cases have emerged in the second wave of infections this year, officials said.One of the patients has succumbed to massive bleeding and Covid chest disease, officials from Sir Ganga Ram Hospital confirmed."During the second wave of the Covid-19 in April-May 2021, we have seen five cases of CMV infection in otherwise immunocompetent patients with Covid-19. These patients presented with pain abdomen and bleeding in stools with a mean of 20 to 30 days after the diagnosis of Covid-19," a statement released by the hospital read.None of them had other predisposing immunosuppressed states accounting for this viral infection, the statement added.The cases have been seen in the age group of 30-70 years from Delhi-NCR. Four patients have complained of lower gastrointestinal bleed which is bleeding in stools and one patient presented with intestinal obstruction. Of the five patients, two reported massive bleed, with one requiring emergency life-saving surgery in which the side of the colon has been removed.Three patients have been successfully treated with antiviral therapy with ganciclovir, Dr. Arora said in a statement.The officials explained that Covid infection itself and the medicines used for its treatment (Steroids) do suppress the immunity of patients and make them susceptible to uncommon infections with varied presentations. One such opportunistic infection is (CMV) virus.Cytomegalo virus exists in 80 to 90% of the Indian population in asymptomatic form due to inherent immunity which makes it strong enough to be clinically asymptomatic.Three patients have been successfully treated with antiviral therapy with ganciclovir, Dr. Arora said in a statement.Doctors have suggested early diagnosis and effective antiviral therapy as a way of treatment to handle the cases of CMV infection in Covid-19 patients."In such cases of high index of suspicion and timely intervention in the form of an early diagnosis and effective antiviral therapy can save many precious lives, says Dr. Praveen Sharma of Sir Ganga Ram Hospital said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rectal-bleeding-reported-in-5-covid-19-patients-in-delhi-101624955546432.html
29-06-2021||India||C’garh CM Baghel writes to PM, seeks 10 million doses of Covid vaccine in July||Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel has written a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and urged him to provide at least one crore [10 million] doses of Coronavirus vaccine to the state in July, officials said on TuesdayBaghel said that at present only 998,810 vaccine doses are left with the state which is sufficient only three days. Despite repeated demands, the state hasn’t been given sufficient doses, he said.Also Read | Maoist carrying ₹5 lakh reward killed in Chhattisgarh’s Dantewada district“The state has so far vaccinated all its frontline workers and 91% of healthcare workers with the first dose. Then, 71% of frontline workers and 70% of healthcare workers have been given the second dose as well. Similarly, 80% of population above 45 years of age has got their first dose,” the CM said in his letter.Further, in the 18-45 age group, 16% of the population has been given the first dose.“At least 300,000 people are being vaccinated in Chhattisgarh every day,” he added.The chief minister said that all the adults in the state will be inoculated with the first dose within a month if they had sufficient doses of the vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cgarh-cm-baghel-writes-to-pm-seeks-10-million-doses-of-covid-vaccine-in-july-101624956916887.html
29-06-2021||India||One Nation, One Ration Card: Know all about the govt scheme||The Supreme Court on Tuesday directed states and Union territories to implement the ‘One Nation, One Ration Card’ scheme till July 31 and said they “must run community kitchens to feed migrants till the end of the pandemic”. The top court also ordered the central government to provide dry ration for free distribution among migrant workers till the situation eases.A bench of justice Ashok Bhushan and justice MR Shah issued a slew of directions on a plea of three activists seeking directions to the Centre and states to ensure food security, cash transfers and other welfare measures for migrant workers who faced distress again due to curfews and lockdowns in various parts of the country during the second wave of coronavirus disease (Covid-19).The scheme was launched on a pilot basis in four states in 2019 by Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan. The system aims to provide ration and food security to migrant workers and their families under the National Food Security Act (NFSA) and other schemes.Here’s all about the One Nation, One Ration Card scheme:'One Nation, one Ration Card' system is one of the four citizen-centric reforms identified by the department of expenditure under the Union finance ministry. The department has also allowed additional borrowing of 0.25 per cent of Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) to states completing the implementation of the system, which translates to additional borrowing permission of ₹37,600 crore.The additional borrowing limit of 0.25 per cent is only allowed to states after completion of both the actions — Aadhaar seeding of all the ration cards and beneficiaries in the state and automation of all the Fair Price Shops (FPSs) in the state. The automation and Aadhaar seeding is to ensure seamless inter-state portability of the card and also helps eliminate bogus or ineligible cardholders.The 'One Nation, One Ration Card' is a tech-driven system that allows labourers, daily wagers, urban poor like rag pickers, street dwellers, temporary workers in organised and unorganised sectors, domestic workers, etc to get their daily quota of food grains from any electronic point of sale (e-PoS)-enabled FPS of their choice anywhere in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/one-nation-one-ration-card-know-all-about-the-govt-scheme-101624952597300.html
29-06-2021||India||In Punjab, Kejriwal promises free electricity; says only AAP can do this magic||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday promised free electricity till 300 units to people of Punjab if his party wins next year’s assembly elections in the state. Kejriwal is on his second visit to Punjab this month to prepare the ground for AAP ahead of state polls. He had visited Amritsar on June 21.“This is Kejriwal's guarantee, not Captain's promises. As soon as the AAP government is formed, we will ensure free power and write off pending bills of consumers of domestic supply category,” the Delhi chief minister said while targeting chief minister Amarinder Singh at a press conference in Chandigarh.He, however, clarified that the promise of free power is for domestic consumers with consumption upto 300 units. “If power consumption exceeds 300 units, they will have to pay the bill,” said the AAP chief.“I am sure these announcements will make everyone, particularly women, in Punjab happy,” he added.Kejriwal was accompanied by state AAP president Bhagwant Mann, leader of opposition in the Punjab assembly Harpal Singh Cheema, Punjab affairs in-charge and Delhi MLA Jarnail Singh and AAP spokesperson, Punjab affairs co-incharge Raghav Chadha and former IPS officer Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh."We have done this in Delhi in six years where people get free power. We will do it in Punjab the same way. Yeh jadoo hai hamein hi karna aata hai (This is the magic only we can do). I have done my calculations,” said Kejriwal.Targeting the Amarinder Singh-led Congress government, he said that there is no dearth of money in Punjab, but it lacks government with acchi neeyat (good intentions).Kejriwal had talked about providing free power on Monday, before coming to Punjab. “In Delhi, we provide 200 units of free electricity to every family. The women are quite happy. Women in Punjab are also quite unhappy with inflation. The AAP government will also provide free electricity in Punjab,” he had said in the tweet posted in Gurmukhi.In the 2017 assembly elections, AAP was a newcomer but still won 20 of the total 117 seats. The Congress formed the government after winning 77. This time, Kejriwal has decided to amp up his campaign to allow AAP to expand base to other states.The ruling Congress too had carried out a survey on providing free power to the residents of the state. State officials feel additional subsidy burden on account of free electricity to domestic consumers will not be tenable.AAP had made similar promise during the election in Delhi last year while seeking to return to power, which was criticised by other parties. The residents had given mixed response to the initiative. The party won the elections comfortably.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-punjab-kejriwal-promises-free-electricity-says-only-aap-can-do-this-magic-101624954670756.html
29-06-2021||India||SC okays ₹1 lakh fine on ‘motivated’ plea seeking stop on Central Vista work||The Supreme Court on Tuesday fully endorsed the Delhi high court’s refusal to stop construction of the Central Vista Redevelopment Project during the pandemic and upheld the May 31 order by which the latter dismissed the “motivated” PIL with a cost of ₹1 lakh.The top court said that the two petitioners -- Anya Malhotra and historian Sohail Hashmi -- were selective in choosing the Central Vista project as the subject of their PIL without doing adequate research on such other public projects where construction was ongoing during the pandemic.A three-judge bench headed by justice AM Khanwilkar said, “We find that the view taken by the Delhi high court is a possible view. Challenge to the findings qua the petitioner is untenable as the petitioners have not pointed out as public-spirited persons, whether the petitioner made any enquiries about other public projects in the city.”Further, the top court noted that once the Centre told the high court that the project was compliant with the requirements under Delhi Disaster Management Act orders, the PIL petitioners should not have pursued the matter further.Also Read | Implement ‘One Nation, One Ration Card’ by July 31: SC tells statesThe high court had held that the project being of national importance cannot be stopped as it must be completed by November 30 this year. The petition was found to be “motivated” by the HC as only one project was which held, “Once the workers are staying at the site and all facilities have been provided, Covid-19 protocols are adhered to and Covid-19 appropriate behaviour is being followed, there is no reason for this court while exercising powers under Article 226 of the Constitution of India to stop the project.” The petitioners had approached the top court to expunge the harsh remarks made by the HC against them and the excessive cost of ₹1 lakh. “The judgment, especially the imposition of exorbitant costs, has a chilling effect on public spirited individuals raising genuine issues of public health and on the right of citizens to question the actions of the government and to hold it to account, which it is submitted is the bedrock of democracy,” the petitioners said.Senior advocate Siddharth Luthra, appearing for the petitioners, submitted that the HC mistook the petition to be seeking stoppage of Central Vista Redevelopment Project. He stated that the aim of the petition was to raise a public health and safety issue after coming to know that the construction work on the Central Vista Redevelopment Project site was going on at a time when Covid-19’s “catastrophic second wave” claimed many lives. On May 3, when the petition was filed, the positivity rate in Delhi averaged at 29.74% and the mean number of deaths stood at 353 persons per day. “Since it (construction work) had the potential of being a super spreader activity, on account of the to and fro movement of the workers from the site to their accommodation at Sarai Kale Khan, Karol Bagh, Kalkaji, Nizamuddin etc., it was posing a grave risk to the health and safety of the workers and the residents of Delhi,” the petition said.The Centre told the high court that on April 19, permission was obtained from the police authorities for ferrying nearly 400 workers to the construction site. After May 1, before the petition came to be filed, on-site accommodation was provided to workers, the Centre submitted. Luthra stated that as regards other projects, the petitioners had submitted that the high court was free to take suo motu cognizance of other projects which were non-compliant. The issue of Central Vista was taken up as information about it was easily available in public domain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-okays-rs-1-lakh-fine-on-motivated-plea-seeking-stop-on-central-vista-work-101624954816973.html
29-06-2021||India||Kannada names of villages in Kasaragod to stay, says Kerala legislator||The Kerala government has not received any proposal to change the names of villages and towns in Kasaragod district that have Kannada names, a legislator has said, according to a newspaper. Prajavani reported that AKM Ashraf, an MLA from Manjeshwar, denied there was ever any demand or move to change the names of towns and villages in Kasaragod and Manjeshwar constituencies. “These names are part of our culture and heritage. Why will anybody try to change them into Malayali names?” Ashraf, who represents Manjeshwar in the state assembly, said in a Facebook post, reported Prajavani. “The DC has clarified to me that the confusion over the matter was due to misinformation and there is no move to change the names,” Ashraf noted in the post.Pro-Kannada people in the Kasaragod district have welcomed Ashraf’s statement, according to the report.On Monday, Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa wrote to his counterpart in Kerala, Pinarayi Vijayan, appealing to him not to change the Kannada names. Following his appeal, Vijayan directed Kerala’s chief secretary to ask the Kasaragod district collector (DC) to shed more light on the matter.Several members of Parliament, MLAs and Kannada activists took up the with thPinarayi Vijayan. HD Kumaraswamy, former Karnataka CM, also sought clarification on the matter which led to the issue escalating, Ashraf claimed. He said the Bharatiya Janata Party’s members of Parliament Pralhad Joshi, Nalin Kumar Kateel, and Pratap Simha also took up the issue with the Kerala chief minister. Kannada activists in Bengaluru and Mysuru said they suspected that Kasaragod district will affect changes in the names of 22 villages on the border between Karnataka and Kerala including Mangaluru, Sullia and Puttur in Dakshina Kannada district, and Kodagu, Mysuru, and Chamarajanagar districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kannada-names-of-villages-in-kasaragod-to-stay-says-kerala-legislator-101624954194240.html
29-06-2021||India||Odisha to increase 20% seats in some higher secondary schools||With nearly 98% of the 574,000 students clearing the annual matriculation examination this year, the Odisha government has decided increase at least 20% of the seats in higher secondary schools that recorded 100% enrolment during the previous academic year.A whopping 97.89% of the 574,000 students who had enrolled for the matriculation examination conducted by the Odisha Board of Secondary Education, cleared it---the highest so far, surpassing the 86.37 pass percentage in 2017. As no examination could be conducted this year, the Odisha Board of Secondary Education relied on an alternative assessment system taking into account the marks secured in Class 9 as well periodic tests in Class 10.Adding another 25,000 students who graduated from State Open School, Madhyama and Madrasa board, the total number of students eligible for admission to higher secondary classes would be more than 600,000. This apart, around 12,000 students from CBSE, CISCE and other boards are likely to compete for the same set of seats in these colleges.Also Read | Pramod Sawant launches Goa Board’s app to provide study material to studentsAs of now, only 443,000 seats are available in 2,032 higher secondary schools. Another 159,000 seats are available in government and private diploma institutes and ITIs.School and mass education minister Samir Ranjan Dash said the government has a provision to allow major schools to increase their seats by 20% after their existing seats are exhausted.“The results of CBSE and ISCE are yet to be announced. Once the results are out, government would take appropriate measures for their enrolment. If necessary, we may consider allowing this extension to some of the higher secondary schools after due scrutiny. No student will suffer due to scarcity of seats,” Dash said.Dash said in the academic years 2018-19 and 2019-20, the number of seats was increased in Ravenshaw higher secondary school in Cuttack, BJB higher secondary school in Bhubaneswar, SCS higher secondary school in Puri, and Rajendra higher secondary school in Bolangir as the number of applicants outnumbered the number of seats.Incidentally, in 2020, a whopping 124,000 seats in higher secondary schools remained vacant while in 2019, at least 120,000 lakh seats in Arts, Science and Commerce streams of higher secondary schools had remained vacant at the end of academic sessions. In 2018, around 20% of the total seats had been vacant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-to-increase-20-seats-in-some-higher-secondary-schools-101624953076693.html
29-06-2021||India||Cipla seeks DCGI nod to import Moderna's Covid-19 vaccine, decision likely today||Mumbai-based pharmaceutical company Cipla has sought the approval of India's top drug regulator -- the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) -- to import American vaccine manufacturer Moderna's vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) to the country, said people familiar with the development on Tuesday. A decision in this regard is likely soon, news agencies reported, adding that it is likely that Moderna's vaccine will be approved for emergency use in India for those aged 18 and above.Moderna's Covid-19 vaccine mRNA-1273, sold under the brand name 'Spikevax' in the United States, was developed by the pharmaceutical company in collaboration with the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID) and the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority (BARDA) in the US. It is composed of nucleoside-modified mRNA (modRNA) and encodes a SARS-CoV-2 spike protein encapsulated in lipid nanoparticles, according to the European Medicines Agency (EMA).Moderna has informed, according to PTI, that the US government will be providing India with a certain number of doses of its Covid-19 vaccine though the central government's Covax initiative. It is also likely that the DCGI will be providing Moderna with the much sought-after nod for emergency use since the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) itself is in favour of this decision, the news agency added citing officials in the know.Cipla filed the application on Monday seeking permission for import of the Moderna Covid-19 vaccine, referring to DCGI notices dated April 15 and June 1. The Mumbai-based pharmaceutical company said that according to earlier directions passed by India's top drug regulator, if a certain vaccine has already been approved by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for emergency use approval, the same can be granted marketing authorisation in India without the necessity of bridging trials. However, the assessment of safety data of the first 100 beneficiaries of the Covid-19 vaccines shall still need to be submitted before rolling it out for full-scale immunisation programme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cipla-seeks-dcgi-nod-to-import-moderna-s-covid-19-vaccine-in-india-decision-likely-today-101624950078881.html
29-06-2021||India||Switzerland is accepting visa for fully vaccinated travellers. All you need to know||Indians might soon get to travel to Switzerland after the European nation recently announced it will be accepting visas of all categories from India if proven that they have been fully vaccinated. The Swiss Federal Council has initiated the process of accepting visas for Switzerland from various countries including India, the embassy of Switzerland based in New Delhi said on Monday."The Embassy of Switzerland in New Delhi is currently accepting all visa categories for persons arriving from third countries like India who can prove they have been fully vaccinated. Booking of appointment is mandatory for all applications," the embassy said in a statement.Also read | EU’s ‘green pass’ for Covishield: What is the document all aboutTravellers will be required to follow the mandatory quarantine rules and other compulsory Covid-19 protocols in Switzerland, the embassy said. The announcement comes for the issuance of a Schengen visa (Type C) for Switzerland for people willing to travel to the country."VFS Global Services Pvt Ltd is operational and accepting visa application at the Centers in Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata, Bangalore, Chennai, Cochin and Hyderabad," the embassy added in the statement.The embassy made it clear that the relaxations on the travel are only for people who are fully vaccinated and are within the rights of free movement."Entry restrictions continue to apply to foreign nationals who are not fully vaccinated with CHE, EU and WHO recognized vaccines and are without rights of free movement, entering from risk countries or regions and who do not belong to any of the exceptional categories of the Covid-19," the embassy stated.However, the visa application fees has been increased due to increased expenses in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic, the embassy also highlighted.The announcement comes after the European Union (EU) notified about Digital Covid Certificate for those who have been vaccinated from July.(With inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/switzerland-is-accepting-visa-for-fully-vaccinated-travellers-all-you-need-to-know-101624944797413.html
29-06-2021||India||Petition in SC seeking Rath Yatra festivities at Kendrapara temple too||A petition has been filed in Supreme Court seeking directions to the Odisha government to allow rath yatra of Siddha Baladevjew in Kendrapara district even as the famous Rath Yatra of Lord Jagannath in Puri is slated for July 12 with Covid guidelines in place. Madan Patri, one of the servitors of the Siddha Baladevjew temple, filed the Special Leave Petition in the apex court after the Odisha high court refused to intervene in the matter of the state government allowing the Rath Yatra without devotees, and only in Puri. Also Read | Supreme Court refuses to stay HC order which allowed Central Vista work to go onIn his plea, Patri has said that Rath Yatra of Siddha Baladevjew can be allowed with the participation of only servitors following all Covid guidelines, testing and vaccination along the line of the annual festival at Puri Shree Jagannath Temple.The 250-year-old Baladevjew temple was built by the king of Kujang, Raja Gopal Sandha, during the Maratha rule in Odisha in 1761. While Lord Jagannath is the principal deity in Puri, His elder brother, Lord Balabhadra is the main deity in Kendrapara temple.Last year, the Supreme Court had permitted the Rath Yatra in Puri; with all entry points into the town closed, and no public attendance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/petition-in-sc-seeking-rath-yatra-festivities-at-kendrapara-temple-too-101624950737280.html
29-06-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 1pm: PM Modi to chair council of ministers meeting tomorrow and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 1pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.PM Modi to chair council of ministers meeting amid buzz around cabinet expansionPrime Minister Narendra Modi will chair a meeting of the Council of Ministers on Wednesday. The discussions are expected to centre around the overall coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation in the country and functioning of some ministries. Read morePropaganda value, optics behind thinner Kim Jong Un, say analystsNorth Korean leader Kim Jong Un has been under the spotlight this time for his weight loss and analysts think it could be related to the "tense" food situation in the country. Read moreJanhvi Kapoor, Khushi Kapoor's holiday fashion sense will ignite your wanderlustJanhvi Kapoor and Khushi Kapoor are the latest Kapoor sisters -after the likes of Karisma and Kareena Kapoor, and Sonam and Rhea Kapoor - on the block who are absolutely blowing us away with their fashion sensibilities, be it their uber chill loungewear when they're simply lazing around, their ultra luxe designer gowns and lehengas or their flirty casual wear that is a must have for every millennial and Gen-Z wardrobe. Read moreThe Family Man 2's Suparn Varma says 'Lonavala mein kya hua' mystery should remain forever unresolvedSuparn Varma, one of the writers and directors of The Family Man season 2, has said that in his opinion, the Lonavala mystery should remain unresolved for as long as the show runs. Fans of The Family Man have been curious to learn what happened between the characters Suchi and Arvind during a business trip to Lonavala, but the show has left that thread dangling. Read moreRange Rover Sport SVR performance SUV launched at ₹2.19 croreJaguar Land Rover on Tuesday officially launched the latest version of Range Rover Sport SVR performance SUV in the country at ₹2.19 crore (ex showroom). Jaguar Land Rover specifically targeting customers who are also enthusiastic drivers. Read moreYour Android smartphone is under threat; How to know if you really need helpWith over 3 million apps on the Google Play Store, Android smartphone users have a large selection of applications to choose from. Read moreNo Virat Kohli among 3 Indians in Aakash Chopra's World XI to take on WTC winners New ZealandNew Zealand beat India quite comfortably in the final to become the first-ever World Test Champions. Many experts including India head coach Ravi Shastri believed New Zealand were the better team in the conditions of Southampton. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-1pm-pm-modi-to-chair-council-of-ministers-meeting-tomorrow-and-all-the-latest-news-101624947964276.html
29-06-2021||India||Jammu court remands man to 10 days’ police custody in IED recovery case||Special judge Sunit Gupta on Monday remanded an alleged terror suspect, Nadeem-ul-Haq of Banihal in Ramban district, to 10 days of police custody. Police had recovered 5-6kg of IED from him at Narwal in Jammu city on Sunday.The judge, after going through the case, remanded him to 10 days’ police custody.The man was arrested under sections 121, 122 of the Indian Penal Code, sections 13, 18, 23, 38, 39 of Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and Section 4/5 of Explosives Act.Also Read | NIA to probe drone attack at Jammu airport, says Centre“Since the matter is heinous in nature and some important aspects are required to be ascertained in the case for which police remand of the accused is required for the purpose of investigation. Hence, the petition is allowed and accused is remanded to the police custody for ten days from June 28 to July 7,” said the judge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jammu-court-remands-man-to-10-days-police-custody-in-ied-recovery-case-101624949836564.html
29-06-2021||India||Uttarakhand defers Char Dham yatra after high court order||The Uttarakhand government on Tuesday retracted its late-night decision complying with the state high court's earlier order and postponed the Char Dham yatra with immediate effect, as per news agency ANI. The state government issued a revised standard operating procedure (SOP)s on Monday despite Uttarakhand high court's stay on the pilgrimage this year in the wake of coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The government had said that the first phase of the pilgrimage will begin from July 1 and the second phase, in which all the residents of the state can undertake the yatra, will start from July 11.The state government in the new guidelines made it mandatory to present a negative Covid test report for those undertaking the yatra. The SOPs issued by the state government for the first phase of the pilgrimage to the four shrines were for the residents of Rudraprayag, Chamoli and Uttarkashi.Rudraprayag locals were allowed to visit Kedarnath, residents of the Chamoli district were permitted to make the pilgrimage to Badrinath. The residents of Uttarkashi were permitted to visit Yamunotri and Gangotri in the first phase, as per the SOPs released by the state government with the aim to open the yatra. As per the SOPs, all residents of the state would be allowed to make the pilgrimage to the four shrines in the second phase.The Uttarakhand high court on Monday put the government's decision to open the pilgrimage with a cap on the number of people on hold. The court also ordered live streaming of the shrines in the four places and asked the government to file an affidavit again by July 7.On June 25, the state government decided to open the pilgrimage to Kedarnath, Badrinath, Yamunotri and Badrinath for locals in limited numbers from July 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-defers-char-dham-yatra-after-high-court-order-101624946235551.html
29-06-2021||India||Supreme Court refuses to stay HC order which allowed Central Vista work to go on||The Supreme Court on Tuesday refused to stay the Delhi high court decision of May 31 which allowed the Central Vista project work in the national capital to go on. The high court had dismissed a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) that sought stoppage of construction activity, terming it “motivated”.The Delhi high court had even imposed ₹1 lakh cost on the petitioners Anya Malhotra and historian Sohail Hashmi. It said the project was of national importance.Also Read: Govt busts myths around Central Vista projectThe Supreme Court said that the high court was right in concluding that the petitioners were selective in choosing the Central Vista project alone and did not research about such similar public projects where construction was ongoing.The three-judge bench of the top court led by Justice AM Khanwilkar further stated that the petitioner should not have pursued the PIL before the high court further.“Genuine PILs have done wonders, but questionable PILs have caused problems. PILs have their own sanctity,” the top court said.The Centre had told the Delhi high court that the workers staying at the site of the construction have been given all the facilities and Covid-19 protocols are being followed.The Central Vista project envisages constructing a new triangular Parliament House, a new residential complex that will house the Prime Minister and the vice president, as well as several new office buildings and a central secretariat to accommodate ministry offices.Looking at the traffic increase in the area in the coming years, the project has been conceptualised by putting in enough mitigation efforts to ensure there is no congestion or impact on traffic movement, according to architectural consultant for the project.The three-kilometre-long Rajpath from Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate will also be revamped as part of the Central Vista project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-refuses-to-stay-hc-order-which-allowed-central-vista-work-to-go-on-101624949113756.html
29-06-2021||India||Vaccinate mentally ill for Covid-19 within four weeks: Madras HC to TN govt||The Madras high court has directed the Tamil Nadu government to get mentally ill people vaccinated for Covid-19 within four weeks and file a status report on the matter a week after the deadline is over.A bench of chief justice Sanjib Banerjee and justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy passed the order on Monday in response to a Public Interest Litigation by a Chennai NGO CHEER seeking effective implementation of the state’s mental health policy. The plea sought identification of homeless people with mental illness, their rehabilitation, and health care facilities for them including the vaccination.Also Read | With 37,566 new cases, India records another drop in daily Covid-19 tallyThe bench said the plea drew attention to the plight of mentally ill patients during the pandemic. It added mobile teams vaccinating people with disabilities in their homes can be used for immunising the mentally ill as well. “It is imperative that a special vaccination drive be undertaken, by whatever means that may be effective, to prioritise mentally ill persons and ensure that they are vaccinated,” the court said. “There are many persons who are abandoned by their families and roam around in the streets, who should be taken care of at the local level, and municipalities, corporations, and panchayats should pay attention that such persons are provided some shelter and are vaccinated on a priority basis.”The court said a report in this regard should be filed when the matter is heard next on August 2. “The State will do well to ensure that the immediate needs of, particularly the destitute who are mentally ill, are taken care of and the other mentally ill patients who may be homebound or are restricted in their movements are attended to in the next four weeks,” the court said. “The State should also file its counter-affidavit to the larger aspects indicated in the petition so that in due course, all residents of the State who may be mentally ill are accorded the basic human dignity that they are entitled to and the larger society takes care of such vulnerable sections.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/get-mentally-ill-people-vaccinated-for-covid-within-four-weeks-hc-to-tamil-nadu-101624948696566.html
29-06-2021||India||Supreme Court directs all states, UTs to implement 'One Nation, One Ration Card' scheme by July 31||The Supreme Court on Tuesday directed all states and Union territories to implement the 'One Nation, One Ration Card' scheme by July 31, reported news agency PTI. The top court has also issued a slew of directions, asking the central government to distribute dry ration among migrant workers free of charge until the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation subsides.The One Nation, One Ration Card programme is a national platform that digitises ration cards, details of beneficiaries, the monthly quota of ration under the National Food Security Act (NFSA), 2013, and allows withdrawals through electronic point of sale machines, thereby allowing the mobility of ration benefits. India provides cheap foodgrains to nearly 800 million beneficiaries across the country under the NFSA 2013.Also Read | BJP slams Delhi govt for not implementing Centre’s ration schemeThe Supreme Court bench comprising Justice Ashok Bhushan and Justice MR Shah issued the directions to the central government on Tuesday in relation to the welfare of unorganised sector workers who were one of the groups worst-hit by the second wave of Covid-19.The apex court was hearing a petition in this regard, which sought directions to the central and state governments to ensure food security, cash transfers and other welfare measures for migrant workers who faced distress due to curfews and lockdowns in various parts of the country. The plea was filed by activists Anjali Bharadwaj, Harsh Mander, and Jagdeep Chhokar.Also Read | Reforms for a new India in the 21st centuryThe central government must enlist the help of the National Informatics Centre (NIC) to develop a portal that will contain a database for the registration of unorganised sector workers, the court directed, adding that this process will smoothen the process to grant benefits of welfare schemes to these workers by July 31.Moreover, states and union territories must organise community kitchens for migrant workers till the pandemic situation subsides, the Supreme Court directed. It asked the Centre to keep allocating food grains to the states and Union territories for distribution among migrant workers for free till the pandemic situation exists.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-directs-all-states-uts-to-implement-one-nation-one-ration-card-scheme-by-july-31-101624946730560.html
29-06-2021||India||PM Modi to chair council of ministers meeting amid buzz around cabinet expansion||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will chair a meeting of the Council of Ministers on Wednesday. The discussions are expected to centre around the overall coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation in the country and functioning of some ministries.The meeting will be held virtually in the wake of Covid-19 restrictions in place in the country, news agency ANI reported.The Union Council of Ministers is headed by the Prime Minister and includes the Cabinet Ministers and Ministers of State (MoS) with the ones being given independent charge.PM Modi had last week held meetings with ministers - both Cabinet and ministers of state - to review the performance of their ministries. The meetings were held at the Prime Minister’s official residence. These meetings are usually undertaken ahead of a cabinet reshuffle or expansion.The Prime Minister is expected to expand his cabinet by early next month, ahead of the monsoon session of Parliament. There are currently 60 ministers in PM Modi's government and their number can go up to 79.The Covid-19 situation has been improving in the country in the last few months, with India vaccinating a record number of people (8.5 million) on June 21. India has now inoculated more people than the United States under the nationwide vaccination drive, which began on January 16 this year.During his 78th Mann Ki Baat address on Sunday, PM Modi hailed the milestone achieved by the country and congratulated the healthcare workers who have been at the forefront of the battle against Covid-19.Wednesday’s meeting is also coming at a time when political circles are abuzz with news of cabinet expansion. Though nothing has been confirmed yet, but there are reports that Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal (United) or JD(U) will be accommodated in the Union Cabinet.Kumar, the Bihar chief minister, came to Delhi last week and met PM Modi. Speaking to reporters after the meeting, Kumar said his visit to Delhi is in connection with a medical issue and downplayed the cabinet expansion news. He said that is the Prime Minister’s prerogative.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-chair-council-of-ministers-meeting-amid-buzz-around-cabinet-expansion-101624947668348.html
29-06-2021||India||Drones spotted again over military installations in Jammu||Drones were again spotted hovering over military installations in Jammu’s Ratnuchak, Kaluchak and Sunjuwan areas between 12.30am to 4.30am on Tuesday, a police officer said.They were spotted first at 1.08am at Ratnuchak, then at 3.09am and 4.19am near Sunjuwan. While Kaluchak and Ratnuchak have military stations, Sunjuwan has a full-fledged brigade of the Indian army.Jammu district SSP Chandan Kohli said, “Army informed us that they spotted drones over Kaluchak, Ratnuchak and Sunjuwan early Tuesday. We are looking into it.”The Army has not issued a statement over the fresh drone sighting.Meanwhile, a six member team of the Delhi Police’s special cell reached IAF station here on Tuesday.The team will join the probe and analyse the modus operandi of the terrorists.“The team has come to be part of the probe and at the same time analyse the modus operandi of the terrorists because Delhi is the capital and is densely populated,” said official sources.The Kaluchak military station was attacked in 2002 by three armed terrorists from Pakistan. The three first attacked a Himachal Road Transport Corporation bus on the Jammu-Pathankot highway and killed seven passengers before storming the station, where they killed 23 people.Also Read | After the storm, when Delhi and Kashmir meetIn February 2018, Jaish-e-Mohammed terrorists attacked the Sunjuwan Army installation and killed six soldiers and a civilian besides injuring 20 others. The three attackers were also killed.The drones on Tuesday were spotted after two similar devices were seen hovering over the Ratnuchak, Kaluchak military area in the region and prompted soldiers to fire at them on Monday.Experts say a new security threat has emerged from across the border with Pakistan, with drones being used for the first time to carry out attacks at military installations. Early on Sunday, drones were used for two “low-intensity” explosions at the Indian Air Force (IAF) station in Jammu. Two personnel were injured in the explosions that prompted multiple teams to launch investigations.On Sunday night, two drones were spotted over the military area. While the first drone was sighted around 11.45pm, the second one was seen around 2.40am.Searches were launched and security forces began ascertaining whether they were being operated from a vehicle on the adjoining road.DGP Dilbag Singh told a TV channel, “Pakistan-based Lashkar-e-Taiba is likely involved in the drone attack on the Air Force base in Jammu on Sunday.The same group may also be behind the drones spotted near a military facility on Monday.”The IAF has beefed up air defence at its forward airbases in the western sector to pre-empt fresh drone attacks. While IAF is now certain that drones were used for the Jammu attack, it is still not clear as to where they came from or which side they flew to after dropping the two improvised explosive devices.There have been several incidents of Pakistan-based terrorists using drones in the border areas of Jammu & Kashmir to drop arms, ammunition, drugs and money to fuel terrorism in the region. But experts said that drones have previously not been engaged by terrorists to carry out attacks.At least 300 drones have been sighted along the border with Pakistan since the 2019 abrogation of Article 370, a security official told PTI on Monday. Border security agencies have been testing indigenously built counter-drone technologies in the rough jungle terrains, desert and marshes along the western front but have had limited success, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drones-spotted-again-over-military-installations-in-jammu-101624947856767.html
29-06-2021||India||Not just Delta Plus, 3 other variants of coronavirus pose threat||The world has been grappling with the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) for the past year and a half, witnessing hundreds of deaths and shuttering of the economy. And compounding the problem are the mutations of the coronavirus, which are making it more deadly.The current cause of concern in India and across the world is the Delta Plus variant of coronavirus. The highly transmissible variant is also believed to be impervious to some vaccines and therapies, concerning the experts.Delta Plus is a mutated form of the Delta variant, first found in India in December, 2020. So far, it has been detected in 12 states, according to the government and claimed nearly 50 lives.But apart from this, there are other variants too which have the potential - though not as pronounced as Delta Plus - to infect the people and bring the economy back to a grinding halt.According to Centers for Disease Control (CDC), the prominent variants of that coronavirus are: Alpha, Beta and Delta.The B.1.1.7, or the Alpha variant, was first detected in the United States in December, 2020, the CDC said. The source of the variant has been traced to the United Kingdom, according to CDC. Next is B.1.351 or Beta variant of coronavirus. It started from South Africa in December last year and reached the United States in January.The Delta or B.1.617.2 variant, which was first identified in India, is believed to be more virulent than the others and os wreaking havoc in South Africa. It spreads more quickly than the other variants, leading to more cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The Delta Plus is a mutated, and thus more dangerous, form of the Delta variant, due to which the Indian government has already declared it as a ‘variant of concern.’According to World Health Organization (WHO), the more a virus circulates in a population causing infection, the likelihood of the virus mutating increases. The more it spreads, the more it replicates - and has more opportunities to undergo changes known as mutation - the WHO added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-just-delta-plus-3-other-variants-of-coronavirus-pose-threat-101624945992437.html
29-06-2021||India||NIA to probe drone attack at Jammu airport, says Centre||The Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) has handed the investigation into the attack on the Jammu air force station to the National Investigation Agency (NIA), news agency PTI reported on Tuesday. A case has already been filed under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. Two IAF personnel were injured during the blasts that occurred within five minutes of each other on Sunday at the airport that is used for armed forces’ strategic operations and VVIP movements. The first blast happened at 1.37am at the roof of a single-storey building at the airport’s technical area, while the second one went off at 1.42am on the ground.An initial probe conducted by the Jammu and Kashmir Police and security agencies indicated the role of Pakistan-based Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) in the drone strike. Besides, the attack is linked with the seizing of a 6kg improvised explosive device (IED) by the Jammu Police from a LeT operative, which in turn led to the detention of at least three terror suspects by the UT police, people familiar with the matter said.Jammu and Kashmir director general of police (DGP) Dilbag Singh said the twin drone attacks was a terror attack. He pointed out that police and other agencies are working together with IAF officials to find out the motive behind the attack.Within 24 hours following the twin drone explosions, two similar devices were noticed moving over the Ratnuchak-Kaluchak military area in Jammu, thereby prompting soldiers to open fire at them, officials said on Monday.Additionally, on Sunday night, two more drones were spotted over the IAF military stations. The first drone was noticed at around 11.45pm, while the second one was sighted at around 2.40am. Defence spokesperson Lt Col Devender Anand said as soon as soldiers opened fire at the drones, they flew away.Several such drone incidents in Jammu and Kashmir have recently come to light, with security experts saying that Pakistan uses drones to drop weapons, drugs, ammunition, arms and Hawala money to fuel terrorism in the Union territory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-to-probe-drone-attack-at-jammu-airport-says-centre-101624944501919.html
29-06-2021||India||Ahead of monsoon session, 3/4th members of Rajya Sabha fully vaccinated||At least 179 Rajya Sabha members have been fully vaccinated ahead of the monsoon session of Parliament, according to data available with the Rajya Sabha secretariat. Seventy-seven per cent of the Upper House’s 232 members are fully vaccinated--- which the House considers an encouraging sign. According to the official data available till June 18, 39 more members of the House has received their first dose. Meanwhile, at least 403 members of the Lok Sabha, nearly three-fourths of its current strength of 540, have also received both doses of the Covid-19 vaccine so far, raising hopes that next month’s session will not need to be curtailed.Some members of Parliament (MP) have not been able to take their second jab yet as they were affected by Covid-19, a top functionary said on condition of anonymity. “Another 30 MPs have not sent us any communication. We are trying to contact them to know their vaccination status.”Also Read | Parliamentary panel summons Google, Facebook officials over misuse of platformsThe Covid-19 pandemic has affected Parliament sessions since March 2020, forcing early closure of last year’s budget and monsoon sessions and this year’s budget session. The 2020 winter session was skipped altogether due to the public health crisis.The high rate of vaccination among the lawmakers and Parliament staff improves chances of a longer Parliament session and higher productivity. More than 40 bills and five ordinances are pending before Parliament.So far, over 50 lawmakers have been affected by the Covid-19 and at least three MPs, including minister of state for railways Suresh Angadi, have died of Covid-related complications.Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla opened a Covid-19 vaccination centre in the Parliament complex in March to cater to the lawmakers, their family and parliamentary officials. The exclusive centre helped in the quick vaccination of MPs and officials to create a safer health environment ahead of the session. There is a possibility that people can get the infection despite the jab but the symptoms will be much milder.Top officials also said that RT-PCR tests and social distancing norms will remain in place as parts of India continue to report new cases. “But vaccination would not be mandatory for MPs to attend Parliament. We are encouraging them to take the vaccines and providing them with all facilities,” said a top functionary.Apart from the Covishield and Covaxin vaccines that are manufactured in the country, India has also procured stocks of Russian Sputnik V which will be produced in India at a later stage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-monsoon-session-3-4th-members-of-rajya-sabha-fully-vaccinated-101624943957371.html
29-06-2021||India||Education min recovers from post-Covid complications, may be discharged today||After being admitted in Delhi’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) for four weeks following post-Covid complications, Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal has recovered and is likely to be discharged from the hospital today, as per an official from AIIMS hospital.Pokhriyal was admitted to AIIMS on June 1 after he complained of difficulty in breathing. He had earlier tested positive in April and had recovered from the infection.While in the hospital, he wrote a poem calling himself a “candle of hope” against the darkness symbolic of the Covid virus. The minister, who has authored over 70 books, has also received many national and international awards for his literary work. In January, this year, he was virtually conferred ‘Canada Sahitya Gaurav’ by Hindi Writers Guild of Canada. In December 2020, he was honoured with a lifetime achievement award by London-based Vatayan-UK literary organisation.Nishank has also received the prestigious Sahitya Bharati Award from former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/education-minister-likely-to-be-discharged-fromaiimstoday-101624943896290.html
29-06-2021||India||UP moves Supreme Court against court relief to Twitter India head||The Uttar Pradesh government has moved the Supreme Court against the order of the Karnataka High Court granting interim protection from arrest to Twitter India executive Manish Maheshwari in connection to the first information report filed by the state police over a video showing an attack on a Muslim man in Ghaziabad.The Karnataka High Court's order on Manish Maheshwari in relation to the FIR came last Thursday. The Uttar Pradesh police have claimed that the video was manipulated to present a skewed communal narrative and it was amplified by its spread on Twitter.Maheshwari has already moved a caveat in the top court for being heard when UP's appeal is listed.Also read | Twitter names new grievance officer for IndiaAccording to Maheshwari's lawyer, the investigating officer issued a notice on June 17 under section 160 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) to Twitter India's managing director but Maheshwari is not the managing director.Separately, Bajrang Dal has filed a complaint with police in Bulandshahr against Maheshwari for showing a wrong map of India on its website. One Amrita Tripathi has also been booked under section 505(2) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and section 74 of the IT (Amendment) Act, 2008. Bulandshahr senior superintendent of police (SSP) Santosh Kumar Singh the FIR against officials of Twitter India was registered at the Khurja Nagar police station in Bulandshahr on the complaint of a local Bajrang Dal leader.Also read | Parliamentary panel summons Google, Facebook officials over misuse of platformsA map on Twitter's careers page showed the Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh outside India, triggering an outcry on social media even as the US company and the Centre are involved in a tussle over the firm's compliance with new IT rules. Twitter has taken the map off.Before that, Maheshwari was questioned by the Delhi Police’s special cell in May over Twitter tagging BJP leader Sambit Patra's post as “manipulated media”. Patra in that tweet said that the Congress social media campaign orchestrated to show the government in a bad light. The Congress party claimed this “toolkit” was forged. Maheshwari said he is not responsible for such tagging.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-moves-supreme-court-against-court-relief-to-twitter-india-head-101624942556772.html
29-06-2021||India||Goa oxygen shortage deaths: HC declines to entertain pleas for probe||The Bombay high court at Goa has declined to entertain petitions seeking a judicial probe into alleged shortage of oxygen at the state’s premier Goa Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) to fix responsibility for the disruption as well as to assign compensation for the victims. The court pointed out that none of the petitioners had provided specifics nor did any of the aggrieved families come forward seeking compensation. “It will not be appropriate to consider the issue of setting up a judicial commission to inquire into the deaths at GMCH in May 2021 or the issue of payment of compensation in these petitions...By merely filing some application, which is also quite vague, the petitioners cannot seek such a relief,” the bench of justices MS Sonak and MS Jawalkar said. Also Read | Owner sells Goa’s famous club Tito’s, alleges harassment by authorities“There are no particulars as to whether any of the victims have authorised any of the petitioners to raise such a claim. In the state of such pleadings, we refrain from going into the issue of either appointment of a judicial commission, or the issue of payment of compensation,” the high court said. The South Goa Advocates Association, which had filed a petition, had sought that a judicial commission be set up to probe the recent disruptions in oxygen supply at the GMCH and determine the compensation to be paid to the families.The state government, however, opposed such a commission claiming that any such inquiry would “demoralise” the frontline workers. “The doctors, nurses, healthcare workers, officials and bureaucrats have worked tirelessly and with full dedication during the entire pandemic and more particularly, during the second wave. Subjecting them to a judicial enquiry would be highly unjust and would have an effect of demoralising the entire workforce. Medical personnel and bureaucrats should not be subjected to such treatment in the name of a PIL,” the advocate general told the court.More than 75 persons have died during the ‘dark hours’ at the GMCH which coincided with dropping oxygen levels at the hospital’s main supply line. It was health minister Vishwajit Rane who first suggested that the high court should order a probe into the deaths though the Goa government claimed it was a logistical issue rather than an actual shortage of oxygen that was causing the disruptions. The hospital has since installed a liquid medical oxygen tank that ensures continuous supply.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-oxygen-shortage-deaths-hc-declines-to-entertain-pleas-for-probe-101624941916365.html
29-06-2021||India||Three fold increase in mortality among younger Covid-19 patients: Max study||There was a 40% increase in mortality among hospitalised coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients during the second wave of the pandemic as compared to the previous one, according to a pre-print study of hospitalisations with the viral infection across Max Healthcare hospitals that clinicians are attributing to patients reaching hospital late, when their condition already turned serious. The study is based on clinical data from over 14,000 Covid-19 patients admitted during the first wave and over 5,400 during the second wave to Max hospitals in Delhi-NCR, Mohali, Dehradun, and Bhatinda. While the mortality was higher across age groups during the second wave, the sharpest three-fold increase was seen among the young patients below the age of 45 years. The mortality – proportion of admitted patients who died – increased from 1.3% last year to 4.1% this year. Also Read | With 37,566 new cases, India records another drop in daily Covid-19 tally“Although the age profile of the hospitalised patients remained the same during the first and the second wave of Covid-19, our data shows that the mortality among the young people increased three times which is what most clinicians have been saying. The higher mortality could be because people were reaching hospitals late – most hospitals were running full at the peak, more secondary infections, or higher mortality due to delta variant that led to the second wave,” said Dr Sandeep Budhiraja, group medical director, Max Healthcare. The study showed that the average duration from the symptom to hospital admission among those below the age of 45 years increased by a day from 6.3 to 7.3 during the second wave. The severity of the disease at admission also increased during the second wave – 39.4% of the patients admitted were in the severe category in the second wave as compared to 32% previously. This could be because all Covid-19 patients had to be admitted, regardless of severity of disease, at the beginning of the pandemic, Dr Budhiraja explained. There was also a statistically significant increase in the proportion of the patients who needed oxygen support during the second wave – 74% as compared to 63.4% during the first wave, the study shows. However, despite the increase in the severity of the disease, the duration of hospitalisation went down from nine days to eight days. “This is the average; duration of hospitalisation was much longer for severe cases. This is likely the result of another policy change by the government. Initially, patients were required to get two consecutive RT-PCR negative report before discharge; now it is no longer needed or encouraged,” said Dr Budhiraja. The proportion of Covid-19 patients who developed secondary infections was also more than double during the second wave. It increased from 11.9% during the first wave to 27.8% during the second wave. As for the cases of mucormycosis of black fungus, there were only 10 cases and 2 deaths reported during the first wave across the Max Healthcare chain in comparison to 169 cases and 17 deaths reported this year. The study also found that the use of steroids and anticoagulants (medicine to prevent blood clots) remained high and consistent between the two waves. “This is one of the largest studies from India on clinical profile of hospitalised Covid-19 patients. And, we have looked at various parameters such duration of hospitalisation, need for oxygen, treatments given, and laboratory markers,” said Dr Budhiraja.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-fold-increase-in-mortality-among-younger-covid-19-patients-max-study-101624941437096.html
29-06-2021||India||Does Delta Plus variant adversely affect vaccine efficacy? Here's what govt says||Delta Plus variant of the coronavirus, which has been reported from at least 11 states and a Union territory in the country, is yet to be studied and there is no scientific data so far to establish that the new strain reduces the efficacy of vaccines, Covid Task Force chief VK Paul has said."The so-called Delta Plus variant exhibits an additional mutation in the Delta variant and since this is a new variant, scientific knowledge is still in the early stage," VK Paul said in an interview to PTI on Monday. "Whether this additional mutation in the Delta variant is associated with increased transmissibility or excess severity of disease, or any adverse effect on vaccine efficacy is currently not established and we should wait for this information to emerge," he said and added, "We should wait for these aspects to be studied systematically".Delta Plus, the new variant of the coronavirus, was identified on June 11 and was recently classified as a variant of concern by the Centre.Paul said, based on the scientific evaluation by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), Serum Institute of India's Covishield and Bharat Biotech's Covaxin are both effective against the coronavirus, including the Delta variant, which is presently the predominant variant in the country.Also read | Covid-19 vaccinated and tested positive. What should you do?The Covid Task Force chief said it will be unfair to put a date for any wave of the pandemic as the behaviour of coronavirus is unpredictable and a disciplined and effective pandemic response can help the country get away from any significant outbreak. "Occurrence or non-occurrence of any wave is in our own hands. To my mind, it is not fair to put any date for any wave," he said.Also read | Delta Plus variant very localised, 48 cases found till now in India, says govtThe senior official also said that another wave of any size would be dependent upon several factors, including overall discipline in terms of Covid-appropriate behaviour, testing and containment strategies and vaccination rates. The unpredictable behaviour of the virus can also change the pandemic dynamics, he pointed and said that their complex factor can also determine the chain of transmission and outbreak. "If we are determined and disciplined and marshal effective pandemic response, we should be in a position to get away from any significant outbreak," Paul said.Also read | Explained: Delta Plus variant symptoms and how to protect yourselfIndia's daily cases of Covid-19 have been dipping and have been around the 50,000 mark for over a week now. On Tuesday, the country recorded another drop in its daily Covid-19 tally with 37,566 new cases, the Union ministry of health and family welfare said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/does-delta-plus-variant-adversely-affect-vaccine-efficacy-here-s-what-govt-says-101624939016107.html
29-06-2021||India||Day after arrest, LeT commander Nadeem Abrar Bhat killed in crossfire||A day after the arrest of Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) commander Nadeem Abrar Bhat, police on Tuesday said he was killed in an exchange of crossfire with an unidentified foreign militant at Maloora on Srinagar’s outskirts.The LeT commander, who, according to police, was involved in the attack on the CRPF patrol at Lawaypora (in which three CRPF jawans were killed) in March, was arrested at Parimpora at a checkpost on Monday.The Jammu and Kashmir Police spokesman said they received input about militants carrying out an attack on highway.Also Read | The Pulwama investigation and its lessons for India on countering terror“Keeping in view the seriousness of the input, a few joint nakas of JKP and CRPF were put up along the highway. On Monday, at Parimpora naka, we stopped a vehicle and asked for the identity of the passengers. The person sitting on the rear seat opened his bag and took out a grenade. The naka party swiftly swung into action and grabbed the person. Both the driver and the passenger were taken to the police station where we identified the passenger as Abrar, a top LeT Commander. He was jointly interrogated by JKP, CRPF and the Army. One pistol and hand grenades were recovered from his possession.”He said that he had kept his AK-47 rifle in a house in Maloora.“There after he was taken to that house to recover the weapon. When the party was entering the house to recover the alleged weapon, one of his associates, a Pakistani terrorist (about whom he didn’t disclose anything) hiding inside the house fired at the party.”The spokesman said that In the initial firefight, three CRPF personnel were injured and Abrar was hit in the ensuing crossfire.“The injured personnel were evacuated and the rest of the party called for reinforcements. The Pakistani terrorist and Abrar were killed in the crossfire. Two AK-47 rifles along with ammunitions were recovered from the site.”Police said that Abrar was involved in several killings of security forces and had joined the militants’ ranks in 2018. Police had intensified the search for him after the attack on CRPF at Lawaypora on March 25 in which his name had surfaced as one of the attackers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/day-after-arrest-let-commander-nadeem-abrar-bhat-killed-in-crossfire-101624940716639.html
29-06-2021||India||India may procure Israeli anti-drone systems in wake of Jammu attack: Report||India is likely to make a decision soon on the deployment of anti-drone technology at military installations across the country, reported HT's sister publication Hindustan reported on Tuesday, adding that the armed forces are already carrying out drills with the Israeli anti-drone SMASH 2000 Plus systems which may be procured on an immediate basis. The development comes in the wake of a first-of-its-kind drone attack in the country earlier on Sunday, where unmanned aerial vehicles were used to drop two bombs at an Indian Air Force (IAF) station at Jammu airport, injuring two IAF personnel.Over 300 drones and unidentified flying objects have been sighted along the sensitive border with Pakistan after the August 5, 2019 abrogation of Article 370 that granted special status to Jammu and Kashmir, central security agencies said. However, the armed forces are not suitably equipped with technology to tackle these new lethal sky-floaters, intelligence sources warned.Suspected drone activity was also seen late last night at Kunjwani in the Ratnuchak area of Jammu, news agency ANI reported on Tuesday morning, citing people familiar with the development. Meanwhile, the Union ministry of home affairs has handed over the investigation of the Jammu drone attack case to the National Investigation Agency (NIA), the news agency reported on this day.According to defense sources cited by Hindustan, the Israeli anti-drone SMASH 2000 Plus systems are fitted on a rifle and can target drones flying at high speeds. The Indian Navy has already started the process of procuring these defense systems, while the Indian Army and the Indian Air Force might take these up soon as well. Drones are often difficult to catch on the radar because they fly at low altitudes; in such cases, security personnel can only rely on a manual approach in spotting these drones and bringing them down when they get close.The SMASH 2000 Plus anti-drone systems can be retrofitted onto an AK-47 or any other rifle of a similar make. The device can detect drones and other small flying objects, not just during the day but also at night, said people in the know. Moreover, it was said that the defence ministry was already mulling over the installation of these anti-drone systems at major military stations, but after the Jammu attack, the government can make a decision soon in this regard. Additionally, the ministry has separately empowered army chiefs to procure items of immediate need, the report added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-may-procure-israeli-anti-drone-systems-in-wake-of-jammu-attack-report-101624936421789.html
29-06-2021||India||Uttarakhand issues new Covid guidelines for Char Dham yatra despite HC's hold||The Uttarakhand government has issued fresh Covid guidelines for the Char Dham yatra as it decided to start the first phase of the pilgrimage from July 1 and the second from July 11, despite the high court's order against holding it this year.The state government's guidelines for the pilgrimage dictate a mandatory negative Covid test report for those undertaking the yatra. The standard operating procedures (SOPs) for the pilgrimage have been issued for the residents of Rudraprayag, Chamoli and Uttarkashi.Also read: Ajay Jadeja fined for dumping garbage in Goa villageWhile Rudrapyrayag residents are allowed to visit Kedarnath, locals from Chamoli district can undertake yatra of Badrinath. The locals of Uttarkashi are allowed to visit Yamunotri and Gangotri in the first phase. All residents of the state will be allowed to undertake the yatra in the second phase. Badrinath, Kedarnath, Yamunotri and Gangotri are the four pilgrimage sites in Uttarakhand.The high court on Monday stayed the government's decision permitting Char Dham yatra with a limited number of pilgrims and also ordered live streaming of the shrines in the four places, according to an ANI report. The high court's decision came in view of Covid-19 and poor health preparedness. It asked the government to file the affidavit again by July 7.The state cabinet on June 25 decided to partially start the Char Dham yatra for locals in limited numbers from July 1. Initially, it was decided that the yatra will begin for the locals of Chamoli, Uttarkashi, and Rudraprayag districts with the limited number of people visiting the temples daily.(With inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-issues-new-covid-guidelines-for-char-dham-yatra-despite-hc-s-hold-101624937503251.html
29-06-2021||India||Understanding Riemann Hypothesis: Know about the 161-year-old equation||A Hyderabad-based mathematical physicist Kumar Eswaran has claimed to have developed a proof for the Riemann Hypothesis or RH, which remained unsolved for the last 161 years. Eswaran found the solution to the problem during his service at the Sreenidhi Institute of Science and Technology (SNIST), the institute said, according to reports.The Riemann Hypothesis arose from the work of noted mathematician Carl Friedrich Gauss in the 19th century and the formula deals with understanding the distribution of prime numbers.Experts have said that solving the hypothesis could open the doors for the use of primes in cryptography and also impact the number theory. A number of theorems also depend on solving of the hypothesis. The solution of the Riemann Hypothesis will allow algorithms to be processed faster.The Riemann Hypothesis is one of seven unsolved “Millennium Prizes" from the Clay Mathematics Institute of Cambridge and has promised an award worth $1 million to the person who solves it.Here's what you need to know about Riemann Hypothesis"--According to the Clay Mathematics Institute, German mathematician Georg Friedrich Bernhard Riemann observed that the frequency of prime numbers is very closely related to the behaviour of an elaborate function ζ(s) = 1 + 1/2s + 1/3s + 1/4s + called the Riemann Zeta function. The Riemann Hypothesis asserts that all interesting solutions of the equation ζ(s) = 0 lie on a certain vertical straight line.--According to Research Matters, the Riemann Hypothesis, from a technical point of view, is a prediction about the solutions of an equation involving ‘L-functions’, which can be described as "esoteric and abstruse".--Riemann showed that the primes and the zeros of the zeta function—a special L-function—are related, and though primes fail to show any respect for rules and discipline, the zeros exhibit a pattern; they all line up on 'the critical line', Research Matters noted.--In a statement, the SNIST said, “The genesis of the problem arose from the work of the great mathematician Carl Friedrich Gauss (1777-1855) who had written down a formula which can be used to approximately predict the number of prime numbers below any given number. Georg Friedrich Bernhard Riemann (1826-1866) improved the formula by using entirely original methods involving the calculus of functions of a complex variable”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/understanding-riemann-hypothesis-know-about-the-161-year-old-equation-101624936269404.html
29-06-2021||India||Ajay Jadeja fined for dumping garbage in Goa village||Former India and professional cricketer Ajay Jadeja was fined ₹5,000 by a local village panchayat in Goa for dumping garbage along a village bylane, a fine he paid, the sarpanch of Nachinola village in north Goa, said. Jadeja, who owns a villa in the neighbouring village of Aldona, was identified by the volunteers who go about picking garbage on weekends and attempt to establish the source of garbage by rummaging for bills or addresses were surprised to find one such trail led to Jadeja’s bungalow. “We found a bill in the name of Ajay Jadeja. We fined him like we fined everyone else and we informed him not to dump the garbage in the future. He graciously paid the fine. We are proud that such a celebrity, a popular cricket player, stays in our village, but they should follow garbage norms,” sarpanch of the village Trupti Bandodkar said.Also Read | Owner sells Goa’s famous club Tito’s, alleges harassment by authoritiesThe Nachinola village which neighbours Aldona is plagued by the problem of garbage being thrown by passing cars and scooters along roadsides with panchayat authorities often unable to curb the problem.Panchayat authorities also encourage commuters to come forth with dashcam footage or other evidence to help track those who fling garbage from moving vehicles or just dump it and drive away. Panchayats in Goa are also under the scanner of the high court for failing to bring the problem under control.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ajay-jadeja-fined-for-dumping-garbage-in-goa-village-101624938916218.html
29-06-2021||India||Prez Kovind to lay foundation stone of Ambedkar Cultural Centre in Lucknow today||President Ram Nath Kovind will lay the foundation stone of Bharat Ratna Dr Ambedkar Cultural Centre in Lucknow on Tuesday.The Uttar Pradesh Cabinet last week approved the proposal of the state cultural department to construct the cultural centre over 5493.52 square metre land. A 25 feet high statue of Ambedkar will also be built there.Also Read | Scientists urge President to recall draft rules for LakshadweepThe memorial will come up at a cost of ₹45.04 crore. It will have an auditorium with a capacity of 750 people, a library, research centre, gallery, museum and a multi-purpose convention centre. The memorial building will also have a cafeteria, dormitory and other facilities.Kovind, who is Lucknow on a two-day visit, arrived here from Kanpur on Monday. He was due to leave for Delhi on Tuesday after a five-day visit to his home state. Kovind arrived on a special train in Lucknow on Monday after his three-day stay in his village in Kanpur Dehat district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prez-kovind-to-lay-foundation-stone-of-ambedkar-cultural-centre-in-lucknow-today-101624938736431.html
29-06-2021||India||With 37,566 new cases, India records another drop in daily Covid-19 tally; death toll close to 400,000||India on Tuesday reported 37, 566 new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) infections, while 907 people lost their lives in the last 24 hours, according to the Union health and family welfare ministry. The new additions to the country's Covid-19 tally are lower than that reported on Monday when 46,148 new infections were recorded in the previous 24 hours. The number of fatalities fell in 24 hours since 979 died due to Covid-19 on Monday, according to the health ministry's dashboard at 8am.The Covid-19 tally of the country now stands at 30,316,897 and the death toll has reached 397,637, the update by the ministry showed.Also read: Covid-19 vaccinated and tested positive. What should you do?The number of recoveries reported in the last 24 hours amounted to 56,994. On Monday, the number of patients who recovered from the disease was 58,578. The recovery rate of the country is at 96.80 per cent.The active caseload of the country declined to 552,659 after Tuesday's inputs. Active cases in India account for 1.82 per cent of the total cases. The weekly positivity rate of the country is also on a steady decline as it now stands at 2.74 per cent, below five per cent, the health ministry's data showed.The daily positivity rate, which was less than five per cent for 21 consecutive days and was 2.94 per cent on Monday, followed the downward trend on Tuesday as and stood at 2.12 per cent, as per the data.The health ministry also claimed on Monday the country's testing capacity has been further ramped up. Till date, more than 400 million tests have been done to detect the viral disease in the country, as of Tuesday, according to data.The country on Monday achieved a milestone in the vaccination drive against Covid-19 as it overtook the US in terms of the total number of vaccine doses administered to date. More than 320 million vaccine doses have been administered in the country since the world's largest vaccination drive began on January 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-witnesses-fall-of-37-566-new-covid-19-infections-in-24-hours-101624932816500.html
29-06-2021||India||Owner sells Goa’s famous club Tito’s, alleges harassment by authorities||Goa’s iconic club Tito’s is being sold amid co-owner Ricardo D’Souza claiming harassment by local authorities as one of the reasons for the sale. In a social media post, Ricardo D’Souza, who has been running the club with his brother David D’Souza, announced that he had sold his “entire business” in Goa for an “adequate compensation” while declining to disclose who the buyers were. “It is with sadness but with anger that we have sold our entire business in Goa. I personally have suffered the least as I was compensated adequately and even my future generations won’t have to work,”Ricardo D’Souza wrote.Alleging harassment by local authorities, Ricardo D’Souza went on to name authorities like “police, PDA (Planning and Development Authority), CRZ (Coastal Regulation Zone), NGOs, panchayats and Sarpanchs, BDO (Block Development Officer), Deputy Collectors, etc”. Also Read | High court pulls up Goa government for hounding ‘whistleblower’He, however, didn’t name anyone individually or specify what kind of harassment he was facing.Sarpanch of the village Sean Martins, said that the establishment didn’t face any known complaints over CRZ violations in the recent past with the previous complaints dating back to 2019.Ricardo D’Souza, however, thanked Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant, to whom he said he was very grateful as well as to “the IAS officers, ex staff, present staff, our neighbours, all my friends and family and the common people of Goa who all contributed to this great Brand called Tito’s.” The club emerged as a popular place in the early 70s as a beach shack when Goa’s tourism was still in its infancy and has grown over the years to become the most popular and well-known must-visit place for several tourists. The club, however, faced complaints of expanding in violation of CRZ regulations and was even issued a notice asking to explain alleged illegalities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/owner-sells-goa-s-famous-club-tito-s-alleges-harassment-by-authorities-101624938136465.html
29-06-2021||India||News updates from HT: Mercury levels in Delhi to soar today, no relief likely till Friday and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Delhi weather: Mercury to soar today, no relief likely till FridayMercury levels in the national capital are expected to be high on Tuesday, with the maximum temperature touching around 41 degrees Celsius, India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. Read moreCovid-19 killed more people under 50 than any other age group: AIIMS studyThe coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has claimed the lives of more people under the age of 50 as compared to those aged above 65, a new study conducted by the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in New Delhi has shown. Read moreCan’t deny disabled quota in govt job promotions: SCThe Supreme Court on Monday ruled that a person with disabilities cannot be refused reservation in promotions in government jobs even if the person was not appointed under the disability quota, as it upheld a Kerala high court order granting the benefit to a woman last year. Read moreOxford Covid-19 vaccine developer Sarah Gilbert gets standing ovationSarah Gilbert, one of the British scientists behind the Oxford/AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine, was given a standing ovation on Wimbledon's Centre Court. Wimbledon spectators on Monday paid tribute to Gilbert before play began in the annual tennis tournament. Read more'That's quite special': Kane Williamson talks about his relationship with India captain Virat KohliKane Williamson finally laid hands on a World Championship title. New Zealand, under the leadership of Williamson, defeated India by 8 wickets to win the inaugural ICC World Test Championship last week. Read moreTaapsee Pannu says makers apologised for dropping her from film: ‘They were hesitant to reveal real reasons’Taapsee Pannu opened up about being dropped from a film at the last minute, after she blocked her dates, and said that the makers later apologised to her. Read moreEsha Gupta in all-black bikini set soaks in vitamin D at the beach, see pic hereActor Esha Gupta is currently holidaying in Spain and having the time of her life. She has been posting several pictures from her dreamy vacation and allowing us all to live vicariously through them. Read moreHonda Prologue announced, will be company's 1st mass-market electric SUVHonda Prologue could catapult the Japanese carmaker into the electric future with Honda on Monday confirming the name of its first-ever mass-market all-electric SUV. Read moreNetflix adds useful feature allowing users to stream partially downloaded movies and TV episodes on AndroidNetflix on Monday announced a new feature for its subscribers that would allow them to stream content from movies and TV episodes that have not yet finished downloading on the app. Read moreThis doggo’s different personalities are making netizens melt. WatchJust like humans, doggos have different sides that they show while doing different activities. Some videos on the Internet have captured those sides and this clip featuring Maui the Golden Retriever is worth mentioning. Read moreWatch | Srinagar encounter: Top Lashkar commander killed, 2 CRPF personnel injured||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-mercury-levels-in-delhi-to-soar-today-no-relief-likely-till-friday-and-all-the-latest-news-101624935622608.html
29-06-2021||India||Domestic violence survivors should have access to legal rights: Smriti Irani||Union minister for women and child development Smriti Irani has said that protection officers must ensure that survivors of domestic violence have access to their legal rights. Irani was speaking on Monday at the virtual launch of a training programme for protection officers in responding to survivors of domestic violence.The project series, launched by the National Commission for Women (NCW) in collaboration with Lal Bahadur Shastri National Academy of Administration, will focus on the role of different stakeholders and service providers under the Act, including police, legal aid services, health system, service providers, shelter services, and one-stop centres, a statement from the government read.Also Read | Domestic violence complaints against women spiked in year of lockdown: NCW dataThe five-day training programme, to be held online, is the first in a series of workshops to be held for protection officers from Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and West Bengal. In her inaugural address, the minister lauded the initiative taken by NCW. She said protection officers bridge the gap between the administration and aggrieved women and it should be their priority to make it possible for the survivors to access legal rights available to them.NCW chairperson Rekha Sharma said protection officers aid the aggrieved in filing complaints, and act as facilitators between the survivor and the court while filing application before the magistrate to obtain necessary relief and also assist them in obtaining medical aid, legal aid, counselling, safe shelter, and other assistance.She added that the training will help participants gain an understanding of the legal system, the role of protection officers and interlinkage with other stakeholders for better implementation of the Act in the training sessions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/domestic-violence-survivors-should-have-access-to-legal-rights-smriti-irani-101624936935922.html
29-06-2021||India||Delhi weather: Mercury to soar today, no relief likely till Friday||Mercury levels in the national capital are expected to be high on Tuesday, with the maximum temperature touching around 41 degrees Celsius, India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. IMD officials said that high humidity levels coupled with high surface winds on Tuesday and Wednesday will increase the temperature by a few notches. However, there is a forecast of thunderstorms and light, patchy rain in parts of Delhi on Friday. “There is no possibility of a relief till Friday,” a senior IMD official said.In a fresh forecast, IMD said that monsoon arrival in Delhi and the remaining parts of northwest India is on a “halt” as the conditions for advancement are currently not favourable. Also Read | Lightning deaths double since 2004: IMD dataMeanwhile, Central Delhi recorded just 8.5mm rainfall so far this monsoon and is the second-most rain-deficient district in the country, according to IMD data.In India, June 1 to September 30 is officially considered the monsoon season. Central Delhi received only 8.5mm rainfall against the normal of 55.2mm since June 1 -- a deficiency of 85%.The rain deficit in Kishtwar district of Jammu and Kashmir is the largest in the country. It has recorded 5mm precipitation against the normal of 70.6mm -- a shortfall of 93%.East Delhi received 19.2mm rainfall against the normal of 55.2mm -- a 65% shortfall. Northeast Delhi has gauged 20.7mm rainfall, 63% less than normal, and South Delhi got 22.2mm, 60% less than normal, the data showed.Southwest Delhi and New Delhi have recorded 29.6mm and 27.7mm rainfall so far -- 52% less than normal.North Delhi has received 37.7mm rainfall, 34% less than normal, and Northwest Delhi 29.8 mm rainfall, a 30% shortfall. So far, only West Delhi has received normal rainfall -- 53.5mm against the average of 55.5 mm.The weather department on Monday said Delhi and nearby areas in northwest India will have to wait for another week for their first monsoon showers.After arriving two days late in Kerala, the monsoon had raced across the country, covering eastern, central and adjoining northwest India seven to 10 days ahead of schedule. Normally, monsoon reaches Delhi by June 27 and covers the entire country by July 8. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-weather-mercury-to-soar-today-no-relief-likely-till-friday-101624935315980.html
29-06-2021||India||Covid-19 vaccinated and tested positive. What should you do?||Experts say people, who have been vaccinated against Covid-19, can get infected with the virus but the chances are low. They say that Covid-19 vaccines have been highly effective in preventing the coronavirus disease, lead to lower hospitalisations and deaths. They also reduce the risk of spreading the virus.The risk of those vaccinated contracting Covid-19 is low but it can still happen, acording to experts. “Yes, this will happen, unusual but will happen,’’ Dr Sandro Galea, dean of the Boston University School of Public Health, told the New York Times.The government said 32,36,63,297 vaccine doses have been administered in India as of 7am on Monday—out of this, 17,21,268 doses were administered in the last 24 hours. India's vaccination drive began on January 16, 2021. Also read | Can fully vaccinated people get Covid-19 again? Experts weigh inInfected? What should you do?The chances of people getting Covid-19 after being vaccinated are rare—it is called a breakthrough infection—and might have mild symptoms or no symptoms at all. Experts say a fully vaccinated person who experiences symptoms consistent with Covid-19 should isolate themselves from others for 10 days.Also read | World's 1st post-pandemic cruise to set sail with 99% passengers vaccinatedSo, the guidelines are the same as they are for someone who is not vaccinated and test positive. Contacts of such people have to be traced and they have to wear a mask and practice social distancing if they are going out.What about others at home?The infected person should stay in a separate or area and use a separate bathroom, if available, and also try to maintain a six-feet distance. An asymptomatic infected person can pass the virus to someone who is unvaccinated, including children under the age of 12 or people who cannot get a vaccine because of immune-related or other health issues.Also read | As Delta variant cases rise, WHO asks fully vaccinated to keep masks onThey should frequently disinfect surfaces they touch in the house and try to turn on fans and open doors and windows. They should also avoid sharing household items such as utensils, cups and towels for the quarantine period.How serious are breakthrough symptoms?Dr Eric Cioe-Peña, a New York-based physician, said an infected person who had been vaccinated might have mild symptoms or no symptoms at all. “In the post-vaccine era, testing Covid-positive is a lot less scary,” Dr Cioe-Peña told the New York Times. Also read | States will get 120 million Covid-19 vaccine doses for JulyDr Sunil Sood, a paediatric infectious disease specialist at South Shore University Hospital in Bay Shore in New York, said that the most serious symptoms include nasal congestion and mild body aches. “It would be the mildest of the end of the spectrum of Covid-19. It may be just a mild common cold,” he said.However, doctors pointed out that this could be different for those vaccinated individuals, who have weak immune systems.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-vaccinated-and-tested-positive-what-should-you-do-101624934288345.html
29-06-2021||India||Covid-19 killed more people under 50 than any other age group: AIIMS study||The coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has claimed the lives of more people under the age of 50 as compared to those aged above 65, news agency ANI reported on Monday, citing a new study conducted by the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in New Delhi. The study was authored by AIIMS director Dr. Randeep Guleria, chief of the AIIMS trauma center Dr. Rakesh Malhotra and several others. The assessment, published in the Indian Journal of Critical Care Medicine, primarily dealt with the deaths of Covid-19 adult patients between the period of April 4 to July 24 last year.Also Read | Third Covid wave likely to be delayed, may hit by Dec: Govt body chiefThe AIIMS study on Covid-19 deaths was conducted to find out the causes of mortality in patients admitted to dedicated Covid-19 centers in India, as well as describe the clinical epidemiological feature.About 654 adult patients were admitted to the ICU during the study period. Of this, 247 died, recording a mortality rate of about 37.7%. The adult patients were further divided into several age groups to make the study smoother -- 18 to 50, 51 to 65, and above 65. The study shows 42.1% of the deaths were from the age group 18-50, 34.8% from 51-65, and 23.1% above 65.Also Read | When can kids go back to school?: AIIMS director has an answerCommon aspects in most of these Covid-19 patients include hypertension, diabetes, and chronic kidney diseases. They also suffered from fever cough and shortness of breath. The data of all the deceased patients were collected in their electronic medic report, patients' daily progress charts, as well as nursing notes in the ICU.In different studies, ICU mortality among Covid-19 patients varies between 8.0% to 66.7%. Several other countries, such as the US, Spain, and Italy have also reported similar mortality rates.Meanwhile, AIIMS director Randeep Guleria has said vaccination is the way out of the coronavirus pandemic as he gave a timeline for the availability of jabs for children against Covid-19. Guleria said that making the Covid-19 vaccine available for children will be a milestone achievement and pave the way for the reopening of schools and resumption of outdoor activities for them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-killed-more-people-under-50-than-any-other-age-group-aiims-study-101624930134576.html
29-06-2021||India||Can’t deny disabled quota in govt job promotions: SC||The Supreme Court on Monday ruled that a person with disabilities cannot be refused reservation in promotions in government jobs even if the person was not appointed under the disability quota, as it upheld a Kerala high court order granting the benefit to a woman last year.The court was hearing an appeal filed by the Kerala government challenging the reservation in promotion benefits granted to a female staff in the state’s police department by the high court in March last year.The state claimed that the beneficiary, Leesamma Joseph, had entered the state services as a typist in 1996 by way of compassionate appointment following the death of her brother during service. At the time of joining, Joseph suffered from Post-Polio Residual Paralysis (L) Lower Limb and her permanent disability was assessed at 55 percent. However, since it was a case of compassionate appointment, she was hired under the general category and not as a disabled under the existing Persons with Disabilities Act 1995.A bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and R Subhash Reddy said: “The 1995 Act does not make distinction between a person who may have entered service on account of disability and a person who may have acquired disability after having entered the service.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cant-deny-disabled-quota-in-govt-job-promotions-sc-101624930043887.html
29-06-2021||India||Twitter names new grievance officer for India||Twitter has appointed its California-based global legal policy director Jeremy Kessel as the new grievance officer for India in an attempt to fulfill the criteria under the new Information Technology Rules, 2021. The rules, however, call for an Indian resident for the role.The appointment comes a day after the micro-blogging platform’s interim officer, Dharmendra Chatur, who was recently appointed, stepped down from the post.Twitter’s Help Centre page on Monday showed Kessel as the grievance officer for India instead of Chatur.Earlier, Google had also shared the details of Joe Grier, a resident of California, for any “summons or notices in civil proceedings against Google LLC in India”.A Google spokesperson, however, said that under the requirement of the new rules, it has appointed three persons in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/twitter-names-new-grievance-officer-for-india-101624929990873.html
29-06-2021||India||PC Mahalanobis: Know about the father of Indian statistics||Prasanta Chandra Mahalanobis, considered the father of modern statistics in India, founded the Indian Statistical Institute (ISI), shaped the Planning Commission and pioneered methodologies for large-scale surveys. Every year June 29 is observed as National Statistics Day in our country to create public awareness about the importance of statistics in socio-economic planning and policy formulation.Born to Probodh Chandra Mahalanobis and Nirodbashini Devi on June 29, 1893, Prasanta Chandra Mahalanobis was the eldest of six children—two sons and four daughters. He died on June 28, 1972, a day before his 79th birthday.EducationMahalanobis studied at the Brahmo Boys’ School, which was founded by his grandfather Guru Charan Mahalanobis in 1904 and joined the Presidency College to study physics. He also attended the King’s College in Cambridge, where he met mathematical genius--Srinivasa Ramanujan.CareerDuring his initial working days, Mahalanobis joined the Cavendish Laboratory with physicist CTR Wilson. Later, Mahalanobis returned to India and started teaching physics at the Presidency College in 1922. He remained a teacher there for over three decades and held the post of meteorologist at the Alipore Observatory in Calcutta, now Kolkata, from 1922 to 1926.Mahalanobis formed a group that was interested in statistics, that later expanded and eventually, the Indian Statistical Institute (ISI) was founded in 1932. In the next year, he launched Sankhya: The Indian Journal Of Statistics.He also established the National Sample Survey in 1950 and set up the Central Statistical Organisation to coordinate statistical activities. He became a member of the Planning Commission in 1955 and continued till 1967.ContributionsMahalanobis was instrumental in formulating India’s second five-year plan (1956-1961), which laid the blueprint for industrialisation and development in India.One of his most remarkable achievements was when Mahalanobis devised a measure of comparison between two data sets, now popularly called "Mahalanobis distance". The study is widely used in the field of cluster analysis and classification.He also introduced innovative techniques to devise a statistical method called fractile graphical analysis used to compare socio-economic conditions of varied groups. He analysed data regarding the floods in Odisha and published his findings in 1926. This analysis later formed the basis for the construction of the Hirakud dam on the Mahanadi River.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pc-mahalanobis-know-about-the-father-of-indian-statistics-101624926036044.html
29-06-2021||India||Leaders pay tributes to former PM PV Narasimha Rao||Leaders across political spectrum paid respect to former Prime Minister PV Narasimha Rao on his 100th birth anniversary. Rao, widely considered as a key pillar of India’s economic reforms, held the top executive office from 1991 to 1996. He died in December 2004.But the absence of any personal tribute from Congress leader Rahul Gandhi sparked controversy as Rao’s grandson NV Subhash accused the Congress leadership of regional bias. “Rahul Gandhi, Sonia Gandhi, & other Congress leaders didn’t pay tributes to Late PV Narasimha Rao because he was from south India & not from Gandhi family. Whereas, PM Narendra Modi sent a letter & paid floral tribute to him,” Subhash, a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader, said.“Tributes to former PM Shri PV Narasimha Rao Ji on his 100th birth anniversary. India remembers his extensive contributions to national development. He was blessed with remarkable knowledge and intellect,” Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted.The Congress tweeted, “We pay our tributes to former Prime Minister, Shri P V Narasimha Rao. He was a visionary leader who oversaw major economic transformations in the Indian economy and the dismantling of the License Raj. His contributions to the nation will always be remembered.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/leaders-pay-tributes-to-former-pm-pv-narasimha-rao-101624928781442.html
29-06-2021||India||Jammu: Probe points to LeT link to drone strike||Initial investigations conducted by security agencies and the Jammu & Kashmir Police have revealed the role of Pakistan-based Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) in the drone strike at a Jammu air force station early on Sunday.The drone attack is linked with the recovery of a 6kg improvised explosive device (IED) by the Jammu police from an operative of LeT, leading to the detention of at least three terror suspects by the J&K Police, people aware of the matter said.While the security agencies and J&K Police are tight-lipped about the drone attack, the people quoted above indicated the Pakistan-based terror group planned to target the air traffic control (ATC) tower at the facility with one drone and the other was aiming at either a parked Indian Air Force (IAF) helicopter or the radar.“The two IEDs weighing around 5-6kg with RDX as the main explosive charge were dropped at a distance of 50 yards from each other. One charge was some 40 yards from the ATC, while the other was around the same distance from the parked helicopter. The drop was made through a latitude-longitude device and that they missed the targets could be due to faulty execution or high wind factor,” a senior security official said on condition of anonymity.According to security agencies and the police, the drones flew from across the border, 14.5km away from the Jammu airport, and returned after the hit. They were suspected to have been flying at a height of 1.2km and would have been powered by long-range batteries.There has been a rise in drone activity in the region, with security experts saying that Pakistan-based terrorists were using the devices to drop arms, ammunition, drugs and money in Jammu & Kashmir to fuel terrorism. Forensic analysis of a drone shot down by the army in the Hiranagar sector last year showed that it was a locally assembled hexacopter. The components used were readily available in hobby shops, the analysis, carried out by the Delhi-based Drone Federation of India (DFI), said.The flight controller of the 24kg drone was CubeBlack, manufactured in Hong Kong. It also said that no planned mission was set in the drone and it was manually controlled using a ground control system. The analysis showed that the drone operator disabled all modes of data extraction. DFI indicated that the estimated radius for take-off was 10km, beyond visual line of sight.It was estimated to have been in the air for 35 minutes, said DFI, adding that the maximum possible range was 30km.The latest drone strike has raised a red flag in the Jammu sector for 14 drone sorties have been made by Pakistani terror groups, a majority of them by LeT and two by Jaish-e-Mohammed. “Our estimate is that six sorties with weapon payloads were made in Samba sector, three to four in Hiranagar sector, two in Nowshera-Rajouri sector, and another two in Arnia sector. We have found that the drones are assembled with different Chinese parts used of different makes for deniability. The dropped weapons were meant for Lashkar and Jaish operatives in the Valley with the specific design to disturb peace in Kashmir,” said a top security official.While the Indian security forces have been testing an anti-drone jammer technology at the border with Pakistan, the communications between Indian agencies getting jammed in the process has proven to be a collateral damage, the official said. However, in the era of swarm drones, the Indian security forces are alive to the new threat posed by Pakistani terror groups and are expected to take counter-measures, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jammu-probe-points-to-let-link-to-drone-strike-101624927979381.html
29-06-2021||India||Top Lashkar commander Nadeem Abrar shot down by J&K police in Srinagar encounter||A Pakistani terrorist and top commander of the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), Nadeem Abrar, have both been shot down in an encounter with security forces on Tuesday morning, the Kashmir zone police informed, adding that the gunfight took place at Malhoora Parimpora in Srinagar. Several incriminating materials, including firearms and ammunition, have been recovered from the site, the cops said."A Pakistani terrorist and top Lashkar-e-Taiba commander Abrar has been killed in the encounter with security forces at Malhoora Parimpora in Srinagar," IGP Kashmir zone Vijay Kumar confirmed in a tweet.#SrinagarEncounterUpdate: 01 Pakistani #terrorist & top commander LeT Abrar killed. #Incriminating materials alongwith arms & ammunition recovered. #Search going on. Further details shall follow. @JmuKmrPolice https://t.co/6PHd0F9XaeAbrar, who had been involved in several recent attacks on security forces and civilians in Kashmir, was arrested last evening in what the cops called a "big success". Later, when the militant was leading the security forces to his hideout at the Malhoora Parimpora area of Srinagar, an accomplice of his shot at the group, injuring three personnel of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF).The officials said a deputy superintendent of the CRPF and a constable of the paramilitary force were injured in the gunfight. This triggered an encounter between the security forces and the terrorists, near the end of which LeT commander Abrar was killed, the cops said.IGP Kashmir zone Vijay Kumar had said on Monday that LeT commander Nadeem Abrar Bhat alias Khalid was involved in "several killings" and that his arrest was a "big success" for the police forces. Bhat was acting as the commander of Lashkar in central Kashmir and was active since 2018, the police added.Also Read | The Pulwama investigation and its lessons for India on countering terrorThe LeT commander was earlier linked to the killing of former special police officer Fayaz Ahmed, his wife, and his daughter at their home in the Tral area of the Pulwama district. IGP Kumar, who visited Ahmed's bereaved family, had previously said the unidentified terrorists involved in the attack could have belonged to Jaish-e-Mohammed.The J&K police said that LeT commander Nadeem Abrar Bhat was also involved in the attack on CRPF at Lawaypora in March. In the attack, three Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) jawans were killed and the rifle was also snatched by the terrorists. The rifle was recovered from the possession of a terrorist earlier this month after three terrorists were killed during an encounter in Sopore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/top-lashkar-commander-nadeem-abrar-shot-down-by-j-k-police-in-srinagar-encounter-101624926385878.html
29-06-2021||India||How safe are Covid-19 vaccines for pregnant women? Govt issues fresh guidelines||The Union health ministry has issued fresh guidelines for administering the Covid-19 vaccine to pregnant women and said that pregnancy does not increase the risk of infection. "Most pregnant women will be asymptomatic or have a mild disease, but their health may deteriorate rapidly and that might affect the foetus too. It is important that they take all precautions to protect themselves from acquiring Covid-19, including taking vaccination against Covid-19. It is therefore advised that a pregnant woman should take Covid-19 vaccines," the health ministry said in a statement on Monday.Safety of Covid-19 vaccines for pregnant womenThe ministry said that Covid-19 vaccines available are safe and vaccination protects pregnant women against Covid-19 illness or disease. Like any medicine, a vaccine may have side effects which are normally mild. After getting the vaccine injection, she can get a mild fever, pain at the injection site or feel unwell for 1-3 days. The long-term adverse effects and safety of the vaccine for foetus and child is not established yet. Very rarely (one in 100,000-500,000), pregnant women may experience some of the following symptoms within 20 days after getting the Covid-19 vaccination which may require immediate attention, the ministry stated.Recovery rate of Covid-19 positive mothersThe ministry said that if a pregnant woman gets infected with the virus, 90 per cent of them recover without any need for hospitalisation, while rapid deterioration in health may occur in a few."Symptomatic pregnant women appear to be at an increased risk of severe disease and death. In case of severe disease, like all other patients, pregnant women shall also need hospitalization. Pregnant women with underlying medical conditions e.g, high blood pressure, obesity, age over 35 years are at a higher risk of severe illness due to Covid-19," it further stated.Health of newborns of Covid-19 positive mothersTalking about the apprehensions regarding the baby's health, the ministry informed that more than 95 per cent of newborns of Covid-19 positive mothers have been in good condition at birth. In some cases, Covid-19 infections in pregnancy may increase the possibility of a premature delivery, the baby's weight might be less than 2.5kg and in rare situations and might die before birth, it noted.Who are at higher risks of developing complications after Covid-19?"Women older than 35 years of age, obese women, having a pre-existing illness such as diabetes or high blood pressure, having a history of clotting in the limbs are at a higher risk of developing complications after Covid-19 infection. In case a woman has been infected with Covid-19 during the current pregnancy, then she should be vaccinated soon after the delivery," the ministry said.Registration on Co-Win portal/on-site vaccination centreThe Union health ministry advised all pregnant women to register themselves on the Co-WIN portal or get themselves registered on-site at the Covid-19 vaccination centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-safe-are-covid-19-vaccines-for-pregnant-women-govt-issues-fresh-guidelines-101624923629327.html
29-06-2021||India||National Statistics Day 2021: Know significance, history and theme||National Statistics Day is celebrated on June 29 on the birth anniversary of late Professor Prasanta Chandra Mahalanobis. Often referred to as the 'father of Indian statistics', Mahalanobis, was born on June 29, 1893, in Calcutta (now Kolkata), West Bengal.PC Mahalanobis is best remembered for the Mahalanobis distance, a statistical measure and for being one of the members of the first Planning Commission of India. The formula is used to find the distance between a point and a distribution, based on measurements in multiple dimensions. It is widely used in the field of cluster analysis and classification.He founded the Indian Statistical Institute (ISI) and contributed to the design of large-scale sample surveys. For his contributions, Mahalanobis has been considered the father of modern statistics in India.The government, in a note on National Statistics Day celebrations said, "This year, due to Covid-19 pandemic, the main event of the Statistics Day, 2021 is being organized through Video Conferencing/ Webcasting at NITI Aayog, New Delhi."Significance of National Statistics DayJune 29 has been designated as one of the special days to be celebrated at the national level in recognition of Mahalonobis’ invaluable contribution in establishing the National Statistical System, the ministry of statistics and programme implementation said in a release.Importance of statisticsStatistics helps in forming economic plans and policies. It presents facts in a precise and definitive form. Statistics plays a vital role in the health field and helps conduct social surveys. It is also an essential part of Mathematics.2021 National Statistics Day ThemeEnd Hunger, Achieve Food Security and Improved Nutrition and Promote Sustainable Agriculture (Sustainable Developent Goal or SDG 2 of the UN) is the theme of this year's National Statistics Day. Goal 2 seeks "sustainable solutions to end hunger in all its forms by 2030 and to achieve food security."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/national-statistics-day-2021-know-significance-history-and-theme-101624922962479.html
29-06-2021||India||Number theory: Fuel prices continue to rise, relief unlikely soon||Petrol and diesel prices continue to rise in India, and Chennai is likely to become the second metropolitan city where petrol prices will cross the psychological barrier of ₹100 per litre soon. With no signals from the Union government and the states that they will cut taxes on fuel, and a continuous rise in international petroleum prices, relief on this front is unlikely in the near future. Here are five charts that describe the situation.A significant increase in prices compared to last yearWith the exception of diesel prices in Delhi, petrol-diesel prices have increased by at least 20% in the past year. The period from May 4 onwards has seen a particularly sharp spike in fuel prices after they did not increase for 65 days after February 27 (when campaigning was going on for the latest round of assembly elections).Petrol selling at ₹100 or higher in 332 districtsBecause fuel prices are a function of state taxes and freight charges, they vary across the country. An HT analysis of petrol-diesel price data from the Indian Oil website shows that petrol was selling at ₹100 or more per litre on June 28 in 16,885 out of the 32,557 locations for which data is available. The modal price was ₹100 or more per litre in 332 out of 730 districts. As of now, there are 13 states and Union Territories where petrol is selling at ₹100 per litre or more (in terms of average of modal price across districts). This was true only for Madhya Pradesh on May 12, a week after petrol prices started increasing. The gap between the lowest ( ₹82.5 per litre in Andaman and Nicobar Islands) and highest ( ₹107.7 in Madhya Pradesh) prices of petrol in the country was ₹25.1 per litre on June 28. This gap was ₹23.7 per litre on May 12.Taxes are the major reason for high petrol-diesel pricesOf the ₹96.66 per litre consumers were paying for petrol on June 16, 2021 (the latest available data in terms of split) in Delhi, ₹41.45 was the base price plus freight charges plus dealer commission; ₹32.9, the union excise duty; and ₹22.31 was on account of state value added taxes. For diesel, the non-tax component accounted for ₹42.82 of the retail price of ₹87.41 on June 16 in Delhi.Meanwhile, crude prices continue to riseWhile taxes are the major factor behind high fuel prices, a continuous rise in crude prices has been pushing them even higher. The price of India’s crude oil basket (COB) fell sharply when the pandemic first hit. It was $65.5 per barrel in December 2019 and fell to reach $19.9 in April 2020. Prices started increasing thereafter, first gradually and then at a much faster rate. COB reached $49.8 by December 2020. By May 2021, the COB price was $67 per barrel. While the monthly average price for June 2021 has not been released yet, the COB price was $74.18 per barrel on June 25, according to data from the ministry of petroleum.Government’s tax windfall will rise as consumption increases due to easing of restrictionsThe imposition of lockdown and related mobility restrictions led to a fall in consumption of petrol and diesel during the first lockdown. Consumption also fell, although marginally, when restrictions were re-imposed during the second wave of infections. With restrictions being eased and mobility restored, the consumption of petrol and diesel is likely to increase once again. This means higher taxes for the government and a higher inflation burden on people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/number-theory-fuel-prices-continue-to-rise-relief-unlikely-soon-101624920513336.html
29-06-2021||India||Odisha aims to inoculate 100% adults in Bhubaneswar by August end||Bhubaneswar will complete vaccination of all adult residents by the end of August, a senior Odisha health official said on Monday.A health department official said 57% of the state capital’s 8.42 lakh adults have received both doses. Of the remaining people, 98% have received their first dose of Covaxin.In contrast, Bengaluru, which tops the list of cities where the largest proportion of people have received the first vaccine dose, has covered 29% of its adult population, followed by Chennai (25%), Mumbai (18%), Delhi, and Hyderabad (16% each). However, at 8%, it is Chennai that has the highest number of fully vaccinated people than other metros such as Mumbai, Bengaluru, Hyderabad, and Delhi, according to CoWIN data.Bhubaneswar municipal area is the only place in Odisha where Covaxin vaccine is being administered; the rest of the state is getting Covishield.Additional chief secretary of health PK Mohapatra said at least 30,000 doses are being planned everyday except on gazetted holidays to cover the 3,64,464 beneficiaries awaiting their second dose and 18,341 who have not been vaccinated at all.“We have more than 4.13 lakh doses of Covaxin with us and would be able to vaccinate everyone (in Bhubaneswar) by the end of August,” said Mohapatra.Since the gap between the first dose of Covaxin and the second dose is around 4-6 weeks. Mohapatra said if they are able to administer the first dose of Covaxin latest by mid-July, it would be possible to ensure that the entire population is vaccinated by end of August.The vaccination coverage drive in Bhubaneswar picked up speed earlier this month when the municipal corporation started several community-based vaccination plans. The BMC also started Covid-19 testing before administering vaccines at mobile camps to prevent giving jabs to people who test positive for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-aims-to-inoculate-100-adults-in-bhubaneswar-by-august-end-101624908614684.html
29-06-2021||India||Reconsider changing Kannada names of villages in Kasargod: BSY to Vijayan||Bengaluru Chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Monday wrote to his Kerala counterpart, Pinarayi Vijayan, to reconsider the decision to rename some villages in Kasargod and Manjeshwar.“The Kannada speaking areas of Kasargod district, in which Manjeshwara and Kasargod are situated are famous for their traditional culture and historical background. Names of the villages in Kasargod and Manjeshwara are very close to the emotions of people and carry immense sentimental value to them from time immemorial,” Yediyurappa said in his letter.He added that it was “very astonishing” to note that there were attempts by local bodies to change names of some villages without giving any opportunity to the residents of these areas to express their views.He said that the change in names would affect the feelings of the people. “This would also destroy Kannada and Tulu culture, which is in existence for very long,” the letter added.The letter comes a day after former chief minister and JD(S) leader HD Kumaraswamy, in a series of tweets, asked Vijayan not to change the names of these villages. Yediyurappa said that the change in the names of these villages is likely affect the harmony, comity and brotherhood among the population there.Karnataka’s forest and Kannada and culture minister Aravind Limbavali wrote to the chief minister regarding Kerala government’s move to change names of border villages in the state from Kannada to Malayalam.He said the Kerala government is implementing its decision to change the Kannada names of villages in Kasargod and Manjeshwar taluks, which border Karnataka, into Malayalam.“Kannada speaking people are in high number in these taluks. They have been speaking Kannada and also following Kannada culture for several centuries. The Kannada name of every village reflects the culture of the local residents. The people too are emotionally attached to these names,” the minister said in the letter.The government should have at least discussed the matter with the local residents and taken their opinion before making the move. The present decision, therefore, is totally unilateral, Limbavali said.“We must strongly oppose the move of the Kerala government as a move to protect Kannada culture. Since the issue is about emotions of the people and also a sensitive one,” he said and requested Yediyurappa to write to his Kerala counterpart and urge him to withdraw the decision to rename the villages into Malayalam.Kasargod in Kerala has a large Kannada speaking population and has deep ties to the coastal belt of Karnataka.Kumaraswamy on Monday wrote a letter to Vijayan asking the latter to reconsider his decision to rename these villages which would retain the Kannada meaning but in Malayalam.“If this is indeed correct, may I sincerely request you to halt the process in the name of the linguistic harmony and cultural co-existence. Kasargod, although a part of Kerala, has had a seamless affinity with Karnataka for decades, and people in the area have always been accommodative of each other’s linguistic heritage. It would be wonderful to continue this tradition. There is an argument that the name change may not affect the meaning, but to allow the village names to retain the original Kannada flavour would be greatly appreciated,” Kumaraswamy wrote in his letter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/reconsider-changing-kannada-names-of-villages-in-kasargod-bsy-to-vijayan-101624906754436.html
29-06-2021||India||3 FIRs registered over clashes between CPM-BJP activists in Tripura||Agartala: More than two dozen people including a Communist Party of India (Marxist) (CPM) legislator and four security personnel have sustained injuries in scattered clashes between opposition CPM and ruling BJP at two places of Tripura since Sunday. Three cases have been registered in connection with the clashes.Police said that the first clash occurred at Rajnagar area in Belonia subdivision of South District, over 90 km from Agartala on Sunday when the CPM was protesting against price hike of petroleum products.The clash left 20 people injured including veteran CPM legislator Sudhan Das, his two personal security guards, one police official and a state trooper and 13 people from BJP including the party’s local mandal president Ranjit Sarkar. The CPM and the BJP organised rallies in Rajnagar to protest the violence on Monday. “We got a complaint from BJP on Monday...We have also taken a suo motto in this regard. Our investigation is in process”, said Belonia sub divisional police officer Soumya Debbarma. The CPM, in a press release, demanded the state government take action against the culprits who provoked the clashes.“Our mandal president got injured along with some party activists in the clash. We condemn the incident and are hopeful that police will take proper action in the case”, said one local BJP leader. The second incident took place at Dhaleswar in Agartala on Monday where some CPM party activists were allegedly attacked by local BJP activists. A case was registered at East Agartala Police Station.CPM state secretary Goutam Das claimed 78 party activists were injured in the attack by BJP activists. “One of our party offices was also attacked and its boundary wall was vandalised by them,” he said.BJP spokesperson Subrata Chakraborty taunted the CPM, saying the CPM appeared to have become “the complaint party of India after losing power” and was trying to blame the BJP to hide the internal tussle within the CPM.Congress vice president Tapash Dey criticised the ruling BJP regime for the law and order situation before throwing a dart at the opposition CPM too. “We don’t support violence, but we must say that law and order was also not good when CPM was in power. Both the parties are two sides of the same coin,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-firs-registered-over-clashes-between-cpm-bjp-activists-in-tripura-101624906574329.html
29-06-2021||India||Centre to take up Covaxin supply issues with Biotech||The Union ministry of health and family welfare is looking into delays in Covaxin supply timelines, and has discussed this with the vaccine’s manufacturer, Bharat Biotech, people familiar with the matter said, although it is still not clear whether the Hyderabad-based company will meet the target of 400 million doses it is expected to deliver between August and December, based on government’s projected availability of vaccines.“As of now, they (Bharat Biotech) will fulfil their supply obligations. The health secretary has personally reviewed the matter,” said a senior government official who asked not to be named.Bharat Biotech did not respond to HT’s queries on the matter, but in a statement in May it said, “Production scale up of vaccines is a step-by-step process, involving several regulatory standard operating procedures of good manufacturing practices. There is a four month lag time for Covaxin to translate into actual vaccination.”Also Read| Hopefully 'soon': Niti Aayog's VK Paul on WHO emergency approval for CovaxinThe company supplied 28 million doses to the Centre till June 12, a fraction of the total purchase order of 80 million, according to Centre’s affidavit in the Supreme Court on June 26.According to the affidavit against the March 12 purchase order of 20 million doses, 1.83 million (1,836,840) vaccine doses are still pending; and supplies are yet to commence against a May 5 order for 50 million doses, to be delivered between May and July.It is clear from the affidavit, and the government’s own statements from April, that Covaxin supplies have been well below estimates, likely because of the complex manufacturing process.The ministry of science and technology, in a statement issued in April on augmentation of manufacturing capacity for Covaxin, said, “The current production capacity of indigenously developed Covaxin vaccine will be doubled by May-June 2021 and then increased nearly 6-7 fold by July-August 2021 i.e. increasing the production from 1 crore (10 million) vaccine doses in April 2021 to 6-7 crore (60-70 million) vaccine dose/month in July-August. It is expected to reach nearly 10 crore (100 million) doses per month by September 2021.”Also Read| States will get 120 million Covid-19 vaccine doses for JulyA senior company executive recently said that Bharat Biotech will continue to produce 25 million doses of its Covaxin vaccine till at least August this year, “but hopes to be producing 60-70 million doses by the end of the year”. “The current production capacity is 25 million doses per month and this is likely to be maintained till August-September this year, after which more supplies will happen. In next two month we will be starting production in two of our facilities in Ankleshwar, Gujarat, and Bengaluru, Karnataka. These facilities are being repurposed and the production is likely to start in next two months,” said a top company executive told HT.“We actually see annualised production, and it is going to reach 800 million mark by the end of this year.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-to-take-up-covaxin-supply-issues-with-biotech-101624906093680.html
29-06-2021||India||Chirag must take key decision on ideological commitment: Tejashwi Yadav||The leader of Opposition in the Bihar Assembly, Tejashwi Yadav spoke to Arun Kumar about the political situation in Bihar, his comment that the Nitish Kumar government may not last beyond a few months, and the possibility of an alliance with Chirag Paswan.Edited excerpts:You recently said that the Nitish Kumar govt will fall in 2-3 months. How do you back this claim?My statement does not come out of blue, and in fact, it’s genesis lies in the nature of the mandate of the last assembly elections. The leader of a party which was reduced to 40-odd seats occupied the chief minister’s chair, defying the message inherent in the people’s will. The contradictions of the ruling coalition are being played out in the open, and are there for everyone to see. Look at the absolute lack of communication across political parties in this alliance, and you will realise that their days are numbered.But what makes you believe that this government will fall?It is a question of how much longer, and to what extent, the CM allows his power to be diminished. At some time, the business of governance has to be taken seriously. It’s been a little over six months and, trust me, when I say this, Bihar is facing a serious all-round crisis. The government has shown no indication of how it’ll get up to the task. There’s not even a signal of intent whether it is the pandemic or floods or issues of employment as well as everyday deterioration in law and order.Do you have the numbers to provide an alternative? Who you are banking on?We have played the role of a very responsible and active Opposition, and we have done so from a position of confidence and power that we derive from those who have reposed their trust in us. In terms of numbers, we don’t need a lot, as you already know looking at the thin line between peoples’ will and the idea of “managed majority”.There’s is often talk of a likely split in the Congress or the RJD. How do you see this?This is the SOP of Nitishji’s propaganda whenever he is on a shaky wicket. I see such talk as not more than a juicy gossip emanating out of 1, Anne Marg to cover up for his abysmal performance and absolute failure. What I can say though that we are a democratic party, and quite well-structured in terms of organisation. There are plenty of forums within the party to voice concerns and debate the way forward.Will RJD throw its weight behind Akhilesh Yadav in UP, as it did in behind the TMC in West Bengal, or contest the polls itself?We are not a power-hungry party or an election machine. Our ties and support are based on pro-people, progressive, and development-oriented politics. We will extend support to whoever is close to our ideals of social justice inclusive development paradigm as in the position to defeat the Fascist agenda of BJP.How realistic is the chance of Tejashwi-Chirag tie up?Look I have said it quite a number of times recently that our families have a long-standing relationship that continued even when Chirag ji and the LJP became part of BJP-led NDA. However, Chirag ji has to take crucial decision with regard to ideological commitment. He will have to rework his politics in the light of what is being brazenly done to the progressive politics of social justice where Late Ramvilas ji remained a crusader with my father for decades. To put it succinctly, it is up to him to cut through the contradictions and make up his mind.What role will RJD have in a likely Opposition alliance, which is said to be working on a plan without Congress?RJD and Laluji have played a historical role in bringing progressive parties together and forging a shared agenda. We will not deviate from the path we have always followed. I believe in view of the massive challenges ahead where ordinary citizens are feeling extremely helpless across India, any idea of whatsoever front shall not be feasible without the Congress. Hence the priority should be to broadening the very base of an alternative rather than reducing its size.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chirag-must-take-key-decision-on-ideological-commitment-tejashwi-yadav-101624906034417.html
29-06-2021||India||Supreme Court pulls up environment ministry over ‘diluting green standards’||The Supreme Court on Monday remarked that the ministry of environment should also act like a “ministry for environment”, bemoaning that environmental standards have been constantly diluted in the recent past.“You must show it is a ministry for environment and not just ‘of environment’. You (ministry) have been constantly diluting the environmental standards. That’s all that has been happening,” commented a bench headed by justice Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud while hearing an appeal by the central government against an order of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) in 2019.NGT had found faults with the ministry’s 2017 notification by which new norms for effluent discharge by sewage treatment plants (STPs) in waterbodies were laid down. It held that the new notification would lead to deterioration of the water quality and prescribed stricter standards based on the recommendations of an expert committee.While the expert committee had suggested a timeframe of seven years for existing STPs to switch to higher sewage treatment criteria, the tribunal directed that the existing STPs should apply these norms “without any delay”. The NGT had further held that standards recommended for mega and metropolitan cities will also apply to the rest of the country.The Union government challenged this order before the Supreme Court and asked for an immediate stay on the NGT judgment too.When the matter was taken up by the court on Monday, the bench, which also included justices R Subhas Reddy and S Ravindra Bhat, questioned the imminent need for a stay of the tribunal’s judgment.“What is the stay that you are seeking for? Should there be greater pollution? What is the harm in keeping the pollution low? Tribunal’s order has only ensured there is lesser pollution going into the water,” the bench asked additional solicitor general Aishwarya Bhati, who appeared for the Centre.Bhati, on her part, tried to show that the NGT did not even accept the recommendations of its own committee while directing that STPs should immediately upgrade and conform to the stricter standards on effluent discharge. She pointed out that upgradation was a time-taking exercise and that the 2017 notification was issued by the ministry after due deliberation.“No. We will not stay the order. You should also protect the environment,” retorted the bench, saying it was only issuing notices to the petitioners before the NGT and the central pollution control board at this juncture.The court also tagged the Centre’s appeal with the appeal filed by the municipal corporation of greater Mumbai against the same order of the NGT.Some of the recent alterations by the ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MoEFCC) to environmental norms have been criticised by environmentalists while some of them have been challenged in court.In March, the Supreme Court had agreed to scrutinise the Centre’s 2013 notification that exempted environmental clearance for road expansion projects involving national highways which are less than 100 kilometres long. It also sought to know why MoEFCC was yet to appoint an independent regulator to grant environmental clearances despite the court’s directives in 2011 and 2014. The issue had come up when the court heard a plea against a West Bengal government’s decision to construct five rail overbridges at the cost of chopping 356 trees.Similarly, hearing the Char Dham road-widening case, the top court in September 2020 directed that the width of the road be 5.5 metres, based on the 2018 notification issued by the ministry of road transport and highways. Later, the ministry amended its notification, allowing the road width to be 10 metres and asked for a review of the previous order of the court. The review plea is still pending.In 2018, the environment ministry amended the coastal zone rules to give relief to projects that started in the fragile coastal areas without required clearances. The 2011 coastal regulation zone (CRZ) notification was amended in March 2018, allowing retroactive approvals in some cases where the construction had commenced before the date of this notification without the requisite CRZ clearance.In a judgment in April 2020, the Supreme Court had held that the concept of ‘ex post facto’ environmental clearance (EC) was against the fundamental principles of environmental jurisprudence. It said that allowing industrial projects to operate without EC would prove detrimental to the environment and lead to irreparable degradation. Significantly, this verdict had come at a time when the draft of the Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) notification 2020, to replace the EIA notification 2006, was floated. The new law proposed a lifeline for industrial projects that start operating without a valid EC. It is yet to be notified.“The issue of dilution of environmental norms is very serious, especially when the EIA draft notification of 2020 proposes to pave way for further relaxations. Development and environment have to go hand-in-hand as enshrined under the principle of sustainable development. But when it comes to primacy, we must choose the environment, for the present and for the intergenerational ecological justice. Future generations possess a legal right to a clean and healthy environment,” said lawyer Gaurav Kumar Bansal, who has been associated with several environment-related cases before the NGT and the Supreme Court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/apex-court-pulls-up-environment-ministry-over-diluting-green-standards-101624906033716.html
29-06-2021||India||Airbases fortified as CDS Rawat warns of next-gen attacks||The Indian Air Force (IAF) has strengthened defence at its forward airbases in the western sector to pre-empt fresh drone attacks, a day after small drones were used to target the Jammu air force station, people familiar with the matter said on Monday.Sunday’s attack was the first-ever offensive use of drones to target an Indian military facility.“Counter-measures have been put in place to pre-empt such drone attacks on forward bases. Snipers and jammers are in place, among other measures. Bases are on alert,” said one of the officials cited above, speaking on condition of anonymity.The drone attack is a watershed in asymmetric warfare and underlines the need for the armed forces to build capabilities to deter, detect and neutralise such aerial threats.While the IAF is now certain that drones were used for the Jammu attack, it is still not clear as to how many drones were used, where they came from or which side they flew away after dropping the two improvised explosive devices, said a second official.The attack on the Jammu air force station has lent fresh urgency to deploying anti-drone technology to tackle threats from small drones, he added. Drone activity was reported over Ratnuchak-Kaluchak military area in the Jammu region on Sunday night.“Immediately, high alert was sounded, and quick reaction teams engaged them with firing. Both drones flew away. A major threat thwarted by the alertness and proactive approach of troops,” said a government spokesperson in Jammu.Chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat on Monday told a TV channel that the three services, the Defence Research Development Organisation (DRDO), academia and other stakeholders were working together to develop technology to counter the threat from drones at the earliest.He said DRDO has already achieved some success and even demonstrated its anti-drone technology. DRDO has developed anti-drone technology to disable or shoot down hostile drones. Its anti-drone system has a range of two to three kilometres with radar capability to pick up the drone and then use frequencies to jam the unmanned aerial vehicle.A top government official said DRDO has transferred the technology for the production of its anti-drone system to Bharat Electronics Limited (BEL). “ DRDO has written to the three services and informed them that the anti-drone system is available,” he said.DRDO is also ready to transfer technology to private industry to produce the anti-drone system, he added.“We have to start preparing for future generation warfare. Drones, swarms and other such elements will change the nature and character of warfare. We are quite concerned about drones being used in this domain and therefore we have been continuously working on anti-drone technology,” Rawat told CNN-News18.He said that while the three services were working together on anti-drone technology, a call was taken that the IAF should become the lead agency for coordinating all efforts on how to counter drones in the future.The Jammu attack marks a new chapter in Pakistan’s proxy war against India in Jammu and Kashmir, officials told Hindustan Times on Sunday.“It appears to be a trial run by the adversary to gauge India’s capability to detect small targets that can fly across the border and target Indian installations. We need to beef up our surveillance capabilities, especially to pick up radar signatures of small drones that are capable of causing significant damage,” former assistant chief of air staff Air Vice Marshal Sunil Nanodkar (retd) said on Sunday.Pakistan-backed terrorist groups and its Inter-Services Intelligence have been using drones to smuggle arms, ammunition and drugs across the border into J&K and Punjab, but never have drones been used before for attacking a military base.The Jammu attack came four months after the Indian and Pakistani militaries announced on February 25 that they had begun observing a ceasefire along the Line of Control from the midnight of February 24.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/airbases-fortified-as-cds-warns-of-next-gen-attacks-101624905913700.html
29-06-2021||India||LeT commander linked to several killings arrested in Kashmir: police||A top Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) commander from central Kashmir who was involved in a number of killings was arrested on Monday, police said.“Top LeT commander Abrar Nadeem Bhat was arrested. He was involved in several killings. Big success for us,” said Inspector General of Police (IGP) Kashmir, Vijay Kumar. He, however, did not reveal any more details about the arrest.Police said that Bhat alias Khalid was acting as the commander of Lashkar in central Kashmir and was active since 2018. He was arrested from Srinagar.Recently, Kumar had said that they will soon neutralise Bhat, adding that he was involved in the attack on CRPF at Lawaypora in March. In the attack, three Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) jawans were killed and the rifle was also snatched by the terrorists. The rifle was recovered from possession of a terrorist earlier this month after three terrorists were killed during an encounter in Sopore.Two CRPF personnel, including an officer, were injured after an encounter broke out between security forces and terrorists in Parimpora area of Srinagar on Monday, police said.According to an official, the encounter took place at Malhoora in Parimpora area of the city. “The encounter started at Malhoora Parimpora area of Srinagar. Police and security forces are carrying out the operation,” the J&K Police said in a Twitter post.The officials said a deputy superintendent of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) and a constable of the paramilitary force were injured in the gunfight. The operation is underway and further details are awaited, they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/let-commander-linked-to-several-killings-arrested-in-kashmir-police-101624905914245.html
29-06-2021||India||TN extends parole of Rajiv Gandhi case convict by another 30 days||The Tamil Nadu government on Monday extended the parole of AG Perarivalan, one of the convicts in the Rajiv Gandhi assassination case, by another month. Perarivalan, a life convict, is currently on 30-day parole on medical grounds, granted by chief minister M K Stalin on May 19, as per the provision in the Tamil Nadu Prison Manual. An order issued by additional chief secretary S K Prabhakar on Monday said the month-long parole granted to Perarivalan would be extended by another month starting June 28. The leave is granted on a plea by Perarvialan’s mother Arputham Ammal that his health condition puts him at a high risk of contracting Covid-19 inside the Puzhal Central Prison in Chennai. On Monday, Arputham tweeted that her son’s 30-year imprisonment, much of it which was in solitary confinement, resulted in him having several health problems such as high blood pressure, kidney infection, rheumatism, and gastrointestinal disorders, which requires continuous medical treatment. “The chief minister has kindly granted the extension of leave so that treatment which we have begun can continue uninterrupted,” she said.Perarivalan is among the seven convicts in the Rajiv Gandhi assassination case. The former Prime Minister was assassinated on May 21, 1991, at Sriperumbudur by a woman suicide bomber Dhanu, belonging to the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE). After taking charge, Stalin had written to President Ramnath Kovind to release all the seven convicts as they had served more than three decades in jail. It’s a call supported by all political parties of Tamil Nadu. In 2018, the Tamil Nadu cabinet unanimously passed a resolution to release all seven convicts and sent it to Governor Banwarilal Purohit. Three years later, he declined to make a decision and said it was the President who was the competent authority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tn-extends-parole-of-rajiv-gandhi-case-convict-by-another-30-days-101624905320274.html
29-06-2021||India||Assam: Over 34,000 children under 18 infected with Covid-19 since April||Guwahati: Health authorities in Assam disclosed on Monday that 34,606 children under 18 years of age have been infected with Covid19 since April this year when the second wave of the pandemic began in the state.According to a release issued by National Health Mission, Assam, the state has recorded 280,504 cases of Covid19 since April 1. While 5755 of those cases were of children under 5 years, 28851 cases belonged to those between 6 to 18 years.“In view of the circumstances, we have increased pediatric ICU units and oxygen beds for children in medical college hospitals, district hospitals. These facilities are being set up immediately and will take 14-21 days to complete,” health minister Keshab Mahanta told journalists in Nagaon on Monday.Kamrup (Metropolitan), which includes Guwahati, recorded 5346 cases among children since April, which was 10.04% of the 53,251 cases detected in the district in that period.Dibrugarh (2430), Nagaon (2288), Kamrup (Rural) (2023) and Sonitpur (1839) districts also had high number of cases among children. The state recorded 34 deaths of children infected with Covid19 since April. According to NHM, many of them had co-morbid conditions and were below 5 years.An ongoing community surveillance programme across the state found that many children who were staying at home with Covid19 infected parents or guardians (who opted for home isolation) were later tested positive for the virus.“Therefore it is advisable that parents or guardians who have tested positive should preferably opt for institutional quarantine instead of home isolation so that spread of Covid19 among children can be prevented,” said the release.Health authorities informed that nurses and other healthcare personnel have been trained to deal with child Covid19 patients and personnel in ambulances have also been instructed to transport child patients with utmost care.“Besides setting up pediatric units, health department should also ensure that needs of special children who get infected with Covid19 are also handled with extra care as they are more vulnerable,” said Rupa Hazarika, member of Assam State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (ASCPCR).Eleven children with special needs who were staying in a children home in Tezpur town were recently found positive for Covid19. They are at present admitted at the Tezpur Medical College Hospital (TMCH).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/children-account-for-10-of-assam-s-covid-positive-cases-since-april-1-101624905319852.html
29-06-2021||India||Tributes pour in for ex-PM Rao, KCR calls him a true reformist||Hyderabad Telangana paid glowing tributes to former prime minister PV Narasimha Rao on his birth centenary on Monday, with chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao describing him as a true reformist who had brought revolutionary changes in the country’s economy and polity.The state government concluded the centenary celebrations of the departed leader in a grand manner. KCR, as the chief minister is called, along with governor Tamilisai Soundararajan unveiled a 26-foot-tall bronze statue of the former prime minister at PV Gnana Bhoomi on Necklace Road in Hyderabad. He also renamed Necklace Road as PVNR Marg in honour of Narasimha Rao. The chief minister announced setting up of a Vidya Peetham in Kakatiya University, Warangal, to enable scholars to take up research on subjects related to the former prime minister. “He left an indelible mark in every field he was associated with both at the state and the central level,” KCR said, addressing the gathering at the occasion.The chief minister recalled that Rao had become the Prime Minister in peculiar circumstances but had taken it up as a challenge. “Despite lacking a majority in parliament, he successfully ran the government for full five years,” he said. KCR said Rao had pioneered land reforms during his stint as the chief minister of the combined Andhra Pradesh and set an example for other states. “He led the land reforms from the front by giving up 800 acres of land owned by his family in his village,” the CM said. “When Rao was the education minister, he had established residential schools and Navodaya schools. And as the Prime Minister, he brought in economic reforms that bailed the country out of a financial mess and resulted in steady flow of investments.” Paying tributes to the former prime minister, governor Soundararajan said Rao had been a successful politician because he had always felt the nation was more important than politics. PV Narasimha Rao Centenary Celebrations Committee chairman K Keshava Rao appealed to the Centre to name the University of Hyderabad after the former prime minister. He also announced installation of six more statues of Rao at various places in Telangana, including his village Vangara in Warangal (urban) district, besides in New Delhi. The Telangana Congress also conducted PV Narasimha Rao birth centenary celebrations at Gandhi Bhavan. Former prime minister Manmohan Singh, who was the finance minister during Rao’s regime, presented Narasimha Rao Life Time Achievement Award to renowned cardiologist Dr K Srinath Reddy through virtual mode. Outgoing Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee president and Nalgonda MP N Uttam Kumar Reddy and other senior Congress leaders paid tributes to the former prime minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tributes-pour-in-for-ex-pm-rao-kcr-calls-him-a-true-reformist-101624905253662.html
29-06-2021||India||Lightning deaths double since 2004: IMD data||Lightning strikes killed nearly 2,000 people every year in India since 2004, which is nearly twice the number of deaths recorded since the late 1960s, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD) that pointed to a trend of increasing danger from the weather phenomenon.On Monday, during an awareness workshop on lightning and thunderstorms, IMD scientists said lightning strikes were claiming more lives than cyclones.“Between 1995 and 2014, we saw a jump of nearly 30% to 40% in lightning incidents in India. The number of deaths has also increased significantly between the 1990s and now,” said SD Pawar, project director thunderstorm dynamics, Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology, Pune.He said the reason behind the increase in lightning incidents may be directly related to the climate crisis, and the availability of more moisture over land due to warming.Pawar shared data showing a doubling of annual lightning deaths from 1,000 to over 2,500 between 1968 and 2019.On June 7, lightning strikes in several districts of West Bengal killed at least 27 people, more than Cyclone Yaas, which hit Odisha and West Bengal in May. Scientists said tropical cyclones have, in recent years, left fewer than people 50 dead, but deaths due to lightning strikes have been 50 times more.Atul Sahai, vice president, Indian Meteorological Society, said the June 7 deaths were despite timely warnings by IMD. Lightning is an extremely localised phenomenon, and the warnings often don’t reach the last mile, he said.While Pawar’s research indicated that lightning deaths were higher in areas where forest cover and tree cover had reduced, M Mohapatra, director general of IMD, said that changes in the rural lifestyle over the past 30 years may have also increased the exposure of people to lightning strikes.“When there is dense tree cover, lightning strikes the tree and dissipates in the ground. But if the number of trees is less, people working outside are more exposed. In Marathwada, for example, we have noticed that tree cover is very thin. People working outside often run to a lone tree to take shelter underneath and are then struck by lightning,” said Pawar, adding that trees should be avoided during thunderstorms.Mohapatra said more people working in the fields or orchards could be pushing the casualty count upwards. “The use of electrical appliances has also increased significantly in the past 30 years — from mobile phones to TVs to power lines. Lightning can interfere with their electromagnetic field,” Mohapatra said.Several research studies have pointed to the relationship between increase in lightning activity and the climate crisis. Lightning strikes have been more in the Arctic region in the past decade. The number of summertime bolts detected above Alaska has increased more than six times, from about 35,000 in 2010 to about 240,000 in 2020, according to a study in Geophysical Research Letters published in April.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lightning-deaths-double-since-2004-imddata-101624905135880.html
29-06-2021||India||Allocate 90% of vaccines to govt hospitals, TN CM urges Centre||Chennai: Chief minister M K Stalin on Monday wrote to union health minister Harsh Vardhan to reduce vaccines allocated to private hospitals citing underutilisation and asking for increased supply to government hospitals. “Revise the inter-se allocation between the government and private institutions to 90:10 as against the current allocation of 75:25,” Stalin said in his letter on Monday.Under the new vaccination policy, the Union government is buying 75% of the vaccines produced and the remaining 25% is being provided to private hospitals. “I wish to bring to your notice the fact that this 25% allocation to private hospitals is grossly higher when compared to the actual vaccinations done by them,” Stalin said.The chief minister supported his argument by highlighting Tamil Nadu’s case where 10.4 million doses have been totally used in the state, out of which private hospitals have used only 6,50,000 doses, which is 4.5%. In June, out of 4.35 million doses administered in the state, private institutions used 4,50,000 doses which is just 10%. He said that the ‘mismatch between demand and supply in government and private institutions’ has resulted in a situation where private hospitals in Tamil Nadu have around 7,00,000 to 8,00,000 doses available with them, “which is equivalent to one month performance” whereas government institutions are left with just 2,00,000 doses which is lesser than their current single day usage. “This can be rectified only by a more rational and performance based distribution of available doses,” he said.The CM called for increased allocation to better performing hospitals and suggested that the union government could increase its vaccine procurement price so that vaccine manufacturers aren’t affected over reducing the allocation to the private sector.The development comes amidst a perpetual vaccine shortage faced by the state and several centres were shut on Monday. “The availability of vaccines has emerged as the principal constraint in the last few weeks,” he said. “This is particularly significant for us since our allotment so far has been one of the lowest among the states in the country in terms of doses per thousand population.” Stalin had earlier written to Vardhan requesting 10 million doses to correct the inadequate allotment in the past but noted that this has not been done. Stalin on Monday also requested the union minister to evaluate the vaccine doses allotted per thousand population to various states and to ensure necessary compensatory allocations are made to states who have been allotted a lower number of doses per capita.Meanwhile, Kattur village in Tiruvarur district became the first village in Tamil Nadu to achieve 100% vaccination, two days ago, said M Subramanian, health minister while speaking at a special vaccination drive held for advocates and staff of the Madras high court on Monday. All of them in the village have taken at least one dose of the vaccine. “Soon Nilgiris district will also achieve this feat,” he said. He added that Udhaynidhi Stalin’s constituency - Chepauk Thiruvallikeni in Chennai - has reported the highest number of vaccinations of more than 90,000 among the 234 constituencies in the state. “But, it is disheartening to see several facilities closed due to vaccine shortage when the entire Tamil Nadu’s population is ready to get vaccinated, ‘’ Subramanian said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/allocate-90-of-vaccines-to-govt-hospitals-tn-cm-urges-centre-101624905135299.html
29-06-2021||India||Protests against ‘conversion’ of 18-year-old in Srinagar intensify||Protests over the alleged abduction of an 18-year-old Sikh woman intensified in Srinagar on Monday with the leaders of the agitation demanding an anti-conversion law in the Union Territory and prominent Kashmiri politicians calling for a thorough probe and appealing for calm.The stir began on Sunday after police said that the Sikh woman, a resident of Srinagar, was allegedly abducted by a 29-year-old Muslim man. There was, however, no clarity on whether the woman had converted to Islam of her free will or if the abduction charges were genuine.Police said the man was arrested on kidnapping charges on Saturday, days after the woman’s parents filed kidnapping charges against the man. They also denied charges of conversion, a charge levelled by the protesters.“The accused is under police remand. The girl was presented before court and she went with her family members,” said North Srinagar superintendent of police Mubasher Hussain. It wasn’t clear how the police narrowed down on the couple and the man’s relatives couldn’t be reached for a comment.But the protesters weren’t satisfied, alleging that another Sikh woman was allegedly abducted by an older Muslim man and forcibly married off. Police didn’t confirm this allegation amid reports that a second woman had come forward and claimed to have converted to Islam of her own volition.“ We will not tolerate forced bikah and conversions of Sikh daughters living in Kashmir who are forced to marry elderly of different religion Sikhs living in J&K urge for a law that mandates permission of parents in inter-religion marriages,” said Manjinder Singh Sirsa, president of the Delhi Gurdwara Prabhandak Committee and a Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader.Sirsa also said he spoke to Union home minister Amit Shah. “Amit Shah ji has assured us about the safety of minority Sikh girls in the Valley & that the girls would be soon returned to their families. He has given time to meet Jammu & Kashmir Sikh delegation soon to discuss the ground issues and address the minority’s concerns,” he tweeted. On Sunday, Sirsa met UT lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha.Leaders in Kashmir urged the J&K administration to allay the concerns of the Sikh community.“Any move to drive a wedge between Sikhs & Muslims in Kashmir will cause irreparable harm to J&K. The two communities have supported each other through thick & thin, having withstood countless attempts to damage age-old relationships,” National Conference vice-president Omar Abdullah said.“I hope the authorities will move quickly to investigate the recent cause of tension & if anyone has broken the law the case should be prosecuted & necessary punishment handed out,” he said.Peoples Democratic Party chief Mehbooba Mufti asked the authorities to get to the bottom of the issue. “Disturbed to hear reports about the incident involving two Sikh girls in Kashmir. Muslims & Sikhs in J&K have co-existed peacefully in the worst of times. Hope the investigative agencies swiftly get to the bottom of this issue,” she said.Srinagar senior superintendent of police Sandeep Chaudhary did not respond to calls. Kashmir divisional commissioner Pandurang K Pole couldn’t be reached for a comment.Sirsa said he also met J&K director general of police Dilbag Singh who assured them that Sikh girls’ safety would be given utmost priority and stern action would be taken against culprits. “He reiterated that the Sikh girl would be returned to her family soon,” he said.Sikhs form roughly 2% of the population of Jammu and Kashmir.Bibi Jagir Kaur, president of the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) -- a top Sikh body -- said she was giving all support to the family. “I have asked families to bring both the girls to Darbar Sahib for counselling and moral support. I also plan to visit Srinagar to be in touch with the families,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/protests-against-conversion-of-18-year-old-in-srinagar-intensify-101624905134550.html
29-06-2021||India||SII says working on Covishield EU pass||The Serum Institute of India (SII) is approaching the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for approval to its Covid-19 vaccine, Covishield, for the European Union’s Green Pass, a document that will ease travel within and to the bloc, people aware of the matter said on Monday.EMA currently recognises only four Covid-19 vaccines that have received EU-wide marketing authorisation so far. Indian officials said it was “perplexing” that the list includes Vaxzevria, the AstraZeneca vaccine produced and marketed in the UK and other sites around Europe, but not Covishield, the version manufactured and distributed in India, though they are similar if not identical.The issue of Covishield’s approval by EMA is also expected to be taken up by the Indian side with European Union (EU) officials on the margins of the G20 foreign ministers’ meeting in Italy on June 29, said people familiar with developments, even as SII’s CEO Adar Poonawalla said on Monday that he has taken up the matter at the highest level to ensure Indians don’t face any travel restrictions.“I realise that a lot of Indians who have taken Covishield are facing issues with travel to the EU. I assure everyone, I have taken this up at the highest levels and hope to resolve this matter soon, both with regulators and at a diplomatic level with countries,” he tweeted.“SII has applied for EMA certification,” said a person familiar with the development, on condition of anonymity.The Covishield vaccine “does not currently have a marketing authorisation” in Europe and the matter would be considered when an application is received for it, the European Medicines Agency said. “Should we receive a marketing authorisation application for Covishield or should any change to the approved manufacturing sites for Vaxzevria be approved, we would communicate about it,” the agency added.Almost 88% of the 323million doses of vaccines administered in India thus far are of Covishield.The other three vaccines that EMA has approved for use by the EU member states to issue the certificates are Comirnaty (Pfizer/BioNTech), Moderna, and Janssen (Johnson & Johnson).The Green Pass is likely to be available for use by July 1, 2021.“The position taken by EMA is perplexing because Covishield and Vaxzevria, the AstraZeneca vaccine approved by the European agency, are qualitatively similar in nature,” said a senior government official who spoke on condition of anonymity.EMA’s position is that Covishield has not been approved for use in Europe. The agency’s approval is also site-specific. It wasn’t immediately clear why Covishield, approved by WHO (through an emergency-use listing), and also the mainstay of Gavi and WHO’s Covax programme, did not apply for marketing authorisation.Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin does not have a WHO emergency-use listing yet.“There is still some time, and a solution will likely come soon as the matter is being taken up at different levels,” a second government official said on condition of anonymity.External affairs minister S Jaishankar and other officials from the foreign ministry are currently in Italy for the meeting of the foreign and development ministers of the G20, which includes 19 countries and the EU. The agenda for the meeting includes a swift international response to the Covid-19 pandemic and equitable worldwide access to diagnostics and vaccines.According to PTI, SII has, in a letter to Jaishankar, requested him to take up the matter of the inclusion of Covishield vaccine in the EU Covid-19 vaccination passport with the European Union and other countries, citing that this will affect students and business travellers and cause severe disruptions to the Indian and global economy.A third government official said it is always the responsibility of the manufacturer, in this case SII, to apply for approval from EMA. “The government can only facilitate the process, it is not something done at government to government level.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sii-says-working-on-covishield-eu-pass-101624905014313.html
29-06-2021||India||Jammu: Second attack thwarted as Army repels drones||Within 24 hours of an attack by two drones at an Indian Air Force (IAF) station in Jammu, two similar devices were spotted hovering over the Ratnuchak-Kaluchak military area in the region, prompting soldiers to open fire at them, officials said on Monday.Experts say a new security threat has emerged from across the border with Pakistan, with drones being used for the first time to carry out attacks at military installations. Early on Sunday, drones were used for two “low-intensity” explosions at the IAF station in Jammu, leaving two personnel injured and prompting multiple teams to launch investigations.On Sunday night, two more drones were spotted over the military stations. While the first drone was sighted around 11.45pm, the second one was seen around 2.40am.Defence spokesperson Lt Col Devender Anand said soldiers opened fire at the two drones but they flew away. “On midnight of 27-28 June, two separate drone activities were spotted over Ratnuchak-Kaluchak military areas by alert troops. Immediately, high alert was sounded and quick reaction teams engaged them with firing. Both the drones flew away,” Anand said.“Searches were launched… and we are also ascertaining whether they were being operated from a vehicle on the adjoining road,” he said, adding a “major threat was thwarted” because the troops were alert.Hours before the incident, the first blast at the Jammu airport, which is used for VVIP movement and armed forces’ strategic operations, took place at 1.37am, causing minor damage to the roof of a building, and the second one – said to be weaker in intensity – was reported at 1.42am in an open area.The air force has beefed up air defence at its forward airbases in the western sector to pre-empt fresh drone attacks, people familiar with the developments said on Monday. While IAF is now certain that drones were used for the Jammu attack, it is still not clear as to where they came from or which side they flew to after dropping the two improvised explosive devices, an official said on condition of anonymity.There have been several incidents of Pakistan-based terrorists using drones in the border areas of Jammu and Kashmir to drop arms, ammunition, drugs and money to fuel terrorism in the region. But experts said that drones have previously not been engaged by terrorists to carry out attacks.The Kaluchak military station was attacked in 2002 by three armed terrorists from Pakistan. The three first attacked a Himachal Road Transport Corporation bus on the Jammu-Pathankot highway and killed seven passengers before storming the station, where they killed 23 people.At least 300 drones have been sighted along the border with Pakistan since the 2019 abrogation of Article 370, a security official told PTI on Monday. Border security agencies have been testing indigenously built counter-drone technologies in the rough jungle terrains, desert and marshes along the western front but have had limited success, the official said.Chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat on Monday told a TV channel that the three services, the Defence Research Development Organisation (DRDO), academia and other stakeholders were working together to develop technology to counter the threat from drones at the earliest.The second incident of the spotting of drones on Sunday led to the area outside the military stations being cordoned off. A massive search operation was still underway on Monday night. No debris was found on the ground, a person aware of the operation said.The incidents come days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi told political leaders from Jammu and Kashmir that elections would be held there once delimitation is carried out, two years after the special status of the erstwhile state was revoked.Following a series of back-channel contacts between Indian and Pakistani security officials, the two countries recommitted themselves to the 2003 ceasefire on the Line of Control (LoC) in February. The truce has largely held, helping to ease bilateral tensions, though recent reports have suggested the back-channel contacts have stalled.Pakistan has also issued several strong statements in recent weeks about what it claims were the Indian government’s plans to carry out more changes in Jammu and Kashmir. India has rejected these statements, noting that Kashmir is an integral part of the country and Pakistan’s comments amounted to interference in internal affairs.(With inputs by Rahul Singh in New Delhi)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/second-attack-thwarted-as-army-repels-drones-101624904955852.html
29-06-2021||India||Beat thalis to protest fuel price rise, Congress tells workers||Months after criticising Prime Minister Narendra Modi for encouraging people to beat thali (plate) and other utensils to appreciate healthcare and frontline workers in the battle against Covid-19, the Congress has asked its workers to do the same, albeit for a different reason.A letter from Congress general secretary KC Venugopal to all state units has asked party workers and activists to beat thalis and other utensils for highlighting the burden of households in the wake of the surging fuel prices.“In the protest programme, the potential impact of petrol price hike and the prise rise of essential commodities on public, especially on households can be highlighted by beating ‘thalis’ and other utensils,” the internal letter, dated June 26, said.The Congress has planned an elaborate programme to protest against the runaway hike in fuel prices and inflationary pressure on essential commodities from July 7 to 17. The latest letter from Venugopal, seen by HT, comes after Congress president Sonia Gandhi chaired a meeting on June 24 that discussed issues such as price rise and slow pace of vaccination, and also drew the action plan for the first major protest since Covid-19 swept the subcontinent.The protests would also include bicycle yatras, in which participants have been asked to travel at least 5 km. The letter also asked participants to organise signature campaigns at petrol pumps demanding fuel price cut.The party has fixed a target of reaching 300 million households during its Covid outreach programme, which will run for 30 days. The All India Congress Committee (AICC) has also asked state units to “identify 5 urban/semi urban target groups and 5 rural target groups” and assign 10 party workers per block. “One Covid warrior will visit minimum of 10 to 15 households per day in a period of 30 days and cover more than 200 households in a month,” the letter stated.It also provides sample questions such as “was he/she the bread winner of the family?” or “what support do you need most (ration, job, education, financial support)?” and tells the workers to give acknowledgement slips to the families.This outreach programme comes amid the party’s demand for compensation to families of Covid victims. The Congress has been also demanding direct financial support to poorest of the poor families to cope with the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/beat-thalis-to-protest-fuel-price-rise-congress-tells-workers-101624904353609.html
29-06-2021||India||After uproar, Twitter drops map showing J&K, Ladakh outside India||The ministry of electronics and information technology is looking into the issue of Twitter showing Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh as not part of India in a map on its website, an official familiar with the matter said on Monday. The misrepresentation caused an uproar online amid the ongoing impasse between the government and the microblogging firm.The map was available as part of a larger creative image depicting the world map on the company’s website under the careers sections on the page titled Tweep Life. While it showed the disputed Aksai Chin area of Ladakh, illegally occupied by China, as part of that country, it depicted the Union Territory of J&K as a separate country. The map was subsequently taken down.In the past, the government has sent a notice under section 69(A) of the Information Technology Act to Wikipedia for using the image of a wrong map; the section allows the government to order the takedown of content that violates the “integrity and sovereignty” of the country.Twitter did not immediately respond to a request for comment.This is the second time that Twitter has run into trouble over a map in the past year. In October last year, the Centre had served Twitter with a notice over the geotag for Leh showing it as a part of China. Writing to Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey, the Centre on October 22 conveyed its “disappointment regarding the misrepresentation of the map of India”. It also asked Twitter to explain why action should not be taken against it . Twitter subsequently corrected this.In Wikipedia’s case, the image was subsequently fixed.To be sure, many international maps include Pakistan Occupied Kashmir, a part of J&K, as Pakistan, and New Delhi points out in every instance that this is inaccurate.Twitter’s latest brush with controversy comes even as it is engaged in an escalating battle with the government over the new social media and intermediary guidelines. The ministry has asserted that the social media firm has failed to comply with the guidelines, which can result in it losing the safe harbour protection granted to intermediaries under the IT Act.There have been several instances of confrontation between the social media company and the government over orders to block access to content and marking of posts by BJP leaders as manipulated media. The social media firm also invited the ire of Prasad, who was locked out his account for an hour over an alleged copyright violation last week.Twitter’s grievance redressal officer Dharmendra Chatur , appointed weeks ago, stepped down over the weekend, prompting the firm to hire a new official. And the Ghaziabad police have said in a complaint that Twitter circulated a video that allegedly misrepresented an attack on an elderly Muslim man as a communal one. The police asked Twitter India executive Manish Maheshwari to appear for questioning in person, but has been prevented from arresting him by the Karnataka High Court. His lawyer said last week that he would appear over video conference.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-uproar-twitter-drops-map-showing-j-k-ladakh-outside-india-101624904235329.html
29-06-2021||India||House panel meets ministries to discuss impact of second wave of Covid-19||Parliament’s standing committee on home affairs met officials from the ministries of health, commerce, home affairs and labour on Monday to discuss the impact of the second wave of Covid-19 and the country’s preparations to combat a possible third wave, people familiar with the matter said.According to a person who attended the meeting, panel chairperson and Congress MP Anand Sharma stressed the need for “authentic” messaging and asked for a crackdown on fake news.“The chairperson said as the country looks at preparations for a possible third wave, clear messages should be conveyed and the ministries of health and home affairs should crack down on fake news spreading fear among the public.”The panel met to discuss the “socioeconomic fallout of the Covid-19 pandemic’s second wave”, according to the Rajya Sabha website. Issues raised at the committee included the need to create a national database of migrant labourers, ensuring that lifesaving medicines are not sold in the black market and ramping up the pace of vaccination. The panel also sought an accurate death count and state-wise details on the number of people who have received government benefits.“The MPs have suggested that temporary arrangements, such as the hospitals that were set up by the ITBP, be kept ready to be set up on short notice in case they are needed again,” said the person cited above.A second person familiar with the matter said that Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP Rakesh Sinha raised the issue of the “mismanagement” of the second wave by the Delhi government”. Sinha highlighted “the need for a civil governance oversight over the medical community,” the second person said. “In an extraordinary situation like the pandemic it become important what message is being conveyed to the country.”Congress MP P Bhattacharya highlighted the plight of migrant workers and also said that goods and services tax should be waived on medical equipment. Sinha flagged certain “negative” reports about India in the Lancet medical journal and asked the home secretary to take note of the issue and register strong protest, the second person added.Ravneet Singh Bittu, another Congress lawmaker, raised the issue of vaccine clearance, stating that until Covaxin is approved by the World Health Organization people’s ability to travel abroad could get curtailed. “Queries about black fungus were also raised by the panel,” the second person said.Other than the MPs mentioned above, the meeting was also attended by SR Balasubramoniyan from the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK), Anil Jain, Neeraj Shekhar, Bhupender Yadav, Ranjeetsinha Hindurao Naik-Nimbalka, RK Singh Patel, Sanjay Yadav and Satya Pal Singh from the BJP. Dulal Chandra Goswami, JD(U), Thiru Dayanidhi Maran, DMK, and Faizal Mohammed from the NCP were also present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/house-panel-meets-ministries-to-discuss-impact-of-second-wave-101624903453519.html
29-06-2021||India||2nd Covid-19 wave not over yet, 80 districts have high positivity: ICMR||Covid-19 cases may have reduced in most parts of the country, and the total cases may be well below the early May peak of nearly 400,000 a day, but the second national wave of infections is not over yet with at least 80 districts still showing high positivity rates, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has warned.India recorded over 46,000 new cases on Sunday, still the highest in any country in the world, according to worldometers.info.“The second wave of Covid-19 has still not subsided, as 80 districts in the country still have high positivity. There cannot be any laxity at this stage. The vaccines have been found effective against the alpha, beta, gamma and delta variants of Covid-19,” Dr Balram Bhargava, ICMR’s director general, said on Monday during the 29th group of ministers (GoM) meeting on Covid-19.These 80 districts fall in the states of Maharashtra, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Odisha among others.Last Friday, at a Union health ministry media briefing, Bhargava had struck a simiar note of caution.“We have still got 75 districts that have more than 10% prevalence; there are about 92 districts that have between 5 and 10% prevalence; even though 569 districts are less than 5% so in a large part the second wave is over. However, these districts are important,” he had said.ICMR had emphasised on the need to immediately identify hot spots, which is what India has attempted to do with the latest Delta-plus variant.“We immediately identified the hot spots; however, whether this virus is going to be significant or not, we do not know yet but we have identified where all it has just suddenly emerged and isolated those people, and ring vaccination has been initiated in those areas. The most important is that the district level test positivity rate needs to be clearly monitored by the districts to ensure if it is going above 5% so then we need to impose strict restriction. This will help us guide through this pandemic,” Bhargava said during the briefing.The four principal variants of concern — Alpha, Beta, Gamma, Delta — have been identified in 174 districts in 35 states, with Alpha variant found in 3,969 samples, Beta variant in 149, and Gamma in 1 sample. Delta and its related Kapa variant, were found in 16,238 samples.Also speaking at the meeting on Covid-19 vaccination, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan told the GoM that India had overtaken the US in total number of Covid Vaccine doses administered so far.“USA started vaccinating against Covid from 14 December 2020 whereas the drive was launched in India on 16th Jan 2021… Till today (Monday) morning, we have administered 32,36,63,297 vaccine doses to our countrymen in various categories,” he said.As on June 27, the United States has administered 323.33 million vaccine doses, of which 179, 261,269 were given as first dose that is about 54.6% of the population.“What India needs right now is effective messaging among masses so that people strictly adhere to Covid-19 appropriate behaviour, maintaining hygiene etc. which will go a long way in breaking the chain of disease transmission along with vaccination,” said Jugal Kishore, head, community medicine department, Safdarjung Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2nd-wave-not-over-yet-80-dists-have-high-positivity-icmr-101624903454117.html
29-06-2021||India||Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee calls Jagdeep Dhankhar ‘corrupt’, guv hits back||The acrimonious relations between West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar and the Trinamool Congress-led state government hit a new low on Monday, with chief minister Mamata Banerjee alleging that Dhankhar was an accused in the 1996 Jain hawala case and branding him a “corrupt man”.“The governor’s name cropped up in the Jain hawala case. They had gone to court and got the name cleared. But again, a PIL was filed, and it is still pending. I am sorry to say he is a corrupt man,” Banerjee said, while speaking to the media at the state secretariat.Banerjee said she had written letters to the Centre on three occasions to relieve Dhankhar of the post.“If the Centre is not aware then I am telling. Bring out the charge sheet and check whether his name was there or not. Why is the Centre allowing a man like this to continue as the governor?” she said.Earlier in the day, Dhankhar, who was on a weeklong tour of Darjeeling, alleged that there was corruption in the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA), the semi-autonomous body that manages Darjeeling and Kalimpong hills in north Bengal.“The governor is deliberately trying to disturb the peaceful situation in north Bengal and hence he met those people who are in favour of dividing north Bengal. He told them to stage a revolt. Is it the job of the governor?” Banerjee said.On Saturday, the governor tweeted that there had been no election and audit in GTA since 2017.“The governor has raised some serious allegations against GTA. Cases may continue in the court. But are the chief minister’s today’s allegations answers to the questions raised by the governor? Is she trying to say that because the governor’s name is in the Jain hawala case, there can be corruption in GTA? Is she justifying this?” said Jay Prakash Majumdar, vice-president of the BJP in West Bengal.“I have not been charge-sheeted. There is no such document. This is far from facts. This is plain and simple untruth, misinformation. I have not taken any stay from any court,” said Dhankhar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-calls-dhankhar-corrupt-guv-hits-back-101624903333549.html
29-06-2021||India||Amar Chitra Katha collaborates with navy to chronicle its history||Amar Chitra Katha Comics (ACK), publisher of children’s comics, have collaborated with the Indian Navy to bring its history to the readers. The second in a three-comic book series titled The Naval Journey of India - Tacking to the Blue Waters was launched on the International Day of Seafarers on June 25. The book is available for free on the ACK website.The series explores the Navy’s myriad roles: as the defender of coasts, the protector of national security and interests, the saviour in times of need, the representative of our people and government in foreign lands, and one of the most important innovators and contributors to our country’s technology and infrastructure. As a special offer, this second book is also available in the Free Reads section of the ACK Comics app until July 2.Also Read | The art of resistance: Take a peek inside the new graphic novel on Shaheen BaghTalking about the new comic book, ACK’s group creative director Neel Paul said, “Tacking the blue waters is a comprehensive history of the Indian Navy since Independence and it follows the journey of a small force with big dreams in 1947 to the giant multi-dimensional force that the Indian Navy is today. It looks at the action, the growth, the glory, the wars we fought, the roles that the Navy played in creating this nation . It is really exciting. It was lovely journey to be part of.”“Our mission is to provide Indian children a route to their roots and acquaint them, inspire them and instill a great sense of pride about India in them. This book delivers on all these promises magnificently! We hope that this book will not only generate interest in our great maritime history among young Indians but also inspire them to celebrate and perhaps even join the Indian Navy,” ACK CEO Preeti Vyas said.Launched last year in December, the first book, titled The Naval Journey of India, Millennia of Sea Travels covered India’s relationship with her oceans, from the earliest sea routes during the Harappan Civilisation till 1947. The book costs ₹90 on the ACK website.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amar-chitra-katha-collaborates-with-navy-to-chronicle-its-history-101624887313258.html
29-06-2021||NA||Breaking news highlights: Chhattisgarh adds 405 new Covid cases, 6 more deaths||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks. Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Get latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.Follow all the updates here:Covid-19: Indonesia to vaccinate citizens aged 12 and olderIndonesia’s President Joko Widodo announced Monday that his government will administer Covid-19 vaccines for children as young as 12 after the country’s Food and Drug Monitoring Agency green-lighted emergency use of the Sinovac vaccine for children. Read moreChhattisgarh records 405 new Covid-19, 6 more deathsChhattisgarh on Monday recorded 405 new Covid-19 disease cases and six more deaths, taking the caseload and death toll to 993,694 and 13,437 respectively. The number of active cases in the state have come down to 6,208 while over 974,000 patients have been discharged so far. Twitter removes incorrect map showing J&K and Ladakh as separate from IndiaAfter facing severe backlash, Twitter on Monday got rid of a controversial map of India which showed Jammu and Kashmir, and Ladakh as a separate country. Read MoreMan in Bihar files case against Dharmendra Pradhan over fuel price hikeA case was on Monday lodged before a court in this north Bihar town against Union Petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan in connection with the spiralling rise in petrol prices. Local resident Tamanna Hashmi filed the case before the court of Chief Judicial Magistrate, Muzaffarpur, alleging that it was a "conspiracy" to sell petrol at high rates across the country though the price of crude oil was quite low.Maharashtra death toll rises to 1,21,573Maharashtra's Covid-19 tally rises by 6,727, taking the total tally to 60,43,548. The death toll stands at 1,21,573 after addition of 101 fresh fatalities.Delhi reports 59 new Covid-19 cases, lowest since April last yearDelhi reports 59 new Covid-19 cases, 72 recoveries, and 2 deaths in the last 24 hours. The death toll in the city now stands at 24,967 and the number of active case has fallen to 1,553.India’s cumulative vaccination coverage exceeds 32.85 croresIndia’s cumulative vaccination coverage exceeds 32.85 crores, more than 48.01 lakh vaccine doses administered till 7 pm today. More than 8.95 crores vaccine doses administered in the age group 18-44, so far, says Union health ministry.PM Modi hails economic measures announced by FM SitharamanMeasures announced by FM @nsitharaman today will enhance public health facilities, especially in under-served areas, boost private investment in medical infrastructure and augment critical human resources. Special focus is on strengthening healthcare facilities for our children.Over 50% of children in Mumbai have Covid-19 antibodies, shows sero surveyA paediatric sero-survey conducted in Mumbai has shown that 51.18% of those below the age of 18 in Mumbai have antibodies against coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The survey was conducted by civic body-run BYL Nair Hospital and Kasturba Molecular Diagnostic Laboratory (KMDL) between April 1 to June 15. Read MoreWHO approval for Covaxin proceeding very well: VK PaulProcess for getting World Health Organisation's emergency use approval for Covaxin proceeding very well, says VK Paul, member of NITI Aayog. Hope decision comes soon, he also said as per PTI report.West Bengal extends Covid-19 restrictions till July 15West Bengal government extends Covid-19 restrictions till July 15, but allows gyms to reopen and relaxes curbs on markets and public transport. Govt and public offices may now allow 50% employees. Earlier it was 20%.Free foodgrain to poor, ₹23,220 cr for paediatric care: FM> FM says ₹23,220 cr to be provided for paediatric care/paediatric beds at hospitals.> Free foodgrain to poor till Nov 2021 to take total cost of Pradhan Mantri Gareeb Kalyan Anna Yojana to ₹2.27 lakh cr.> Additional ₹14,775 cr fertilizer subsidy to be provided over and above ₹85,413 cr budgeted.Atmanirbhar Bharat Rozgar Yojana extended till March 2022Govt extends Atmanirbhar Bharat Rozgar Yojana from June 30, 2021, to March 31, 2022. Over 21.4 lakh people of nearly 80,000 establishments have already benefited from the scheme, said Sitharaman. ₹10 lakh loan for travel agencies announced to support tourismTo further boost tourism, Sitharaman announces ₹10 lakh loan to travel agencies and ₹1 lakh loan to tourist guides.First 5 lakh tourist visas to be issued free of charges: SitharamanOnce visa issuance starts again, first 5 lakh tourist visas to be issued free of charges, announces Sitharaman. "Once international travel resumes, first 5 lakh tourists who come to India will not have to pay visa fees. Scheme applicable till March 31, 2022, or will be closed after distribution of first 5 lakh visas. One tourist can avail benefit only once," she said.Sitharaman announces a new credit guarantee scheme for loans through micro finance institutions"We are announcing a totally new scheme," Sirtharaman said as she announced a "credit guarantee scheme to facilitate loans to 25 lakh persons through micro finance institutions.""The focus is on new lending, and not repayment of old loans," she also said.All borrowers (including defaulters upto 89 days) are eligible for the scheme. Lending will be upto ₹1.25 lakh.Govt expanding scope of emergency credit line guarantee scheme: SitharamanThe government is expanding the scope of emergency credit line guarantee scheme. We are adding another 1.5 lakh crore to the existing corpus of ₹3 lakh crore, the finance minister announced.Sitharaman announces ₹1.1 lakh crore loan guarantee schemeFinance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday announced ₹1.1 lakh crore loan guarantee scheme for Covid-affected sectors. The healthcare to get ₹50,000 crore, aimed at upscaling medical infrastructure targeting underserved areas. ₹60,000 crores for other sectors, she announced.Eight new set of economic relief measures meant to boost growth, says Sitharaman in the briefing.'Stop denying, start dismantling': UN rights chief on racism'The United Nations's human rights chief called on country leaders to do more to end racism. All states' must 'stop denying, start dismantling racism' to avoid repeating deaths like that of George Floyd, she said as per AFP report.Indonesia recommends Sinovac vaccine for children 12-17Indonesia has recommended the Covid-19 vaccine made by China's Sinovac Biotech for children above 12, a spokesman for its Covid-19 task force said on Monday.Arvind Kejriwal announces 200 units of free power in Punjab if AAP wins next year's state pollsDelhi CM Arvind Kejriwal announces 200 units of free power in Punjab if AAP wins next year's state polls.Odisha logs 3,319 new Covid-19 cases, 43 fresh fatalitiesAt least 3,319 more persons tested positive for Covid-19 on Odisha, which pushed the tally to 9,03,789, while 43 fresh fatalities raised the toll to 3,930, a health department official said.Over 1.15 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses still available with states/UTs: CentreMore than 1.15 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccines are still available with states and union territories, the union health ministry informed on Monday.BSP not to contest Zilla Panchayat polls in UPBahujan Samaj Party will not contest the Zilla panchayat elections in Uttar Pradesh this year, said party Chief Mayawati on Monday.Rajnath Singh visits Karu military station in LadakhDefence Minister Rajnath Singh visits Karu Military Station in Ladakh pic.twitter.com/ISGAfV66tHDefence Minister Rajnath Singh visits Karu Military Station in Ladakh.Earthquake of magnitude 3.7 on the Richter scale hit PithoragarhAn earthquake of magnitude 3.7 on the Richter scale hit Pithoragarh, Uttarakhand at 12.18 pm today: National Center for Seismology.Rajnath Singh and army personnel chorused 'Waheguru ji ka Khalsa, Waheguru ji ki Fateh'Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and army personnel chorused 'Waheguru ji ka Khalsa, Waheguru ji ki Fateh' at Leh during his 3-day visit in the UT.Arvind Kejriwal to visit Chandigarh tomorrowDelhi CM Arvind Kejriwal to visit Chandigarh, Punjab tomorrow.This will be his second visit to Punjab after last week's visit when ex-IGP Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh joined AAP.India successfully carries out test firing of a new missile of Agni seriesIndia successfully carried out the test firing of a new missile of the Agni series known as Agni-Prime at 10.55 am today, off the coast of Odisha. The new nuclear-capable missile is fully made up of composite material and it was a textbook launch: Govt Sources, reports news agency ANI.Two more drones spotted hovering over Kaluchak military stationTwo more drones spotted hovering over Kaluchak military station near Purmandal in adjoining Samba district late Sunday night. Army soldiers opened around 20 rounds. Searches launched early this morning,said a Defence spokesman.Uttarakhand government extends Covid-19 curfew by one weekUttarakhand government extends Covid-19 curfew by one week with some relaxations; gyms to open at 50% capacity, markets to open in the state for 6 days.Lot of Indians who have taken Covishield are facing issues with travel to the EU: Adar PoonawallaI realise that a lot of Indians who have taken Covishield are facing issues with travel to the E.U., I assure everyone, I have taken this up at the highest levels and hope to resolve this matter soon, both with regulators and at a diplomatic level with countries, says Adar Poonawalla.Powerful explosion in Dhaka kills seven, injures hundreds; police suspect gas leakA powerful explosion that destroyed an old three-storey building in a crowded area here in Bangladesh's capital and killed at least seven people and injured around 400 others may have been caused by a faulty gas line or gas cylinders, authorities said on Monday.Dr Reddy's Laboratories announces commercial launch of 2DGDr Reddy's Laboratories announces commercial launch of 2DG, an anti-Covid19 drug, says the pharmaceutical company.Jharkhand reports one more Covid-19 death, 81 new casesJharkhand's Covid-19 tally rose to 3,45,340 as 81 more people tested positive for the virus while one more fatality pushed the death toll to 5,111, a health department bulletin said on Monday.PM Modi pays tributes to PV Narasimha RaoPaying rich tributes to former prime minister P V Narasimha Rao on his 100th birth anniversary, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Monday that India remembers his extensive contributions to national development.India administers 32,36,63,297 doses of Covid-19 vaccinesIndia administers 32,36,63,297 doses of Covid-19 vaccines and overtakes the USA: Ministry of Health.6 killed, 13 injured in terrorist attack in central MaliSix people have been killed and 13 more injured as a result of a terrorist attack in the central part of Mali, media reported.India reports 46,148 new Covid-19 cases, 979 deathsIndia reported on Monday 46,148 new Covid-19 infections over the past 24 hours, data from the health ministry showed.Sensex at record high at 53,126, Nifty below 16,000Sensex at record high at 53,400, Nifty below 16,000 in opening session.8 more arrests in Mexico border city attacks that killed 19Eight more suspects have been arrested for alleged involvement in gun attacks earlier this month that killed 19 people in the northern Mexico border city of Reynosa, nearly all of whom appeared to be innocent bystanders, officials said Sunday.Moradabad: Five died after a bus collided with a mini truck near Pakbara area"The incident took place on the highway connecting Delhi to Rampur. Death of five persons have been reported so far. Injured have been admitted to the hospital," says Amit Anand, SP City, reports news agency ANI.Chinese automaker Great Wall aims to sell 4 million cars in 2025China's top pickup truck maker Great Wall Motor is targeting sales of 4 million vehicles a year in 2025, Chairman Wei Jianjun said on Monday.Mizoram reports 233 new Covid-19 casesMizoram reports 233 new Covid-19 cases, taking the total cases to 19,324 in the state. Active cases at 4,370.2 adults, 1 child killed after train hits vehicle in ChicagoTwo adults and a child were killed after a Metra train struck their vehicle Sunday in Chicago, officials said.Fire breaks out at AIIMS Delhi's emergency wardA minor fire was reported in the storeroom of All India Institute of Medical Science (AIIMS), Delhi at around 5am today. The fire was brought under control. No injury was reported in the incident: Delhi Fire Department, reports news agency ANI.Wife of Jammu and Kashmir Police SPO Fayaz Ahmad succums to injuriesWife of Jammu and Kashmir Police SPO Fayaz Ahmad also succumbed to injuries at a hospital after terrorists fired at them inside their house in Awantipora, Pulwama: Kashmir zone police.Magnitude 4.6 earthquake hits LehMagnitude 4.6 earthquake hits Leh in Ladakh: National Center for Seismology, reports news agency ANI.Australia's Covid-19 response team holds urgent meeting amid outbreakAustralia's Covid-19 response committee is due to hold an emergency meeting on Monday as outbreaks of the highly contagious Delta variant across the country prompted a lockdown in Sydney and renewed restrictions elsewhere.Reports about missing artefacts of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose untrue: CentreThe Ministry of Culture on Sunday clarified that the news appearing in media about the missing artefacts of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose is completely untrue.Mainland China reports 21 new Covid-19 cases vs 14 a day earlierMainland China reported 21 new cases of Covid-19 on June 27, up from 14 a day earlier, the national health authority said on Monday.US hits Iran-backed Militias with airstrikes, Pentagon saysUS forces conducted airstrikes against Iranian-backed militia groups blamed for drone attacks on US personnel and facilities in Iraq, according to the Defense Department.Brazil records 33,704 new Covid-19 cases, tally reaches 18.42mnThe number of confirmed Covid-19 cases in Brazil has increased by 33,704 to 18,420,598 within the past 24 hours, the country's health ministry said on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-june-28-2021-101624837540980.html
29-06-2021||Today's||With its economic policy, the government confronts political risks||On June 28, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced an economic package to deal with the adverse effects of the second wave of the pandemic. The contours of the package are similar to what was announced last year when the pandemic first erupted.The actual fiscal cost is only a fraction of the headline number attached to the package. The bulk of the support is in the form of credit guarantees, which means the government only pays in case there is a credit default. This approach is different from what most major economies have adopted, where the fiscal component was a much bigger part of the stimulus.Will this approach work? This question is best addressed by asking another question. Did the policy response to the first Covid-19 wave and the nationwide lockdown work?Unfortunately, it is difficult to arrive at a definitive view on the latter. Those sympathetic to the establishment argue that had it not been for the second wave, the economy would have been in a much better shape. Those who disagree claim that even the sequential recovery which was achieved was profit-led and inequality-generating in nature.Also Read | The ripple effects of an ageing population on an integrated global economyThis question can be approached in another way. What does a programme of credit guarantee for distress-ridden sectors seek to achieve? The short answer is that it offers a low cost option to a firm to prevent going bankrupt in the short-term. But it is also important to keep in mind the main reason for the distress — a harsh lockdown completely disrupting business, and deficient demand (which predates the pandemic). This means that unless there is a revival of demand, repeated credit guarantees to protect distress-ridden business is tantamount to kicking the can down the road.The government, while choosing to offer credit guarantees rather than direct fiscal stimulus, is banking on recovery of demand by the time the loans have to be paid back (or written off). Is the government on the same page with private capital on this question? Results of listed firms do not suggest this (see https://bit.ly/3hkGV9D for details). While their profits surged, companies have used the money to deleverage (reduce debt) rather than undertake fresh investments. This implies that companies do not see the need to create more capacity to cater to what could be extra-demand in the future. The economic shock of the second wave, both for businesses and household finances, has made things worse on this front.This approach to fiscal policy needs to be seen together with a pro-cyclical fiscal stance in the last fiscal year. Provisional data from the Controller General of Accounts (CGA) shows that Union’s gross tax revenue increased between 2019-20 and 2020-21, despite a contraction in nominal GDP. This otherwise impossible feat was achieved by a massive hike in union excise duties on petroleum products even as receipts from other tax heads fell. This has had a particularly regressive impact in an economy (see https://bit.ly/3Ac8ytM for details). Policies such as withholding dearness allowance payments to government employees have added to such pro-cyclical moves. As petrol-diesel prices hit new highs every day, inflation will generate further headwinds for incomes and demand, especially for those at the bottom of the pyramid.The “tax petrol-diesel route” to fiscal prudence is also self-defeating in another way. It is a fact that fuel inflation has a cascading impact on business and household costs. With inflation inching up gradually, expectations of a roll back of the currently accommodative monetary policy (even though rates do not go up immediately) will gain further traction. Whether or not the current levels of low interest rates and liquidity signify the new normal in India is a question which needs to be debated seriously. The majority view is unlikely to endorse any such opinion. This makes the current monetary policy window more suitable to making windfall gains by deleveraging rather than accepting long-term commitments.None of these arguments are new or difficult to grasp. And policymakers are acutely aware of these debates. Which warrants another question. Why is the government not convinced?The only possible explanation is that the government may be scared of its own populism. Any large-scale fiscal relief such as a cash transfer programme or a pro-poor counter-cyclical intervention could be seen as potentially difficult to withdraw, especially in the run-up to the 2024 elections. Many economists see the delayed withdrawal of the fiscal stimulus after the 2008 crisis by the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government as the major reason behind the macroeconomic crisis which followed in the second term of the UPA government.Technocrats are perfectly justified in taking such a position. However, is this a politically tenable position?There is enough research and anecdotal evidence to know that citizens, at large, are not engaged with questions such as fiscal deficit or current account deficit. In India, what they are most concerned about is inflation, perhaps even more than growth. Take an example: growth actually started going up towards of the end of the UPA-II period, but inflation that did not come down. The Congress paid heavily for this in the 2014 elections. To be fair, the inflationary spike under UPA was a result of sharp spike in crude oil prices.The current government may think it is being prudent in not letting the fiscal situation go out of control by refusing to expand its fiscal stimulus, but it is actually actively fuelling inflation by refusing to cut taxes on petrol-diesel. This is risky from the political point of view.The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/with-its-economic-policy-the-government-confronts-political-risks-101624971977514.html
29-06-2021||Today's||As crude drones change the nature of terror, India needs to prepare better||The attack on an Indian Air Force (IAF) base in Jammu, reportedly conducted using crude drones not far from the Line of Control with Pakistan, highlights the introduction of a new phase of threats faced by India’s military installations. The writing was on the wall, of asymmetric warfare eventually finding its feet in the volatile Jammu & Kashmir (J&K) region as well.In 2018, Hmeimim Air Base near Latakia in Syria, operated largely by Russia, came under attack by drones. The attack gave a view of the proliferation of this technology, usually synonymous with United States’s counterterror policies, led by the silhouette of the infamous MQ-9 Reaper, as a weapon that was now accessible to terror groups as well. The Hmeimim attack is closest to what happened in Jammu, as Russian jets and other equipment placed at the Syrian base reportedly faced significant damage in the attack. Moscow claimed it had taken down some of the drones using a mixture of short-range anti-aircraft missiles and radio jammers.Also Read | Drones spotted again over military installations in JammuHowever, the fact that drones made from scrap and duct-tape carrying improvised explosive devices (IEDs) were able to damage conventional aircraft on ground, worth millions of dollars, brought forward a new set of challenges for defence policymakers.The history of drones in the hands of militant and terror groups can be traced back to the villages of Syria between 2013 and 2015 when well-educated and technology-savvy fighters from Europe and beyond joined the then fledging Islamic State (IS) juggernaut, bringing with them the ideas of how to have an air wing. This began first with drones made from scratch, using scrap found in the war zones of Syria and Iraq, and then modifying commercially available quadcopters to carry IEDs and other similar explosives.During the height of IS’s run, quadcopters used for shooting film or sport, purchased from everyday electronics shops from around the world, made their way into Syria and Iraq via smugglers. In fact, according to Conflict Armament Research, a drone purchased in India in August 2016, and activated in the United Kingdom in October of the same year, was eventually found in Tal Afar, northern Iraq, a few miles from the then IS stronghold of Mosul. Later that year, IS had claimed that its fleet of drones had killed or wounded 39 Iraqi soldiers in a one-week period. And beyond the kinetic effects, many IS drone attacks were also recorded by on-board cameras, providing fodder for the group’s tremendous online propaganda outreach.However, there are caveats in deciphering the threat perceptions. While the successful use of Turkey-manufactured Bayraktar TB2 drones by Azerbaijan against Armenia in the Nagorno-Karabakh war last year did present a significant upscaling of use of drones in warfare, it cannot be compared to the Jammu incident. The Azeri–Armenia war was conventional, between states, and the Bayratkar drones are designed outrightly for military purposes and are not crude drones. This comparison, often used in Indian public discourse, needs course correction.The use of crude drones over the past years has only escalated. In 2019, reports suggested even Maoists had used a drone to conduct surveillance over a paramilitary camp in Chhattisgarh’s Bastar. From attacks on oil refineries in Saudi Arabia on the sidelines of the Yemen war to an assassination attempt against Venezuelan leader Nicolas Maduro in 2018 using exploding drones, the proliferation of this technology, balancing itself between civilian and military use, has already become a challenge.The threat of asymmetric warfare such as crude drones from an Indian perspective is not new. In fact, the air force chief highlighted rogue drones as a risk in December 2020. This should have already been factored into base protection and response. While technology itself is at the core of a response, Jammu is a reminder that technologies themselves are not exclusive to a military or a State anymore.Kabir Taneja is fellow, Strategic Studies Programme, Observer Research Foundation, and the author of The ISIS Peril: The World’s Most Feared Terror Group and its Shadow on South AsiaThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/as-crude-drones-change-the-nature-of-terror-india-needs-to-prepare-better-101624962497593.html
29-06-2021||Today's||Learn from the second wave, be cautious and get vaccinated||Caution holds the key in the long and steady march to normalcy as we continue our collective fight against Covid-19, with the government driving the vaccination programme with urgency on a mission mode. As experts have pointed out, vaccination is the only protective shield when it comes to curbing the spread of the pandemic. Community awareness and involvement, summed up by Prime Minister Narendra Modi as “Jan Bhagidari” and “Jan Andolan” lie at the heart of effective pandemic management on the ground.The Government of India’s decision to provide free vaccines to the states for all citizens above the age of 18 years, from June 21, has lent a powerful impetus to the ongoing vaccination rollout. Simultaneously, the vaccination drive has to be backed up by the other four proven elements in the strategy to stem the spread of the virus: Testing, Tracing, Treatment and following Covid-19 appropriate behaviour.Working in close coordination, both the Central and state government are leaving no stone unturned to educate people on the importance of vaccination, as also the need to conform to appropriate behaviour. However, all of us have to be a part of this mission by getting ourselves vaccinated, spreading vaccine literacy, and taking all the necessary precautions.Also Read | Gender equality must be central to Covid-19 recovery plansIn recent days, media reports have appeared on instances of crowding with the easing of lockdown restrictions in many parts of the country. This makes for disturbing news as a steep rise in cases during the second wave could be ascribed to the widespread non-compliance of Covid-19 appropriate behaviour, among other reasons. Images of milling crowds at markets and bazaars in the past few days, tell us that we, as a society, have learnt very little from the grim lessons that the virus taught us in the first two waves. This must change, we must not let down our guard.With cases starting to ebb, there is a greater need to be vigilant. Experts have emphasised the importance of developing immunity to defeat the challenge posed by the virus. Adopting a healthy lifestyle with good dietary habits, regular physical exercise and adequate sleep will go a long way in improving immunity and protecting oneself.The virus’s transmissibility can be cut down only if everyone observes the dharma of wearing a mask, maintains social distancing, hand hygiene and adheres to Covid-19 protocols. Scientists have also been warning that mass gatherings create a perfect condition for the virus to thrive. This must be avoided.Following the virulent surge in infections in the second wave, the Centre and state governments have been actively ramping up health infrastructure, ensuring sufficient supplies of oxygen, essential medical supplies and ventilators, among other things. Data emerging from the vaccination drive among health care workers battling the second wave of Coronavirus reflects a much lower need for hospitalisation, oxygen therapy, and admission to ICU. There is no doubt among specialists that in the current scenario, vaccine is indeed a game-changer.While, as a society, we may be better prepared today to countenance another spike in infections, compared to where we stood when we were battered by the tsunami of the second wave, the challenge is formidable. We should not be lulled into a false sense of security by the dipping numbers. We cannot turn away from the bitter fact that everyday life will not be the same for some time as the overall situation continues to be dynamic and unpredictable.Community support is critical to controlling the transmission of the virus, as well as quickening the pace of the vaccination campaign. Rising above party lines, people’s representatives at all levels and civil society groups should collaborate actively and act as social influencers on the ground to dispel vaccine hesitancy in some sections of the population, especially in our rural areas. Leaders of all parties, setting political differences aside, should come together as members of Team India, share knowledge, and collaborate in promoting best practices for better management of this unprecedented global health crisis.The pandemic has had a devastating impact on the lives and livelihoods of people and to mitigate the suffering of the common citizen, the government has been widening the net of social safety measures and welfare initiatives.The raging pandemic crippled the economies of the wealthiest nations in the world and put their health systems to test. Our health care infrastructure came under severe stress as well. Yet, our medical fraternity including doctors, para-medical staff, health and sanitary workers, as also our valiant police personnel, ASHA workers in villages, our scientists, innovators, entrepreneurs, researchers and vaccine manufacturers, rose to the occasion working indefatigably to save precious lives. I salute our scientists, who, through proactive research developed Covid testing kits and essential equipment in real quick time.Commendably, our scientists and vaccine manufacturers, racing against time to develop vaccines against this deadly virus, have successfully come up with safe and effective vaccines.The government has expedited the process of acquiring more vaccines to fast-track the ongoing vaccination campaign. This will widen the vaccine pool and help the national campaign gain momentum so that all eligible Indians are vaccinated by the year-end.The unprecedented health crisis has forced students and educators to go online and this in itself, has turned the entire learning experience into a challenge for both the teachers and the taught. According to mental health experts, the pandemic recorded a number of instances of heightened anxiety and irritability among children, as one of the inevitable spinoffs of being compelled to stay at home. New as they are, these issues will need to be studied and addressed by experts.Working together, the Centre and state governments need to evolve a calibrated strategy factoring in human behaviour, as we attempt easing of lockdowns and a return to normalcy. Aggressive surveillance in hotspots and mini-lockdowns where necessary will help break the chain of transmission. Collectively and individually, we need to tread cautiously, as a highly infectious, fast-mutating virus renders large swathes of our unvaccinated population vulnerable and defenceless. Finally, all of us must do our bit to ensure that India meets its target of vaccinating all eligible citizens by the end of this year.M Venkaiah Naidu is the Vice President of IndiaThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/learn-from-the-second-wave-be-cautious-and-get-vaccinated-101624961777180.html
29-06-2021||Today's||The ripple effects of an ageing population on an integrated global economy||While growth has had many vectors, the largest contributor was a growing number of younger people joining the workforce year on year. They generate incomes, afford a better life for themselves and a better tax base for governments to build infrastructure. This is what drives developing sectors to create a pattern. What if all this were to stop? This is a reality we are now confronting.Author Darrell Bricker in a recent article in the World Economic Forum, Humanity will be a lot smaller and a lot older than it is today, said that from six working-age people to one retired in the 1960s, we are at 3:1 today, and soon, we will be 1:1.This shift over 50 years has steadily gotten to a point where it’s not just a few countries, but the whole world — developed and developing countries alike. This goes beyond race and religion too. Bangladesh’s fertility rate of 1.7 has fallen well below the replacement rate of 2.1. India is at 2.1, Indonesia 2.0, the United States, 1.6. China is an astonishingly low 1.3, which is why, with the government relaxing its two-child policy, they’re now allowed to have three children. A recent New York Times article stated that land is being repurposed in many countries across the world — with school playgrounds being changed to old-age communities.Also Read | Reforms and Indian capitalismWhat will this mean for the global economy?At the outset, a significant labour redistribution will occur, which will impact immigration policies on the one hand, and the costing-pricing of goods on the other. The accelerating pace of automation and robotics will enable a lesser reliance on manual labour in many areas. But not every dimension of life can be automated, and thus, globally, the currency for labour — skilled or unskilled — will increase. Immigration will be easier for manual labour, and families with children will be even more welcome than they already are.As a result, industries with a heavy reliance on labour will see their output priced more equanimously globally — with lesser extremes of high-cost countries and low-cost production bases — since the basis of that difference (labour) has become mobile. Thus, labour-intensive sectors will see common price points in agriculture, mining, hospitality, and so on.For what can be automated, there will be no stopping it. In the same way that Covid-19 took away excuses for an “always-on, remote work” environment, shrinking demographics will take away excuses for automation. Skilled-but-monotonous jobs are getting automated fastest of all, and this pace will increase. These may include scripted interactions like those in customer care call centres or maker-checker jobs in service industries.In the private sector, jobs have long been moving from permanent to temporary, and now to transactional jobs which are fuelled by the gig economy. Productivity can only do so much replacement to offset the steep deficit that will be caused. More fundamental resets to established habits and practices will be needed — I see a combination of possibilities stemming from what we have so far considered the secondary workforce or the secondary economy — women, small and medium enterprises (SMEs), elderly people, and students.More women will be drawn to work, and even more so with the pandemic-induced convenience of work-from-home. SMEs will see a natural resurgence with their agility and focus — they have the potential to become highly-specialised value additions in complex supply chains with larger organisations motivated to move more work to them. But most interesting will be the need to expand the longevity of a workforce — with students entering jobs early, and seniors retiring (if at all) in their 70s.Early start to jobs will need schools having mandatory vocational content, with the need to do a few years of work before enrolling in colleges — not very different from how the war-era made military service mandatory in many countries. The longer people work, before getting back to education, the more benefits and tax structures they can avail.Right now, a seven-year-old consumes more data and technology than a seventy-year-old. This will change. For this too, the pandemic has been the driving force. The elderly have steadily become friends with technology — from ordering food and services online, to engaging with others, and for entertainment — they are learning how these technologies work. This adoption of technology will enable seniors to extend their stay in the workforce. Companies, therefore, could choose a multitude of possibilities — from reduced hours and reduced compensation to on-demand retainerships. For the very reason that accountants, doctors, and lawyers don’t retire, across skill-sets, seniors will stay in the workforce longer. Pension plans and retirement benefits will be re-adjusted to factor this in.Governments will not be immune to these changes. Trust will be the basis for a big shift in governance. A huge workforce in government is dedicated to the adherence to policies and rules — from taxes to law and order. This will change. Technology will have enough algorithms and alerts to be smarter in the case of violations, but in spirit, governance will change to trust and deterrence rather than an inspect- and verification-based system. Taxation will go through interesting innovations — as reducing workforces become more mobile, and as cloud-sourced work continues to defy physical jurisdictions. Governments will compete to make social benefits and tax breaks a big part of citizenship attractiveness.The innovation landscape is already getting ready for this. Innovations are happening yearly, and are visible every day — better transportation, better health care, a sensor rich world, ever-evolving financial products, better waste and recycling management, efficient real estate, clean energy and so on. What’s less visible but ongoing is innovation in the interoperative ecosystem that helps us learn, work, live, and age better in this changing world. Here, whatever can’t be automated is on-demand, and whatever is specialised, is highly curated with the three ₹— ratings-rankings-referrals. A digital services economy on the backbone of trusted discovery with certifications is already in play. Identity theft possibilities exist, and cybersecurity still has a long way to go, but blockchain technology is creating a foundation for counter-party verifications. Even today, digital handshakes happen before physical handshakes, and we will soon have trusted-party verifications precede a digital or physical handshake. And to back the last bit of fear, micro-insurance will ride alongside every transaction.These demographic changes will cause a reprioritisation of the innovation agenda and capital. There will be a heightened focus on innovation for elders, given how large a customer base they will be. Longitudinal data will be the ground on which companies will be ready to offer discounts and loans. Hence, “the longer I know you, the more I can underwrite you” will drive capital to managed marketplaces, which so far has been predominantly to open marketplaces. Cyber-identity and security will continue to dominate the innovation agenda for decades to come. It will be the basis on which the financial, health, and work dimensions of our lives have seamless mobility.After having suffered for the larger part of the last century for population overgrowth, a smaller humanity might be better for the planet. We are shrinking and we need to be ready for it, for it will touch every aspect of our lives much sooner than we imagined.Rohit Bhayana is co-founder and managing partner, LumisThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-ripple-effects-of-an-ageing-population-on-an-integrated-global-economy-101624961537096.html
29-06-2021||Today's||Reforms and Indian capitalism||India marks 30 years since the 1991 reforms at a moment when its economy is on the precipice of another crisis. 1991 ushered in an era of high growth, declining poverty, a burgeoning, aspirational middle class and the very real possibility of a seat on the global stage. By the early 2010s, those heady days of high growth were fast becoming history and long ignored fragilities within the Indian economy, of cronyism, structural inequality, regional concentration, were increasingly visible.India has reached the end of the road of the gains made from the 1991 moment and the ravages of Covid-19 have thrown this into sharp relief. Finding our way out of the crisis and on to a growth trajectory requires an honest appraisal of the past, a debate that goes beyond Gross Domestic Product to focus on the real economy and a reform imagination that is willing to confront the realities of our political economy.Also Read | Debt at 58.8% of GDP as economy contractsNurturing Indian capitalism by breaking it free from the shackles of the licence-raj through de-licensing, market competition and opening up was the dominant framework of the 1991 moment. What has emerged, as economists Michael Walton and Rohit Chandra have argued, is capitalism with two faces; partly dynamic, competitive and productivity-oriented, but coexisting with an increasingly visible, dark side entrenched in rent-extracting cronyism that privileges political deals over rules-based business.Corruption scandals under the United Progressive Alliance regime, the twin balance sheet problem, the consolidation of capitalist oligarchies and increased opacity in electoral finances under the current government are illustrations of this entrenched cronyism, notwithstanding reforms such as the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code. India’s path to capitalism is yet to credibly create markets that embrace competition and create conditions for widespread prosperity. And it is this lack of credibility that lies at the heart of the scepticism and resistance toward deeper factor market reforms in land, labour, and agriculture that impact the everyday economic prospects of ordinary Indians. The fears and anxieties of losing bargaining power when confronted with an entrenched State-business nexus are far more genuine than our debates on economic reforms have cared to admit.The credibility deficit of Indian capitalism is partly due to the weaknesses of the regulatory regime. Author Gurcharan Das’s famous quip, India grows at night while the government sleeps, encapsulates the animating spirit of 1991. But in the rush to get government out of the way, scant attention was paid to ensuring we had good government where we needed it. India’s regulatory regime, despite initial investments in institutions such as Securities and Exchange Board of India, mirrors the very infirmities of government that the 1991 reforms hoped to escape. Robust regulation required building technical skills, creating an enabling legal regime, instituting checks and balances against unrestricted power and ensuring public accountability. Instead, we enabled a weak and politically vulnerable institutional landscape. Sustainable growth requires credible institutions. Investing in the State and its regulatory institutions rather than wishing it away will ultimately be the real driver of growth.Weak regulation, however, is only part of the challenge. Markets in India operate in the context of deep structural inequalities. Our 1991 economic imagination responded to these realities by framing the debate in false binaries of growth versus inequality. This gave India comfort in its unusual structural transformation, one that skipped manufacturing, despite abundant low skilled labour, growing instead on the back of a far smaller high-skilled services sector. A trend economists Arvind Subramanian and Rohit Lamba have called “premature deindustrialisation, precocious servicification”.The distributional consequences of this became apparent even before the pandemic. Informality, under-employment and low inter-generational mobility persisted through the heady days of growth eventually contributing to the pre-pandemic slowdown. Economist Sam Asher and colleagues have shown in a recent paper that mobility is highest in places that are economically better off — southern, urban and with high education levels. Poorer regions and poorer people have failed to catch up. There is no trade off. Inequality has hampered growth. The pandemic has only exacerbated this trend. Addressing structural inequalities requires a radical shift in our frameworks of economic policymaking. While there is widespread consensus that India needs to change direction and focus on employment-intensive manufacturing, the policy tools, framed by 1991, remain focussed on de-regulating factors of production, visible in the rush to push farm laws without addressing structural vulnerabilities which fuel market scepticism. To make markets work for the poor, the State needs to invest and build markets even as it clears the regulatory maize. This includes physical market infrastructure, supply chains, and risk management through safety nets. Small towns and rural areas, which contribute to half of India’s manufacturing value addition and non-farm employment (Census 2011), have to be the priority and not just “smart” cities. None of this is viable without decentralised, local economic planning. Strengthening local governments for better governance has to be at the heart of the agenda. Finally, the colossal failure to invest in human capital, health, education, nutrition, worse, treating these as an afterthought, a luxury of high growth. This is both an economic and a moral failure. There can be no sustainable growth without first investing in people and enabling them the opportunity to be active participants in the economy. If there is only one lesson to be learnt from the 1991 moment, let it be this.Yamini Aiyar is president and chief executive of Centre for Policy ResearchThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/reforms-and-indian-capitalism-101624960517214.html
29-06-2021||Editorials||Reimagining the frontier||In keeping with the government’s focus on infrastructure upgradation and modernisation in border areas, especially with China, defence minister Rajnath Singh inaugurated 63 bridges across eight states and Union Territories on Monday. He was present in Leh in person, and was joined virtually by chief ministers and top officials of all states which border China. Earlier this month, Mr Singh inaugurated 12 other bridges constructed by the Border Roads Organisation (BRO). In his remarks, the minister emphasised both the developmental and strategic value of these bridges, and lauded BRO — an unsung pillar of India’s security apparatus — for its work. It is now clear that India’s defence establishment will not let China’s sensitivities deter it from proceeding with its border plans, and rightly so. Some analysts believe that India’s efforts to upgrade its infrastructure led to increased Chinese incursions across the Line of Actual Control over the past decade. Irrespective of whether this is a dominant or minor factor in China’s calculations, the simple fact is that Beijing’s position is hypocritical. It has, over a much longer period than India, ramped up border infra and accrued tactical benefits. Misguided by an insecure strategic mindset that saw border roads and bridges as somehow enabling enemy troop mobilisation, and constrained by resources, India left its border areas under-developed and isolated for way too long. Delhi has been correcting this approach in recent decades, especially under the Manmohan Singh and Narendra Modi-led governments, and must continue to do so. But as much as this is aimed to boost India’s defences against Chinese aggression, Delhi must also use it to reimagine its conception of frontier areas. A colonial legacy that has lasted in independent India is a framework which views these border regions as mere frontiers, peripheral and only relevant in the security matrix. But this is flawed. Citizens living in these areas deserve as much access to developmental and welfare benefits as citizens elsewhere. They deserve a greater political voice. And their inputs on China policy are invaluable for they deal with the presence of an overbearing northern neighbour right at the doorstep and are the most affected stakeholders. An inclusive vision, which sees border regions and people as central rather than peripheral, and focuses on improving their lives through better connectivity, is ethically right and politically wise. And it is also a smart security strategy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/reimagining-the-frontier-101624977982420.html
29-06-2021||Editorials||Economy: Dealing with the D word||The second wave of the coronavirus disease is ebbing, a little less than 30% of the eligible population (everyone over the age of 18 years) has received at least one dose of a Covid-vaccine, and business activities (one measure is the Nomura India Business Resumption Index) are almost back to where they were in April before India was overwhelmed by a rush of infections. The index, for instance, is back in the late 80s; 100 indicates a pre-pandemic level of activity. Meanwhile, the government announced more relief and stimulus measures on Tuesday. Much like the previous ones, these are over-indexed on guaranteed credit schemes. It isn’t difficult to see why the government prefers these over direct cash transfers, which will have an impact on the fiscal deficit. Not everyone who avails credit through the various schemes the government has announced since last May will default; those who have been really affected by the pandemic will, and for them, the scheme will pretty much function like a cash transfer — except that the impact on the fiscal will be delayed, and hopefully come at a time when the economy is in better shape. Seen thus, the targeted credit schemes, including the one for the tourism sector and tour guides, or that for micro-finance companies, takes on a new meaning. The question is: Will this be enough to spur demand, which was already declining before the pandemic hit? The second wave prevented us from understanding whether the sharp increase in demand seen after the first wave was purely on account of pent-up demand or whether there was the beginning of a fundamental recovery. The economy is likely to see another wave of pent-up demand in the immediate months to come, but the larger question will remain unanswered till later this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/economy-dealing-with-the-d-word-101624977737862.html
