01 May 2021||Special CorrespondentChennai,||Amid vaccine shortage, States put off rollout for 18-45 group||Amid a lack of vaccine supplies and uncertainty over availability in the next few weeks, several States have postponed the scheduled May 1 rollout of phase III of the COVID-19 immunisation for those between 18-44 years. Maharashtra said the rollout would begin as scheduled but would depend on supplies. Several States, including Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, and Punjab, have written to the Centre seeking urgent replenishing of vaccine supplies. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday said the Capital would not join the wider vaccination drive as the required doses had not been received yet. He requested people in the newly added age group not to queue up at vaccination centres on May 1 as this might lead to violation of social distancing and create a law-and-order situation. “In the next one-two days, around three lakh Covishield vaccines will be received and the drive for vaccinating people in the age group 18-44 will commence,” Mr. Kejriwal said. He added that the Delhi government had placed an order for 67 lakh doses each of Covishield and Covaxin from manufacturers and once received, the entire population of Delhi would be able to get vaccinated within three months. T.N. awaits supplies The Tamil Nadu government also deferred the rollout as it had not yet received the required vaccines from the Central government. Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan told mediapersons in Chennai that the Chief Minister had written to the Centre, seeking 1.5 crore doses of Covishield and Covaxin. “But till date, the Centre has not given information about the number of doses the State will receive,” he said. “We have sufficient vaccines for those over 45. The same problem is being faced by other States as well,” he explained. The State was in touch with the Serum Institute of India, Pune, and Bharat Biotech, Hyderabad, he said. Apollo Hospitals, meanwhile, said it would launch the third drive of vaccination on Saturday, having procured vaccines directly from the manufacturers as per the Central government’s directive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/amid-vaccine-shortage-states-postpone-rollout-for-18-45/article34454544.ece
01 May 2021||Mumbai,||Mumbai’s test positivity rate dips to 9%||In an encouraging sign, the COVID-19 test positivity rate in Mumbai dropped to 9.01% on Friday, according to data provided by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). The city started witnessing a downward trend since the tightening of restrictions last week. On Thursday, Mumbai recorded a test positivity rate of 9.94% after 4,328 people tested positive of the 43,525 samples examined. Test positivity rate is defined as the proportion that returns positive among the total samples tested. “Our positivity rate is in single digits now, with nearly 44,000 tests. Perhaps, Mumbai is the only city in India with a single digit positivity rate with high testing,” BMC Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal said on Friday. Though the latest figures hint at the city heading towards the path of recovery, BMC officials warned that the fight against COVID-19 was still on and urged citizens to continue to follow safety guidelines. “The trend might be encouraging and may push people into believing that we are winning over the virus. Let us not fall into that trap. We are far from winning the battle,” said a senior BMC official. According to BMC data for the past month, Mumbai had a test positivity rate of 20.85% in the beginning of April. The city recorded its highest test positivity rate of 27.94% on April 3, when 11,573 people had tested positive after 51,313 samples were examined. Since then, the rate has been fluctuating between 15% and 21%. The data suggested that the test positivity rate started slipping below 20% from April 19. Last week, On April 23, the rate dipped to 15.65% when 6,193 people tested positive of the 39,584 samples examined. The next week, the rate lingered between 15% and 14%. The rate further dropped to 11.93% on April 28 and to 9.94% the next day. Highlighting that 85% of the new cases are asymptomatic, Mr. Chahal said the number of vacant beds available in city hospitals increased to 5,725 on Friday afternoon, indicating a drop in fresh admissions. Aaditya Thackeray, State Environment Minister and Guardian Minister of Mumbai (Suburban), said: “While we are focusing on increasing bed capacity in the city, we urge Mumbaikars to stay indoors and help us bring down the number of cases.” The BMC official, who is handling one of the civic-run COVID Care Centres in Mumbai, said though the test positivity rate is dipping, vaccinating people as early as possible is the only way to contain the virus. “There is no other option,” he said.  (With PTI inputs)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mumbais-test-positivity-rate-dips-to-9/article34455210.ece
01 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||State may impose district-wise lockdown||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Friday said the government would lockdown districts in their entirety if the number of new cases surged and the test positivity rate crossed a certain threshold in the locality. The second coming of the pandemic has strained the State’s finite health care resources, he said. Hospital beds and supplemental oxygen were at a premium. Kerala has to stop the surge, he said. The government had no option but to ratchet up restrictions on life, movement and commerce from May 4. Only essential government offices would function, Mr. Vijayan said. Banks could open for business from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. on working days. However, they should shutter mandatorily at 2 p.m. The 9 p.m. to 5 a.m. curfew would continue. Shops could remain open till 9 p.m., he said. No curbs on travel There is no restriction on air or rail travel. Long-distances buses can operate. Autorickshaws, taxi cabs, hail taxi services, stage carriage vehicles and private cars can ferry passengers to and from bus terminals, airports and railway stations. However, the passengers should furnish identity and travel documents when challenged by the police. The government has banned casual travel on the weekend and from May 4 to May 9. Vehicle repair and service centres can operate as usual. Shops selling food, groceries, fruits, vegetables, milk, dairy products and meat and fish stalls can open. So can hotels. However, the State has banned indoor dining. The emphasis was on home delivery and takeaway. Citizens should rely on neighbourhood shops for essentials. They should not venture much away from their homes. Optimally, people should sequester themselves indoors and venture out only in the event of a contingency. Markets Markets could open for business. However, market committees should ensure that vendors maintain a physical distance of at least 2 m from each other. They should wear masks and gloves mandatorily. Cinema and television serial companies should wind up production for now. The State aimed to halt activities that would necessitate people to gather. Mr. Vijayan urged the public to postpone celebratory events, suspend non-essential travel and wear two masks in public. People should mandatorily remain indoors on vote counting day on May 2. The government has banned public jubilation. The government has shifted gear from counselling to strict enforcement. The District Magistrate, Kollam, shuttered a pawnshop that admitted customers in considerable numbers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-may-impose-district-wise-lockdown/article34454702.ece
01 May 2021||Mumbai,||CM urges Centre to raise vaccine supplies||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday urged the Central government to increase vaccine supplies as the State has received only three lakh doses with just hours left to begin the drive to inoculate all citizens in the 18-44 age group. He also informed that the inoculation drive will start from Saturday ‘as per the availability’ of vaccine doses. In a televised address on the eve of the State’s Foundation Day, Mr. Thackeray said, “Maharashtra has the capacity to vaccinate each and every person, but the problem is shortage of vaccine supply. Today, we received three lakh vaccine doses and will be receiving 18 lakh more in May. I again urge the Central government to increase vaccine supplies to the State in order to move ahead with the vaccination drive.” Mr. Thackeray said he has written to the Prime Minister asking him to design a separate mobile application on the lines of Co-Win for each State or allow the States to design their own apps which can be connected to the main app to ensure coordination. The Chief Minister clarified that the Centre was not willing to provide free vaccines to inoculate citizens in the 18-44 age group. “Of the total vaccines produced, the Centre will buy 50% and the rest is available for the States,” he said. Mr. Thackeray also urged the people of Maharashtra to avoid crowding outside vaccination centres as it might lead to spread of the virus. “We have the capacity to vaccinate eight lakh citizens a day. The question here is not of our capacity, but our limitation due to the shortage of vaccines,” he said. The Chief Minister said the State government was ready to purchase the 12 crore doses required to vaccinate six crore citizens in the 18-44 age group at one go. “We can simply purchase it by signing one cheque. But that is not possible as vaccine production is not of that scale. We are in talks with vaccine manufactures and have been told that the production capacity will increase only by June-July,” he said. So far 1.58 crore citizens above 45 years have been vaccinated in the State. Mr. Thackeray also said the active case tally in the State would have touched eight to nine lakh if the government had not imposed the lockdown-like curbs. ‘Preparing for next wave’  Mr. Thackeray said the government was preparing for the third wave and assured the people that it would have minimal impact on the State.  We have the capacity to vaccinate eight lakh citizens a day Uddhav Thackeray Maharashtra Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cm-urges-centre-to-raise-vaccine-supplies/article34455208.ece
01 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||COVID-19 infection tally crosses 11 lakh in State||The State’s COVID tally crossed 11 lakh as it hit a new peak again with 17,354 new infections in the 24 hours ending Friday morning. During the same period, 64 persons succumbed to the virus. The cumulative tally reached 11,01,690 and nearly two lakh cases were reported in the past month. There were 1,22,980 active cases and 8,468 patients have recovered in the past day. The overall death rate was 0.73% and the toll reached 7,992. The total recoveries stand at  9,70,718. In April, the State witnessed 1,99,701 new infections, which was 94% higher than March’s tally of 12,073. Of the nearly two lakh cases reported in April, about 40% were from Chittoor (29,583), Guntur (27,097) and Srikakulam (21,350) districts. The remaining 60% were from 10 districts and West Godavari reported only 4,286 infections. The number of deaths also increased by 94% as 775 deaths occurred in April against 48 deaths reported in March. The last one lakh cases were reported in just 8 days which was the shorted period in State to see over a lakh infections since the beginning of the pandemic. The positivity rate of the 13.07 lakh samples tested in April was 15.27% while it was just 1.07% in March which period 11.31 lakh samples were tested. However, the death rate came down to 0.39% this month from 0.40 last month despite the drastic increase in the incidence of infections. In the past day, 86,494 samples were tested registering a 20.06% positivity rate while the overall positivity rate of the 1.639 crore samples was 6.72%. Of the total 772 deaths reported in the past month more than 27% were reported in Chittoor and Nellore where more than 100 persons each died. In the past day, Nellore and Visakhapatnam reported eight new deaths each and they were followed by Vizianagaram with seven deaths. Chittoor, East Godavari and Prakasam reported six new deaths each while Anantapur reported five deaths. Guntur, Kurnool and West Godavari reported four each and Krishna and Srikakulam reported three deaths each. Kadapa reported no death in the past day. Highest single-day tally Chittoor has again reported the highest single-day tally of 2,764 new infections. It was followed by Guntur (2,129), Anantapur (1,882), East Godavari (1,842), Srikakulam (1,581), Visakhapatnam (1,358), Nellore (1,133), Kurnool (967), West Godavari (842), Kadapa (757), Vizianagaram (740), Krishna (698) and Prakasam (661).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-infection-tally-crosses-11-lakh-in-state/article34454549.ece
01 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Do not clamp down on citizens’ SOS calls via social media: SC||The Supreme Court on Friday warned the State governments and the police against clamping down on the spread of information or calls for help through social media from citizens affected by COVID-19. A Special Bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud, L. Nageswara Rao and S. Ravindra Bhat said any move by any State to punish citizens who take to social media to seek help for oxygen cylinders, COVID-19 drugs, beds and hospitals amid a rampaging second wave would attract contempt of court action. “We don’t want any clampdown of information. We will treat it as a contempt of court if such grievances are considered for action. Let a strong message go to all the States and DGPs of States. Clampdown of information is contrary to basic precepts,” Justice Chandrachud made a categorical statement in court. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta said the litigation was non-adversarial. “As an officer of the court, I fully agree with what Your Lordships have said,” Mr. Mehta agreed. Justice Chandrachud said free flow of information in the 1970 famine enabled the government to tackle problems effectively as compared to the clampdown during the 1918 pandemic. Justice Rao reminded the States that this was a time of great crisis. The Bench said empathy and action should be the rule of the day. At one point, Justice Chandrachud questioned how the Centre intended to ensure registration for vaccines for illiterate people, considering the fact that registration on the CoWIN app was mandatory. The Bench also asked how the Centre expected a sense of equity from the vaccine manufacturers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/do-not-clamp-down-on-citizens-sos-calls-via-social-media-sc/article34454555.ece
01 May 2021||CHENNAI,||No crackers, victory celebrations till COVID situation improves, says High Court||The Madras High Court on Friday said leaders of all political parties “should” ensure that their cadre maintain a degree of discipline and exercise extreme restraint whether in celebration or otherwise right from the day of counting of voted polled in the Assembly election on Sunday till the day the grim situation caused by the second wave of COVID-19 subsided. Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy wrote: “The leaders of the political parties should keep the rank and file in check and ensure that there is no bursting of crackers or taking out of rallies particularly on the day of counting and till such time that the present grim situation continues. Leaders of political parties are requested to take a proactive stand in such regard and lead by example.” The interim orders were passed on a suo motu public interest litigation petition taken up by the court to monitor the COVID-19 situation. Observing that the counting day was the immediate concern, the judges hoped that the political parties, media personnel and citizens would strictly adhere to the COVID-19 protocol laid down by the Election Commission of India and the State government. The court wanted all stakeholders to scrupulously follow the norms and cooperate with the authorities in greater public interest. In so far as Puducherry was concerned, the court directed the officials to keep a check on private liquor outlets and ensure that liquor was not being sold clandestinely. Taking note of the hesitation among some people over taking the COVID-19 vaccines, the judges also directed the governments to encourage the people to get vaccinated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-crackers-victory-celebrations-till-covid-situation-improves-says-high-court/article34455170.ece
01 May 2021||HYDERABAD,||HC unhappy with State govt’s delayed night curfew response||Telangana High Court on Friday expressed dissatisfaction over the State government’s delayed response over extension of night curfew in the State. Taking on record Advocate General B.S. Prasad’s submission that government had extended the night curfew for one more week, the High Court said the government should not have waited till the last hour to take a call on such crucial matter. A bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy was hearing a batch of PIL pleas on COVID-19 related matters. During the previous hearings on Tuesday and Thursday, the bench had sought a clarification from the State government as to what steps would it take since the night curfew imposed by it was to end by Friday night. When the bench resumed the hearing of the pleas before lunch break on Friday, the Chief Justice specifically wanted to know from the Advocate General what further steps the government was going to take as the night curfew was ending in a few hours. As the Advocate General informed the bench that State government was ‘reviewing the situation from time to time’ and would ‘certainly take a decision’, the Chief Justice said sought a categorical clarification. “What is your decision on night curfew...What are you waiting for with just a few hours left for the end of night curfew?”, the Chief Justice sought to know. As the Advocate General reiterated that government was talking all measures, the Chief Justice said the court cannot sit twiddling its thumbs and wait for the government to take action. The bench wondered if the executive wanted a judicial order on the matter. The bench directed the Advocate General to come back within 45 minutes with the stand of the government on the matter. When the bench sat after the lunch break, the Advocate General informed the court that the government had extended the night curfew by one more week. Expressing concern over the alarming rise COVID-19 positive cases during the second wave, the bench also directed the A-G to inform the court if the government had given any concurrence to the SEC to conduct any other elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-unhappy-with-telangana-govts-delayed-response/article34455137.ece
01 May 2021||KOCHI,||Local bodies mull direct purchase of vaccine||Being increasingly on the receiving end of the public ire over the shortage of COVID-19 vaccine, a section of local bodies in the district are exploring the seemingly improbable option of direct purchase of the vaccine. The health standing committee of the Maradu municipality took a decision along a similar line on Thursday and is now set to place it before the council for approval before forwarding it to the State government. “Nearly 3,000 residents of the municipality aged above 60 years who are now due for the second dose of the vaccine are clamouring for it and constantly ringing up councillors. We are prepared to buy the vaccine directly using our own funds as it assumes priority over any other development works at the moment. We are also open to contribute to the State government’s vaccine challenge if that guarantees vaccine to municipal residents,” said Antony Asanparambil, Maradu Municipal Chairman. The Perumbavoor municipality is also thinking about direct purchase of vaccines if the State government permits it. “We have limited own funds but will still explore that possibility if things come to it. We may even consider collecting donations from our people through a challenge to supplement funds for vaccine purchase,” said municipal chairperson Zakeer Hussain. The municipality had successfully run a mass vaccination camp but had to drop the idea of a second one owing to vaccine shortage. ‘Improbable idea’ Rema Santhosh, Thripunithura municipal chairperson, however, found the idea improbable as she doubted whether local bodies are even allowed to go for direct purchase. “Even if it is permissible, a decision can only be taken after consultations with the council,” she said. Malathy K.V., Deputy Director of Panchayats, Ernakulam, said there was no government order as yet allowing local bodies to go for direct purchase of the vaccine. In Varapuzha panchayat, which is now a containment zone in its entirety, authorities remain apprehensive of protests by people over not receiving the jab. “On Friday, a 72-year-old, who is due for the second dose, threatened to stage a protest in front of the panchayat office. People are getting restless with the shortage of vaccine delaying the second dose. We have written to the District Collector to officially announce if a longer period between the two doses is permissible, to calm people down,” said Kochurani Joseph, Varapuzha panchayat president.  M.G. Sivadas, district nodal officer for immunisation, said that he was not aware whether local bodies were allowed to buy the vaccine directly and what the protocol could be if that was the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/local-bodies-mull-direct-purchase-of-vaccine/article34454703.ece
01 May 2021||CHENNAI,||HC sets aside Tahsildar’s orders to close down brick kilns in Thadagam valley||The Madras High Court on Friday held that the Coimbatore North Tahsildar was not empowered to order the closure of numerous brick kilns situated in and around the elephant corridor at Thadagam valley. The court directed the District Collector to pass appropriate orders on the issue, within four weeks, after affording an opportunity of hearing to the brick kiln owners in accordance with the principles of natural justice. Justice Pushpa Sathyanarayana made it clear that no further extension of time would be granted to the Collector for completing the exercise and passing appropriate orders. She also said that the Collector could proceed with the inquiry forthwith and permitted the brick kiln owners to submit all relevant documents before the official in support of their claim that they were operating legally after obtaining necessary approvals. “It is open to the respondents to take any action against the brick kilns, including the petitioners before the court, if it is found that the same have been operated without any license / clearance in the manner known to law. This order would not preclude the authorities in exercising their powers in accordance with law. It is also made clear that the owners of the brick kilns can run the show if they possess a valid licence and other documents to do so,” the judge said. The orders were passed while disposing of a huge batch of writ petitions filed by the brick kiln owners. The judges agreed with senior counsel P. Wilson, R. Singaravelan, V. Raghavachari and others that the Tahsildar was not empowered to order closure of the kiln. Stating that the law empowers only the Collector to pass such orders, she set aside the closure orders passed by the Tahsildar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-sets-aside-tahsildars-orders-to-close-down-brick-kilns-in-thadagam-valley/article34454635.ece
01 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||HC for rethink on conducting SSC and Intermediate exams||The High Court on Friday advised the government to rethink about conducting Class X and Intermediate examinations during the height of COVID-19 pandemic. The matter has been posted for May 3. During the hearing on a batch of PIL petitions which sought postponement of the examinations, Chief Justice Arup Kumar Goswami and Justice C. Praveen Kumar said the prevailing COVID situation warranted a relook at the decision to hold the examinations at this juncture as students, parents, teachers and other staff would be gathering in huge numbers, which puts them at risk of contracting the deadly virus. The Bench questioned how the government planned to conduct the exams for students infected by COVID and whether it thought of the consequences. The Chief Justice said the government should take into account the fact that various examinations in other States were either cancelled or postponed to prevent the spread of the pandemic and the number of cases in Andhra Pradesh was increasing at an alarming pace before proceeding with the examination schedule.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-for-rethink-on-conducting-ssc-and-intermediate-exams/article34454517.ece
01 May 2021||CHENNAI,||Tamil Nadu government launches unified command centre for COVID-19 management||The Tamil Nadu government launched a unified command centre for COVID-19 management on Friday. It will be set up in all districts in a few days to suit the local conditions and tackle local challenges. Currently, the command centre is focusing on helping sick patients get beds in Chennai and other districts such as Chengalpattu, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur, said an official. By evening, more than 34 beds were allocated by the command centre which opened at noon. The centre will facilitate actionable intelligence for the pandemic management, integrating the facilities managed by civic bodies like the Greater Chennai Corporation. Officials will be able to get real-time information to make decisions on bed allocations, an official said. The turnover time at hospitals now is over three hours, which is very long during a pandemic. Over 60 personnel will work at the centre with support from four trainee IAS officers, insurance officers and officials of the 108 ambulance service. The centre will manage all calls made to helpline numbers 104 and 108, focusing on such aspects as bed management and oxygen support. The government also launched a Twitter handle, @104_GoTN, for the benefit of people seeking beds for COVID-19 patients. Those seeking beds may also use the hashtag, #BedsForTN, to maximise their reach and filter messages, a release said. The unified command centre seeks to improve bed management by real-time tracking of vacant beds at hospitals. Over 11,000 patients in Chennai have been admitted to hospitals after testing positive for COVID-19. More than 25,000 patients are in home isolation. The number of COVID-19 patients in the city crossed the 6,000-mark on Friday. Hospitals that request intervention for oxygen support will be able to get assistance from the unified command centre located on the seventh floor of the Directorate of Medical and Rural Health ServicesDMS, an official said. After the government reserved 50% of the beds at hospitals for COVID-19 patients on Friday, officials are planning to use the centre to streamline bed management. Those who do not require tertiary care at hospitals may be shifted to COVID-19 Care Centres to facilitate tertiary care for the sick. Members of the public can continue to call 104 and 108. There is no change in the contact details, officials said. The Twitter handle is aimed at offering a platform for individuals to request beds for COVID-19 patients at private and government hospitals. The government has deployed staff members to monitor bed availability at private and government hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tamil-nadu-government-launches-unified-command-centre-for-covid-19-management/article34454585.ece
01 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Centre owes ‘special responsibility’ to Delhi: SC||The Supreme Court on Friday said the Centre owes a “special responsibility” to Delhi, which represents the “microcosm of citizens of the entire nation”. Haunted by images of people crying for oxygen and medical help in the national capital, the court said the hearings before it should make a change and help citizens gain access to medical care and essentials during the devastating second wave of the COVID-19 infections. The Special Bench led by Justice D.Y. Chandrachud said the Delhi government should not engage in any “political bickering”. The remarks came when Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, for the Centre, submitted that Delhi may not be lifting its supply of oxygen. “Delhi represents the nation and there is hardly anyone ethnically Delhiite. Forget about someone not lifting oxygen. You have to push through since you have to save lives, Mr. Solicitor. You have a special responsibility as the Centre,” said Justice Chandrachud. The court noted that the Centre allocated only 490 MT of oxygen to Delhi compared with the 700 MT required. It said that as many as 500 lives had been lost in merely five days and immediate steps must be taken to ameliorate the situation. ‘Keep politics for polls’ “Politics is at the time of elections. There has to be a sense of cooperation,” Justice Chandrachud noted. “The Centre is providing more tankers. Some philanthropic industries are being involved to get tankers and oxygen on war footing ... If there is a 200 MT deficit, then you should give that straight away to Delhi. Centre has an important responsibility as far as citizens of Delhi are concerned. You have said surplus is there in steel sector, then use that and supply to Delhi,” the Bench noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/centre-owes-special-responsibility-to-delhi-sc/article34454836.ece
01 May 2021||Bengaluru,||State logs 48,296 COVID-19 cases||Karnataka on Friday logged its biggest single-day increase of 48,296 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 15,23,142. Of these, 26,756 cases are from Bengaluru Urban. Friday’s spike has proved even projections made by epidemiologists wrong. While it had been projected that the daily cases would touch 30,000 by April 30, the speed of transmission is so high that numbers are nearing 50,000. While Bengaluru contributes to nearly half of the total caseload, the infection is equally spreading in districts with Mysuru reporting 3,500 and Tumkuru reporting 1,801. With 217 deaths, the toll rose to 15,553. While 93 of Friday’s deaths are from Bengaluru, Hassan reported the next highest at 19 followed by Mysuru at 13.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-logs-48296-covid-19-cases/article34455040.ece
01 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Former Attorney General Soli Sorabjee passes away||Eminent jurist and former Attorney General of India Soli Sorabjee passed away on Friday due to COVID-19 complications. Mr. Sorabjee was born on March 9, 1930, in erstwhile Bombay to a Parsi family. He was a product of St. Xavier’s and the Government Law College. He was admitted to the Bar in 1953. He appeared in several historic cases, including the Kesavananda Bharati case or the Basic Structure Doctrine case. He received the Padma Vibhushan for championing free speech and human rights. Even recently, he raised his voice against students of Jawaharlal Nehru University being charged with sedition for expressing their dissent. He worked for the Sikh community pro bono after the 1984 riots. He was appointed an Honorary Member of the Order of Australia. He was twice appointed Attorney General of India. In his autobiography Before Memory Fades , senior advocate Fali S. Nariman, remembers Mr. Sorbajee’s entry into the chambers of the then doyen of the Bombay Bar, Sir Jamshedji Kanga, as a young lawyer. “For a long while we were rivals, later un-friendly rivals, but now, in the evening of our lives, we are friends,” Mr. Nariman wrote. The book referred to Mr. Sorabjee’s distinguished career, going on to become India’s Attorney General (first in 1989 for a year and again in 1998 for five years). Mr. Sorabjee was an avid reader of the essays. He said it suited his style. Short and crisp. The novel took too much patience. “The soul of a journey is liberty, perfect liberty, to think, feel, do just as one pleases... We go a journey chiefly to be free of all impediments and of all inconveniences,” one of his favourite essayists, William Hazlitt wrote On Going a Journey . Humane approach: CJI In his condolence, CJI Justice N.V. Ramana said: “Shri Soli J. Sorabjee served the office of Attorney General of India twice with great distinction. His humane and compassionate approach defined his legal work. His body of work, spread over nearly seven decades, in defending the fundamental rights and human rights is of international repute. He will be remembered as a legend who added strength to the pillars of democracy. I pay my deep respect to the departed soul. Condolences to the family, friends and fans.” Love of jazz But Mr. Sorabjee was much more than a lawyer. He wore many hats. He was a jazz aficionado: his Neeti Bagh residence has rows and rows of vinyl records of jazz . “Do you like jazz? Do you want me to play you one?” he had asked after an interview. For someone whose love for jazz sometimes outweighed his passion and commitment to the law, it can’t just be a coincidence that Soli J. Sorabjee departed on International Jazz Day. With his passing, not just has his immediate family lost its patriarch but it has left the legal community in India and abroad with a void. One that no one will ever be able to fill. They just don’t come like him any more, said Satvik Varma, a senior advocate in New Delhi. While his extraordinary brilliance, legal skills, court craft and commitment to human rights make him a legend, he is also noted for his compassion, empathy, generosity, wit, curiosity and mischievousness, often times almost naughtiness. But above all, he was a human being par excellence, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/former-attorney-general-soli-sorabjee-passes-away/article34454557.ece
01 May 2021||May 01 2021 00:00 IST,||Drenched in tricolour||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/drenched-in-tricolour/article34455212.ece
01 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Demand for MGNREGA work spikes||The demand for MGNREGA work so far in the month of April has increased to 2.57 crore households, 92% higher than a year ago, and a record high for April since 2013, as per State Bank of India (SBI) Research. “This indicates the extent of reverse migration from the lockdown States to their native States,” SBI group chief economic adviser Soumya Kanti Ghosh said. The government had allocated Rs. 73,000 crore in this year’s Budget for the MGNREGA, nearly 34.5% lower than last year’s revised estimates of Rs. 1.11 lakh crore, on the assumption that the economic recovery would alleviate the need for such spending. The original budgeted spending for the scheme for 2020-21 was around Rs. 60,000 crore but was enhanced over the year as the national lockdown and large-scale reverse migration from urban employment centres to the hinterland triggered greater demand under the scheme. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had said in Parliament that the government would allocate more funds for the rural jobs scheme for 2021-22 if needed, over and above the Rs. 73,000 crore outlay proposed in the Budget.  This indicates the extent of reverse migration from the lockdown States to their native States. Soumya Kanti Ghosh,SBI group chief economic adviser||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/demand-for-mgnrega-work-spikes/article34454541.ece
01 May 2021||LUCKNOW,||BJP leaders flag rising cases in U.P.||As the virulent second wave of COVID-19 cuts a widening swathe across Uttar Pradesh, not just Opposition leaders but also lawmakers of the ruling Bhartiya Janata Party are flagging the shortage in oxygen supplies and the rise in cases due to the p anchayat polls in the State. A number of legislators from the party have written to local officials and Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath raising concerns about COVID-19 facilities in their constituencies. The State maintains that there is no shortage of oxygen in any hospital. The BJP MLA from Gola Gokrannath in Lakhimpur Kheri, Arvind Giri, on Thursday wrote to the District Magistrate. He urged the DM to not let people die due to shortage of oxygen and demanded that facilities in the constituency be urgently ramped up with 25-30 beds, oxygen and supply of medicines. “In the past 10 days, hundreds of people including two dozen friends lost their lives due to lack of oxygen. This is the ground reality,” Mr. Giri wrote. Talking to The Hindu on Friday, the four-time MLA said work to supply oxygen was on and the situation was “serious.” Lakhimpur Kheri officially reported 4,460 active cases and recorded over 550 new cases. BJP MLA from the Sawaijpur seat in Hardoi district Madhvendra Pratap Singh has written to Mr. Adityanath and the State Election Commission demanding that counting for the panchayat polls — scheduled on May 2 — be deferred.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bjp-leaders-flag-rising-cases-in-up/article34454542.ece
01 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Centre to train doctors in remote areas||With the pandemic spreading to tier-2 and tier-3 cities and towns, the Centre will set up regional training centres, in assistance with the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), to organise training programmes for doctors on appropriate COVID-19 management practices, Randeep Guleria, Director, AIIMS, said on Friday. “It is possible that doctors in many towns and villages don’t have access to the right information regarding management. We are preparing a protocol and training module that will be used to conduct sessions via the network of AIIMS hospitals across the country,” said Dr. Guleria at a press briefing. At the event, the second this week and a departure from a practice for most of this year when the Health Ministry would only have a single meeting every week, Lav Agarwal, Joint Secretary, Health Ministry, said that in assessments by the government of public perception of the coronavirus there were three categories of people — one were those with “misplaced bravery” who believed that the COVID-19 pandemic was a hoax and that there was no need to mask up.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/centre-to-train-doctors-in-remote-areas/article34454545.ece
01 May 2021||May 01 2021 00:00 IST,||Address local issues, PM tells Ministers||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday asked Ministers to reach out to people in their respective regions to help them and gather feedback regarding the ongoing second wave of COVID-19 in the country. The Council of Ministers met via videoconferencing to discuss the second wave, terming it “a once in a century crisis,” a government statement said.Page 11||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/address-local-issues-pm-tells-ministers/article34454553.ece
01 May 2021||May 01 2021 00:00 IST,||Bidding goodbye||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bidding-goodbye/article34454559.ece
01 May 2021||GUNTUR,||Students’ interest paramount: CM||Reiterating that the government is committed to holding the Intermediate examinations from May 5, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy said here on Friday that “we have taken the decision keeping the interest of the students in mind.” He said a good result would ensure a better future. “What is the use if the students get a mere pass certificate,” he questioned.Page 4||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/students-interest-paramount-cm/article34454551.ece
01 May 2021||Kolkata,||Polls over, Bengal brings in strict restrictions||The West Bengal government on Friday announced a series of restrictions in the wake of the worsening COVID-19 situation. These include closure of all shopping complexes, malls, beauty parlours, cinema halls, restaurants, bars, sport complexes, gyms, spas and swimming polls with immediate effect.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/polls-over-bengal-brings-in-strict-restrictions/article34454733.ece
01 May 2021||Guwahati,||8 Naga women sentenced for a year||A court in Nagaland’s has sentenced a group of eight women to a year in prison for publicly humiliating a woman three years ago. The eight had chopped off the woman’s hair, stripped and paraded her naked in 2018.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/8-naga-women-sentenced-for-a-year/article34454734.ece
01 May 2021||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan seeks oxygen on emergency basis||Amid acute shortage of medical oxygen in hospitals, the Rajasthan government on Friday sought the allocation of 201 metric tonnes of oxygen from the Centre on an emergency basis. The State, which needs 466 MT oxygen for treatment of COVID-19 patients, has only 265 MT in its stock. Over 20,400 patients in the State require oxygen support.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rajasthan-seeks-oxygen-on-emergency-basis/article34454834.ece
01 May 2021||GURUGRAM,||Weekend lockdown in nine Haryana districts||The Haryana government on Friday imposed a weekend lockdown in nine districts. The lockdown will remain in force from 10 p.m. on April 30 till 5 a.m. on May 3. The movement of all essential goods will be allowed during this period. The lockdown will come into force in Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonipat, Rohtak, Karnal, Panchkula, Hisar, Sirsa and Fatehabad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/weekend-lockdown-in-nine-haryana-districts/article34454835.ece
01 May 2021||Bengaluru,||Erroneous records causing confusion||Gaps in data entry have left some people without certificate of vaccination or record of the first dose. With the drive for vaccination of those aged 18-44 set to begin in the near future, there is anxiety about whether these glitches will be addressed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/erroneous-records-causing-confusion/article34455042.ece
01 May 2021||New delhi,||Nearly 1 lakh active COVID cases in Delhi||Delhi recorded 375 deaths due to COVID-19 in the past 24 hours, pushing the toll to 16,147 on Friday. A total of 27,047 fresh cases were also reported in the city, taking the tally to 11,49,333. Of the total cases, 10,33,825 people have recovered and there are 99,361 active cases. The test positivity rate is 32.69%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nearly-1-lakh-active-covid-cases-in-delhi/article34455095.ece
01 May 2021||GURUGRAM,||Weekend lockdown in nine Haryana districts||The Haryana government on Friday imposed a weekend lockdown in nine districts. The lockdown will remain in force from 10 p.m. on April 30 till 5 a.m. on May 3. The movement of all essential goods will be allowed during this period. The lockdown will come into force in Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonipat, Rohtak, Karnal, Panchkula, Hisar, Sirsa and Fatehabad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/weekend-lockdown-in-nine-haryana-districts/article34455096.ece
01 May 2021||May 01 2021 00:00 IST,||Xi sends message to Modi, offers China’s help||China’s President Xi Jinping on Friday sent a message to Prime Minister Narendra Modi offering China’s support in dealing with the ongoing COVID-19 crisis. Mr. Xi’s message, the first such known communication between the two leaders following the pandemic and last year’s border crisis, was followed by a telephone call on Friday from China’s Foreign Minister Wang Yi to his counterpart S. Jaishankar. Mr. Wang also sent a message to Mr. Jaishankar on Thursday offering China’s support. “I am very concerned about the recent situation of the COVID-19 pandemic in India. On behalf of the Chinese government and people, as well as in my own name, I would like to express sincere sympathies to the Indian Government and people,” Mr. Xi said in the message, shared by China’s Ambassador to India Sun Weidong on Twitter. “Humanity is a community with a shared future. Only through solidarity and cooperation can countries around the world ultimately defeat the pandemic,” he added. “The Chinese side stands ready to strengthen cooperation with the Indian side in fighting the pandemic and provide support and help in this regard. I believe that under the leadership of the Indian Government, the Indian people will surely prevail over the pandemic.” Mr. Jaishankar said he had received a call from his Chinese counterpart “conveying China’s sympathies at the COVID challenge now faced by India”. “Discussed the international cooperation aspects of the public health response to this difficult situation,” he said on Twitter, adding that he had “highlighted the importance of supply chains and air flights being kept open in these circumstances” and “welcomed his assurances in that regard, as also more openness to Indian chartered flights”. Both sides also “discussed the issue of full and sincere implementation of the Moscow Agreement of complete disengagement at all friction points along the LAC and full restoration of peace and tranquility in Eastern Ladakh” and “agreed to continue discussions in this respect”. Talks between military commanders are ongoing and have made slow progress since February following the first phase of disengagement at Pangong Lake, with the Chinese military dragging its heels on pulling back in other areas. Mr. Wang said on Thursday that “anti-pandemic materials produced in China are entering India at a faster pace to help India fight the epidemic”. A large number of orders for oxygen concentrators, ventilators and other medical supplies are in the process of being sourced from China. A first batch of 800 oxygen concentrators was flown in from Hong Kong earlier this week and Mr. Sun, the Chinese envoy, said on Thursday China had, since April, “supplied more than 5000 ventilators, 21,569 oxygen generators, over 21.48 million masks & around 3,800 tons of medicines to India” according to Chinese customs data. These were acquired on a commercial basis. China’s Foreign Ministry spokesperson Wang Wenbin said on Friday “all social sectors in China are busy taking actions” to aid India. More supplies “The Red Cross Society of China, local governments, many non-governmental organisations and Chinese enterprises are trying their best to collect anti-epidemic supplies urgently needed by India, and deliver them to the Indian people as soon as possible,” he said. “Chinese manufacturers of anti-epidemic supplies and medical equipment are racing against the clock in full speed to ensure production. In the next few days, more anti-epidemic materials will be sent.” He said “freight air routes from China to India are operating normally” and “in the past two weeks, a number of freight flights from China to India remain in operation”. “Relevant Chinese authorities have provided and are providing convenience in customs clearance and transportation for India to transport liquid oxygen tanks, oxygen concentrators and other materials from many cities in China,” he added. “China will continue to ensure the smooth functioning of the export channel of materials to India.” On Friday, China joined Australia in effectively barring its nationals in India from returning. While there was no formal announcement, Chinese nationals in India have been told they would no longer be issued “health codes” by the Embassy in New Delhi that are needed to travel to China. Last week, the Embassy in Delhi imposed new curbs by barring transit through some countries, including Nepal, as there are no direct flights between India and China. Now, the issuance of health codes on the only allowed transit routes through Germany and Oman has also been temporarily suspended. Indians and foreigners based in India have been barred from travelling to China since November 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/xi-sends-message-to-modi-offers-chinas-help/article34454467.ece
01 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Govt. reworks Remdesivir allocation||The government on Friday announced an “enhanced” allocation of the drug Remdesivir to States battling the second wave of COVID-19 infections, though it has failed to meet its existing commitment to States in the ten-day period till April 30 due to “issues” with the placement of orders and transporting the drug across the country. “After in-depth review of enhanced availability of Remdesivir due to ramped up production, it’s allocation plan to all States has been revised. It’s increased supply will help in fighting pandemic with deeper resolve,” Union Chemicals and Fertilisers Minister D.V. Sadanand Gowda said on Twitter. Between April 21 and April 30, the Centre promised to supply 16 lakh vials to State governments from the seven authorised Remdesivir producers, as per a plan jointly firmed up by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and the Department of Pharmaceuticals in the Chemicals and Fertiliser Ministry. Extended period As per the revised supply plan shared by the Ministry, the States will now get 18 lakh vials of Remdesivir by May 2. Effectively, this means that instead an average allocation of 1.6 lakh Remdesivir doses a day in the ten-day period from April 21 to 30, States will now be allocated an average of 1.5 lakh doses a day over a 12-day period. When asked whether this meant that allocations were being reduced, the Ministry said the initial allocation for States during the ten-day period was 11 lakh doses which was revised to 16 lakh and has now been further enhanced to 18 lakh, albeit over two more days. “It’s not a per day calculation. The entire allocation from April 21 to May to 2 has been revised to 18 lakh and the validity also increased for 2 more days,” said an official in the Chemicals and Fertilisers Minister’s office, adding that the demand and supply is for a specified period and the supply quota has been increased. Later, however, the official explained that the revised allocation constituted an enhancement in supplies to States as the supply commitment of 16 lakh vials had not yet been met. “Due to some reasons like order placing, transportation, etc., 16 lakh vials could not be distributed to the States by the seven companies. However, by May 2, all 18 lakh vials will be distributed,” the official assured. For some States, this will mean a slight reduction in the average daily allocation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-reworks-remdesivir-allocation/article34454488.ece
01 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Armed forces get powers for relief work||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh has invoked special provisions and granted emergency financial powers to the armed forces to empower them and speed up their efforts to tide over the current COVID-19 situation. The emergency financial powers will help formation commanders to establish and operate quarantine facilities, hospitals and undertake procurement, repair of equipment, items, material and stores, besides provisioning of various services and works required to support the ongoing effort against the pandemic, the Defence Ministry said. Under these powers, Vice Chiefs of the armed forces, including the Chief Of Integrated Defence Staff to the Chairman Chiefs Of Staff Committee (CISC) and General Officer Commanding-in-Chiefs (GOC-in-Cs) and equivalents of all three Services have been given full powers, whereas Corps Commanders and Area Commanders have been delegated powers up to Rs. 50 lakh per case and Division Commanders, Sub Area Commanders and equivalents have been delegated powers up to Rs. 20 lakh per case. “These powers have been devolved initially for three months from May 1 to July 31, 2021. These are in addition to the emergency powers delegated to the medical officers of the armed forces last week,” the Ministry said. To meet the urgent requirement of oxygen in various parts of the country, the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) is arranging big size oxygen cylinders for fulfilling requirements of different hospitals. “In this regard, the DRDO has handed over 75 such cylinders to the Department of Health and Family Welfare, Government of NCT of Delhi on Thursday,” a DRDO statement said. Forty cylinders of same capacity were handed over to Cabinet Secretariat officials on Friday for utilisation at the Sardar Patel COVID Care Centre at Radha Soami Satsang Beas at Chhatarpur in New Delhi. These cylinders are of 80 litres water capacity each and can be pressurised up to the 130 bar because of which each of these cylinders can store 10,000 litres of oxygen, the statement said.  Navy contingent The Navy has sent a 76-member medical contingent from five Naval hospitals around the country to bolster availability of trained manpower in the 900-bed COVID hospital in Ahmedabad. The Cantonment Boards have extended support to civil administration in various parts of the country to tide over the surge in cases. “Presently, 39 Cantonment Boards (CB) are maintaining 40 general hospitals with 1,240 beds. CB hospitals at Pune, Kirkee and Deolali with 304 beds have been designated as dedicated COVID hospitals.,” a Defence Ministry statement said. Cantonment General Hospitals of Kirkee, Deolali, Dehuroad, Jhansi and Ahmednagar have been designated as COVID care centres with 418 beds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/armed-forces-get-powers-for-relief-work/article34454498.ece
01 May 2021||May 01 2021 00:00 IST,||He was a lover of jazz, court craft and good food||For someone whose love for jazz sometimes outweighed his passion and commitment to the law, it can’t just be a coincidence that Soli J. Sorabjee departed on International Jazz Day. With his passing, not just has his immediate family lost its patriarch but it has left the legal community in India and abroad with a void. One that no one will ever be able to fill. They just don’t come like him any more. While his extraordinary brilliance, legal skills, court craft and commitment to human rights make him a legend, he is also noted for his compassion, empathy, generosity, wit, curiosity and mischievousness, often times almost naughtiness. But above all, he was a human being par excellence. His going is a great personal loss for he was much more than a neighbour to my parents and me. He was family. The grandfather that one otherwise missed seeing. He will be sorely missed. As I write, three things come to mind. First, Mr. Sorabjee loved everything surrounding his birthday. Planning for the annual celebration on March 9 started several months in advance. Everything from the caricature on his invitation card to the menu was personally fine-tuned. Every year, there were many additions to his guest list, never one from the past dropped. Most new entrants were ‘young friends’ he encountered in the year gone by. Second, Mr. Sorabjee loved a good meal and often times would eat all that his doctor had advised against. It didn’t need to be extravagant. Simple rice and potatoes would suffice. Dhansak (a curry) was optional but dessert was a must. The chocolates used to be hidden between newspapers and his stack of cookies would always come out when Aunty Zena was away. Lastly, Mr. Sorabjee loved his annual pilgrimage to London, something he was unable to do for the past two years. His trips followed a pattern — place of stay at Barbican, meetings under the Selfridges clock at noon and evenings at his favourite bar in Mayfair. I spent dozens of evenings last year during the lockdown discussing his next trip to London and the plays he wanted to watch. His life is to be celebrated. So let’s tune in for the virtual all-star 10th anniversary global concert to mark International Jazz Day, which can now also be christened Soli Sorabjee farewell day. The tipple for my parents and me will be Mr. Sorabjee’s favourite Old Parr whiskey and I hope they play his favourite Benny Goodman song Farewell Blues : “Sadness just makes me sigh, I’ve come to say goodbye, Altho’ I go, I’ve got those farewell blues. Those farewell blues make me yearn… someday I will return... Dreaming of you is sweet, Someday again we’ll meet.”  (Satvik Varma is a senior advocate in New Delhi. He tweets @satvikvarma)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/he-was-a-lover-of-jazz-court-craft-and-good-food/article34454465.ece
01 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||We lost an icon of India’s legal system: President||Condolences poured in from all quarters on the demise of the former Attorney General of India Soli Sorabjee on Friday. President Ram Nath Kovind mourned the passing of the renowned jurist. “In the passing of Soli Sorabjee, we lost an icon of India’s legal system. He was among the select few who deeply influenced evolution of constitutional law & justice system. Awarded with Padma Vibhushan, he was among most eminent jurists. My condolences to his family & associates,” he tweeted. Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted: “Shri Soli Sorabjee was an outstanding lawyer and intellectual. Through law, he was at the forefront of helping the poor and downtrodden. He will be remembered for his noteworthy tenure as India’s Attorney General. Saddened by his demise. Condolences to his family and admirers.” Humane approach: CJI Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana said Mr. Sorabjee’s humane and compassionate approach defined his legal work. He served the office of Attorney General of India twice with great distinction. His body of work, spread over nearly seven decades, in defending the fundamental rights and human rights was of international repute. He would be remembered as a legend who added strength to the pillars of democracy, said the Chief Justice. Union Ministers, including Amit Shah and Rajnath Singh, also condoled the death of Mr. Sorabjee. “Sorabjee was a doyen of the legal fraternity, who will always be remembered for his contribution in the field of constitutional law,” tweeted Mr. Shah. Mr. Singh tweeted: “He was an exceptional legal mind and a great scholar of our constitution. His services to the nation will always be remembered.” The passing of Mr. Sorabjee is a big loss to the world of law and justice, tweeted former Union Minister P. Chidambaram. “He will be remembered along with many illustrious judges who gave content and meaning to the promise of the Constitution of India to build a just, fair and equal society...” Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar in a tweet said Mr. Sorabjee’s “long career as a senior advocate is an example of commitment to the sovereignty and spirit of the Constitution of India.” Telangana Chief Minister K. Chandrashekhar Rao conveyed his condolences to the bereaved family. Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy said Mr. Sorabjee’s “advocacy had a profound impact on protection of human rights.” He recalled that Mr. Sorabjee had served as Special Rapporteur to the UN Human Rights Commission besides serving at PCA (Permanent Court of Arbitration), The Hague.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/we-lost-an-icon-of-indias-legal-system-president/article34454475.ece
01 May 2021||CHENNAI,||Centre says curve flattened in Dec.||Responding to a query raised by the Madras High Court on Thursday on what it was doing in the last 12 to 14 months without anticipating the second wave of COVID-19 and making preparations to face it, the Centre said the disease curve was flattening till December 2020 and that everything was fine by January this year. It was only thereafter, a surge was noticed in Maharashtra and Kerala, the Centre told the court on Friday. Appearing before the first Division Bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy, Additional Solicitor General R. Sankaranarayanan said the Centre was now taking all steps to augment the supply of vaccines, drugs and oxygen to the States and Union Territories. The submissions were made during the hearing of a suo motu public interest litigation petition taken up by the court to monitor COVID-19 related activities. Later, passing interim orders in the case, the judges wrote: “Two aspects cannot be missed. The first is the Union’s endeavour to indicate that the surge in numbers may have been unexpected and that preparatory measures had been taken for quite some time. The second aspect is the Election Commission of India’s concern at sensationalism [by the media]. The post mortem on either count may have to wait particularly in the light of immediate measures that may have to be put in place.” The court also clarified that it did not regard itself to possess the expertise necessary to suggest measures to be adopted to fight the second wave of COVID-19. “The object of the exercise is to ensure that the authorities tasked with such obligation devote their complete attention in such regard and to monitor the measures,” the Bench said. Later, deciding to hear the suo motu PIL during summer vacation too, the judges adjourned the case to Wednesday for further hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-says-curve-flattened-in-dec/article34454496.ece
01 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Central govt. owes a special responsibility to Delhi: SC||The Supreme Court on Friday said the Centre owes a “special responsibility” to Delhi, which represents the “microcosm of citizens of the entire nation”. Haunted by images of people crying for oxygen and medical help in the national capital, the court said the hearings before it should make a change and help citizens gain access to medical care and essentials during the devastating second wave of the COVID-19 infections. The Special Bench led by Justice D.Y. Chandrachud said the Delhi government should not engage in any “political bickering”. The remarks came when Solicitor General Tushar Mehta for the Centre submitted that Delhi may not be lifting its supply of oxygen. “Delhi represents the nation and there is hardly any one ethnically Delhite. Forget about someone not lifting oxygen. You have to push through since you have to save lives Mr. Solicitor. You have a special responsibility as the Centre,” said Justice Chandrachud. The court noted that the Centre allocated only 490 MT of oxygen to Delhi compared with the 700 MT required. It said that as many as 500 lives had been lost in merely five days and immediate steps must be taken to ameliorate the situation. “Politics is at the time of elections. There has to be a sense of cooperation,” Justice Chandrachud noted. “Centre is providing more tankers. Some philanthropic industries are being involved to get tankers and oxygen on war footing ... If there is a 200 MT deficit, then you should give that straight away to Delhi. Centre has an important responsibility as far as citizens of Delhi are concerned. You have said surplus is there in steel sector, then use that and supply to Delhi,” the Bench noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/central-govt-owes-a-special-responsibility-to-delhi-sc/article34454483.ece
01 May 2021||Chennai,||India first country to report 4 lakh cases in single day||With 4,08,323 new COVID-19 cases recorded till 11 p.m. on Friday, India became the first country in the world to register over 4 lakh infections in a single day. The day also saw 3,464 deaths. Maharashtra reported 62,919 infections, followed by Karnataka (48,296), and Kerala (37,199). Maharashtra also recorded 828 casualties, followed by Delhi (375) and Uttar Pradesh (332). The country has so far reported a total of 1,91,63,488 cases and 2,11,778 deaths. The figures do not include cases and deaths from Ladakh. The data are sourced from covid19india.org, an independent aggregator of daily figures from State health departments. As many as 2,97,488 recoveries were recorded on Friday, taking the total to 1,56,71,536. As many as 19,20,107 samples were tested on Thursday (results of which were made available on Friday). This is the first instance when the daily tests have crossed the 19-lakh mark. On April 28, 17.68 lakh samples were tested. A total of 28.64 crore tests have been conducted in the country till April 29, since the beginning of the pandemic. 22.24 lakh doses given Around 22.24 lakh vaccination shots were given in the 24 hours ending 7 a.m. on Friday, which is only 31,267 doses more than what was recorded in the previous 24 hours. The daily vaccination rate has decreased significantly in the second half of April compared to the first. Between April 1-14, India administered 35.26 lakh doses on an average every day. However, between April 15-29, the average daily doses given fell to just 25.16 lakh. Cumulatively, 15,00,20,648 vaccine doses had been administered till 7 a.m. on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-first-country-to-report-4-lakh-cases-in-single-day/article34455035.ece
01 May 2021||Pune,||Cinema’s journey, told in audio clips||On the occasion of the 151st birth anniversary of Dadasaheb Phalke, hailed as the ‘Father of Indian cinema’, the city-based National Film Archive of India (NFAI) has published 8,000 minutes of audio recordings on its website in the form of interviews with renowned artistes and technicians recounting the fascinating journey of Indian cinema. This oral history project features interviews, recorded in the 1980s, with the ‘who’s who’ of the Indian film industry and offers an invaluable insight into the personalities and processes that have shaped our cinematic heritage right from the silent era. “All the 8,000 minutes of interviews are now made available on the NFAI website. They constitute a veritable treasure trove of anecdotal reference that can be savoured by cineastes and film scholars alike,” NFAI director Prakash Magdum said. Conducted mostly in the 1980s, these interviews were recorded as part of the oral history project of the NFAI’s research programme. The project features long interviews of pioneering film personalities which include directors, producers, actors, and technicians narrating their formative experiences, along with stories and anecdotes from the world of cinema. “One of the prime objectives of the NFAI is to disseminate knowledge about Indian cinema and I am glad that these voices from the past can now be heard across the world,” Mr. Magdum said. There are 53 interviews conducted in five languages — Marathi, Tamil, Telugu, English and Bengali. Those interviewed include such luminaries as J. B. H. Wadia, Akkineni Nageshwar Rao, Vijay Bhatt, P. Bhanumathi, S.D. Subbulakshmi, V. Gopalakrishnan, Nilu Phule, Shobha Sen and Soumitra Chatterjee. The longest interview in the series is of the late Bengali legend Soumitra Chatterjee taken by Anasua Roy Chaudhary. “These interviews not only illumine the personal journeys of these artistes but also give an in-depth account of how the Indian film scene has evolved over time,” Mr. Magdum said. One of the major highlights of this project is a series of interviews of several old associates of Dadasaheb Phalke who closely worked with the legendary auteur. One can click on https://nfai.gov.in/audio_interview.php to listen to these recordings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cinemas-journey-told-in-audio-clips/article34454469.ece
01 May 2021||Chennai,||Over 3.6 lakh new cases and 2,809 deaths reported||India recorded 3,60,338 new COVID-19 cases and 2,809 deaths till 9.30 p.m. on Friday. Maharashtra reported 62,919 infections, followed by Karnataka (48,296) and Kerala (37,199). Maharashtra also recorded 828 casualties, followed by Uttar Pradesh (332) and Karnataka (217). The country has so far reported a total of 1,91,15,503 cases and 2,11,123 deaths. The figures do not include cases and deaths from Delhi, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Arunachal Pradesh, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Ladakh. The data are sourced from covid19india.org, an independent aggregator of daily figures. As many as 2,55,231 recoveries were recorded on Friday, taking the total to 1,56,29,279. As many as 19,20,107 samples were tested on Thursday (results of which were made available on Friday). This is the first instance when the daily tests have crossed the 19-lakh mark. On April 28, 17.68 lakh samples were tested. A total of 28.64 crore tests have been conducted in the country till April 29, since the beginning of the pandemic. Around 22.24 lakh vaccination shots were given in the 24 hours ending 7 a.m. on Friday, which is only 31,267 doses more than what was recorded in the previous 24 hours. The daily vaccination rate has decreased significantly in the second half of April compared to the first. Between April 1 and 14, India administered 35.26 lakh doses on an average every day. However, between April 15 and 29, the average daily doses given fell to 25.16 lakh. Cumulatively, 15,00,20,648 vaccine doses had been administered till 7 a.m. on Friday. India continues to register the highest number of average daily cases in the world, according to Our World in Data.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/over-36-lakh-new-cases-and-2809-deaths-reported/article34454502.ece
01 May 2021||Kolkata,||Uneasy silence grips Kolkata as COVID-19 cases mount||An uneasy silence has gripped the city of Kolkata, whose streets were witnessing dizzying political activity until recently but where arterial roads are now ruled by the sound of hurrying ambulances. The question uppermost on the minds of its people is no longer ‘Who will come to power?’, but ‘What if we need hospitalisation due to COVID-19?’ Hospitals in the city are already refusing admission citing lack of beds and the situation expected to unfold in the coming days is unlikely to be vastly different from what’s playing on in many other parts of the country, where patients are gasping for timely attention. “It hardly matters to me now who is forming the next government (in West Bengal), I just want my family to recover soon,” Suparna Basu, a homemaker and an ardent supporter of the Left parties, told The Hindu . Last Wednesday, she and her family members tested positive for COVID-19, and she is hoping that her elderly in-laws do not need hospitalisation. “Such is the fear now that people seem to be in denial. My in-laws kept on insisting they had common cold, and that they might contract COVID-19 if they got tested. Now that both are positive, we are constantly monitoring their oxygen levels,” Ms. Basu said. On Friday morning, Praggamoy Dasgupta, another Kolkata resident, was looking for a bed with ventilator for his 67-year-old father, a COVID-19 patient with multiple co-morbidities and currently admitted in a smaller hospital. “All the big hospitals have refused. One hospital, CMRI, told me they have patients staying there as long as for a month,” Mr. Dasgupta said. Doctors, on the personal level, are doing what they can. The West Bengal Doctors’ Forum (WBDF) has started what it calls a philanthropic service for those asymptomatic or showing mild symptoms: as many as 107 doctors are taking turns to offer telemedicine support to such patients.  ‘Set up war room’ “This is the time to set up a War Room at Swasthya Bhawan (Health Ministry). Every call needs to be attended to. Numerous organisations are doing it on their own. Bring all of them under one umbrella — all hands on board! Quick triaging holds the key. Those in positions of power need to act and act fast. We simply cannot afford to wait till May 2 (when counting of votes will begin for the recently-concluded Assembly elections in West Bengal),” said Dr. Koushik Chaki, founding secretary of WBDF.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/uneasy-silence-grips-kolkata-as-covid-19-cases-mount/article34455097.ece
01 May 2021||New Delhi,||Address local issues, PM tells Ministers||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday asked Ministers to reach out to people in their respective regions to help them and gather feedback regarding the ongoing second wave of COVID-19 in the country. The Council of Ministers met via videoconferencing to discuss the second wave, terming it “a once in a century crisis,” a government statement said. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi said all arms of the government are working unitedly and rapidly to deal with the situation. He also urged the Ministers to stay in touch with people of their respective regions, help them and keep getting their feedback. He stressed the need to ensure that issues at the local level are promptly identified and addressed,” the statement read. The Ministers reviewed the efforts made by the Central and State governments over the past 14 months, it said. Support measures for the vulnerable population in the form of free foodgrains and financial support to Jan Dhan account holders were also discussed at the meeting, the statement said. “The Council of Ministers also stressed the importance of COVID-appropriate behaviour — wearing a mask, keeping physical distance of 6 feet and washing hands frequently. The Council reiterated that the participation of society is a key aspect to accomplish the gigantic task ahead and expressed confidence that the country will rise to the occasion and defeat the virus,” the government said. This was the first meeting of the council of ministers in the aftermath of the second wave of the pandemic in the country. NITI Aayog member V.K. Paul gave a presentation on COVID-19 management. After him, Union ministers Piyush Goyal and Mansukh Mandaviya briefed their cabinet colleagues on the availability of oxygen and medicines respectively.  (With PTI inputs)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/address-local-issues-pm-tells-ministers/article34454477.ece
01 May 2021||New Delhi,||Yechury hits out at Modi govt., says it must deliver or resign||The Narendra Modi government must deliver or quit, said CPI (M) General Secretary Sitaram Yechury amid the virulent second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic. “Worst humanitarian health crisis in Independent India is deepening. Criminal culpability of the Modi govt will consume more lives unless Oxygen provided & mass free vaccination launched on a war footing. Govt must DELIVER or QUIT,” Mr. Yechury said on Twitter. Speaking to The Hindu , Mr. Yechury said the government’s inaction shows that they simply don’t care. “They have lost the moral authority to remain in office with complete collapse of all institutions,” he added. The first year of the pandemic was completely wasted in self denial and then in triumphalism, he said. He pointed out that Opposition parties in a joint statement in April last year had asked the government to spend money to augment health facilities and had also warned of a second wave. “In response, they came up with a stimulus package which was nothing but farce,” Mr. Yechury said. Mr. Yechury said that the government has actively contributed to the spread of the pandemic by organising huge public meetings in West Bengal and other States that recently went to the polls, and by advancing the Kumbh mela in an effort to mobilise communal forces for electoral gains.  “The government has abandoned scientific thinking for obscurantism. It is a complete package, first of neglect, then irresponsible behaviour and then contributing to the spread and now passing the buck to the people and the States,” Mr. Yechury said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/yechury-hits-out-at-modi-govt-says-it-must-deliver-or-quit/article34454479.ece
01 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Medical equipment flown in from U.S., U.K., Romania and Ireland||The United States, Romania, Ireland, and the United Kingdom on Friday flew in a large quantity of oxygen-related items and medicines to deal with the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic in India. External Affairs Minister Dr. S. Jaishankar spoke with U.S. Secretary of State Antony J. Blinken and “reviewed” the ongoing American efforts to bolster India's position to counter COVID-19. Two aircraft from the U.S. landed on Friday bringing a large quantity of essential supplies. The first flight brought 423 oxygen cylinders, 210 pulse oximeters, 1,84,000 Abbott rapid diagnostic test kits and 84,000 N-96 face masks. The second flight brought 17 large oxygen cylinders, and 7,00,000 Abbott rapid diagnostic test kits. The third flight from U.K. arrived in India carrying 280 oxygen concentrators and 40 ventilators. A shipment containing 700 units of oxygen concentrators and 365 ventilators arrived from Ireland. Friday also saw increased flow of assistance from EU member countries. One C-130 aircraft of the Romanian Air Force landed at Palam Air Base with oxygen and other medical supplies as part of a joint Romania-EU effort for India. This includes 80 oxygen concentrators, 75 oxygen cylinders and 20 high flow humidify oxygen therapy devices. Ambassador of Romania Daniela Sezonov Tane said the medical supplies from Bucharest will be followed by “additional medical devices and equipment shipped by the other EU Member States”. The medical supplies from Romania are among the first foreign assistance to arrive here which will be followed relief from Ireland, Belgium, Luxembourg, Portugal and Sweden among other EU countries. The support from these countries is being channelled through the EU Civil Protection Mechanism. Two C-17 aircraft of the Indian Air Force (IAF) airlifted eight oxygen tankers from Singapore to Panagarh in West Bengal. According to the Defence Ministry, as on April 29, IAF carried out 23 sorties from abroad, airlifting 39 oxygen containers with 670 MT capacity, while from within the country, it carried out 124 sorties, airlifting 87 containers with 1,798 MT capacity. Japan is expected to provide 300 oxygen concentrators and 300 ventilators. “Japan stands with India in her greatest time of need,” Japanese Ambassador Satoshi Suzuki said on social media.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/medical-equipment-flown-in-from-us-uk-romania-and-ireland/article34455034.ece
01 May 2021||New Delhi,||Sedition law: SC seeks Centre’s response||The Supreme Court on Friday sought response from the Centre on a plea challenging the Constitutional validity of sedition law. A bench Justice U.U. Lalit, Justice Indira Banerjee and Justice K. M. Joseph were hearing a plea challenging section 124-A of the Indian Penal Code, 1860, which penalises the crime of sedition. The plea, filed by two journalists — Kishorechandra Wangkhemcha and Kanhaiya Lal Shukla — working in Manipur and Chhattisgarh respectively, have urged the court to declare Section 124-A as unconstitutional. The petition claimed that Section 124-A infringes the fundamental right of freedom of speech and expression, guaranteed under Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution. The petitioners claimed that they have been raising questions against their respective state governments and central government, and have been charged with sedition under section 124A of IPC in various FIRs for comments and cartoons shared by them on the social networking website Facebook. There is frequent phenomenon of misuse, misapplication and abuse of Section 124-A since 1962, the petition said, adding that the abuse of a law, in itself, may not bear on the validity of the law but clearly points to the vagueness and uncertainty of the current law. The sections of sedition have been repealed in comparative post-colonial democratic jurisdictions around the world, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sedition-law-sc-seeks-centres-response/article34454491.ece
01 May 2021||Srinagar,||We are in process of vaccinating all eligible people, says J&K govt.||The Jammu and Kashmir administration is alive to the fact that jail inmates too have the right to life and the Union Territory is in the process of vaccinating all eligible people, State Advocate General D.C. Raina told the Jammu and Kashmir High Court on Friday. Mr. Raina made these remarks before the Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Pankaj Mithal and Justice Rajnesh Oswal, which heard a Public Interest Litigation petition on making vaccines available to all prisoners. ‘Vaccine for all’ “We are conscious of the fact that all prisoners have the right to life. We [the Jammu and Kashmir administration] are in a process that everybody should be vaccinated,” the A-G said. The Bench disposed of the petition and asked the petitioner to make a formal representation to the Director-General, Prisons, on vaccination of jail inmates. ‘Denied vaccines’ Lawyer Syed Musaib, who filed the plea, said the prisoners were being denied vaccines and access to mandatory Co-WIN application for registration. “Undertrials, convicts and detainees, though eligible for vaccination, have so far been denied access to the vaccine and were yet to get access to the mandatory Internet-based application,” he said. According to officials, no inmate has tested positive for Coronavirus in the 13 major prisons of the Union Territory.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/we-are-in-process-of-vaccinating-all-eligible-people-says-jk-govt/article34455098.ece
01 May 2021||May 01 2021 00:00 IST,||Probe charges against Minister, says KCR||Since there were assignment lands involved, the promoters sought the cooperation of the Industries department and then approached the Chief Minister’s Office. “The owners signed agreements voluntarily. We had more than 120 acres land before 2004,” he said. The Minister said that he had purchased and sold lands including those in the Chief Minister’s constituency, Gajwel. The Health Minister, Mr. Rajender, wondered why people who garnered hundreds of crores in a single generation were not being questioned and said he had never spoken against the government or its policies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/probe-charges-against-minister-says-kcr/article34455115.ece
01 May 2021||May 01 2021 00:00 IST,||Demand for MGNREGA work spikes in April||The original budgeted spending for the scheme for 2020-21 was around Rs. 60,000 crore but was enhanced over the year as the national lockdown and large-scale reverse migration from urban employment centres to the hinterland triggered greater demand under the scheme. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had said in Parliament that the government would allocate more funds for the rural jobs scheme for 2021-22 if needed, over and above the Rs. 73,000 crore outlay proposed in the Budget.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/demand-for-mgnrega-work-spikes-in-april/article34454460.ece
01 May 2021||LUCKNOW,||U.P. MLAs point fingers at panchayat elections||As the second wave of the pandemic wreaks havoc across several States, the BJP MLA from the Sawaijpur seat in Hardoi district of Uttar Pradesh, Madhvendra Pratap Singh, has written to Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and the State Election Commission demanding that counting for the panchayat elections — scheduled on May 2 — be deferred by at least a month fearing that the event could lead to a “super explosion” of cases, especially in the rural areas. Mr. Singh said the large number of cases came about as a result of the negligence during the elections. He said that during the counting, which could last 36-48 hours, supporters of every candidate would assemble outside the counting centres. “People in the villages are not as cautious as they need to be. Deferring the counting would provide some relief. The situation is really bad in my district,” Mr. Singh told The Hindu.  The RSS-affiliated Khand Shiksha Adhikari Sangh also demanded that the counting he deferred. The BJP MP from Mohanlalganj had earlier demanded that the panchayat polls be deferred owing to the pandemic. No change in schedule The State Election Commission has, however, indicated that the counting would go on as per schedule. While the Allahabad High Court recently took note of the deaths of 135 teachers and others deployed on polling duty, the teachers’ unions estimate the figure could be much higher at around 550-1,000 fatalities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/up-bjp-mlas-write-to-cm-on-oxygen-shortage/article34454462.ece
01 May 2021||May 01 2021 00:00 IST,||States postpone vaccine rollout for 18-45 group||The vaccines would be priced as per the Central government guidelines, Shobana Kamineni, executive vice chairperson, Apollo Hospitals Group said. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said the innoculation will start from Saturday “as per the availability” of vaccine doses. Mr. Thackeray said the State has the capacity to vaccinate each and every person but the problem is of vaccine supply. “We will be receiving 18 lakh doses in May. I again urge the Central government to increase the supply,” he added. The State has received three lakh doses from the Centre on Friday. State Health Minister Rajesh Tope observed that Maharashtra was ahead of all States in daily vaccinations and had the best record in terms of vaccine wastage figures. “Maharashtra’s vaccine wastage figure is barley 1% which is even better than India’s figure of 6%," he said. Deferred in Punjab In Punjab and the Union Territory of Chandigarh the rollout has been put on hold. The UT administration said it had not received vaccines — an issue echoed by the Punjab government. Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh announced deferring of the roll out, adding that vaccination at private health facilities will remain suspended from Saturday. “As the balance of unutilised vaccines had to be returned to the Government of India by all private health facilities by Friday evening, these facilities would have no vaccines to administer from tomorrow for 45 plus population, while they could not vaccinate 18-45 age group as they had no supplies for the same,” said the Chief Minister. The Chief Minister said his government was pursuing the matter of vaccine shortage with the Centre, as the situation was critical.The State had received 2 lakh doses but that was not sufficient even to meet the two days’ requirement of the 45 plus age group, said Captain Singh, while reviewing the Covid vaccine situation at a virtual meeting.  An order for procurement of 30 lakh doses of Covishield for the age group of 18-45 years was placed with Serum Institute of India on April 26, but the response received was that availability of vaccine will be known only in 4 weeks’ time. Further, SII had asked the State government to indicate demand for the next 3-4 months, with advance payments to be made. They had informed the government that supplies would be delivered in a phased manner, every month. Uncertainty in Odisha The vaccination drive in Odisha faces uncertainty with State government not able to secure concrete commitment for required amount of vaccine. In the phase 3, 1.93 crore people (43% of the population) in the age group of 18-44, are eligible for getting vaccinated. Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik had already announced free vaccination for this group of population. “We had not lost anytime to contact two companies for supply of vaccine. In Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation area, five lakh people in the age group have been estimated for which order of 10.34 lakh doses has been placed. The SII has also been contacted for 377 lakh doses of vaccine. We are in regular touch with these two companies,” said P. K. Mohapatra, Additional Chief Secretary (Health) here on Friday. Non-starter in Kerala Dwindling vaccine stocks have made it extremely difficult for Kerala to organise even regular vaccination sessions for the priority groups, making the wider immunisation exercise a non-starter. . The State government has asked vaccination centres to prioritise appointments for those who are due for the second dose  (With inputs from The Hindu’s bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/states-postpone-vaccine-rollout-for-18-45-group/article34454463.ece
01 May 2021||May 01 2021 00:00 IST,||Centre to train doctors in remote areas||The second kind, were people with “misplaced fear” who believed they needed antivirals such as Remdesivir because they believed they had come into contact with someone afflicted; and finally was the third category who were following COVID-appropriate behaviour. Guidelines for children The Centre had also released guidelines for COVID-19 management in children. They don’t differ significantly from that for adults: only those with marked breathing difficulties need to be admitted. The rest could be managed at home with common medicines recommended for fever and in case of a persistent cough beyond five days, treatment with inhalable budenosoid, a steroid. The government had so far dispensed 16.3 crore vaccines to States and more than one crore remained with States for them to be administered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-to-train-doctors-in-remote-areas/article34454470.ece
01 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC raises concerns over vaccine pricing||The Supreme Court on Friday asked why the government could not follow a national immunisation programme policy with respect to COVID-19 vaccines. Flagging the issue of vaccine equity, a Special Bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud, L. Nageswara Rao and S. Ravindra Bhat asked whether, now, one State would get priority access in getting the vaccines. The court asked why the Centre had not procured 100% of the vaccines and equitably distributed them across the country, but was instead leaving it to manufacturers. The court said the Centre could not possibly enforce equity in vaccine distribution when it was itself buying only 50% doses. Vaccine manufacturing was publicly funded and vaccines were public property, the court noted. “Why cannot the government buy the entire doses of vaccines,” the court asked. Justice Bhat said manufacturers were charging Rs. 150 from the Centre while vaccines to the States were priced at Rs. 300. “Why should we as a nation pay this? The price difference becomes Rs. 30,000 to Rs. 40,000 crore... AstraZeneca is providing vaccines at far lower price to the U.S. citizens, then why should we be paying so much?” he asked. The Bench also asked why the Centre had not considered using powers under Section 92 of Patents Act for compulsory licensing of the vaccines. On the plight of medical staff, the SC said it was not enough to declare them ‘COVID Warriors, and asked what was being done for them on the ground.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/do-not-clampdown-on-sos-via-social-media-sc/article34454471.ece
01 May 2021||May 01 2021 00:00 IST,||Ex-Attorney General Soli Sorabjee passes away||“For a long while we were rivals, later un-friendly rivals, but now, in the evening of our lives, we are friends,” Mr. Nariman wrote. The book referred to Mr. Sorabjee’s distinguished career, going on to become India’s Attorney General (first in 1989 for a year and again in 1998 for five years). Jazz aficionado But Mr. Sorabjee was much more than a lawyer. He wore many hats. He was a jazz aficionado: his Neeti Bagh residence has rows and rows of vinyl records of jazz . “Do you like jazz? Do you want me to play you one?” he had asked after an interview. Mr. Sorabjee was an avid reader of the essays. He said it suited his style. Short and crisp. The novel took too much patience. “The soul of a journey is liberty, perfect liberty, to think, feel, do just as one pleases... We go a journey chiefly to be free of all impediments and of all inconveniences,” one of his favourite essayists, William Hazlitt wrote On Going a Journey . In his condolence, CJI Justice N.V. Ramana said: “Shri Soli J. Sorabjee served the office of Attorney General of India twice with great distinction. His humane and compassionate approach defined his legal work. His body of work, spread over nearly seven decades, in defending the fundamental rights and human rights is of international repute. He will be remembered as a legend who added strength to the pillars of democracy. I pay my deep respect to the departed soul. Condolences to the family, friends and fans.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ex-attorney-general-soli-sorabjee-passes-away/article34454472.ece
01 May 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi HC expresses anguish over loss of life||The Delhi High Court on Friday said “the state has failed... to protect the right to life of citizens”, while expressing anguish over the death of a COVID-19 patient whose family had been pleading for an ICU bed for the last three days. “We may record our complete helplessness in the situation. We can only say that the State has failed to protect the right to life of people guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution,” a Bench of Justice Vipin Sanghi and Justice Rekha Palli said. During the hearing, the patient’s relative had urged the court to request authorities to arrange for an ICU bed as his vitals were low and he was in that emergency ward of a hospital. Minutes later, the relative informed the Bench that the patient had died. “I have failed, my brother-in-law has expired, so no more efforts are needed,” said the family member, who is a lawyer. “No, the state has failed. We all have failed,” the Bench replied. Earlier in the day, Bar Council of Delhi chairman Ramesh Gupta pleaded the Bench to help secure medical facilities for advocates suffering from COVID-19. Countless SOS calls Mr. Gupta broke down in tears as he informed the Bench of the hundreds of SOS calls he and other lawyers had been getting daily from desperate relatives unable to get COVID-19 treatment for their loved ones. He narrated a call he had received from a close acquaintance on Thursday seeking help in getting a bed. “The man’s father died. His wife and daughter are in quarantine. I arranged two ambulances for four hours each at Rs. 35,000, then sourced an oxygen cylinder for Rs. 70,000. Then, at around midnight, we could get him a bed,” he said. “We do not want to criticise anyone or any government. We want the courts to come to our rescue. We have around Rs. 5 crore in our funds and will arrange more from lawyers,” said Mr. Gupta. “It is a problem of infrastructure not being there. We do not have enough doctors, nurses, attendants, oxygen and medicines,” the High Court remarked. Earlier in the hearing, the court directed the authorities to immediately release oxygen concentrators that have been seized by Delhi Police from the black market, as they are required for the treatment of patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/delhi-hc-expresses-anguish-over-loss-of-life/article34454485.ece
01 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Rahul flays Centre over ‘zero accountability’||Former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi on Friday said that though the second wave of COVID-19 had entered the fourth week and has claimed over two lakh lives so far, there is “zero accountability” and every person is on his own. “Fourth week of the second wave of corona and more than two lakh dead. Accountability zero. The system has made one atma nirbhar (self-reliant),” Mr. Gandhi said on Twitter. “My condolences to fellow citizens losing their loved ones due to lack of treatment. You are not alone in this tragedy — prayers and sympathies are with you from every State of the country. There is hope if we are together.” Compulsory licensing Separately, Congress leaders, including former Finance Minister P. Chidambaram, welcomed the Supreme Court’s observation on the government’s vaccine policy. Commenting on the top court’s observation that the Centre should look at invoking Section 92 of the Patent Act and issue compulsory licenses to manufacture COVID-19 drugs by generic manufacturers, the party’s Rajya Sabha chief whip, Jairam Ramesh, said on Twitter, “Not only for drugs, but compulsory licensing for vaccines as well. This is exactly what Dr. Manmohan Singh had suggested to the Prime Minister on 18.04.2021, and what the Congress President has reiterated in her interview to The Hindu this morning.” “Grateful that the Supreme Court has raised the two issues that the Congress had first raised 15 days ago: vaccine prices and compulsory licensing to manufacture vaccines. The government brushed aside the Congress. The PM did not even acknowledge the letter of the former PM. The Health Minister was rude in addition to being incompetent,” Mr. Chidambaram said on Twitter. Lok Sabha member Manish Tewari also lashed out at the Centre over reports that the government had asked Indian envoys to counter the foreign media’s reportage of the government’s “poor handling” of the COVID-19 crisis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rahul-flays-centre-over-zero-accountability/article34455032.ece
01 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Exemption for oxygen concentrator imports||To boost the testing apparatus for COVID-19 across the country and ease the availability of oxygen concentrators, the government on Friday notified a customs duty exemption for diagnostic kits imports and altered the foreign trade policy. The Department of Revenue exempted imports of inflammatory diagnostic (marker) kits, namely IL6, D-Dimer, CRP, LDH, Ferritin, Pro Calcitonin (PCT) and blood gas reagents, from customs duty till October 31, 2021 to supplement testing efforts, the Finance Ministry said in a statement. Separately, the foreign trade policy for 2015-20 (in force till a new policy is formalised) was tweaked to allow the import of oxygen concentrators for personal use through e-commerce portals, post or courier till July 31, 2021. Customs clearance will be granted for such imports by treating them on par with ‘gifts’. So far, such an exemption was only allowed for life saving drugs and Rakhis. The daily allocation to States of the Tocilizumab drug was more than doubled on Friday, but shortages are likely to persist in some States. On April 27, the Centre had kicked off an interim arrangement to allocate the drug to States from limited imports as Tocilizumab supplies in the country had run out a few weeks ago. From 3,045 doses of the drug allotted to 18 States on April 27, the Department of Pharmaceuticals and the Health Ministry have now allotted 8,700 doses to 23 States.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/duty-exemption-for-diagnostic-kits-imports/article34454504.ece
01 May 2021||May 01 2021 00:00 IST,||Divine Power Shakti||The Saundarya Lahari is a grand work extolling the greatness of Ambal. In the first 41 verses, many secret and sacred truths such as the Sri Chakra, Sri Vidya, Kundalini, etc, are explained while the rest of the work is full of description of the beauty of Ambal. This shows that Devi can be propitiated through different ways of worship, depending on each individual’s capabilities, said Sri B. Sundarkumar in a discourse. The first section explains the esoteric path of mantra worship such as Sri Vidya Upasana and so on, while the other indicates bhakti marga. Both are different but lead to the same goal of realisation of Brahman. In the very first verse, the essence and truth behind the entire creation, which spans all from the tiniest to the infinite, is highlighted. Siva and Shakti together alone can engage in the creation, sustaining and controlling of the entire universe, and they do it meticulously. Siva is incapable of even the minutest activity without Shakti. No life can exist without Shakti. The power of Shakti is all pervading and breathing life into all aspects of creation. It is no wonder that even the celestial beings Brahma, Vishnu, Rudra and others constantly worship Her to obtain Her grace by which they are able to discharge the duties entrusted to them. If this is the case, says Adi Sankara, how will it be possible for him to praise Her without Her grace. Since it is customary to compare ignorance to darkness and jnana to light, Adi Sankara uses the analogy of the sun rising in an island city and spreading light at one stroke at all places to dispel the darkness that had enveloped it at night time. But the dense darkness of ignorance lodged within the jivatma is easily dispelled by the effulgence of Devi’s grace to confer the jnana that liberates one from samsara.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/divine-power-shakti/article34454494.ece
01 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Vaccinate journalists on priority: Guild||The Editors Guild of India on Friday condoled the death of journalists due to COVID-19 and again called on the government to give them priority in vaccination along with frontline workers. “In April 2021 itself, more than 52 journalists died because of the virus. Further, according to the Delhi-based Institute of Perception Studies, more than 100 journalists have died since April 1, 2020. Many of these were brave journalists who had been reporting on the worsening pandemic and bringing to fore stories on the great human tragedy that has been unfolding before us,” the EGI said in a statement. The Guild said it was distressed that the Centre had not done anything to speed up journalists’ vaccination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/vaccinate-journalists-on-priority-guild/article34455029.ece
01 May 2021||CHENNAI/ NEW DELHI,||Ban on foreign flights to continue||The Director General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) on Friday extended the suspension of international flights from/to India till May 31. Scheduled international flights have been banned in the country since March 23, 2020, though flights to foreign destinations are permitted under special bilateral air bubbles India has entered into with 27 countries. Cargo exempted The restriction would not apply to international all-cargo operations and other flights specially approved by the DGCA. The suspension comes in the backdrop of a sharp increase in COVID-19 cases across the country, and also the ban or restrictions imposed on flights/travellers from/to India by at least 21 countries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ban-on-foreign-flights-to-continue/article34454461.ece
01 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Memorial sends wood for cremation||Officials at the national memorial to Mahatma Gandhi have sent dry wood from the Rajghat premises to cremation grounds in Delhi that are running short of wood due to the spike in COVID-19 deaths. The Gandhi Smriti and Darshan Samiti (GSDS), which is in-charge of Gandhi Darshan at Rajghat and Gandhi Smriti at 5, Tees January Marg, on Friday sent two truckloads of dry wood from its premises at Rajghat, GSDS Director Dipanker Shri Gyan told The Hindu . He said the South Delhi Municipal Corporation had sought help to overcome the shortage of dry wood at various cremation grounds. Permission had been sought to cut an additional 20 dried trees and send them as well, he said. “We are working with the SDMC Mayor so that the Forest Department gives permission on priority basis. We will be able to send up to five truckloads of wood,” he said. Info on beds, oxygen In addition, the GSDS also launched a WhatsApp helpline for verified information on oxygen cylinders, hospital beds, food for patients, vaccination and medicines for COVID-19. “It is our Gandhian philosophy. We saw that the numbers on social media for oxygen cylinders etc. were either incorrect or no one was answering. So we decided to verify the information,” he said. Anyone in need would be connected to vendors after verification of the information through a WhatsApp text to 9711228032. Mr. Gyan said a dashboard would also be set up within days to provide latest information every four or five hours. Last year, when the COVID-19 pandemic first broke out, GSDS had distributed masks to those in need. Mr. Gyan said a similar drive for distributing safety essentials was in the works again.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gandhi-memorial-sends-wood-for-cremation/article34454481.ece
01 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Rope in NGOs, ex-servicemen, says Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday, while reviewing the work of empowered groups on COVID-19, suggested that Non-Governmental Organisations (NGOs) and volunteer groups, including ex-servicemen, be roped in to carry out non-specialised tasks to reduce the burden on medical care professionals. A statement released after the meeting by the government said, “The Prime Minister asked the officials to explore how volunteers from civil society can be utilised to lessen the pressure on the healthcare sector by invoking them in non-specialised tasks. It was discussed that NGOs could help to establish and maintain lines of communication between the patients, their dependents and health care personnel. Ex-servicemen could be encouraged to handle call centres for communicating with people under home quarantine.” The meeting also went into supply issues with regard to medical resources, with Prime Minister Modi emphasising that there should be a seamless movement of supplies across geographies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rope-in-ngos-ex-servicemen-says-modi/article34454484.ece
01 May 2021||New Delhi,||Five held for fake COVID-19 reports||The Delhi Police arrested five employees of the Genestrings lab in south Delhi for generating fake COVID-19 reports. The arrested wanted to earn quick money by testing more COVID-19 samples, said police on Friday. Atul Thakur, Deputy Commissioner of Police (South), said on April 29, a Police Control Room call was received at the Malviya Nagar Police Station about the fake reports. The caller, Vipul Saini, said a week ago, he, along with around 45 relatives, had given their samples for testing. On April 25, one Rishab Shukla gave his sample to them and on the next day he tested positive for COVID-19 but did not have any symptoms. On April 28, he again gave a sample to one Spice Health Laboratory, where he tested negative.  Chetan Kohli, COO of Genestrings Diagnostic Centre, Malviya Nagar said, “On being approached by a few patients to authenticate reports bearing our lab’s name, we found out that they were not issued by us nor tested at our lab. We immediately called the local police station in-charge for the investigation of what seemed to be a fake report issue.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/five-held-for-fake-covid-19-reports/article34455030.ece
01 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Group sells around 2,000 fake injections||The Delhi Police arrested seven persons from Delhi and Uttarakhand for allegedly manufacturing fake Remdesivir injections. They have already sold around 2,000 fake injections. The company Nector Herbs and Drugs at Kotdwar is being sealed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/group-sells-over-2000-fake-injections/article34454486.ece
01 May 2021||Ahmedabad,||2 more held for selling fake Remdesivir||A day after nabbing five persons with 90 vials of Remdesivir, the police in Vadodara city caught two more people allegedly involved in repackaging an antibiotic medicine as Remdesivir, an official said on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/2-more-held-for-selling-fake-remdesivir/article34454490.ece
01 May 2021||New Delhi,||Police counsel siblings who lost parents||The Delhi Police rescued two youth in the city who were planning to end their lives after their parents died of COVID-19, officials said on Friday. Police counselled the 20-year-old girl and 18-year-old boy and put them in touch with relatives. Police said that on Friday they received information regarding the death of a couple from COVID-19 complications. Their son and daughter were in a flat in south Delhi and they were reportedly planning to end their lives.  Those in distress may reach out to Sanjivini, Society for Mental Health, 011-4076 9002, Monday-Saturday (10 a.m.-7.30 p.m.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/police-counsel-siblings-who-lost-parents/article34454499.ece
01 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||ED seizes Rs. 304 cr. assets of Rose Valley||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has taken possession of assets worth Rs. 304 crore of Rose Valley Group of companies in connection with the Ponzi scam. According to the agency, the group floated various schemes to collect huge amounts of money from small-time investors on false promises of phenomenal returns. However, it defaulted on re-payments. The ED identified several properties in West Bengal, Odisha, Tripura, Assam, Maharashtra, Jharkhand and others States that were acquired in the name of various Rose Valley Group companies, by illegally diverting the collected funds. Following the procedures under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), the agency attached the properties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ed-seizes-rs-304-cr-assets-of-rose-valley/article34454473.ece
01 May 2021||Kolkata,||West Bengal brings in strict restrictions||The West Bengal government on Friday announced a series of restrictions in the wake of the worsening COVID-19 situation in the State, which includes closure of all shopping complexes, malls, beauty parlours, cinema halls, restaurants, bars, sport complexes, gyms, spas and swimming polls with immediate effect. The decision comes at a time when the State registered record infections and deaths on Friday. West Bengal on Friday registered 96 deaths in the previous 24 hours and 17,411 new cases of new infections in the same time period. “All social/cultural/academic entertainment related gathering and congregation shall remain prohibited,” the notification issued by the State’s Chief Secretary said. “Bazaars will remain open only during 7 -10 am in the morning and 3- 5 pm in the afternoon (even while essential services like medical shops, medical equipment shops, grocery, etc. will remain outside the confines of the embargo),” the notification said. In another development, the State government has decided to cancel all examinations of Class XI. For Class XII, students can write the examination in their own schools.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/west-bengal-brings-in-strict-restrictions/article34454500.ece
01 May 2021||New Delhi,||Facebook to roll out vaccine finder tool||Facebook on Friday said it is partnering with the Indian government to roll out a vaccine finder tool on its mobile app in India, which will help people identify places nearby to get inoculated. The social media giant had, earlier this week, announced a $10 million grant for emergency response efforts for COVID-19 situation in the country. “Partnering with the Government of India, Facebook will begin rolling out its Vaccine Finder tool on the Facebook mobile app in India available in 17 languages to help people identify places nearby to get the vaccine,” Facebook said in a post on the platform. Hours of operation will also be available. Twitter too has set up a COVID-19 SOS page. “We have also built a series of Twitter Moments to help you get the facts from the most reliable sources, because we know not all the information you see on the service is credible,” it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/facebook-to-roll-out-vaccine-finder-tool/article34454505.ece
01 May 2021||Chandigarh,||Educational institutions in Haryana shut till May 31||Amid a sharp rise in COVID-19 cases, the Haryana government has announced that all colleges, coaching institutions, industrial training institute (ITIs), libraries, training institutes whether government or private would remain closed till May 31 across the State. Apart from this, all anganwadi centres and creches under the Women and Child Development Department will also remain closed till May 31. An official statement said that an order in this regard had been issued by Chief Secretary Vijay Vardhan. The orders have been issued in exercise of the powers under the Disaster Management Act, 2005.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/educational-institutions-in-haryana-shut-till-may-31/article34454506.ece
01 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Security measures put in place ahead of counting day in city||Elaborate security arrangements have been made at all important places and junctions across the entire jurisdiction of the Greater Chennai Police in order to ensure peaceful counting of votes in the four centres on Sunday. Police Commissioner Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal appealed to the representatives of political parties and candidates to comply with the COVID-19 protocols. Mr. Aggarwal told The Hindu , “We appeal to everybody to cooperate and follow the COVID-19 norms. There should not be crowding outside counting centres. Only people who are authorised should come to the centres. No additional person other than the candidates, chief agents and counting agents should move about in view of the lockdown. Any crowding outside the counting centre is prohibited in view of the prevailing COVID-19 situation.”  Four centres The counting of votes will be done on Sunday at Queen Mary’s College, Loyola College, Anna University and Madras Christian College. Issuing elaborate guidelines, the police said candidates, chief agents, counting agents, presspersons, pass holders on counting duty and other officials connected with counting centre duties are permitted to enter the centres. The candidates, chief agents and counting agents will be allowed inside the counting centre only if they possess the COVID-19 negative certificate (RT-PCR test taken before 48 hours in government or approved hospitals) or the certificate of vaccination for two doses. Thermal scanning will be done at the entrance of each counting centre and the temperature should be below 98.6 degrees Fahrenheit. The candidates, chief agents and counting agents are allowed to bring only plain paper or notepad and a duplicate copy of Form-17C, furnished by the presiding officer concerned. Authorised Election Commission pass holders will be allowed with hand-held cameras. No one is permitted to carry cell phones, cameras, firearms, explosive substances, pen knives, sticks, water bottles, tins, containers, tiffin boxes, matches, lighters, liquids or chemicals and edible items. No one is permitted to carry sharp objects and objectionable materials inside the counting centre. The Election Commission of India has banned victory processions, celebrations and other activities. Only two persons will be allowed along with the candidate to receive the victory certificate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/security-measures-put-in-place-ahead-of-counting-day-in-city/article34455072.ece
01 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State adds 18,692 more cases, 113 deaths||The State added 18,692 more cases of COVID-19 on Friday, taking its tally to 11,66,756. Another 113 persons succumbed to the infection, taking the toll to 14,046. Active cases touched 1,15,128. As many as 16,007 people were discharged after treatment, taking the total figure to 10,37,582. In Chennai, 5,473 people tested positive for the infection, taking the tally to 31,222. As many as 5,327 people were discharged in the district after treatment. It also logged 42 fatalities due to the infection. The number of cases continued to surge in several districts — Chengalpattu recorded 1,215 cases, Coimbatore 1,113 and Tiruvallur 905. Apart from Chennai, Ranipet and Salem districts recorded a high number of deaths. While Ranipet saw 12 fatalities, Salem reported 10. Thirty of the deceased had no co-morbidities. While 52 people died in private facilities, 61 had been admitted to government hospitals. Among those who died due to the infection were two men aged 21 and 26 with no co-morbidities. The oldest among the deceased were a 91-year-old woman and a 92-year-old man. The 21-year-old from Krishnagiri was admitted on April 24 to the Government Medical College Hospital there, and tested positive for the infection the next day. He died on April 28. The 26-year-old from Coimbatore was admitted to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital on April 26 and tested positive the same day. He, too, died on April 28. The number of those getting inoculated fell drastically on Friday, with just 84,799 people receiving jabs in the State. A total of 4,796 sessions were held — the highest so far. A total of 4,531 healthcare workers, 9,994 frontline workers, 42,504 people in the 45-59 age group and 27,770 senior citizens were vaccinated. So far, 58,54,130 people have been vaccinated against COVID-19 in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-adds-18692-more-cases-113-deaths/article34454620.ece
01 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||6.6 lakh cases filed against those not wearing masks||Over 6,61,944 lakh cases were booked against people who failed to wear masks across the State since April 8 and until Thursday. A total of 6.61 lakh cases were booked against people who were not wearing masks in public places and fines were collected. The south zone booked 2.29 lakh cases while the north zone booked 1.26 lakh cases. Separately, 20,656 cases were booked for violation of physical distancing norms and other COVID-19 protocols. The Greater Chennai City Police said that 23,657 cases were filed against people who were not wearing the masks. A total fine amount of Rs. 44,49,800 was collected from the violators and another 379 cases were booked for violation of physical distancing norms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/66-lakh-cases-against-those-not-wearing-masks/article34454658.ece
01 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||SOS Children’s Village lends a helping hand||SOS Children’s Villages India has announced that that it is ready to provide short or long-term care to vulnerable children across the country whose safety, security, and well-being have been severely affected because of them losing parental care due to the pandemic and have no caregivers left to provide for them. Sumanta Kar, secretary general, SOS Children’s Villages, said that in these trying times, SOS Children’s Villages India expresses solidarity with the people to fight the COVID-19 pandemic, which has devastated the socio-economic fabric of the country. “We are trying our best to ensure that all the children under our care are safe and secure,” he said. We are willing to join hands with the government, the corporates, and the civil society to extend care to children belonging to the underserved communities, whose families have been affected due to the pandemic in our 32 children’s villages across 22 States in providing short-term and long-term care,” said Mr. Kar. He said that all those children whose parents were undergoing treatment for COVID-19 could be placed under short-term care till their parents recovered. Helpline opened “Children who have lost parents can be placed under long-term care in our Family-Like Care Programme. “If you come across any child nearer to our projects, please call our helpline number 18002083232 or email atsoscvi@soscvindia.org. We will be happy to reach out to the child and extend support in the best possible manner,” Mr. Kar added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sos-childrens-village-lends-a-helping-hand/article34455244.ece
01 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Do not take to the streets to celebrate victory, says Stalin||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Friday called upon his partymen and alliance party cadre not to crowd near counting centres to celebrate their victory when results of the Assembly election come out on Sunday. Pointing out that exit polls held by various media houses had predicted a major victory for the DMK alliance, Mr. Stalin said he was going through anxious moments as COVID-19 patients were left without adequate beds and oxygen supply. “In these circumstances, we should not fall victim to the infection by crowding near counting centres to express our happiness. It is appropriate that we stay home and celebrate our victory by following election results on the media,” he said in a statement. Mr. Stalin said his priority was the lives of party cadre and not the victory celebration. “No one should suffer because of their indifference. Let partymen and cadre of alliance parties understand this. Let streets be deserted and hearts be filled with joy,” he said. Mr. Stalin later held a meeting with the party’s district secretaries and candidates via video conferencing and discussed the counting. Candidates were taken through the process and asked to keep a close watch on the proceedings and ensure that votes are tallied properly, a senior leader said. Mr. Stalin also asked them to ensure that there are no big celebrations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/do-not-take-to-the-streets-to-celebrate-victory-says-stalin/article34454613.ece
01 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Ensure equal distribution of vaccines’||The Madras High Court on Friday impressed upon the need for the Centre to ensure equitable distribution of COVID-19 vaccines, drugs and oxygen to all the States and Union Territories in the country. The court hoped that the Centre would inform the Tamil Nadu government and the Puducherry administration, at least by Monday, on the number of vaccine doses that would be allotted to them for the universal adult inoculation drive, set to begin from Saturday. Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy made the observation after Additional Solicitor General R. Sankaranarayanan sought time to submit the number of vaccine doses and Remdesivir vials that had been allocated by the Centre to Tamil Nadu and Puducherry. Advocate-General Vijay Narayan said though the State government had ordered 2.5 lakh vials of Remedesivir, only 59,000 had been allotted so far. “Due to the inadequate allotment, the Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation is drawing from its own reserve stocks and continuing the supply of the drug for the benefit of patients admitted to private hospitals, at the cost price of Rs. 1,568 a vial, at a counter established on the campus of the Kilpauk Medical College Hospital. So far, 8,750 vials have been provided to the needy,” the A-G said, responding to a suo motu public interest litigation petition taken up by the court. Pointing out that the government could not continue selling its reserve drugs, meant for patients in government hospitals to those in private facilities for long, the A-G said the government had already written to the Centre, seeking the augmentation of supplies. As and when the State receives more vials, it will consider establishing similar counters in other major cities, the court was told. State’s oxygen needs Further, stating that the oxygen requirement in the State had crossed 385 tonnes a day, the A-G said the requirement was being met by fully utilising the manufacturing capacity in the State and by drawing the gas from Puducherry. The allotment of 280 tonnes to Tamil Nadu under the national oxygen plan was disproportionately low compared to the State’s active case load and, therefore, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami had opposed the diversion of oxygen to other States, he added. It was also brought to the notice of the court that 280 government hospitals and 463 private facilties were providing COVID-19 treatment in the State. Of the 1.72 lakh beds available in all the 743 hospitals and COVID-19 care centres, 1.01 lakh had been demarcated for COVID-19 patients, the A-G said. After hearing him, the judges adjourned the case to Wednesday for obtaining details from the Centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ensure-equal-distribution-of-vaccines/article34454616.ece
01 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. accelerates work to provide additional oxygen beds||The Public Works Department has accelerated work to provide oxygen pipelines for nearly 12,770 additional COVID-19 beds being created across the State. The project is expected to address the increasing demand for healthcare facilities to cope with the second wave of the infection. Work to provide nearly 3,000 additional beds with oxygen lines has been completed. Most have been immediately put to use. The department plans to complete the entire project by the first week of May. PWD officials said additional facilities were being created at 168 hospitals, including district headquarters and taluk hospitals and government medical college hospitals as emergency works. In Chennai, which is witnessing a surge in cases, nearly 3,295 additional beds with oxygen lines are being created. Of these, work is on to add 550 beds with oxygen lines at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital, 200 at the Kings Institute of Preventive Medicine, Guindy, and 750 oxygen-supplied ones at the Government Stanley Medical College Hospital. Moreover, facilities are being created on a war footing in 11 other hospitals, including peripheral ones in and around Chennai. “We are adding such facilities in the existing wards and vacant spaces identified by medical authorities. We get fresh requests daily to add more beds with oxygen lines to cater to COVID-19 patients. For instance, 100 oxygen beds will be created at the Government Royapettah Hospital and 50 at the Kancheepuram hospital,” said an official.  “We have submitted estimates for Rs. 140 crore to be sanctioned for the projects being executed to overcome the crisis,” the official added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-accelerates-work-to-provide-additional-oxygen-beds/article34454618.ece
01 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Eight held for illegal sale of Remdesivir||The police arrested eight persons, including a young doctor and a paramedical staff, in various parts of the city for hoarding the life-saving drug Remdesivir to sell on the black market. Personnel from the Tambaram police station on Friday arrested four persons, including a young doctor and the staff of the government general hospital in Tiruvannamalai. Following information that a gang was indulging in the illegal act, a special police team, led by Superintendent of Police, Civil Supplies CID, S. Santhi, caught two persons operating out of a car near a private hospital on Thursday evening. She told The Hindu , “Based on the information, we caught the duo near the hospital. Our preliminary investigation revealed that Mohammed Imrankhan, 25, who finished MBBS recently, and his friend Vijay, a schoolmate of his and a fruit seller, procured the drug from Vignesh, who worked at the Tiruvannamalai Government General Hospital, for Rs. 8,000. While they were planning to sell it for Rs. 20,000, we caught them and handed them over to the police. Seventeen vials of Remdesivir were seized from them.” Imrankhan and his associates Vijay, 27, of Pallikaranai, Rajkumar, 33, of Tiruttani, and Vignesh, 27, of Tiruvannamalai, were arrested. Meanwhile, drug inspector M.P. Muralikrishnan received information on the illegal sale of Remdesivir in the ICF area and informed the police. Accompanied by the personnel, officers of the Drug Control Department nabbed T. Karthikeyan, 33, of Villivakkam, and Jaspher Jano, 31, of Ernavoor. False records Sources said Karthikeyan, a pharmacy assistant, and Jasper Jano, a male nurse working at a private hospital on Mint Street, had procured Remdesivir from the Kilpauk Medical College Hospital by illegally accessing the medical records of COVID-19 patients. They procured six vials for around Rs. 9,000 and sold them for Rs. 15,000 per vial. They were operating from a premises in ICF North Colony. The police arrested them under Sections 464 (Making a false document), 465 (Punishment for forgery), 468 (Forgery for purpose of cheating) and 471(Using as genuine a forged document or electronic record), read with provisions of the Essential Commodities Act. On Friday evening, personnel of the Vepery station arrested two more persons who were selling Remdesivir for high prices near Narayana Hospital, Tana Street. The police identified them as R. Saambasivam, 46, of Kodambakkam, and S. Ramu, 29, of Kandiperu, Vellore, and recovered six vials from them. Investigation is on. Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan has warned of stringent action against those selling Remdesivir illegally.  While they were planning to sell it for Rs. 20,000, they were caught and handed over to the police. Seventeen vials of Remdesivir were seized||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/8-held-for-illegal-sale-of-remdesivir/article34455066.ece
01 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. grants permission for oxygen production||In view of the Supreme Court’s directions, the Tamil Nadu government has allowed the operation of oxygen plants on the premises of Vedanta Industries Limited in Thoothukudi, “strictly until July 31, 2021”. Two government orders to this effect and an official communication to the authorities were issued by the State government on Thursday. The government also constituted a seven-member monitoring committee, to be headed by the Thoothukudi Collector, to supervise functioning of the oxygen plants on the premises of Vedanta Industries in Thoothukudi and to decide on its operations, following the Supreme Court’s directions in this regard. It also directed the Chairperson of the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB) to take appropriate action as per the Act/rules/guidelines in force. The TNPCB Chairperson was also told to ensure that no other part of the unit, except the oxygen plants and its accessories, become operational and all other units remain closed under all circumstances. Besides the Thoothukudi Collector, who will be the chairperson of the panel, the Superintendent of Police, the Sub-Collector of Thoothukudi, the district environmental engineer of TNPCB in Thoothukudi, Joseph Pellarimine Anton Soris, Deputy chief chemist in Tangedco’s Thoothukudi thermal power station, and two environmental experts (to be nominated as per orders of the top court) will be members. “The oxygen plant shall be run and managed by M/s. Vedanta Industries Limited, as per directions issued by the monitoring committee, in compliance with environmental and safety norms,” the G.O. issued by Environment and Forests Secretary Sandeep Saxena said. The panel will also oversee the proper functioning of the oxygen plant, in compliance with the directions of the Supreme Court. The panel has been empowered to decide on the number of persons to be allowed on the premises of the plant only for managing and conducting the oxygen production facility and to engage with residents in the area to redress any legitimate concerns with regard to the nature or modalities of operations in the oxygen plant, on a stand-alone basis. It will also conduct a safety audit before the commencement of operations and issue suitable directions to ensure the safety of operations. The chairperson of the committee has also been directed to send a fortnightly report in this regard to the government. In a communication to several authorities concerned, Mr. Saxena enclosed a copy of the Supreme Court’s interim directions in this regard and directed them to sensitise officials to comply with the directions of the top court and to expedite necessary clearances as per rules.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-grants-permission-for-oxygen-production/article34454611.ece
01 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||ECI urges HC to gag media from reporting oral observations||The Election Commission of India (ECI) on Friday made a desperate attempt to obtain an order from the Madras High Court to gag the media from reporting oral observations made by judges during the hearing of election-related cases. The court, however, refrained from passing any such order. It said the sub-application filed by the ECI, against the media, was not available in the case bundle. Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy also disposed of the main writ petition itself, in which the sub-application had been preferred. The writ petition had actually been preferred by Transport Minister M.R. Vijayabhaskar seeking certain regulations to be put in place on the day of counting of votes in the Karur constituency from where he is seeking re-election to the Assembly. Stating that the reportage in both print and electronic media about certain oral observations made at the last hearing had caused great damage to the reputation of the ECI, senior counsel Rakesh Dwivedi said the news reports had turned so serious that people started filing police complaints for registering murder and culpable homicide cases against ECI officials. Therefore, the ECI urged the court to direct the media organisations concerned to carry a clarification, besides directing them to confine their reporting to written orders. It also wanted a direction to the police to refrain from registering First Information Reports for the offence of murder on the basis of the news reports of the oral observations attributed to the court. However, the Chief Justice said: “There’s no application we find here. You renew your application in any other matter, we’ll consider it.” The Bench disposed of the Minister’s petition since it had already issued elaborate directions for the observance of the COVID-19 protocol during the counting of votes scheduled for Sunday while passing interim orders on a suo motu public interest litigation petition taken up by it. At the hearing of the PIL petition too, Mr. Dwivedi had urged the court to pass certain orders restraining the media from sensationalising the hearings. He said it was a difficult task to conduct elections amid a pandemic, and many ECI officials, including Chief Election Commissioner Sushil Chandra, had tested positive for COVID-19. He said the reportage had undermined the ECI’s authority. While passing interim orders in the suo motu case, the judges wrote that the “post-mortem” of the complaint of sensationalism might have to wait since the immediate concern was to fight the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/eci-urges-hc-to-gag-media-from-reporting-oral-observations/article34454661.ece
01 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||13 COVID-19 patients shifted to IOG||A total of 13 patients were admitted to the Institute of Obstetrics and Gynaecology (IOG) on Friday, a day after a new ward with 100 beds to accommodate COVID-19 patients was commissioned. The Health Department augmented beds in the maternity hospital as part of its effort to increase bed strength in the city. The IOG facility will be used as a step down ward, where patients would be shifted after they have been stabilised at either the Tamil Nadu Government Multi Super Speciality Hospital, Omandurar Estate, or at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital. Hospital officials said nine patients were transferred to the IOG and another four patients from the Tamil Nadu Government Multi Superspeciality Hospital were transferred till 6 p.m. They expect more patients to be sent to the IOG. These patients required lower levels of oxygen support, around three to five litres. “This is a COVID-19 health centre. Those who don’t need oxygen support would be sent to COVID Care Centres,” an official said. At present, the hospital received only women as it was a maternity hospital. However, if the general caseload increased, the hospital might admit men too, the officials said. The hospital has demarcated 60 beds to admit COVID-19 patients. “We have around 36 pregnant patients undergoing treatment for COVID-19,” the official added. During the first wave, the hospital treated 800 women.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/13-covid-19-patients-shifted-to-iog/article34455074.ece
01 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chennai Corpn. to hire doctors to visit those in home quarantine||The Greater Chennai Corporation will start sending teams of doctors and nurses to the residences of COVID-19 patients under home quarantine to provide quality healthcare at their doorsteps, Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash said on Friday. Mr. Prakash told journalists that the civic body had hired 120 additional doctors and 100 nurses. “Over 320 doctors will go to the field. They will visit the homes of patients to check up on their health and well-being. More than 70% of the 33,500 active cases are in home quarantine,” he said. Referring to the data about 13% of active cases needing high-grade treatment, he said the number of persons who need such treatment would increase. “We have taken measures to provide high-grade treatment to more than 4,000 patients. We will get 1,000 beds at the Chennai Trade Centre, with 860 oxygen beds and 140 normal beds,” Mr. Prakash said. The Corporation will develop 100 oxygen beds in Injambakkam, 100 in Manali and 240 at the Communicable Diseases Hospital in Tondiarpet in 10 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/doctors-to-check-on-those-in-home-quarantine/article34455069.ece
01 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CII lends help to enhance medical infrastructure||The Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) has come forward to lend a helping hand to strengthen the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic by partnering with member companies across southern region. C.K. Ranganathan, chairman, CII southern region, pointed out that many CII member companies in the healthcare, pharma, life sciences and medical equipment sectors had ramped up production of essential medical supplies, like medical oxygen, ventilators, makeshift hospitals, ICU beds, Remdesivir and other drugs, which are of immediate requirement for hospitals. “CII member companies have come forward for setting up around 500 mobile make-shift hospitals as part of their CSR activities,” he said. The CII, in partnership with member companies, and the State has launched the “Oxygen on Wheels” initiative.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cii-lends-help-to-enhance-medical-infrastructure/article34455075.ece
01 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Hospitals warned against violating norms||Action will be taken against institutions that do not follow the prescribed protocol for administering high-end drugs such as Remdesivir, Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan said here on Thursday. After inspecting the 100 oxygen-supported beds on four floors of the Institute of Obstetrics and Gynaecology in Egmore, he told mediapersons that in a day only 3,000 doses could be distributed. The State had got as many as 59,000 doses of the injection for the period between April 21 and 30. Dr. Radhakrishnan further said that experts from AIIMS had given clear guidelines for administering Remdesivir. “Remdesivir is not a magic pill and is not needed for all. There is more than adequate supply of other usual medicines. If any hospital is found to be going beyond our protocol or the advisories of our senior experts, we will take action. Those who need the drug will be provided with it,” he said. He maintained that more than 50% of those infected would be cured of the infection by isolating themselves at home. Once they test positive, people should go to screening centres for investigations, such as X-ray and blood profile. The decision to hospitalise or be treated at home or at a COVID care centre would be taken by the medical professionals there, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hospitals-warned-against-violating-norms/article34454664.ece
01 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Allocate 50% of beds in private hospitals for COVID-19 patients’||The State Health Department has instructed private hospitals to allocate a minimum of 50% of their total bed strength exclusively to treat COVID-19 patients. In an order issued on Friday, Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan said the Director of Medical and Rural Health Services had permitted 578 hospitals in the State to treat patients with COVID-19 infection apart from the government healthcare facilities. The allocation was necessitated because of the rapid surge in cases in the second wave of the pandemic and the need for hospitalisation had increased, the GO said. As per the Tamil Nadu Clinical Establishment Act, the government had instructed the empanelled hospitals to reduce the number of admissions and elective procedures. Further, hospitals have been instructed to allocate beds across all categories, specifically oxygen-supported beds and intensive care unit beds for the COVID-19 patients. Strict compliance “The private healthcare facilities are instructed to reduce/avoid elective and planned admissions till further orders from the government,” the GO read. The GO has said there should be no deviation from the private hospitals with regard to guidelines issued by the Union and State government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-asks-private-hospitals-to-keep-aside-50-of-beds-for-covid-19-patients/article34454587.ece
01 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Cinematographer K.V. Anand is no more||Noted cinematographer and filmmaker K.V. Anand passed away here in the early hours of Friday following a cardiac arrest. He was 54, and is survived by his wife and two daughters. Mr. Anand, who started out as a photojournalist, joined cinematographer P.C. Sreeram as assistant and worked on several films with him. He made his début as a cinematographer with the Malayalam film Thenmavin Kombath, starring Mohanlal, and went on to crank the camera for films in Tamil, Malayalam and Hindi. His first film won him the National Film Award for Best Cinematography. While he turned director in 2005 with Kanaa Kanden , it was his 2009 film Ayan , starring Suriya, which became a huge commercial success. Anand then directed films starring Suriya, Dhanush and Vijay Sethupathi. His movies were predominantly well-packaged, commercial films. As a filmmaker, he was well-known for putting in a lot of thought into his film titles. While he followed a lot of international cinema, Anand was a voracious reader of Tamil classical and contemporary works. If Anand’s Suriya-starrer was titled Ayan , which means god/creator, he decided to christen his 2011 youthful political action thriller Ko. ‘Ko’ means ‘King’ and it goes with the theme of a power struggle in the film. Later, when he worked with Suriya again, he opted for strong Tamil words such as Maattrraan and Kaappan . For his Dhanush-starrer, he went for Anegan , which means a man with many shadows. Anand’s last release as a filmmaker was the Suriya-starrer Kaappaan . As a cinematographer, he last collaborated with director Shankar for the Rajinikanth-starrer Sivaji.  Condolences poured in from the film fraternity. Rajinikanth said he was saddened by the death of Anand. Actor and Makkal Needhi Maiam president Kamal Haasan said Anand had started his career as a photographer; he became one of the best cinematographers because of his hard work. Director Shankar said he lost a dear friend, a wonderful cinematographer and a brilliant director. Actor Dhanush said, “A gentle, kind and honest man has passed away. A very sweet man, full of life, love and joy.” Actor Suriya recalled his having worked with Anand for a photo-shoot even before he started out in the industry. “For Nerukku Ner , it was the photo that you shot of me that helped director Vasanth and producer Mani Rathnam have belief in me,” said Suriya, who debuted with the film.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cinematographer-kv-anand-is-no-more/article34454608.ece
01 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||No crackers, rallies, victory celebrations till COVID situation improves, HC tells political parties||The Madras High Court on Friday said leaders of all political parties “should” ensure that their rank and file maintain a degree of discipline and exercise extreme restraint whether in celebration or otherwise right from the day of counting of Assembly election votes scheduled on Sunday till the day the grim situation caused by the second wave of COVID-19 subsides. Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy wrote: “The leaders of the political parties should keep the rank and file in check and ensure that there is no bursting of crackers or taking out of rallies, particularly on the day of counting, and till such time that the present grim situation continues. Leaders of political parties are requested to take a proactive stand in such regard and lead by example.” The interim orders were passed on a suo motu public interest litigation petition taken up by the court to monitor the COVID-19 situation in the State. Observing that the counting day was the immediate concern, the judges hoped that the political parties, media personnel and citizens would strictly adhere to the COVID-19 protocol laid down by the Election Commission of India and the State government. The court wanted all stakeholders to scrupulously follow the norms and cooperate with the authorities in the greater public interest. In so far as Puducherry was concerned, the court directed the officials to keep a check on private liquor outlets and ensure that liquor was not being sold clandestinely despite an order passed by the administration to close down all liquor shops and bars. The judges directed the governments to encourage the people to get vaccinated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-crackers-victory-rallies-hc-tells-political-parties/article34455077.ece
01 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK rejects exit polls predicting DMK win||The ruling AIADMK has expressed the hope that it will retain power in Tamil Nadu when votes polled in the Assembly election are counted on Sunday, contrary to exit polls predicting a clear victory for the DMK. In a joint statement, AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam and co-coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Friday said the party had not been disturbed by the exit polls, broadcast by some media houses. The information the party leadership received from across the State suggested that it would retain power, they said. The two leaders said some opinion and exit polls released during the 2016 Assembly poll had not predicted the party’s victory. “However, within a few hours of the counting of votes, we witnessed party candidates leading in several constituencies and eventually we secured a majority to form the government under  Puratchi Thalaivi Amma [former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa],” they added. The exit polls that predicted a victory for the DMK were nothing but an attempt to demoralise the AIADMK’s counting agents, they said. The leaders instructed the agents to stay vigilant during counting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-rejects-exit-polls-predicting-dmk-win/article34454614.ece
01 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Woman constable robbed in ICF||Unidentified persons on a bike robbed Rekha, 39, a woman constable, of a gold chain after pushing her from her two-wheeler on Police Constable Road, ICF. Investigation is on to trace the suspects.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-constable-robbed-in-icf/article34455068.ece
01 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fire audits to be conducted at COVID-19 hospitals||The Tamil Nadu Fire and Rescue Services (TNFRS) has started conducting audits of hospitals treating COVID-19 patients in the State, to ensure that all fire safety norms are in place. The TNFRS officials inspected over 100 hospitals in the last few months and have given a check-list to the hospitals. The spike in COVID-19 cases had left the healthcare system strained, and even a small oversight in safety could lead to a massive fire. “Many fire accidents in temporary COVID-19 care centres and hospitals treating them were reported recently. Most fire accidents that happened in Mumbai, Vijayawada, and Rajkot happened early in the morning or late at night when there was no one to notice the fire. This led to many deaths. Hence, we wanted to ensure that hospitals in the State are safe,” said a senior TNFRS officer. During the audit, the TNFRS officers educated the staff on common lapses in hospital safety. “This includes non-maintenance of fire safety installations, overloading of electrical installations and fires that happen due to leakage or burst of medical gas. We spoke about measures we can take towards building a safe environment for the patients and occupants in the hospital so that we can avert any disaster,” said the officer. Besides, workshops were conducted regularly for the COVID-19 hospitals. “What makes a hospital fire worse is that the victims are often restricted in movement thereby slowing down the evacuation process. The medical equipment, supplies and services are combustible and this makes the training of staff a crucial element to deal with any disaster and confining a fire to ensure it does not spread,” the officer said. During one such workshop on Friday, case studies of various hospital fires were presented. A presentation on maintenance of fire safety installations was presented by S. Vijayasekhar, additional director, TNFRS. The topic of electrical safety was dealt with by Gopakumar, member, National and International Standardisation, and Ravi Shankar, an authorised medical gas verifier, spoke on medical gases safety and handling. C. Sylendra Babu, director, TNFRS, delivered the inaugural address at the workshop. Priya Ravichandran, joint director, TNFRS Northern Region, was present. Representatives of around 110 COVID-19 hospitals attended the workshop.  Even a small oversight in safety could lead to a massive fire Fire services officer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fire-safety-audits-conducted/article34454588.ece
01 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Place refills at doorsteps of customers’||As COVID-19 numbers soar, gas delivery boys have begun depositing liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) cylinder refills at the door steps of customers. Officials at Indian Oil Corporation Ltd. (IOCL) said that they had asked their distributors to restart this practice, which had been introduced last year during the lockdown. “Unless the customer expressly asks that the cylinder be kept inside the house, the delivery personnel have to make the pre-delivery checks, including weighing, checking pin and O-ring, outside the premises,” said an official of IOCL.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/place-refills-at-doorsteps-of-customers/article34455302.ece
01 May 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Vaccine shortage hits hospitals||Government and private hospitals in Coimbatore are reeling under acute shortage of COVID-19 vaccines. Sources in the Health Department said that as of Friday noon they were yet to get any communication from Chennai on the arrival of the next consignment of vaccine doses for the district. As per a statement issued by the district administration on Thursday, Coimbatore district had a total stock of 5,090 doses of vaccine at Government and private hospitals and at the Health Department's main walk-in cooler. Private hospitals with whom The Hindu checked on Friday said they had no stock of the two vaccines - Covishield and Covaxin. “We did not get any vaccine allotted by the Health Department in the last three days. Our stock is nil”, said a senior doctor in charge of administration in a private hospital. Spokespersons of many other private hospitals also told that they had run out of stock of both the vaccines. Two main government hospitals in the district did not have vaccines as of Friday noon. Sources at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital said that around 400 doses of Covishield and Covaxin it had were over by Friday afternoon. Deferred Meanwhile, as per a government decision, vaccination for those in the 18-44 age group, which was to begin on Saturday, has been put off, Health Department officials said on Friday. They said the district received 13,600 Covishield doses late on Friday and these would be used to vaccinate people aged above 45. Vaccination for the 18-44 age group has been temporarily deferred and would begin once the district has a surplus stock of COVID-19 vaccine doses, the officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccine-shortage-hits-hospitals/article34455091.ece
01 May 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Counting centre sanitised, 50% agents to wear PPE kit||With only a day to go for votes to be counted for the 2021 Assembly election, preparations are under way at the counting centres in Government College of Technology, Coimbatore, to ensure a COVID-19-safe environment. A Coimbatore Corporation health team had sanitised not just the 10 counting rooms, but the entire College, said sources familiar with the developments. The civic body had deployed not fewer than 20 workers to sanitise the College. On Thursday and Friday, the team sprayed disinfectants and carried out cleaning work. Inside the 10 counting centres, the Returning Officers concerned would ensure that at 50% counting agents wore PPE kit, the sources said. Agents of all candidates would wear the PPE kit, but at alternate tables so that at least 50% agents at a table were clothed in the kit and those not wearing the kit would be seated between two agents wearing the kit. This included agents of Independent candidates, the sources added. Test report The arrangement was a part of the Election Commission of India guideline mandating the agents to produce a COVID-19 negative report issued within 72 hours of the start of the counting process. On Friday, the Returning Officers supervised the allocation of machines to the tables and installation of boxes to count postal ballot. Given the COVID-19 guideline and the increase in polling booths to 4,427 in the 10 Assembly constituencies and the corresponding increase in voting machines, the counting process could be slow compared to previous countings, the sources said. Mettupalayam Assembly constituency (AC) would have 30 rounds of counting, Sulur AC 34, Kavundampalayam 34, Coimbatore North 36, Thondamuthur, 34, Coimbatore South 26, Singanallur 33, Kinathukadavu 35, Pollachi 23 and Valparai 21. With 20 – 25 minutes to complete a round of counting, the official declaration of results would take seven hours for Valparai AC and 12 hours of Kavundampalayam, the sources added. The increase in counting time for Kavundampalayam was notwithstanding the increase in number of tables. While nine of the 10 constituencies would have 14 counting tables, Kavunampalayam AC would have 20, given the number of polling stations, the sources pointed out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/counting-centre-sanitised-50-agents-to-wear-ppe-kit/article34455078.ece
01 May 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Omni buses accused of violating night curfew, fleecing migrant workers||Amid the second COVID-19 wave, private omni buses in Coimbatore have been accused of operating buses for migrant workers in violation of the night curfew and allegedly fleecing the workers, who wish to return to their hometowns in fear of another lockdown. On Thursday evening, videos of migrant workers boarding buses at the Omni Bus Terminus in Gandhipuram and multiple workers occupying one seat without adherence to COVID-19 safety protocol surfaced on social media platforms. A member of an omni bus association from Coimbatore, who did not wish to be identified, told The Hindu on Friday private bus operators allegedly operated around 10 buses from the Omni Bus Terminus every night for migrant workers to States such as Bihar, Jharkhand and Uttar Pradesh shortly after the State government introduced the night curfew. “They are charging Rs. 5,000 [and] Rs. 6,000 as ticket fares from them,” he alleged. With the omni buses seeing a reduction in patronage following the night curfew, the bus operators allegedly overcharge the migrant workers and operate the buses despite the night curfew, the member alleged.  ‘No complaints’  However, officials from the Transport Department refuted these claims and said the Regional Transport Offices (RTOs) in the city had not received any complaints about these so far. Motor vehicle inspectors from RTO – Central and RTO – North had been monitoring the Gandhipuram locality and would take action in case of any violations, according to the officials. Some of the omni buses might leave the terminus and reach a particular location outside the city by 10 p.m., park their vehicles for the night and might restart after 4 a.m. when the curfew was lifted, the officials claimed. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) G. Stalin said on Friday the Coimbatore City Police would monitor the Omni Bus Terminus and would take action against the buses if any illegal activities were detected.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/omni-buses-accused-of-violating-night-curfew-fleecing-migrant-workers/article34455084.ece
01 May 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||MSMEs seek relaxation in NPA norms||The Micro, Small and Medium-scale Enterprises here have demanded that the Central government relax the Non-Performing Assets (NPA) norms till the end of March next year as the units are hit by the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic and its impact on the economy. Coimbatore District Small Industries Association (CODISSIA) president M.V. Ramesh Babu and Southern India Engineering Manufacturers Association president K.V. Karthik said in a release the pandemic had affected the supply chain across the country and had a direct bearing on sales. This had led to a shortfall in cash flow to the MSMEs. Several units were unable to make timely payments to the banks. Further, the steep hike in raw material prices (up by almost 70 % in the last few months) had eroded the funds available with the units. The 20 % additional loan extended to the units under the Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme was spent mostly on raw materials. Hence, the government should provide additional 20 % loan under the Scheme to MSMEs. It should extend the moratorium period, for both term loan repayment and interest dues, by another six months, they said. The banks were asking the MSMEs to repay the dues. The MSMEs were reeling under slowdown in cash flow and business. “Considering the present situation, we request the intervention of the Finance Minister to stop the banks from pressurising the MSMEs for dues at the critical period,” they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/msmes-seek-relaxation-in-npa-norms/article34454637.ece
01 May 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Good Samaritan taxi driver felicitated||A consumer rights organisation on Friday felicitated a taxi driver who returned 40 sovereigns of gold jewellery that was left behind by a customer in February to the Coimbatore City Police. Citizens’ Voice Coimbatore (CVC) along with a few other private organisations felicitated Bobby, a resident of Saibaba Colony, and his two children at a private event held on State Bank Road on Friday. According to CVC’s president C.M. Jayaraman, Mr. Bobby was also provided with cash assistance of Rs. 12,000 during the felicitation. Apart from this, CVC also awarded cash prizes to the winners of its short film contest announced in January. The first prize of Rs. 10,000 was awarded to a short film on water conservation and the second and third prizes were Rs. 5,000 and Rs. 3,000 respectively. The contest saw 114 registrations across the country and 44 contestants submitted their short films, according to Mr. Jayaraman.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/good-samaritan-taxi-driver-felicitated/article34455081.ece
01 May 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Textile meet held||The Bureau of Foreign Trade, Taiwan, and the Taiwan External Trade Development Council, organised a webinar on ‘Textile Manufacturing Solution’ recently for Indian textile industry. According to a release from the organisers, Taiwan is the sixth largest textile exporter globally and accounts for 70 % of the world’s output of functional fabrics. It exported textile machinery worth $450 million in 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/textile-meet-held/article34454659.ece
01 May 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Entire counting process to be video recorded||The district administration would video record the entire counting process, said a release from the district administration. The process would begin at 8 a.m. with the counting of postal ballots. As of Friday, the administration had received 15,260 ballots from Central and State governments’ officials and 219 from Defence personnel. The administration would continue to receive the postal ballots until 8 a.m. of May 2. After counting the above two categories of postal ballots, the officials would count the votes of those above 80 years who had chosen to cast postal ballots. The counting of votes recorded in the electronic voting machines would begin at 8.30 a.m. Counting officials would upload table-wise results in computers. Thereafter, in the presence of returning officers, Election Commission of India observers and agents approve of the votes, the officials would upload the round-wise votes on the Commission website.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/entire-counting-process-to-be-video-recorded/article34455093.ece
01 May 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Couple electrocuted near Kinathukadavu||A man and his wife died due to electrocution as they stepped inside a pond for fishing near Kinathukadavu on Friday. The police said V. Rasu (52) and his wife Mallika (40) were labourers at a coconut farm at Kannamanaickanur. The man, after collecting coconuts from the trees on Friday morning, stepped into the water body in the farm without realising that a live wire was present in the water. He received an electric shock immediately and seeing this, his wife also stepped inside the water to rescue him and was also electrocuted. Kinathukadavu police registered a case. Two arrested for murder in Tiruppur In a fresh twist to the death of two women near Madathukulam in Tiruppur district, the Kaniyur police on Friday arrested two men on charges of murdering them. According to the police, the bodies of Gokilavani (45) and Kirthika aka Gracy (35) were retrieved from the sub-canal of Amaravathi Reservoir Project on Wednesday morning. Based on investigation led by Deputy Superintendent of Police (Udumalpet Sub-Division) N. Ravikumar, the police arrested N. Kulanthaivel (42) and R. Kumar (45) on Friday. The accused confessed to have allegedly solicited sexual favours from the women in exchange for money, following which they decided to murder the women to steal their cash and ornaments. On Tuesday evening, the accused murdered both at Gokilavani’s residence and stole their jewellery and Rs. 1,700 in cash. Later, they allegedly threw the bodies in the ARP sub-canal near Kaniyur in the early hours of Wednesday, the police said. The accused were remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/couple-electrocuted-near-kinathukadavu/article34455085.ece
01 May 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Commissioner inspects quarantined areas||Corporation Commissioner P. Kumaravel Pandian on Friday inspected a few areas that the civic body had quarantined to contain the COVID-19 spread. A release said he visited Vilankurichi, Rathinagiri Road, A.M.T. Nagar, Income Tax Officers’ Quarters and a few other areas in Ward 32. Urging those in quarantine to not venture out, he appealed to people in the locality to wear mask, periodically wash hands, maintain physical distance and observe all other COVID-19 appropriate behaviour. He then directed the health wing officials to sanitise the place and help people quarantined get essential commodities. Mr. Pandian directed officials to close two bakeries in Cheran Managar and on Saravanampatty Road as he found violation of COVID-19 safety guideline.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/commissioner-inspects-quarantined-areas/article34455080.ece
01 May 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Covai Design competition winners announced||Coimbatore Corporation and Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Internationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ) GmbH have announced winners of the ‘Co(Vai) Design’ competition. The website hosted for the competition said Purvi Bhatt Chhadva, Nikhil Rodrigo, Sushma Aradhya, Amrapali Sharma, Devki Bhatt, and Anukriti Sharma had won the first place. The design competition was a national-level urban design competition aimed at designing implementable urban civic projects that were key to sustainable development of a site in Kavundampalayam, Coimbatore. Corporation sources said the site chosen was the old dump yard, Eru Company, and neighbouring areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covai-design-competition-winners-announced/article34455079.ece
01 May 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||High price of paper worries traders||The frequent and steep hike in prices of paper and allied products is a matter of concern to the traders. C. Balasubramanian, president of Paper and Allied Merchants Association, said in a press release that prices of copier paper, map litho paper, duplex boards, virgin boards, kraft paper, coated paper and coated board were all up. “Paper is a product consumed by all, whether it is fresh or waste paper. The prices are increased quite often. This causes severe hardship to the contractors who buy and sell paper on fixed rates,” he said. Converters and manufacturers of paper products were also hit hard as they entered into contracts on fixed rates and could not change the prices based on the changing cost of paper. Exporters, importers and consumers of paper were unable to meet their commitments or schedule their business activities. While the stakeholders could manage slight revision in prices, they would not be able to absorb frequent and steep hikes. Hence, the government should control the prices of paper, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/high-price-of-paper-worries-traders/article34454636.ece
01 May 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||52-year-old man booked under POCSO Act||The Perur All Women Police on Friday registered a case against a 52-year-old man for alleged sexual assault on a four-year-old boy near Perur. The police said the accused was the victim’s neighbour and on Thursday, he allegedly sexually assaulted the boy when the victim’s mother caught him in the act. wHe subsequently absconded from the location, according to the police. Based on the mother’s complaint, the accused was booked under sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act and efforts to arrest him are on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/52-year-old-man-booked-under-pocso-act/article34455088.ece
01 May 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Lodge owners agree to set up treatment facility||Following a request from the Coimbatore Corporation, the Coimbatore Boarding and Lodging Association has given its consent to throw open its members’ lodges to establish COVID-19 treatment centre. A release from the Corporation said, the Association’s consent came following a meeting Commissioner P. Kumaravel Pandian held with the office-bearers. There were 72 members in the Association, the release said and added that as per the COVID-19 safety guideline, the Corporation would set up temporary treatment centres at the 72 lodges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lodge-owners-agree-to-set-up-treatment-facility/article34455094.ece
01 May 2021||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||1,200 police personnel deployed for security, ahead of counting of votes in Cuddalore district||Elaborate arrangements have been put in place for counting of votes polled in nine assembly constituencies across four counting centres in Cuddalore district on May 2. Counting of votes polled in Cuddalore and Kurunjipadi would be taken up at the Government Periyar Arts College, Cuddalore, while votes polled in Thittakudi (Reserved) and Vriddhachalam assembly constituencies would be counted at Kolanjiappar Arts College at Vriddhachalam. The counting centres for Panruti and Neyveli would be on Anna University campus in Panruti while the counting of votes for Chidambaram, Bhuvanagiri and Kattumannarkoil (Reserved) would be taken up in Government Arts College in B. Mutlur. The counting would begin at 8 a.m. Postal votes would be counted at the Returning Officers’ table at 8 a.m. and counting of votes in the EVMS would begin immediately after that. Fourteen tables have been arranged for each constituency. For every table, there would be a supervisor, an assistant and a micro observer, and all the 14 tables would be monitored through CCTV cameras. According to SP M. Sree Abhinav, more than 1,200 police personnel, led by three Additional Deputy Superintendents of Police and 12 DSPs, had been deployed for security. The first tier located at 100 metres was being guarded by the local police. The inner security was being provided by Central Armed Police Forces while the outer periphery would be under the control of the Tamil Nadu Special Police. The votes polled in Gingee, Mailam, Tindivanam (Reserved), Vanur (Reserved), Villupuram, Vikravandi and Tirukoyilur will be counted at seven centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/1200-police-personnel-deployed-for-security-ahead-of-counting-of-votes-in-cuddalore-district/article34455247.ece
01 May 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Meat stalls warned||Dharampuri Municipality has warned of action against mutton and chicken stalls kept open on May 1 and 2, on weekend in view of the lockdown enforced to contain the pandemic. In view of the counting of votes on May 2 and to restrain public gathering, the State government had announced a total lockdown during the weekend in compliance with the orders of the High Court. Dharmapuri Municipal Commissioner has warned of action against stalls that are kept open violating the lockdown. Meat stalls lend for large gatherings leading to violation of safety protocols, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/meat-stalls-warned/article34454640.ece
01 May 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||People in large numbers throng Erode GH for vaccination||With vaccine unavailable in most of the Urban Primary Health Centres (UPHCs) in Corporation limits, people above 45 years in large numbers thronged the District Headquarters Hospital for vaccination here on Friday. On an average over 400 COVID-19 positive cases are reported every day in the district for the past 10 days. Since awareness levels among the people have improved on the need to vaccinate, people in large numbers are thronging the UPHCs and the District Headquarters Hospital where 100 people are vaccinated at each centre every day. But due to shortage of vaccine, less than 100 people are being vaccinated at each centre every day while no vaccine is available at many centres. Hence, on Friday, a large number of people waited in a long queue at the Erode Government Hospital for getting vaccinated.  Registration must Sources said that on an average 300 to 350 persons are vaccinated at the GH while over 450 persons turned up at the hospital premises on Friday. “Only persons who had registered for vaccination were allowed”, they added. Many people, who are above 60 years, said that they had opted for vaccination at the UPHC on Gandhiji Road, but could not vaccinate due to non-availability of vaccine for the past three days. “As cases are on the rise, the demand for vaccines is going up and hence, we preferred to wait for long hours”, said Ganesan, aged 68. Since vaccination for persons in the 18 to 45 age group is delayed, the government should prioritise vaccination for people above 45 years, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/people-in-large-numbers-throng-erode-gh-for-vaccination/article34454643.ece
01 May 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Common effluent treatment plant to be closed down for violations||The chairman of the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB) has directed officials here to close down the Common Effluent Treatment Plant (CETP), run by tannery units, at the SIPCOT Industrial Growth Centre, Perundurai. Following the directive, power supply will be disconnected to the plant. The Perundurai District Environmental Engineer inspected the CETP on April 18 following complaints, and found the CETP discharging effluents from its tank into a defunct oxidation pond. The CETP for tanners, run by the Perundurai Leather Industries Eco-Security Private Limited, has not been functioning since March 2020, as officials had asked the company to carry out maintenance and upgradation works. During inspection, it was found that the tannery CETP was discharging effluents from its tank into the adjacent defunct oxidation pond meant for the disposal of sewage generated from SIPCOT industries. A show-cause notice was issued to the tannery CETP and a report was submitted to the chairman, TNPCB, Chennai, recommending further action. Officials said Superintending Engineer, TANGEDCO, Erode Electricity Distribution Circle, was asked to disconnect power supply to the tannery CETP and TNPCB officials were asked to close down the plant. Welcoming the decision, S. Chinnasamy, coordinator, SIPCOT Affected People Welfare Association, said he wanted all 14 tannery units and the CETPs to be closed down permanently as they had caused extensive damage to the environment. “The units failed to ensure a zero-liquid discharge system and polluted the groundwater which cannot be used now,” he said, and adding that the effluents stored in tanks need to be disposed safely.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/common-effluent-treatment-plant-to-be-closed-down-for-violations/article34454655.ece
01 May 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Randomisation process for counting completed in Erode||Ahead of the counting of votes on May 2, computerised randomisation for micro-observers, counting supervisors and counting assistants for each of the eight constituencies was completed here on Friday. The process was completed in the presence of District Election Officer and Collector C. Kathiravan, general observers and officials at the Collectorate. Mr. Kathiravan said that counting of votes for the Assembly election would commence at 8 a.m. at the two counting centres. While votes polled in the constituencies of Erode (East), Erode (West), Perundurai, Modakkurichi, Anthiyur and Bhavani would be counted at the Institute of Road and Transport Technology at Chithode, votes polled in the constituencies of Gobichettipalayam and Bhavanisagar would be counted at Gobi Arts and Science College at Gobichettipalayam. 408 staff to be involved A total of 408 staff would be involved in the counting process for whom randomisation had been completed earlier. For each constituency, 17 counting supervisors, 17 counting assistants and 17 micro-observers were appointed apart from the additional 40 staff. Counting of votes would take place in 14 tables for each constituency and a total of 112 tables were kept ready. Additionally, 24 tables were also kept ready, he added. Mr. Kathiravan said that rounds for each constituency were Erode (East) – 23 rounds, Erode (West) – 29 rounds, Modakkurichi , Perundurai and Bhavani – 24 rounds each, Anthiyur - 22 rounds, Gobichettipalayam – 25 rounds, and Bhavanisagar – 27. Thus, a total of 198 rounds will take place for all the eight Assembly constituencies, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/randomisation-process-for-counting-completed-in-erode/article34454641.ece
01 May 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||8,500 vaccine doses arrive||A total of 8,500 doses of COVID-19 vaccine arrived in the district here on Friday. Collector C. Kathiravan said that vaccines would be distributed to the government hospitals and primary health centres for vaccinating people above 45 years free of cost. He said that so far 20,729 persons tested positive of which 17,603 had recovered. Currently, 2,966 patients are undergoing treatment of which 1,996 are in home isolation. A total of 834 beds are available at government hospitals, 2,550 beds at COVID Care Centres and 655 beds at private hospitals. Mr. Kathiravan said that 5,12,399 persons had undergone RT-PCR tests, while 1,31,819 persons were vaccinated. Persons, who do not know to register online for vaccination can approach the District Headquarters Hospital from 3 p.m. to 5 p.m. where registration is done, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/8500-vaccine-doses-arrive/article34454644.ece
01 May 2021||KARAIKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Exit polls are not always accurate: Karti||In a vast country like India with such diversity of people, exit polls could not be accurate, said Congress MP Karti Chidambaram here on Friday. Speaking to reporters, he said the DMK-Congress combine would win comfortably as voters had lost their faith in the AIADMK and BJP. Interviews or data collated from people for exit polls would not show an accurate picture. The exit polls had been proven wrong in the past, he said. Attacking the BJP, he said the COVID-19 pandemic had been handled in an unprofessional manner. Even as countries took advantage of the availability of the vaccine and made their people immune to the infection, the Union government failed to dispatch the vaccines to the States. Instead of admitting its failure, the BJP government went on praising its leaders. In the first wave, the Prime Minister Narendra Modi suggested the people to clap hands and light candles and switch off electricity. This was absurd. At least now the government should take the situation seriously and save lives of innocent people, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/exit-polls-are-not-always-accurate-karti/article34454629.ece
01 May 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Judicial respectability hinges on judicial accountability: HC Chief Justice||Justicing in a Constitutional Republic was wedded to the rule of law, where personal opinions of judges matter little. But, what matter are the reasons given in support of the findings to make it acceptable to society at large, said Chief Justice of Madras High Court Sanjib Banerjee, while laying the foundation for the construction of a Centre for Examination of the Vulnerable and Child Witnesses here. He was presiding over the event via video conference late Thursday evening. Reasons link the facts against the backdrop of the law to the conclusions and not the personal opinion of judges. “Rather than the coercive authority that the law gives us as a sovereign, if we use persuasive authority of reason, then acceptability of the judgment is greater in society,” Justice Banerjee said. On judicial accountability, Justice Banerjee said, respectability of the judiciary came from accountability. “There are very little checks and balances over us though. We need to introspect to see to what extent we are accountable. As being part of society, we reflect both the good and bad of society. There are rotten apples amongst us. As long as we are accountable, and we expose these rotten apples, we will have the respectability we deserve”. Calling upon the subordinate judiciary to be imaginative to manoeuvre justice in favour of the stakeholders who are the litigants, Justice Banerjee invoked the Bhopal Gas tragedy damages case, and Ratlam Municipality case to illustrate his point. He said the judicial officers of the district courts believed they could not do the kind of justice as the High Court, since they did not have powers under Article 226. “There are provisions of Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC), and I direct them to Ratlam Municipality judgment of the Supreme Court. A judicial magistrate through effort and enterprise could rid the town of its menace of garbage through the provisions of the Cr.PC”. Similarly, the principal district judge (PDJ) of Bhopal turned jurisprudence on its head in the claims pertaining to damages in the wake of the tragedy, the Chief Justice said. “In claims pertaining to damages, the breach is to be established for entitlement claims and assessment of quantum. But the PDJ in Bhopal, realising the large scale disaster, ruled that the breach was already established by the circumstances and facts as they present themselves and went straight into an interim award of damages,” he said. That provided immediate solace and medical help for public who could not afford the resources. The PDJ’s portrait still adorns the entrance of the National Judicial Academy in Bhopal for the imaginative use of his jurisdiction to ensure immediate relief, Justice Banerjee said. Judiciary was short of manpower and resources necessary to deal with problems, he said. “The judge population ratio needs to be maintained to tackle the number of cases pending in the courts. There needs to be 1.80 lakh judges to fulfil that requirement, but we have 18,000 to 19,000 in the district judiciary; 1065 sanctioned in the High Courts of which only 715 are filled up and only 34 judges in the Supreme Court.” “It is only the police, who face a similar shortage of force and that needs to be remembered when we blame the investigation for being shabby, “ the Chief Justice said. Police reforms were a far cry, even two years after the Supreme Court delivered the Prakash Singh judgment, calling for police reforms and separation of investigative wing of the police from law and order. According to Justice Banerjee, transfers both in the bureaucracy and in the police hinged on the transient political executive, and “unless there is some permanence, there can be no meaningful reforms or assured governance.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/judicial-respectability-hinges-on-judicial-accountability-hc-chief-justice/article34454646.ece
01 May 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Number of RT-PCR tests doubled||The district health department has nearly doubled the number of RT-PCR tests conducted in the district to 10,000, in the wake of rising COVID-19 positive cases in the district. The data obtained from the health department showed that until April 21, the district was conducting an average of 5,000 RT-PCR tests every day. The number of tests taken every day was gradually increased and on Thursday a total of 10,279 tests were conducted. Deputy Director of Health Services K.V. Arjun Kumar said that on April 28 the district's positivity rate stood at 6.6. The average positivity rate in the district in the last seven days is at 8.6. Around 275 fever camps are conducted across the district every day through mobile and static clinics in rural and urban areas. "The main aim behind increasing the number of tests conducted in the district was to identify the prevalence of infection among the public. Also, by identifying more number of positive patients, we can ensure that they are given appropriate treatment at the earliest," said Dr. Arjun Kumar. City Health Officer of Madurai Corporation P. Kumaraguruparan said that earlier the civic body was taking around 2,000 tests every day. Currently, the number of tests conducted has been increased by three times. "For every positive patient, we are tracing and taking samples from around 30 of their contacts," he said. He urged the public to cooperate with the officials and get themselves tested in case they display any symptoms of COVID-19. "If the public cooperate with the officials by following the COVID-19 safety precautions strictly for the next 15 days, then it will help to break the chain of coronavirus infection," he added. Administering COVID-19 vaccination was an important precautionary measure to contain the spread of COVID-19, he said. Dr. Kumaraguruparan also pointed out that unlike last year, there are not many positive cases reported in densely populated areas like Sellur, Thideer Nagar and Aruldosspuram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/number-of-rt-pcr-tests-doubled/article34455180.ece
01 May 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Gold ornament found at Keeladi||A thin gold wire ornament was discovered during the seventh phase of excavations at Keeladi. The State archaeological department is carrying out the seventh phase of archaeological excavation at Keeladi and its cluster covering Manalur, Agaram and Konthagai since February. Deputy Director of Archaeology R. Sivanandam said that the ornament was found at a depth of 109 cm in the centre portion of one of the quadrants at the site. The gold object is bent and its tip is sharp. According to Mr. Sivanandam, the gold object is 4.5 cm long. While its maximum diameter is 1.99 cm, the minimum diameter is 1.73 cm. "This could have been used as a ring," he said. Similar gold objects were found at Keeladi during the fourth phase of excavations, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gold-ornament-found-at-keeladi/article34455178.ece
01 May 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Demolish unauthorised construction in Tiruchi, says High Court Bench||Taking a serious view of yet another case of unauthorised construction, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Friday ordered demolition of the unauthorised portion of a residential building at Tharanallur in Tiruchi. The court was hearing the petition filed by R. Prabhakar who complained that his neighbour, T. Kumaran, had constructed a building in violation of the approved building plan. The unauthorised construction should be demolished, the petitioner said. Hearing the petition, a Division Bench of Justices T.S. Sivagnanam and S. Ananthi quashed the order passed by the Tiruchi Corporation Commissioner that asked the two parties to reach a compromise over the issue. Mr. Prabhakar said his neighbour had encroached upon the public road in front of the building to an extent of 5 feet. A provisional order was passed against Kumaran to remove the unauthorised construction. After he failed to comply with the order, the authorities initiated prosecution against him under Tiruchirappalli City Municipal Corporation Act and a charge sheet was filed against him. Kumaran paid a fine before the Judicial Magistrate. The authorities concerned ought to have taken steps to demolish the unauthorised portion of the building, the petitioner said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/demolish-unauthorised-construction-high-court/article34454589.ece
01 May 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Madurai Airport to revert to regular operations from today||A day after suspending airport operations in the morning hours on Friday, Madurai Airport will revert to regular operations between 7 a.m. and 10.30 p.m. from Saturday. The authorities had to cancel the morning operations between 7 a.m. and 12 noon after 10 out of 15 technical staff of the airport had tested positive in the last one week. However, the Airport Authorities of India, Regional Headquarters, Chennai, has deputed technical staff from other neighbouring airports — Tiruchi and Chennai — to augment the strength of technical staff in Madurai. “We will resume our regular operation from Saturday,” said Madurai Airport Director, S. Senthil Valavan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/madurai-airport-to-revert-to-regular-operations-from-today/article34455173.ece
01 May 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Poo pallakku’ for Lord Kallazhagar||Lord Kallazhagar of Sundararaja Perumal Temple was decked up with 'poo pallakku' (flower-decked palanquin) on the temple premises here on Friday. Usually, Lord Kallazhagar leaves for his abode — Azhagarkoil Hills — from the city, signalling the end of Chithirai festival. But, this year all the festivities associated with Chithirai festival were held on the temple premises due to restrictions imposed by the government because of COVID-19. An official from Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments department said the public were not allowed to have a darshan after the floral decoration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/poo-pallakku-for-lord-kallazhagar/article34455176.ece
01 May 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||HC stays Ministry of Environment’s order||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Friday granted a stay on the operation of an office memorandum issued by the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change which provided for grant of post facto clearance to projects. The court granted the stay while hearing a public interest litigation petition filed by R. Fatima of Thoothukudi, who said the memorandum issued on February 19 provided a procedure for consideration of applications received for projects established in violation of Coastal Regulation Zone (CRZ) notification for grant of post facto clearance. The law mandated prior clearance for projects after exhaustive impact assessment studies and their appraisal by expert committees, the petitioner said. But the office memorandum provided a back door entry for violators of the CRZ notification to regularise the violations. It ran against the CRZ notification and had no legal validity, she said. She said by permitting grant of post facto clearance, the Ministry had defeated the very purpose of public hearing to elicit views of the people who had a stake in the environment and a right to participate in environmental decision making. The order was also against the principles of natural justice, she said. A Division Bench of Justices T.S. Sivagnanam and S. Ananthi granted a stay on the operation of the order and sought a response from the Ministry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ministry-of-environments-order-stayed/article34455174.ece
01 May 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Complete work and open market: HC||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Thursday directed the Madurai district administration to take steps to open the daily vegetable market in Sholavandan. A Division Bench of Justices T.S. Sivagnanam and S. Ananthi directed the authorities to open the market in three weeks after readying drinking water and toilet facilities. The authorities should not follow the despicable practice of waiting for a VIP to inaugurate it. The court was hearing a public interest litigation petition filed by M. Palani Kumar of Sholavandan who sought a direction to the authorities concerned to immediately open the market for public use. He complained that there was a drainage in proximity to the place where the present market was functioning. Considering this, the authorities had constructed the new market. But though the construction was completed in January, the market was not opened. The petitioner said that it was inconvenient for the public to come to the present market to buy vegetables as it was congested. In the wake of the rapidly increasing COVID-19 cases, the authorities should open the market at the earliest, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/complete-work-and-open-market-hc/article34455172.ece
01 May 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Appeal against SC judgement’||Members of Tamil Nadu Suttrusoozhal Pathugappu Iyakkam petitioned the Collector here on Friday urging the State government to appeal against the Supreme Court's decision to allow the operation of Sterlite Copper's oxygen plant. Led by its Coordinator Mukilan, the members alleged that the Bharatiya Janata Party government was supporting Vedanta to run the plant in Thoothukudi. Mr. Mukilan urged the government to arrest those who were responsible for instigating the clashes in Thoothukudi in 2018. The government must respect the decision of the people of Thoothukudi who are against the operation of the oxygen plant, said Mr. Mukilan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/appeal-against-sc-judgment/article34454621.ece
01 May 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Remove encroachments, file report: High Court||The Madurai Bench of Madras High Court has directed the Pudukkottai district authorities to remove encroachments in Kunnakurumbi tank in Aranthangi and file a report on the action taken. A Division Bench of Justices T.S. Sivagnanam and S. Ananthi passed the direction on the petition filed by R. Pandidurai of Aranthangi. He said that the tank was the main source of water for the surrounding areas. He said the feeding channels to the tank were encroached upon by individuals. Improper maintenance of the culverts constructed on Aranthangi-Pudukkottai Road was another reason. The encroachments resulted in shortage of water supply to the tank and the farmers were affected. Due to the poor maintenance of the tank, it could not be filled to its full capacity even during the rainy season, the petitioner said. Though repeated representations were sent to the authorities to remove the encroachments and maintain the tank, it has not been looked into. The authorities must include the tank in the list of those tanks that were maintained by the Public Works Department, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/remove-encroachments-file-report-hc/article34454590.ece
01 May 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Exit polls have proven wrong in the past’||Revenue Minister R.B. Udayakumar on Friday said that exit polls had proven wrong in the past and the AIADMK cadres need not give much credence to it. Speaking to reporters, he said that the exit polls may give some joy and happiness to the Opposition for a short time. Stressing that in 2016, soon after the polling was completed, the exit polls predicted defeat for the AIADMK and stated that the DMK would win hands down. However, the late leader Jayalalithaa, who was alive then, said that the people would always be with the AIADMK and such predictions by some agencies need not be taken seriously. "As stated by our Amma, the party won the 2016 general elections..." Mr Udayakumar recalled. For the numerous welfare programmes implemented by Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, the AIADMK will once again come back to rule the State for the next five years, he said and added that the party, which was established in 1972, was in its 49th year now. The golden jubilee would be celebrated in a big way and the AIADMK would be in power to mark the historic event. The party, he said, had been built with the strength of the cadres and not like some party, which revolved round one family. The Minister, who took his second shot of the vaccine at the Government Rajaji Hospital here, appealed to the people to take the vaccine voluntarily and help fight the pandemic. He said that the State had sufficient oxygen and there was no need for panic, which he alleged, was being sprinkled by the Opposition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/exit-polls-have-proven-wrong-in-the-past-says-minister/article34455181.ece
01 May 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Water level||Water level in Periyar dam on Friday stood at 126.60 feet (permissible level is 142 ft.), with an inflow and a discharge of 150 cusecs each. In Vaigai dam, the level was 61.84 ft. (71 ft.), with nil inflow and a discharge of 72 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 6,246 mcft. Rainfall recorded in the region in the 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Friday was (in mm): Uthamapalayam 19.4, Kodaikanal 17, Gudalur 9.6, Thekkadi 4.4 and Shanmuganathi dam 3.7.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article34454625.ece
01 May 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Counting to go on despite many poll officials testing positive||In spite of the setback to its preparations for counting on May 2 with a significant number of polling staff testing positive for COVID-19 over the last few days, the Elections Department is geared to ensure that the process goes on smoothly and declaration of results are on schedule. While exact numbers of polling officials who will miss out on election duty after testing positive are not immediately available, the Puducherry Unified Ministerial Staff Association says that the figure is above 100. A. Rajendran, Association spokesman, said at least two officials had died after contracting COVID-19 and one person deputed as returning officer remained in critical condition in a Chennai hospital. The Association has also urged the Chief Electoral Officer to set up adequate safeguards for election officials in the wake of several polling personnel testing positive for COVID-19 and some in a critical condition battling for life. The Department is putting together the extent of COVID-19 impact on election staff, said Chief Electoral Officer Shurbir Singh. However, this would not have any impact on the counting process, he said. "The counting process will go unhindered. Sufficient reserve staff is available," he said. Puducherry, which has an electorate of 10.04 lakh, had recorded a turnout of 81.69%. The counting will involve tabulating an estimated 8.20 lakh votes from 30 constituencies. The counting centres for all the 23 constituencies in Puducherry region will be the three colleges in Lawspet. While the counting centres for Oupalam, Orleampeth, Mudaliarpet, Nellithope, Ariankuppam, Manavely, Embalam, Nettapakkam and Bahour will be the Women’s Polytechnic, the counting centres for Mannadipet, Thirubhuvanai, Ossudu, Mangalam, Villianur, Ozhukarai, Kadirgamam, Indira Nagar and Thattanchavady will be Mothilal Nehru Government Polytechnic. The counting centres for Kamaraj Nagar, Muthialpet, Raj Bhavan, Lawspet and Kalapet will be the Tagore Arts College.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/counting-to-go-on-despite-many-poll-officials-testing-positive/article34455251.ece
01 May 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||With 12 more deaths recorded, toll in U.T. crosses 800-mark||The COVID-19 toll in the Union Territory crossed the 800-mark with 12 more deaths reported in the last 24 hours even as 1,195 new cases were added to the case tally on Friday. Puducherry registered 11 deaths and Karaikal one to take the cumulative toll to 805. The patients, including three women, were in the 40 to 81 years age range. Seven of the patients had no co-morbidities. With this, the region-wise toll stood at 649 in Puducherry, 94 in Karaikal, 48 in Yanam and 14 in Mahe. The new cases, which were confirmed from 6,451 tests, were in Puducherry (655), Karaikal (174), Yanam (106) and Mahe (58). With 654 patients recovered, the active cases in the Union Territory stood at 9,519. Of this, 1,754 were in hospitals and 7,765 in home isolation. The test positivity rate was 18.52%, case fatality rate 1.37% and recovery rate 82.39%. The aggregate caseload is 58,622 with 48,298 recovered patients. Of an estimated 7.96 lakh tests carried out to date, over 7.93 lakh were negative. Meanwhile, 187 healthcare workers, 60 frontline staff and 892 members of the public took their first shots of the Covid-19 vaccine across the Union Territory in the last 24 hours. The aggregate of persons vaccinated is 1,92,910, including 31,907 healthcare workers, 18,591 frontline staff and 1,42,412 members of the public. Cuddalore district reported two more deaths and 292 new cases, taking the district’s tally to 30,147. The COVID-19 toll in Villupuram district rose to 123 with one more death reported in Villupuram while 377 new cases. Kallakurichi district reported 77 cases. The total number of cases in Vellore district reached 26,917 with 384 new cases reported on Friday. While a total of 24,022 have been discharged, the active cases in the district stand at 2,512. The district's death toll is 383. In Ranipet district, 339 cases were reported positive and the total stood at 20,671. In Tirupattur district, 206 new cases were reportedand the total number of positive cases stood at 10,041. In Tiruvannamalai district, 211 new cases were reported, taking the total number of cases to 23,819.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/with-12-more-deaths-toll-in-ut-crosses-800-mark/article34455248.ece
01 May 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||‘Arrangements in place to ensure COVID norms at counting centres’||District Collector and DEO Purva Garg said all arrangements were in place for counting of votes at three counting centres in the Lawspet area. “Since we are in the midst of a pandemic, requisite arrangements are made to ensure that COVID appropriate behaviour and safety norms, as directed by the ECI, Madras High Court and the MHA, are rigorously followed at the counting centres so that all persons can be safe and the counting process can take place smoothly,” Ms. Garg said. She spelt out the three important instructions of the ECI — anyone entering the counting centre has to be tested negative for COVID or should produce certificate of completing two doses of vaccination, the bar on victory rallies after declaration of results and limiting the number of persons accompanying a candidate to the counting centre to two to avoid crowding. Sufficient security arrangements are also in place, she said. Rahul Alwal, SSP, said police personnel would be deployed inside counting centres and along the periphery. Patrol teams will ensure implementation of COVID-19 protocols as the lockdown has been extended to midnight of May 3 and ECI guidelines prohibiting victory processions across the city. A consultation had been held with major political parties on adhering to the guidelines and to avoid crowding of any sort near the counting premises, he said. T. Sudhakar, Nodal Officer (Counting) said the Elections Department has also made arrangements for separate entry passages for officials and candidates at counting centres, thermal scanning and RAT facilities. Masks, face shields and sanitisers are also made available. Measures are also in place for maintaining social distancing at the venues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/arrangements-in-place-to-ensure-covid-norms-at-counting-centres/article34455253.ece
01 May 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||L-G launches subsidised meal scheme at IGMCRI||Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan on Friday launched a subsidised meal scheme at the Ponlait outlet at the IGMCRI, a designated COVID-19 hospital. As part of the scheme, food packs will be sold for as low as Rs. five each to benefit the poor who seek refuge at the institution. The scheme has also been rolled out at Rajiv Gandhi Women and Children's Hospital, New Bus Stand and Ponlait outlets at Jimper. The project will be further expanded to include the existing Ponlait outlets depending on the response, Ms. Soundararajan said. The event was attended by advisers to the Lt. Governor C. Chandramouli and AP Maheshwari and Sudhakar, Managing Director of Ponlait. The Lt. Governor later visited JIPMER to take stock of the COVID-19 treatment facilities. Addressing the media, the Lt. Governor said the JIPMER Director had explained the services available for patients, the limitations of the institution and additional measures being planned. Referring to JIPMER temporarily suspending physical visits to elective OPDs, Ms. Soundararajan reasoned that this was a practice followed everywhere primarily to prevent patients and healthcare providers getting infected from a COVID-19 case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/l-g-launches-subsidised-meal-scheme-at-igmcri/article34455254.ece
01 May 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Mobile medical services in U.T.||A house-to-house mobile medical service was launched on Friday to reach out to newly-infected persons. Health Secretary T. Arun launched the service involving a fleet of 30 special buses that would take medical teams to the house of the patients. A triage would be conducted at their homes to decide whether they need to be moved to the hospital or could be allowed to stay in home isolation. Mr. Arun urged everyone testing positive to stay home and not go out seeking treatment as the administration was reaching medical services to their doorsteps. Transportation of a patient to the hospital was being done in a secure mode on ambulance so that there is no contact with others en route. For any emergency, the helpline 104 is available round-the-clock. Those who undergo a test should isolate themselves until the results are provided, Mr. Arun said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mobile-medical-services-in-ut/article34455249.ece
01 May 2021||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Security arrangements up at counting centres||Elaborate security arrangements have been made for counting of votes on May 2 (Sunday). Ramanathapuram Collector and District Election officer Dinesh Ponraj Oliver inspected the counting centre at Anna University Engineering College on Friday. He was accompanied by Superintendent of Police E. Karthik and senior officials from the Election Cell. Mr. Karthik said the three-tier security at the counting centre would continue and only authorised persons would be allowed entry. Mobile phones would not be allowed inside the counting centre. They should be surrendered to the chief counting agent of the candidates. A press release from the Collectorate said that counting agents could enter from 6 a.m. and thermal scanning shall be done at the entry. Theni District Election Officer H. Krishnanunni said that since there would be a total lockdown on Sunday, special bus services would be operated for the counting agents. The counting centres would be opened in the presence of all the candidates / counting agents and the EVMs would be brought out. The centres would have one micro observer, counting supervisor and counting assistant apart from the staff engaged in handling the EVMs. The VVPAT would be cross-checked during the counting process at random. Media persons shall be given permission for a brief period and for collection of news, they shall remain in the media centre only. The results would be officially declared by the Returning Officers after intimating the Election Commission. Round-wise results would be uploaded on the official ECI website.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/security-arrangements-up-at-counting-centres/article34454627.ece
01 May 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Swab sample collection increased in Salem||The district administration and the health department have increased number of swab samples being collected here on a day and have deployed mobile teams for swab collection in rural areas. According to officials, on Thursday alone, 6,783 swab samples were collected for tests at over 40 fever camps and 513 COVID-19 positive cases were reported in the district on Friday. According to health officials, testing has been increased from 5,000 per day to close to 7,000 to identify more number of cases and ensure early treatment. R. Selvakumar, Deputy Director of Health Services here said, “fever camps are organised in containment zones and in rural areas and swab samples are collected. A section of doctors from Amma Mini Clinics who have been deployed for COVID-19 treatment have been utilised for conducting mobile camps at rural areas here.” Dr. Selvakumar said that results of a majority of tests are reported within 24 hours. According to officials, in the past 10 days, 41,398 samples were collected in the district and the test positivity rate increased to 12.8% while it was 10.5% almost a week ago. A test positivity rate (TPR) of 59.2% was reported in Yercaud taluk, highest in the district where 152 samples were collected in 10 days. TPR of 34.6% has been reported in Kongapuram taluk and 32.3% in Mecheri taluk. The Salem Corporation has TPR of 9.6% where 23,199 samples were collected. Lowest TPR has been reported in Kolathur taluk, 4.7%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/swab-sample-collection-increased-in-salem/article34454650.ece
01 May 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Kin allege oxygen shortage led to death of two patients||Relatives of two COVID-19 patients who were undergoing treatment at a private hospital protested and charged that the deaths occurred due to shortage in supply of medical oxygen. However, health department denied the charges and said that patients died due to ill-health condition. A 41-year-old man from Alagapuram and another man aged 42 from M. Kollapatti who were undergoing treatment for COVID-19 disease died at a hospital here. The patients reportedly died in a gap of about two hours during early hours of Friday and the kin protested outside the hospital and alleged that the patients died due to shortage of medical oxygen. Based on complaint, health department conducted an inquiry at the hospital. Mallarvizhi Vallal, Joint Director of Health Services said, “a team of doctors was sent to the hospital for inquiry. There was no shortage of medical oxygen at the hospital. Though supply of liquid oxygen faced delays, the hospital had sufficient stock of oxygen in cylinders. The patients’ were admitted in severe condition and had lung infection. Hence, they died without responding to treatment.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kin-allege-oxygen-shortage-led-to-death-of-two-patients/article34454663.ece
01 May 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Hospital fined||Salem Corporation on Friday fined a private hospital here for improper disposal of medical waste. A release said based on information that medical waste was found disposed on roadsides near Selanaikenpatti, Corporation Commissioner N. Ravichandran asked the officials to conduct inspection. During check, medical waste was found disposed on roadsides and at some bins. The corporation imposed a fine of Rs. 25,000 on a private hospital in the locality.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hospital-fined/article34454651.ece
01 May 2021||Sivakasi,TAMIL NADU||Constable injured||A police constable, Keerthana, sustained injury during a protest at Thulukkapatti under Maraneri police station limits here on Friday. About 80 residents of the village were staging a road blockade seeking the arrest of the accused belonging to neighbouring Vendurayapuram under Malli police station limits for assaulting two youths from Thulukkapatti. After frequent cattle thefts in Vendurayapuram, the villagers had waylaid the youths in the early hours of Wednesday and beaten them up suspecting them to be the thieves. The youths were handed over to the police. However, after enquiry, the police let the youths go home. But they complained of injury and lodged a complaint against the people of Vendurayapuram. Though the police registered a first information report, no one was arrested. Even as the people were protesting, a woman attempted to douse herself with a can of kerosene. The police constable, Keerthana, attached to Sivakasi East police station, tried to prevent her. In the commotion, the constable fell down and sustained bleeding injuries. Soon the villagers dispersed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/constable-injured/article34454628.ece
01 May 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Contradictory test results cause confusion||Residents of a village near Ayyampettai in Thanjavur district have expressed disillusionment over the methodology of determination of COVID-19 infection by mobile testing teams. A middle-aged woman claimed she was asked to remain in home quarantine though her swab sample was not taken for testing. She said a mobile COVID-19 swab sample collection team had indeed intercepted her and her son at Thiruvaiyaru on April 19 while they were on their way back after a medical consultation at Thiruvaiyaru. The mobile team, she said, allowed them to proceed after collecting details such as the name, address and contact number from her. Subsequently, the woman had received a message saying she had tested positive for novel coronavirus. A team of police personnel appeared at her doorsteps to advise her to remain in home quarantine. The officials refused to believe that no sample had been taken for testing and left the place. The woman said she subsequently got herself tested at the Thanjavur Medical College hospital on April 22. On April 24, she received a message stating she was not infected by the virus. “I brought this to the notice of the local body but was asked not to make any issue and remain isolated from others for the stipulated period of 14 days at home,” she said adding that the local body had warned that failure to do so would lead to her confinement in COVID care centre at Vallam near Thanjavur. Another bad experience  A bank staff hailing from her village had an unsavoury experience recently. He volunteered for the novel coronavirus test at a government-run testing unit after his institution directed him to undergo the test since his presence was required at a meeting of the institution at Karaikal on a later date. The banker who was also not suffering from any symptoms of COVID-19 viral infection received the message that he had tested positive for the novel coronavirus. Intrigued by the test result, he preferred to get himself tested at a private testing lab and received a negative report. When this issue was brought to the notice of the doctors involved in the ‘war against COVID-19,’ they said that the possibilities of a person testing positive for the virus turning negative within two days was no surprise as most of the persons undergoing the test currently were asymptomatic. A senior Health Department official said that the chances of the virus spreading to others from the asymptomatic persons cannot be ruled out completely. At the same time, asymptomatic persons do not require urgent medical attention and could quarantine themselves at home. They need to remain in self-isolation for a minimum of two weeks to avoid spread of the virus infection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/contradictory-test-results-cause-confusion/article34454594.ece
01 May 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||5 mediapersons test positive||Five media persons tested positive for COVID-19 infection in Thanjavur district. Over 50 mediapersons who had not undertaken the vaccine jabs were subjected to the test in compliance with the instructions of Election Commission, for entry into vote counting centres on May 2. The results indicated that four mediapersons in Thanjavur and one at Pattukottai were infected. They were taken to COVID Care Centres for collection of swab samples from them and their contacts. Meanwhile, a branch of a private at Kumbakonam was closed temporarily after four employees tested positive for COVID-19 infection. One of the employees who had gone on leave recently had reportedly tested positive for COVID-19. Subsequently, a team despatched by Kumbakonam Municipality conducted swab tests for 20 employees of whom three were found to have been infected with the virus. The civic body directed the bank management to shut the branch temporarily from Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/five-mediapersons-test-positive/article34454595.ece
01 May 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Central region reports 1,571 cases||The central region reported 1,571 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Friday. This is the second time that the district has reported over 1,500 since the COVID-19 outbreak within a week. A large percentage of the cases surfaced in Tiruchi and Thanjavur. Six deaths were reported in the region - three in Thanjavur, and one each in Tiruchi and Pudukottai. Two men aged 48 and 68 years, both with comorbidities of diabetes, and a 91-year-old woman who had been suffering from hypertension succumbed to COVID-19 in Thanjavur. A 54-year-old man from Ariyalur, a 65-year-old man from Karur, and a 41-year-old woman from Nagapattinam also died of the viral infection. Tiruchi district reported 450 fresh cases of COVID-19. Officials of the district administration said that strict measures were being undertaken by the police department, revenue department, and health department to contain the spread of the viral infection and to ensure that the public followed COVID-19 protocol. Meanwhile, Thanjavur reported a further spike compared to the previous days with 352 fresh cases. Tiruvarur reported 177 fresh cases, and Nagapattinam, 161. Pudukottai district reported more than 100 fresh cases for the second consecutive day with 148 fresh cases. In Ariyalur, 73 patients tested positive while in Perambalur, 34 fresh cases were reported. Fine imposed The police have booked cases against as many as 16,500 persons here so far and slapped fines on each of them for not wearing masks in public places. A press release said cases were booked against 800 others for their failure to observe personal distancing in public places. Fine was collected from them. Cases were booked and fines were levied on 26 commercial establishments in the city limits for failing to adhere to the guidelines stipulated by the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/central-region-reports-1571-cases/article34454598.ece
01 May 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Cyber crime police station established||A cyber crime police station has been established in Ariyalur district to investigate cases pertaining to online frauds and those coming under the purview of the Information Technology Act. A senior police officer in the rank of an Additional Superintendent of Police has been nominated to head the station with an Inspector of Police, a Sub Inspector and three others working under him. Functioning in the District Police Office premises in Ariyalur, it has been equipped with basic facilities such as computers with net connectivity and some software tools required for analysing call data records and for finding out the IP address while investigating the cases. A cyber lab has also been set up. It was inaugurated by the Superintendent of Police, Ariyalur, V. Baskaran on Thursday. It booked a First Information Report based on a complaint. He said the station would take up cases relating to theft of mobile phones, online frauds and banking transactions. It would also take up cases relating to online cheating, online threatening, online game cheating besides crimes committed against women and children through online. There were pending petitions relating to cyber crimes which the Cyber Crime police station would soon be looking into.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cyber-crime-police-station-established/article34454592.ece
01 May 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||When the desire to serve fires up philanthropy||Like-minded workers, young and old, employed in small-scale establishments on Big Bazaar Street in Tiruchi have floated the ‘Kanavu Paadhai Nanbarkal Kuzhu’, perhaps to prove that philanthropy is all about the desire to serve and not the wherewithal. In fact, it was their daily struggle for survival that prompted them to reach out to the needy. The group members, who grapple with their own financial struggles, have also witnessed how the destitute live in the area. “Once our shutters are down, they sleep in front of our shops; they cannot rest in front of large showrooms as watchmen chase them away,” says a volunteer. Jahir Hussain, who coordinates the philanthropy wing, says the seeds of the group were sown on a small scale when he was looking for means of treating his intellectually disabled sister. “Like me, every individual in the group has a personal reason to help the needy. We render our services to old-age homes, homes for children with disabilities and other needy sections...,” he says. What started out as a WhatsApp group of 10-15 members has become a 250-member group. “We do not put out messages seeking donations. We write out a message stating our intention to feed these many people and whoever can contributes a small amount. The adage ‘small drops make an ocean’ works in our case,” he says. The group provided free meals to the destitute over the last year. In the last two weeks, it has provided lunch to patients and their attenders at the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital and those who were stranded at the Central Bus Stand and the railway junction. “The Sunday lockdown has affected the poor the most. While they would get a meal one way or another on weekdays, food is hard to come by during a lockdown,” Mr. Hussain reasons. The group also makes donations to residents in old-age homes and orphanages. “There are members who volunteer to sponsor all the meals distributed on a certain day to celebrate their birthday and in memory of their parents,” a volunteer says. The members take turns to donate blood once a month and in case of emergencies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/when-the-desire-to-serve-fires-up-philanthropy/article34454606.ece
01 May 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||A sapling for every patient who recovers||A sapling is gifted to each patient recovering from COVID-19 at the Velan Speciality Hospitals in Subramaniyapuram at the time of discharge. Doctors at the hospital say it is a symbolic way to create awareness of the importance of oxygen and create a sense of optimism for the patient. The 40-bedded hospital has reserved 25 beds for COVID-19 patients and while they have been treating them since last year, patients visiting the hospital this year are more anxious and afraid, said its Managing Director K. Rajavel. There is sufficient supply of oxygen in Tiruchi and and there is the support of various industries in our vicinity, he said. The sapling would be a reminder of the patient’s victory over COVID-19 and watching it grow as they tend to it will help them in their recovery. It would be a constant reminder of how important oxygen is for earth. The hospital provides psychiatric counselling for the patients and their attenders to help them get out of their fear. However, many complain of feeling depressed and alone, doctors said. ‘Even though the staff at the hospital monitor them on a regular basis and interact with them, the human connection is lost as they all wear PPE kits for their own safety. The saplings are a way of creating an environment of positivity, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-sapling-for-every-patient-who-recovers/article34454597.ece
01 May 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Stage set for counting of votes||The police have braced themselves up for counting of votes on May 2 by drafting a scheme to prevent any untoward incident. Over 1,000 police personnel would be mobilised for deployment at the counting centres as well as at important places all over the district. Two counting centres - K. Ramakrishnan College of Engineering at Inam Samayapuram and Imayam College of Engineering at M. Kannanur near Thuraiyur - come under The Tiruchi Rural Police. Over 350 police personnel would be deployed at each of the counting centres with officers in the rank of Additional Superintendent of Police heading them. They would be stepping up security in all the sub-divisions in Tiruchi district: Lalgudi, Musiri, Tiruverambur, Manapparai and Jeeyapuram, having identified the vantage spots for posting pickets. Police personnel on two-wheelers and four-wheelers would carry out patrolling in their respective jurisdiction to ensure order. Home Guards personnel have been mobilised to assist the police where pickets were to be posted. Officers and men would be posted on the eve of counting. The field-level officers have been briefed about their roles and responsibilities. The para-military force personnel who have been deployed at the counting centres ever since the electronic voting machines were brought there from the polling booths would continue to remain there. A total number of 400 police personnel are to be deployed at the counting centre in Ariyalur district. The Government Polytechnic College at Keelapalur is the counting centre in Ariyalur district. Over 600 police personnel would be deployed all over Ariyalur district. Vehicle checks would be intensified at the six border check posts in Ariyalur district and at the six check posts established within the district on the day of counting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stage-set-for-counting-of-votes/article34454602.ece
01 May 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||New COVID-19 control room has state-of-the-art facilities||Collector V. Vishnu inaugurated the renovated COVID-19 control room with state-of-the-art communication facilities on the Collectorate premises here on Friday. According to Mr. Vishnu, the control room had been renovated and equipped with high-speed internet facility to transmit data, videos and photos immediately to Chennai and share it with other frontline health workers as the number of cases was going up everyday. Since most of the new patients were from Tirunelveli, the data being compiled everyday would be of great help to doctors and others in treating the patients and their contacts. Moreover, a new website has been created for uploading the details of the patients so that the officials concerned could have access to the data from anywhere in the State. “If a data about a COVID-19 patient is updated online on the website, the health workers can access it to understand the health condition and the treatment in no time. Moreover, the frontline health workers attending the patients will update the patients’ condition, travel history, details about persons who were in touch with the patient, line of treatment etc. so that all steps to be taken medically can be decided within no time,” said Mr. Vishnu. Another advantage of the facility was that those who were in contact with the patient could be quarantined at their houses and they could be monitored from the control room for the next 14 days. The personnel manning the control room would contact the quarantined family members to inquire about their health status, the medicines they were taking and other details which would also be updated. “So, the control room will now have all details about the patient and the family members, their health status, the medicines prescribed and the medicines they are taking, the progress, the action to be taken in the areas where they have been quarantined etc. Besides managing the patients and their close contacts, we can decide on the action to be taken to prevent further spread of the virus,” Mr. Vishnu said. Sub-Collector, Cheranmahadevi, Pratik Tayal, Commissioner for Disciplinary Proceedings M. Suganya, Deputy Collector (Training) Anita, NIC officials Devarajan and Arumuganainar and others were present.  The control room will now have all details of the patient and the family members, the medicines prescribed and where they have been quarantined V. Vishnu Collector, Tirunelveli||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-covid-19-control-room-has-state-of-the-art-facilities/article34455297.ece
01 May 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||‘E-Office’ software introduced at Tirunelveli Collectorate||To ensure expeditious and timely clearance of files in the government departments at the Collectorate, Collector V. Vishnu has introduced National Informatics Centre’s new software, ‘E-Office’, a system that fixes responsibility for everyone concerned in clearing the file before the deadline. The virtual handling of files also ensures safety of the officer concerned during the pandemic. “In the first phase, ‘E-Office’ will be in use in the Departments of Accounts, Law and Order, Chief Minister’s Public Relief, Explosives License and Disaster Management. Based on the outcome of this ‘pilot project’, the software will be introduced in all other government departments which will ensure speedy and timely disposal of files for the benefit of the public,” said Mr. Vishnu, who worked as risk analyst in the United States a decade ago. After complaints from public started flooding the Collectorate about their unresolved long-pending grievances, disposal of applications etc., Mr. Vishnu consulted with the NIC officials here which resulted in the launch of ‘E-Office’. “Since COVID-19 is spreading in menacing proportions every day, this software will ensure the safety of our personnel, who need not handle the files physically, thanks to ‘E-Office’. So, besides ensuring timely and speedy disposal of files, it will also ensure our personnel’s safety, which is paramount,” Mr. Vishnu said. The NIC officials, the developers of the software, are now training the personnel associated with these departments where it has been introduced. The Collector hopes that the software would enable personnel from accessing the files from their homes itself similar to ‘work from home’ conditions being followed largely in the pandemic situation. “Even during a situation like complete lockdown that we encountered during last year, our officials can access the files from their homes and clear it to ensure unhindered and timely service to the people even during lockdown,” says Mr. Vishnu who has planned to introduce ‘E-Office’ in the Offices of the Revenue Divisional Officers and the tahsildars in the next phase.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/e-office-software-introduced-at-tirunelveli-collectorate/article34455295.ece
01 May 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||PG medical students up in arms||Condemning the pathetic conditions prevailing in their quarantine facility at the hostel, 330 postgraduate students of Tirunelveli Medical College began an indefinite strike on Friday. However, the protesting students made it clear that they would continue to serve in the emergency ward where COVID-19 patients were undergoing treatment. The agitating postgraduate medicos complained that they were attending patients with the deadly viral infection in shifts but had no proper place to take rest on the hospital premises and even during the quarantine period. “Since more number of students have to share cramped spaces, toilets, food, drinking water and other facilities, those serving in the COVID-19 wards pose serious threat to other postgraduate students. Consequently, a large number of students are getting infected. Even though we represented this problem with our higher-ups including the Dean, Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital, no step has been taken,” said the protesting students. The protestors said students who were working in the COVID-19 wards were asked to stay in rented houses earlier while their professors were given rooms in hotels during quarantine period. “Last year, during the quarantine period we were asked to stay in rented houses with three to five bedrooms. While a house with five bedrooms can be rented for Rs. 20,000 or Rs. 25,000 a month to keep a minimum of five doctors, the tariff for a room in a hotel here would be around Rs. 2,000 a day. In other words, the expenditure in this connection would be Rs. 10,000 a day. Besides saving a lot, we got better quarantine facility. Now, we are forced to be in quarantine in cramped space which will only facilitates spread of the viral infection,” one of the protestors said. Dean, TVMCH, M. Ravichandran denied it saying that the postgraduate students have been requested to stay in college and CRRI hostels (in which they were staying during their under-graduation days) and food was being arranged from the same hygienic hostel mess besides providing regular sanitation services. “However, the postgraduates are insisting on stay at private hotels and food from the same hotels. We provided them with these facilities last year due to complete lockdown. Since we can arrange food for them from our mess now, we are supplying food from our mess. Even then, we’re trying to get the facilities demanded by the students after discussing it with the Collector,” said Dr. Ravichandran.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/medicos-up-in-arms/article34455183.ece
01 May 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Tiruppur MP flags issues in government hospital||Tiruppur MP K. Subbarayan, who inspected the Tiruppur Government Medical College Hospital regarding the COVID-19 situation on Friday, flagged various issues such as vaccine shortage and disposal of waste at the hospital. He told mediapersons he was shocked to see garbage including discarded personal protective equipment (PPE) kits accumulating “about 20 feet away” from the hospital’s kitchen. He immediately instructed Tiruppur Corporation Commissioner to dispose the waste, he said. Regarding the availability of vaccines at the Hospital, Mr. Subbarayan alleged that the nationwide vaccine rollout for those above 18 years of age was just an “empty word” as no adequate vaccine stocks were available. “An elderly man, who needs his second dose of vaccine, complained to me that no one is telling him [at the hospital] the date when the second dose would be given,” the MP said. Terming the Central government led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi as “incompetent,” Mr. Subbarayan said the vaccine stocks must be ensured across the country by either importing or manufacturing. He added that he would speak to State Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan regarding the needs of the Tiruppur Hospital. Mr. Subbarayan met the hospital’s Dean, Valli Sathyamoorthy, following the inspection. M. Ravi aka Subramanian, who contested in Tiruppur North Assembly constituency from the DMK front for the Assembly election and functionaries from the Communist Party of India accompanied the MP during the visit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruppur-mp-flags-issues-in-government-hospital/article34455083.ece
01 May 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Forest department to renew efforts to capture Rivaldo||With “Rivaldo,” an elephant in the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR), becoming more dependent on humans for his daily calorie intake, people are allegedly tormenting the animal. This has led Forest department officials to renew their efforts to capture the animal and relocate him to the Theppakadu Elephant Camp where he will be made to live out the rest of his life in captivity. K.K. Kaushal, Field Director of MTR, said that over the last few months, Rivaldo was not venturing into the forests to feed at all, but was relying solely on people to feed him. “We have heard of people pulling his tail and even playing with his tusks. We fear that he might lash out at someone,” said Mr. Kaushal. He said that the safety of the elephant itself was another source of concern. Conservationists have consistently maintained that Rivaldo can be rehabilitated and prevented from entering human settlements, but forest department officials believe that the chances of rehabilitating the elephant, known for being extremely docile, are remote. “If he is not fed by local people, he damages houses in search of food,” said a forest department official, and that locals were feeding the elephant as it was otherwise raiding houses in search of food. “Rivaldo has a permanent injury to his trunk and a problem with his eyesight,” said Mr. Kaushal. The animal had sustained injuries 10 years ago when it reportedly bit into a crude bomb that was used to deter wild boars from entering farms. The forest department plans to lure him into a kraal (elephant shelter used to restrict the animal’s movement and to train it by using a system of punishment and reward) in Vazhaithottam area. “After he is fully trained, he will be taken to the Theppakadu Elephant Camp and made a captive elephant,” said Mr. Kaushal, who added that he had tried to give the animal as much time as possible so that it could be rehabilitated. “Unfortunately, our efforts have not worked. The best option now is to take Rivaldo to the camp, where he will be fed and housed for the rest of his life,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/forest-department-to-renew-efforts-to-capture-rivaldo/article34454639.ece
01 May 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||775 police personnel to be deployed in the Nilgiris||A total of 775 police personnel will be deployed across the Nilgiris district on May 2 to maintain law and order. Police officials said district police personnel, armed reserve police, Tamil Nadu Special Police and home guards would be deployed at the counting centre as well as in various key locations across the district. Violation The police personnel would also ensure that people did not violate lockdown measures that would be in place on Sunday. No victory procession Political parties would also be prevented from gathering and participating in victory procession on the roads on May 2 and after declaration of results.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/775-police-personnel-to-be-deployed-in-the-nilgiris/article34455092.ece
01 May 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||‘Private hospitals give only a partial cover despite a G.O.’||When government employees and pensioners admit themselves in private hospitals for COVID-19 treatment under the New Health Insurance Scheme, only a part of the room rent is covered, in contravention of Government Order 280 dated June 24, 2020, said Tamil Nadu Government Employees Association (TNGEA). Its Virudhunagar district vice-president C.E. Kannan said that as per the G.O., a ceiling of Rs. 9,500 per day and pharmacy charges has been fixed for A1, A2 private hospitals, and Rs. 7,500 for A3 to A6 categories. “There was no problem in getting the cover as per the G.O. till September 2020. However, patients get a cover of only Rs. 5,000 a day instead of Rs. 7,500 during the second wave of COVID-19. “Since this is not a cashless treatment scheme, the insurance company honours only a part of the reimbursement and the rest has to be borne by the policy holder,” Mr. Kannan said. “When contacted, the United Insurance Company says the G.O. did not mention about non-critical COVID-19 treatment in general ward category (but only for treatment given in individual rooms),” Mr. Kannan said. The insurance company said that since there was no mention of it in G.O. 280, it was following the guidelines of an earlier order - G.O. 240 dated June 5, 2020, in which the Health and Family Welfare Department had fixed Rs. 5,000 per day for getting treatment in the general ward of all categories of hospitals. “The issue is that G.O. 280 pertains to government employees and pensioners while G.O. 240 is meant for the general public,” Mr. Kannan said. “The government employees are forced to go for general wards in private hospitals due to non-availability of room or due to exorbitant room rent which goes beyond the ceiling fixed under the scheme,” he said. Mr. Kannan said that the insurance company should consider general ward also as room and cover the rent of up to Rs. 7,500 by following G.O. 280. It is learnt that the insurance company has sought clarification from the Principal Secretary / Commissioner of Treasuries and Accounts to resolve this issue as the number of complaints from government employees and pensioners was increasing, he said.  Patients get a cover of only Rs. 5,000 a day instead of Rs. 7,500 during the second wave of COVID-19 C. E. Kannan, District vice-president, TNGEA||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/private-hospitals-give-only-a-partial-cover-despite-a-go/article34454630.ece
01 May 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||New building for election office inaugurated in Virudhunagar||A new building for election office and storeroom for keeping electronic voting machines was inaugurated on Virudhunagar Collectorate premises on Friday. Collector R. Kannan inaugurated the building, constructed at a cost of Rs. 5.59 crore. The EVMs - ballot units and control units - and VVPAT units were hitherto been kept at the Ramanathapuram Regulated Market godown. In the two-storey building with 1,493 sq.m. of plinth area, the ground floor has security room, first-level checking room, second level checking room, office room, and training hall. The first floor has the EVM sore room. A total of 5,040 ballot units, 9,320 control units and 4,924 VVPAT units would be kept here. The new building will ensure more protection to the EVMS and also help easy handling of the machines during elections. District Revenue Officer R. Mangalaramasubramanian; Public Works Department Executive Engineer A. Ganesan; Assistant Executive Engineer M. Gopalakrishnan; Election Tahsildar Ayyakutti were among those who were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-building-for-election-office-inaugurated-in-virudhunagar/article34454632.ece
01 May 2021||May 01 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||547 positive cases in Salem||As many as 547 COVID-19 positive cases were reported in Salem on Friday. According to health officials, all cases were indigenous and 263 cases were reported in Salem Corporation limits. As per bulletin, 10 deaths, highest on a single day was reported in Salem on Friday. This included nine men and a woman who died at private and government facilities here. Erode district reported 519 new cases on Friday, taking the tally to 21,239. While 277 persons were discharged, 3,198 continue to be under treatment. One person died, raising the toll to 161 in the district. Krishnagiri recorded 510 fresh cases on a single day. A total of 269 persons were discharged after treatment and one death registered. The total number of COVID-19 cases in the district stood at 3,145 as of Friday. A total of 14,517 cases were reported in Krishnagiri. In Namakkal, 327 COVID-19 cases were reported. As per bulletin, all cases were indigenous. In Namakkal, a 58-year-old man died at a private hospital in Salem and a 56-year-old woman died in Erode. Dharmapuri recorded 242 fresh cases, and 138 cases discharged. The total number of cases in the district was 1,223. As of date, a total 9492 cases were reported in Dharmapuri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/547-positive-cases-in-salem/article34454648.ece
01 May 2021||May 01 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore reports 1,113 new cases||The daily COVID-19 caseload breached the 1,100-mark for the first time on Friday with the reporting of 1,113 new cases, which took the overall tally to 78,410. The Health Department reported the deaths of two youths undergoing treatment for COVID-19 at Coimbatore Medical College Hospital, which took the overall toll to 722. The death of the two men aged 33 and 26 was attributed to acute respiratory distress syndrome and bilateral bronchopneumonia. A total of 6,943 were active cases in the district. As many as 70,745 person recovered so far, of which 1,107 were discharged on Friday. The district administration said on Friday that 682 beds were vacant in government hospitals, 791 beds were vacant in private hospitals and 1,159 beds were available at the seven COVID-19 care centres in the district. A total of 1,698 patients were under home isolation. As of Friday, the district had a stock of 2,270 COVID-19 vaccine doses. Tiruppur district saw its daily caseload crossing the 400-mark once again with the reporting of 423 new cases on Friday, taking the tally to 26,409. The death of a 33-year-old woman took the toll to 239. The active cases exceeded the 3,000-mark as 3,032 patients were undergoing treatment. A total of 23,138 patients recovered so far, among which 268 were discharged on Friday. Police sources said the branch of a public sector bank on Kumaran Road was closed for disinfection on Friday after one of the bank’s employees tested positive. In the Nilgiris, 58 persons tested positive and the total number of confirmed cases stood at 9,847. The toll stood at 51, and 418 people are under treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-reports-1113-new-cases/article34455087.ece
01 May 2021||May 01 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||297 cases in Virudhunagar||With one more death of COVID-19 patient, number of deaths in the district touched 241 on Friday. A 69-year-old man from Virudhunagar, who tested positive on April 25 after being admitted to Government Rajaji Hospital in Madurai, died on April 27 due to acute respiratory distress syndrome and COVID pneumonia. Meanwhile, the district recorded 297 fresh cases and 110 discharges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/297-cases-in-virudhunagar/article34454622.ece
01 May 2021||May 01 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Unified command centre for COVID-19||The unified command centre seeks to improve bed management by real-time tracking of vacant beds at hospitals. Over 11,000 patients in Chennai have been admitted to various hospitals after testing positive for the infection. More than 25,000 patients are under home isolation. Hospitals that request intervention for oxygen support will be able to get assistance from the unified command centre located on the seventh floor of the Directorate of Medical and Rural Health Services, an official said. After the government reserved 50% of the beds at hospitals for COVID-19 patients on Friday, officials are planning to use the centre to streamline bed management. Those who do not require tertiary care at hospitals may be shifted to COVID-19 Care Centres to facilitate tertiary care for the sick. Members of the public can continue to call 104 and 108. There is no change in the contact details, officials said. Requesting beds The Twitter handle is aimed at offering a platform for individuals to request beds for COVID-19 patients at private and government hospitals. The government has deployed staff members to monitor bed availability at private and government hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/unified-command-centre-for-covid-19/article34454609.ece
01 May 2021||May 01 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Strict compliance||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/strict-compliance/article34455304.ece
01 May 2021||May 01 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Three textile showrooms sealed for violations||Three reputed textile showrooms here were sealed and fined by the corporation officials on Friday for violating COVID-19 safety protocols. Showrooms of three textile groups, Kumarappa Silks, Pothys and Siva Textiles near Four Roads junction were sealed for violating guidelines issued by the State government in containing COVID-19 pandemic. According to officials, the State government has prohibited operations of big format shops, covering an area of over 3,000 sq.ft. Based on a tip off, officials found the showrooms catering to certain customers with closed shutters. Officials sealed the showrooms and imposed a fine of Rs. 10,000 each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-textile-showrooms-sealed-for-violations/article34454652.ece
01 May 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Government exploring making oxygen in sugar factories||The State government is exploring the option of allowing sugar factories to produce oxygen. Minister for Mines and Geology Murugesh Nirani told journalists in Bagalkot on Thursday that the government will soon convene a meeting of officers and sugar factory managers to discuss the issue. This follows an experiment in Maharashtra where two factories have begun producing oxygen. One factory in Osmanabad is producing 20 tonnes of oxygen by modifying some equipment. Another began production on a pilot basis on Friday. “Senior officers tell me that sugar mills producing ethanol can produce oxygen easily. I have asked some of them to explore the possibility and encourage sugar mills to do so,” he said. “I am appealing to my friends in the sugar industry to make an attempt. This will be one of the ways in which they will give back to society,” he said. He told The Hindu that he will ask technicians in his factories to prepare for oxygen production. However, it may take up to six months. “It might help us face the third wave of the epidemic that experts are predicting,” the Minister said. An officer in the Sugar Commissionerate said that this will help address oxygen scarcity. “Of the 118 registered factories in the State, only 71 are functional. They can be roped into produce oxygen. It will address the problem of scarcity and reduce the cost and time spent in transporting oxygen,’’ the officer said. The government is yet to issue any order on this, he said. The factories, however, said that it [they producing oxygen] is not so easy. “We can do it. But it is not easy. It involves new investment and significant time. Importantly, work will not start without the government taking the initiative,’’ managing director of two sugar factories in Belagavi Siddarth Wadennanavar said. According to him, oxygen generation in sugar factories is independent of the existing process and the modifications are not easy to come by. “The most modern factory has only around 20% of the functional machinery. The rest of the machinery needs to be installed. We need molecular sieves that need to be imported, air purifiers, oxygen separators and compressors. Some of these are not made in India and need to be imported. All that can happen only if the government intervenes. It should not only help us get equipment but also ensure that the oxygen we produce after putting in so much of investment and effort has a steady market,’’ Mr Wadennanavar said. Meanwhile, scientists said that it is not as difficult as the mills make it to be. Scientist and director of S. Nijalingappa Sugar Institute Rayanna Khandagave said that the factories could take it up with minimal modifications. “Most factories are already equipped to produce ethanol. They can start oxygen production in a short time,” he said. “This is their off-season time and sugar mills are sitting idle. They could hire a few professionals, buy some new equipment and start production. They could approach the government if they need any help,’’ he said. “Oxygen can be produced wherever carbon dioxide is a by-product. However, it might take some time,’’ said Eshwar Khandre, who has been the chairman of a sugar factory for over a decade. “I urge the government to step in and support the factories to start production wherever feasible,’’ he said. “I think only the mills that have a distillery attached to them can produce gases. Not all factories have distillery units. It could take up to four weeks, if we start preparations today. Who knows how many will die in that time? The government should reduce bottlenecks in transportation and ensure easy and quick supply of industrial and liquid oxygen,’’ he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/government-exploring-making-oxygen-in-sugar-factories/article34454672.ece
01 May 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Complaint sent to Chief Secretary against Vijay Sankeshwar on home remedy issue||A lawyer and RTI activist has complained to the Chief Secretary seeking action against the former MP and BJP leader Vijay Sankeshwar for recommending lime juice inhalation as a remedy for oxygen scarcity. Bheemagouda Paragonda, based in Athani in Belaglavi district, who has sent the complaint to the Chief Secretary P. Ravi Kumar, has urged him to take action against Mr. Sankeshwar for misleading the public on the epidemic, in violation of rules and regulations. Copies of the complaint have been sent to the Deputy Commissioners of Raichur and Dharwad. In Raichur, a teacher died after self-administering lime juice through his nostrils. Mr. Sankeshwar usually resides in Hubballi in Dharwad district. Mr. Paragonda has said that Mr. Sankeshwar was responsible for the death of Basavaraj Malipatil, teacher from Raichur, who is said to have died after the home remedy. The complainant has urged the Chief Secretary to direct the jurisdictional officers to file a suo motu case under Section 306 of the Indian Penal Code and some sections of Disaster Management Act. He has also argued that Mr. Sankeshwar should be asked to pay a compensation of Rs. 50 lakh to the family of the deceased teacher. The teacher was misled by the statement made by Mr. Sankeshwar. The teacher’s family members have confirmed to media that he had had no prior illness. Mr. Sankeshwar had in a recent press meet said that administering lime juice through nostrils increased oxygen levels by 80%. He had said that he had seen this home remedy work in 200 persons, including his relatives and colleagues. Mr. Paragonda told The Hindu that the government, which was taking strict action against those spreading lies and rumours in the period of a pandemic, was not taking any action against its own leaders who were publicly recommending untested home remedies. Mr. Sankeshwar has clearly violated COVID-19 guidelines and the provisions of the Disaster Management Act and the Epidemic Diseases Act, the lawyer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/complaint-sent-to-chief-secretary-against-vijay-sankeshwar-on-home-remedy-issue/article34454665.ece
01 May 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||ICCC in Belagavi to be used as war room||The Integrated Command and Control Centre (ICCC) set up by Belagavi Smart City Limited will be utilised as a COVID-19 war room, Deputy Commissioner K. Harish Kumar said in Belagavi on Friday. He visited the centre and spoke to the engineers there. He asked them to monitor COVID-19 management activities by using the equipment and resources available at the centre. He asked them to create a website to centrally monitor tracing and testing, supply of drugs and oxygen from across the district. He asked officers to get real time data from the taluks and aggregate and analyse it at the centre. This will reflect the situation of scarcity of drugs and oxygen, he said. During inauguration, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa said that it was the first Integrated Command and Control Centre in the State. It was developed at a cost of around Rs. 45 crore. Basic infrastructure is provided by Bengaluru-based BEL. It continues to provide technical support. Activists have criticised the district administration for failing to utilise the centre for epidemic control. Raju Topannanavar, Kannada activist, had written letters to the Chief Minister urging him to utilise the centre as a COVID war room, on the lines of those in Bengaluru, Pune and Varanasi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/iccc-in-belagavi-to-be-used-as-war-room/article34454678.ece
01 May 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Agriculture officer passes away||Assistant Agriculture Officer Shreeshail Honnalli (52) died of COVID-19-related complications in Kannur village of Vijayapura district on Friday. He was on duty in the Raitha Samparka Kendra in Kudchi in Belagavi district. But he had taken leave after he tested positive for COVID-19. He had taken treatment from a private hospital in Vijayapura before going home on Thursday. He is survived by his wife and two children.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/agriculture-officer-passes-away/article34454666.ece
01 May 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Remdesivir to be produced in Belagavi||A Belagavi-based pharmaceutical company has obtained licence to manufacture COVID-19 drug, Remdesivir injection. Shree Anand Life Sciences, which has plants in Belagavi and Mudhol, will manufacture the injection that is in scarce supply. Satish Ghargi, who hails from Bagalkot district, has set up Shree Anand Life Sciences pharmaceutical industry in Mudhol and Belagavi. The Belagavi plant is in Honaga Industrial Area. Minister for Mines and Geology Murugesh Nirani told journalists in Bagalkot on Thursday that the licence would help reduce the scarcity of the drug in the market.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/remdesivir-to-be-produced-in-belagavi/article34454667.ece
01 May 2021||BELAGAVI,KARNATAKA||545 new cases||As many as 11 deaths were reported in Belagavi city, said to be related to COVID-19 causes. Official figures are yet to be announced. On Thursday, Belagavi district reported 545 new cases. There were 156 discharged patients. The number of active cases was 2,822.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/545-new-cases/article34454673.ece
01 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Erroneous records causing confusion||Gangadhar N. got his parents vaccinated with the first dose at a private hospital in central Bengaluru in the early days of the COVID-19 vaccine rollout. Though they didn’t receive any updates on their phones, they were given printouts with the vaccination details. When it was time for the second dose, confusion reigned. “With cases increasing, we found a primary health centre very close to our house and decided to go there instead of travelling all the way to the Central Business District. When the staff checked the database, there was no record of the first dose. We thankfully had the printout, which we reproduced, and the second dose was administered. But now when we are trying to get the final vaccination certificate, it is still showing as ‘first dose’,” he said, wondering how he would get the certificates. “We don’t know what we will need them for in the future, but it is definitely necessary to have it.” This is not a one-off case. Similar stories are being heard from people who are partially or fully vaccinated. And with the mega drive for vaccination of those aged 18-44 set to begin in the near future, there is anxiety about whether these glitches will be addressed. For instance, a 64-year-old woman got her first dose as a walk-in beneficiary at a government hospital along with three other family members, all senior citizens. They did not get any physical acknowledgement or SMS. Two from the family eventually received messages. But the woman, and the remaining member of the family, never did. When the woman went for her second dose, again as a walk-in beneficiary, she was just asked to verbally tell which dose and vaccine. Again, there was no acknowledgement. When she finally logged into the CoWIN portal, she managed to get her final vaccination certificate, but the information was not updated on her daughter’s number through which she had originally registered before deciding to opt for a walk-in appointment. When asked about the anomalies in data, the medical superintendent of a government hospital said the problem was rarely with the hospital’s records. “Perhaps, because of the large numbers, there are some gaps in data entry. But the hospital records will have details,” he said. ‘Not many instances’ R. Ravindra, former president, Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes’ Association (PHANA), said he had not heard of too many such complaints. “There have been a couple of instances when people have taken the first dose in one hospital and the second one in another. Or sometimes they forget which phone number they used to register. But I doubt this problem is widespread,” he said. For private hospitals, the billing aspect tied with the vaccination process appears to have worked to an extent. Vaccination at government centres is free. “Since we are charging, billing is happening. For old patients, there is no problem. New patients have to be registered on our system. Then they move to billing in another counter. Aadhaar is not important for billing, but for verification it is. The details are entered into the COVID-19 portal. Once that is done, the vaccine is administered and they are made to sit for half an hour. Then we print a certificate and give it to them,” said Dr. Ravindra.  When the PHC staff checked the database, there was no record of the first dose. We thankfully had the printout, which we reproduced, and the second dose was administered. But now when we are trying to get the final vaccination certificate, it is still showing as ‘first dose’ Gangadhar N.,a Bengaluru resident||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/erroneous-records-causing-confusion/article34455053.ece
01 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Those aged 18 to 44 should not queue up for vaccination yet’||Officially announcing that the fourth-phase vaccination for those aged between 18 and 44 will not take off on May 1 as announced, Health and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar on Friday appealed to all beneficiaries in this category to refrain from visiting hospitals for vaccination from Saturday. Meanwhile, the State government had already placed orders for 1 crore doses of vaccines and on Friday it decided on placing orders for 2 crore more doses. “The manufacturers are yet to officially give us confirmation as to when they will be able to deliver. Till we intimate you, please do not visit hospitals although you have enrolled on the CoWIN portal,” the Minister said. He said the State will seek the Centre’s intervention in getting the stocks on priority for Karnataka, whiich is reporting a massive surge in cases. The State has an estimated 3.5 crore people in this category. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Thursday said that the fourth phase of vaccination will be taken up “in stages.” Asserting that the ongoing drive for people above 45 years will continue, Dr. Sudhakar said the State has stocks and is getting additional supplies from the Centre for the ongoing drive. “There are no hurdles in administering the second dose to those who have taken the first dose,” Dr. Sudhakar said. While Serum Institute of India (SII) manufactures 5-6 crore doses of Covishield, Bharat Biotech manufactures 1-1.25 crore doses a month. Russia’s Sputnik V, which will be manufactured by Dr. Reddy’s, is yet to come, he said. “Out of around 99.5 lakh doses received, the State has administered over 95 lakh doses. Our vaccine wastage is only 1.4%. An additional 4 lakh doses arrived on Thursday. I have been informed that we have around 6 lakh doses with us as of now,” said Dr. Sudhakar. Meanwhile, the State’s COVID-19 task force headed by Deputy Chief Minister Govind M. Karjol, has given its nod to place orders for an additional 2 crore doses. While a requisition for 1 crore doses of Covishield at Rs. 300 per dose will be sent to SII, 1 crore of Covaxin doses at Rs. 400 per dose will be sent to Bharat Biotech.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/those-aged-18-to-44-should-not-queue-up-for-vaccination-yet/article34454684.ece
01 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||No aid for lockdown-hit while voluntary effort is focused on health||In the midst of the pandemic that has brought the medical infrastructure on its knees, issues of livelihood seem to have taken a backseat. While help had poured in for the underprivileged from many quarters during the 2020 lockdown, the two-week shutdown this year is expected to be tough as most philanthropic enterprises are now focused on providing medical help. The government, meanwhile, has not made any commitment to the unorganised sector and daily wagers. The vulnerable section had received 10 kg of rice per person, which was two months’ quota, at one go soon after the lockdown was announced in 2020. The State had announced an one-time payment of Rs. 5,000. This time around, there has been little expected from the State. The Karnataka State Unorganised Workers Social Security Board does not have the financial strength to bail this section out. In the midst of the crisis, changes brought in to the public distribution system (PDS) on the quantum of rice to be issued (down to 2 kg) has added to the problem. “Health crisis has become the focus over food. It is also a nightmare under the current pandemic situation to set up a community kitchen or bring people together to pack and deliver dry ration kits since there is no guarantee of a bed available for volunteers if one turns positive,” said Nalini Shekar of Hasiru Dala. Her organisation that had supported about 50,000 people through campaigns earlier has restricted it to 6,000 families without BPL cards during this second wave. “The transgender community has frantically reached out for help, but we are in no position to help them. It is a logistical nightmare,” she rued. Ms. Shekar, however, emphasised, “It is not that volunteers are not working. But all their efforts are now on identifying bed for the needy, sourcing medicines, and other health issues.” Bengaluru is witnessing a huge volunteer participation in the health sector besides organising the final rites of those succumbing to COVID-19. Vinay Srinivasafrom Bengaluru Street Vendors’ Federation concurred. “Most volunteers are firefighting on the medical front. There is also fatigue among the volunteers as their health is also important in the pandemic,” he said. With the anticipation of a lockdown, several families were also this time preparing to meet the harsh realities. If some had stocked up rations for a few weeks’ time taking loans, many migrants returned home in the preceding weeks. Unlike the last lockdown, Mr. Srinivasa said, there was no panic this time as in anticipation of strictures, vulnerable sections such as street vendors were prepared to an extent. Restarting kitchens Amid heart-wrenching scenes from hospitals, there have been organisations such as Mercy Mission and Urban Homeless who continue to work among these vulnerable groups. Mercy Mission, which had a massive food aid programme during the pandemic last year, is all set to reopen five kitchens in Bengaluru. “There is a food crisis looming. Many homeless and daily wage workers who have lost jobs seem to be running out of whatever little they had and once that happens, a food crisis will become a reality. This year the government is yet to announce any initiatives in this regard,” said Mohammed Ummer of Mercy Mission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-aid-for-lockdown-hit-while-voluntary-effort-is-focused-on-health/article34454691.ece
01 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Govt. to add 4,000 ICU beds||The State government is working towards adding 500 ICU beds in each of the eight zones of the city, adding a total additional capacity of 4,000 beds. The move is expected to ease the severe shortage of ICU beds in the city. Of the 542 ICU beds in government hospitals and government quota allotted in private hospitals, only 33 beds were vacant on Friday evening. The government has appointed Dr. P.S. Harsha, Commissioner, Information and Public Relations as the nodal officer to set up these beds “on a fast track mode”. They will be mostly added in the government hospitals and if added in private hospitals, will be brought under government quota, sources said. The government had earlier announced that they would set up a makeshift hospital with 2,000 ICU beds in the city, which was likely to come up on the campus of Victoria Hospital. There is no clarity on whether adding 4,000 ICU beds will be additional to this makeshift hospital or not. Oxygen transit centres Ten maternity hospitals have been converted into transit oxygen centres to help those in critical need of oxygen. The doctors will confirm who requires oxygen through triaging and they will be further recommended for treatment at the hospital. BBMP Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta visited the 24-bed oxygen transit centre at Wilson Garden Maternity Hospital on Friday and inspected the arrangements. He also visited the help desk at Apollo Hospital, Jayanagar and swab testing laboratory in Kidwai Memorial Institute of Oncology. Citizen Help Desks are being opened at 50 major hospitals for the benefit of the public and the first 25 have already been set up, he said. A BBMP release quoted him as saying that 47 beds have been reserved for COVID-19 patients at Apollo Hospital. As part of setting up step down hospitals in collaboration with private hospitals and hotels, a 39-bed step-down hospital jointly with Apollo Hospital has been opened, he said, adding that more step down hospitals will be opened in the city, said Mr. Gupta||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-to-add-4000-icu-beds/article34455049.ece
01 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Help pours in for babies separated from mothers||Pragathi Badarinath felt the walls closing in on her when she got her test results earlier this month. The new mother was COVID-19 positive and had to be hospitalised. She was separated from her eight-month-old infant and he was not accepting formula, perhaps due to the trauma of his mother not being around. A message of hope and support arrived in the form of many new mothers who came to her rescue. Lactating mothers in her support circle in Bengaluru, including COVID-19 survivors, started donating breast milk for her infant. This free service lasted till she she returned home after getting discharged just before lockdown. “We decided on a centralised collection at one woman’s house close to Ms. Badarinath’s house. We knew every drop counted. One of the woman would drop off the box at her house,” said Prachi Pendurkar, founder of Snugbub, which runs a mothers’ support group. For infants forcibly separated from their mothers owing to the prevailing situation, other lactating women coming together to donate breast milk is turning out to be a boon. “Each bag had details of who had given it, etc. For all nine days that I was hospitalised, my child got breast milk even when I was not there. We are extremely grateful. COVID-19 is such a taboo, but the woman did such a noble thing by donating to us. As a side effect, I am still not producing enough milk and using the remaining packets,” said Ms. Badarinath, adding that with her husband being a doctor, they were aware of the benefits. “I want to donate too,” she said. “There are a few milk banks, but they are chargeable. Breast milk has to be stored in a certain way and for a certain number of hours. It just becomes easier with known people. Whoever is pumping is getting logistics support. In fact, mothers in Australia also contributed through milk bags etc.,” said Ms. Pendurkar, who added that the group has been seeing a lot of similar instances. “We are not against formula. But there are plenty of mothers who are producing more than what the baby needs,” she added.   Customised Mugdha Joshi, a lactation consultant, said breast milk is very important for the baby as it is customised based on genetic makeup, environment, etc. “If a nursing mother is exposed to something, her body produces antibodies and these go to the baby. Mother’s milk is also different as per the baby’s requirement, while formula for 0-6 years, for example, is the same,” she explained .  While milk banks are available, they are not within everybody’s reach, she said. “Right now, I have a patient whose baby is getting breast milk from a friend. In another case, the mother died of COVID-19 when the child was 31 weeks old. Her sister-in-law, who is also a new mother and seven months pregnant, reached out to me. I alerted about the situation on a few groups and by next morning, she had enough and more mothers willing to donate,” she added. Tests recommended But she recommended that the donor undergoes tests. “Informally, it depends on how much you know that person. People are reluctant to accept from others these days. I usually recommend tests or requesting tests is advisable. Recovered COVID-19 patients will have antibodies. But with the scare around the disease and because it is not fully understood, it should be transparent. The mother should be informed about it and let to take a call,” she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/help-pours-in-for-babies-separated-from-mothers/article34454680.ece
01 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Proceedings against Hilori in IMA case subject to HC order||The High Court of Karnataka has said that any further proceedings against IPS officer Ajay Hilori in criminal cases registered against the I Monetary Advisory (IMA) group of companies is subject to the outcome of the petition filed by him challenging the legality of the proceedings. Justice Krishna S. Dixit passed this interim order on the petition filed by Mr. Hilori and adjourned further hearing till June 4 while observing that the matter required deeper consideration. Mr. Hilori has questioned the legality of the Government Order of September 2020 granting sanction for his prosecution for IPC offence, the chargesheet filed by the CBI in October 2020 for IPC offence, the cognisance of offences under IPC taken by the special court for CBI cases in November 2020, the sanction granted in January 2020 for conducting investigation against him under the Prevention of Corruption Act, and the FIR registered against him in February 2020 in this regard. It was contended by Mr. Hilori’s counsel during the hearing that the proceedings before the trial court and the FIR were required to be stayed as the High Court had, on April 5, already quashed the criminal proceedings initiated against another IPS office, Hemanth Nimbalkar, in the IMA case, in which Mr. Hilori is also facing charges. It was argued on behalf of Mr. Hilori that the High Court had already declared that sanctions granted by the government, the chargesheet filed by the CBI for IPC offence, and the FIR in the corruption case as contrary to the provisions of the law in Mr. Nimbalkar’s case. However, the counsel for the CBI said the investigating agency would shortly approach the Supreme Court challenging the court’s judgment in Mr. Nimbalkar’s case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/proceedings-against-hilori-in-ima-case-subject-to-hc-order/article34454815.ece
01 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC asks A-G to hold talks on food security||The High Court of Karnataka has asked the State Advocate-General to hold a meeting of various non-governmental organisations, advocates of the petitioners who have filed PIL pleas on issues related to COVID-19, and other stakeholders to assess the impact of partial lockdown on food security of weaker sections of society and required relief measures. The court also said that the government would have to come out with concrete steps that they propose to take for helping the weaker sections like providing ration, etc. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Aravind Kumar issued the directions when A-G Prahuling K. Navadgi said he would hold meetings with the advocates representing the petitioners on considering issues raised in the petitions. KSLSA recommendations Meanwhile, the Bench directed the government to look into the recommendations made by a committee set up by the Karnataka State Legal Services Authority (KSLSA) for assessing the impact of a sudden surge of the second wave of COVID-19. The committee, comprising two retired judges of the High Court, A.N. Venugoapala Gowda and K.N. Keshavanarayana, said a third wave of COVID-19 could not be ruled and it was essential for the State government to appropriately prepare for such a disaster in future and formulate a plan as “unpreparedness on the part of the government to face the present second wave of COVID-19 is very much forthcoming”. The State could face the situation only if the government framed an adequate disaster management plan, the committee said. Private hospitals The committee also said it had learnt that private hospitals were preferring patients from non-government quota as they could charge unlimited fees. “It is credibly learnt that private hospitals are hiding their actual bed strength. Further, private oxygen suppliers are preferring oxygen supply to home instead of hospitals due to price factor. It is necessary to issue strict directions to the private oxygen suppliers and hospitals to cooperate with the government agency in combating COVID-19,” the committee said in its report to the court. The committee also said that proper health assistance was required for home quarantined COVID-19 patients as health condition of such patients was deteriorating owing to lack of monitoring by medical experts.  It is credibly learnt that private hospitals are hiding their actual bed strength. Further, private oxygen suppliers are preferring oxygen supply to home instead of hospitals due to price factor. Panel of retired judges||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-asks-a-g-to-hold-talks-on-food-security/article34454692.ece
01 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bypoll results tomorrow crucial for beleaguered Yediyurappa||Votes polled in the byelections on April 17, amid COVID-19 pandemic, in the two Legislative Assembly constituencies of Maski and Basavakalyan and the parliamentary constituency of Belagavi will be counted on Sunday. Though early trends would be available by around 10 a.m., a clear picture of the votes polled for each candidate would be known by 12 noon. Results of the bypolls are of importance to the ruling BJP, though it currently enjoys a comfortable position in the Assembly and Parliament. Victory in both the Assembly constituencies would boost the morale of the party cadre and strengthen the hands of Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, whose leadership has been challenged by a section of legislators in the BJP. The ruling party has also been facing criticism for its handling of the pandemic. The bypoll results would test the popularity of KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar too. The party has not yet registered a victory in the Assembly byelections after he became the president. Retaining both the constituencies that the party won in 2018 would help Mr. Shivakumar consolidate his position in the party. For the JD(S), positive results would help show its signs of recovery. The elections results would set the tone for the upcoming elections to zilla panchayats and taluk panchayats in the State. While Maski in Raichur district recorded the highest turnout of 70.48%, Basavakalyan constituency in Bidar witnessed 59.57% polling. The turnout in the Belagavi Lok Sabha constituency was very low at 54.62%. Contestants  In Belagavi, KPCC working president and MLA Satish Jarkiholi is locked in a battle against BJP’s Mangala, wife of the former Union Minister late Suresh Angadi, who succumbed to COVID-19. In the reserved Maski constituency, BJP candidate and then disqualified MLA Pratapgouda Patil is pitted against Congress nominee Basanagouda Turvihal. In a multicornered contest in Basavakalyan, Congress candidate Mala B. Narayana Rao, wife of the former MLA late Narayana Rao, is pitted against BJP’s Sharanu Salgar. Independent candidate Mallikarjun Kubha, who was expelled from the BJP, is also in the fray. JD(S) has fielded Syed Yasrab Ali Quadri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bypoll-results-tomorrow-crucial-for-beleaguered-yediyurappa/article34454694.ece
01 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||High Court directs State govt. to transfer 11,722 hectares to Forest Department||The High Court of Karnataka has directed the State government to transfer within one month the entries in respect of 11,722.29 hectares of identified lands of C and D categories in Kodagu district to the Forest Department as was decided four decades ago to compensate forest area utilised for Harangi reservoir project. A Division Bench comprising Justice B.V. Nagarathna and Justice J.M. Khazi issued the direction while allowing a PIL petition filed by K.A. Ravi Chengappa, President of Cauvery Sene, Madikeri, and C.C. Devaiah of Virajpet of Kodagu district. The petitioners had pointed out that the reservoir was built during 1970s near Hudgur village in Somwarpet taluk and the government had on May 12, 1972, ordered release of 900 acres of land from the Yadavanadu forest area and 3,000 acres from the Atturu forest area to rehabilitate the persons who had lost their lands on account of the reservoir project. Also, the government in 1972 and 1994 had directed that 18,000 acres of land from the Revenue Department should be handed over to the Forest Department to re-compensate the forest land utilised for the reservoir project, the petitioners said. Though orders were passed in 1972 and 1994 for transferring 11,722.29 hectares of land to the Forest Department, the revenue authorities, including the Deputy Commissioner of Kodagu, till today had not transferred the records of these lands in favour of the Forest Department, the petitioners contended. During the hearing of the petition, the government counsel told the Court that only formal handing over of lands to Forest Department was not done while clarifying that the Forest Department is at liberty to take charge of the 11,722.29 hectares of lands and the court issue such a direction. The Bench, while referring to apex court’s judgements in T.N. Godavarman Thirupulkpad case on protection of environment and forest lands, said that the Government was required to transfer these lands to Forest Department as the 11,722.29 hectares of lands were mean to re-compensate the forest area used for the reservoir project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/high-court-directs-state-govt-to-transfer-11722-hectares-to-forest-department/article34454675.ece
01 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Help us pay salaries, Kassia urges Nirmala Sitharaman||The Karnataka Small Scale Industries Association (Kassia) has urged the Union government to provide direct financial grants to small and medium enterprises (SMEs) by paying 50% of the salaries of these units at least for the next three months. “This will not only help keep these units and their employees alive but will also stimulate the economy in multiple ways,” the industry body wrote to Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman. In the absence of a quick and targeted one-time cash infusion into the sector, some 25 to 30 per cent of the SMEs in Karnataka employing lakhs of people may completely go out of business, it cautioned. “Unfortunately, the COVID-19 pandemic has again crippled the functioning of the SMEs and we do not see an end to their woes any time soon. Therefore it is imperative that they get some support, especially when supply chains are getting out of sync once again for them,” wrote Kassia president K.B. Arasappa in his letter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/help-us-pay-salaries-kassia-urges-nirmala-sitharaman/article34454693.ece
01 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Houses can be turned into COVID-19 Care Centres||You don’t have to live in an apartment complex to set up COVID-19 Care Centres. They can also be established in independent unoccupied houses in neighbourhoods if residents are willing to adhere to the rules. In the wake of Residents’ Welfare Associations, apartments and gated complexes expressing interest in setting up care centres on their premises, the BBMP on Friday issued a list of dos and don’ts that need to be followed. While people who are asymptomatic or experiencing mild symptoms can shift to community-managed centres, the notification stated that exceptions include infected patients over the age of 60 and below 10 years, pregnant women and lactating mothers, and those suffering from comorbidities. They cannot take in people with tuberculosis and HIV as well as those who are immune-compromised or are on steroids and immune-suppressants. Beds should be at a distance of six feet from each other with temporary partitions or screens as dividers. RWAs and apartment associations should have a tie-up with a medical team or a doctor as nursing staff. The guidelines also state that they link with a hospital so that they can refer patients who need more medical care. They should have adequate supplies of PPE kits, N-95 masks, triple-layered surgical masks, etc., as well as medicines like hydroxychloroquine, vitamin C and zinc.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/houses-can-be-turned-into-covid-19-care-centres/article34455045.ece
01 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State sees unprecedented spike at 48,296 new cases||Karnataka on Friday reported 48,296 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 15,23,142. Of these, 26,756 cases are from Bengaluru Urban alone. With 217 deaths, the toll rose to 15,553. This is apart from 19 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 14,884 persons were discharged on Friday, taking the total recoveries to 11,24,909. The State now has 3,82,690 active patients. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 25.44%, the Case Fatality Rate touched 0.44%. As many as 1,89,793 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours. With this, the total number of tests rose to 2,55,96,991.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-sees-unprecedented-spike-at-48296-new-cases/article34454681.ece
01 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Police seize 1,610 vehicles||Worried about violation of lockdown conditions, the police seized 1,610 vehicles in Bengaluru on Friday. The 6 a.m to 10 a.m. window is open only for essential and emergency travel, senior officials reiterated. However, the city saw traffic jams in certain areas in this window on Friday, prompting police to crack down on motorists who were on the road without valid reasons. “Even after the 10 a.m. deadline, we have observed many people, especially youth, roaming around in the city with no valid reason,” said a senior official. Of the 1,610 vehicles seized on Friday, 1,450 are two-wheelers, 90 are three-wheelers and 70 four-wheelers. Praveen Sood, DG & IGP, Karnataka State Police took to Twitter to counsel and warn people not to violate restrictions imposed due to the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-seize-1610-vehicles/article34455052.ece
01 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BDA gets a new Commissioner||The State government has appointed Rajesh Gowda as the Commissioner of Bangalore Development Authority (BDA) after H.R. Mahadev retired from service on Friday. Mr. Gowda will also hold the post of Managing Director, Bescom as concurrent charge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bda-gets-a-new-commissioner/article34455050.ece
01 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Drones may be used to deliver vaccines||The State government is planning to deploy drones to deliver vaccines in remote locations and also sanitise Primary Health Centres that are centres for both testing and vaccination in the city. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa inaugurated the project on Friday. The task force led by P.C. Mohan, MP, Bengaluru (Central) has tied up with a startup Garuda Aerospace for the purpose. “For the first time in India, drone delivery of vaccines will undergo feasibility analysis and field trials in Karnataka. If successful, this could be a breakthrough in ensuring COVID-19 vaccines reach remote villages in Karnataka and geographically isolated locations across India,” Mr. Mohan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/drones-may-be-used-to-deliver-vaccines/article34455059.ece
01 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Japan to honour Bengaluru teacher||Bengaluru teacher Shyamala Ganesh, the former director of the Japanese Language School, will be conferred the Order of the Rising Sun, Gold and Silver Rays. In a press release, Consulate-General of Japan, Bengaluru, highlighted Ms. Ganesh’s contribution to the spread of the Japanese language and culture in Karnataka. The decision to confer the decoration is the first of its kind since the establishment of the Consulate-General of Japan in Bengaluru, the release stated. Ms. Ganesh is also former President of the Bengaluru Chapter of Ohara-ryu Ikebana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/japan-to-honour-bengaluru-teacher/article34454695.ece
01 May 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Cong. wins in Belur||The Congress has won Belur Town Municipal Council by securing 17 out of 23 wards. The JD(S), which was in power, won only five seats, while the BJP could win in one ward. The elections to the urban local body were held on April 27. The counting began at the Government Pre-University College in Belur at 8 a.m. Only the candidates and their agents were allowed inside the counting centre as the lockdown was in force. Former Minister B. Shivaramu led the Congress campaign. After the counting process was over, Mr. Shivaramu felicitated the winners at a guest house in the town. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Shivaramu said the people of Belur had supported the Congress, removing the JD(S) from power. “Belur Assembly constituency has been won by JD(S) MLA. People have rejected that party. The result is a lesson to the JD(S)”, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cong-wins-in-belur/article34454797.ece
01 May 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Make full use of hospital facilities: Eshwarappa||Minister for RDPR K.S. Eshwarappa has instructed officials to make better use of the facilities available at McGann Hospital to treat COVID-19 patients and also take measures necessary to improve the facilities. Addressing a meeting of officers at Shivamogga Institute of Medical Sciences in Shivamogga on Friday, he said given the number of cases reported daily, there was no shortage of doctors to treat them. The officers should make proper arrangements to allot work for supporting medical staff in different shifts. The heads of all departments should attend to work every day. Those who fail in their duties would face disciplinary action, he said. Deputy Commissioner K.B. Shivakumar said the Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer had been instructed to submit a report on proper utilisation of nursing staff. The department heads should submit daily reports without fail. Ayanur Manjunath, MLC, pointed out that the delay in giving reports of COVID-19 tests had affected many patients as they could not start medication early. He also suggested that officers ensure the patients in home isolation did not violate guidelines. They should not be allowed to come out of their places. Prasanna Kumar, MLA, appealed to the district administration to address problems in providing vaccine to the public. Many people had to stand in long queues for hours to get vaccinated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/make-full-use-of-hospital-facilities-eshwarappa/article34454676.ece
01 May 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||DC directive to oxygen suppliers||Hassan Deputy Commissioner R. Girish has directed oxygen producers in Hassan to supply oxygen to hospitals in the district and stop supply for industrial purposes. He held a meeting with representatives of oxygen production plants in Hassan on Friday. Given the COVID-19 situation, the owners of plants and suppliers had to supply cylinders for medical purposes only. The number of cases had been on the rise in the district. The administration needed their cooperation in treating the patients, he said. He instructed the suppliers to meet the requirements in the district first, before supplying it to other districts. The Assistant Drug Controller and Joint Director of the Department of Industries had to monitor the supply.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dc-directive-to-oxygen-suppliers/article34454799.ece
01 May 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Don’t misuse helplessness of patients, pvt. hospitals told||Minister for Large and Medium Industries and district in-charge Jagadish Shettar has appealed to medical professionals not to misuse the helplessness of COVID-19 positive patients and their family members by exerting pressure on them to pay more than the treatment cost fixed by the government. Chairing a meeting of management boards of private hospitals and nodal officers appointed to coordinate with private hospitals in Dharwad on Friday, Mr. Shettar said that with a surge in COVID-19 cases several patients were finding it difficult to pay treatment fees in private hospitals and he would appeal to medical professionals to cooperate with the government in breaking the chain of transmission and also in the treatment of the patients. Mr. Shettar said that at this point of crisis, medical professionals should extend help to the poor and the needy. Only when private hospitals join hands with the government, such challenges could be overcome, he said and added that the government would provide police security to hospitals if they required it. Emphasising that earmarking 50% of beds for COVID-19 treatment in private hospitals registered under KPME Act was mandatory, the Minister said that it was mandatory to reserve 50% beds in ICU and beds with ventilator too. “Many hospitals have responded positively to the government’s decision and accordingly, have taken steps. However, some hospitals are refusing to admit COVID-19 patients and delaying the process. Already, appeals have been made seeking cooperation and if the response is not at the expected level, then the district administration will take legal action,” he said. Mr. Shettar said that if any hospital declined to treat COVID-19 patients referred by the administration citing lack of bed or ICU facility without being the actual case, then cases would be filed against such hospitals under the Disaster Management Act. The Minister said that the district administration has set up a 24 x 7 helpline (08047168111) to attend to queries on beds and treatment and the procedure involved. Union Minister for Parliamentary Affairs, Coal and Mines Pralhad Joshi said that at a time when the country was fighting the pandemic, medical professionals should not think on the lines of profit and loss but serve society on humanitarian grounds by extending cooperation. On complaints about fleecing by private hospitals, he said that such hospitals should wake up before government took action. He clarified that there was no shortage of oxygen in the district and in such eventuality, necessary assistance would be procured from the Centre. Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Nitesh Patil said that all orders from the government regarding 50% beds had been communicated to the hospitals and in case of complaints and non-cooperation, cases would be filed. ZP CEO Susheela B., Police Commissioner Labhu Ram, Superintendent of Police P. Krishnakant, Municipal Commissioner Gurudatta Hegde, Nodal Officer for COVID-19 beds Deepika Bajpai and senior officials of the Health Department and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dont-misuse-helplessness-of-patients-pvt-hospitals-told/article34454670.ece
01 May 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||‘Sorabjee’s demise a great loss to country’||Legal Adviser to Chief Minister, Mohan A. Limbikai, has mourned the demise of the former Attorney-General Soli Sorabjee and said that it was a great shock to the country. In a condolence message issued here, Mr. Limbikai has said that Mr. Sorabjee was known for his erudition and brilliance and for interpretation of the Constitution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sorabjees-demise-a-great-loss-to-country/article34454688.ece
01 May 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Adequate trains being run: SWR||South Western Railway is running adequate number od inter-State passenger trains as per the demand and is prepared to run additional trains if required, a release from the railway zone said. Chief Public Relations Officer of SWR has asked passengers not to pay heed to rumours about shortage of trains. “All trains are being run as fully reserved expresses. Only passengers with confirmed tickets are allowed and waitlisted ones are not allowed as per per COVID-19 guidelines. All passengers are requested to travel with confirmed ticket and wear a mask and follow the guidelines during travel,” the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/adequate-trains-being-run-swr/article34454689.ece
01 May 2021||Kalaburagi,KARNATAKA||Anand Singh says he still opposes JSW land deal||Breaking his silence on the land deal between the Karnataka government and JSW Steel, Minister for Infrastructure Development, Haj and Wakf and Ballari in-charge B.S. Anand Singh on Friday said he would continue to oppose the deal as firmly as he had done in the past while he was with the Congress. “I had strongly opposed the State government’s decision to sell 3,665 acres of government land at Torangal in Ballari district to JSW Steel. I am unhappy with the recent Cabinet decision to go ahead with the deal. I had opposed the deal when it was initiated and I continue to oppose it. I will register my protest at the next Cabinet meeting. The land in question is worth around Rs. 3,000 crore and the government is selling them for Rs. 50 crore or Rs. 60 crore,” he told reporters. The land deal had triggered a controversy in 2019 when the Congress–JD(S) coalition government headed by H.D. Kumaraswamy decided to sell the land that was on lease. The BJP, which was in the Opposition then, had vehemently opposed the deal by stating that the government was selling the public land at a “throwaway price”. Mr. Singh, who was with the Congress then, had tendered his resignation to the Assembly membership opposing the land deal and later joined the BJP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/anand-singh-says-he-still-opposes-jsw-land-deal/article34454813.ece
01 May 2021||Kalaburagi,KARNATAKA||Patient dies during power outage in Yadgir hospital||A COVID-19 patient admitted in the ICU of a government hospital near Mudnal on the outskirts of Yadgir died during a power outage in the hospital in the early hours of Friday. The deceased, a 30-year-old man from Nagarabandi village, was admitted to the hospital three days ago. His family members said disruption in oxygen supply caused by the power outage was the reason for his death. They said realising the patient’s difficulty in breathing, they tried their best to revive him but failed. District surgeon S.B. Hiremath, however, dismissed the charge saying that the death was not caused by the power outage as the oxygen supply was not disrupted even after the outage. As per information provided by officers in the Health and Family Welfare Department and engineers in Gulbarga Electricity Company Ltd., there was a power outage for one and a half hours. Efforts to resume power supply using a local generator went in vain as the generator had run out of fuel, pushing the 250-bed hospital into darkness and patients into misery. Attenders of patients in the hospital switched on their mobile phone lights to manage things. Raghavendra D., executive engineer of Gescom, told The Hindu that a technicalproblem on the hospital premises led to the power outage. “Oxygen supply in the hospital is not dependent on electricity as it functions independently on mechanical power. When the power outage occurred, only the usage of fans and lights was affected. It did not have any effect on oxygen supply.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/patient-dies-during-power-outage-in-yadgir-hospital/article34454814.ece
01 May 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Congress retains Ballari city corporation||The Congress retained the Ballari City Municipal Corporation by bagging 21 of the 39 seats with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) winning 13, and five Independent candidates. The Bidar Municipal Council turned into a hung house as no party achieved simple majority. The elections to the local urban bodies were held on Tuesday and the counting of votes was completed on Friday. The strong rooms, where the electronic voting machines were kept, were opened on Friday morning in the presence of the candidates and the vote counting was completing within a few hours. The elections in Ballari saw an intense fight between the Congress and the BJP candidates in most of the constituencies. There were 35 constituencies in the last elections and the Congress had won 26 of them. The BSR Congress won six, the JD(S) one, and there were two Independent candidates. The BJP did not win a single seat. However, the saffron party showed a good performance this time with its 13 seats. Ward No. 3 had triggered curiousity among political parties and observers after the Congress fielded Basavaraj Gowda B., preferring him over M. Prabhanjan Kumar, a frontline contender for the party ticket. Denied the ticket, Mr. Kumar contested the election as an Independent candidate. He finally won the intense electoral battle with an impressive margin of 2,802 votes, the highest margin that any candidate achieved in the elections, against his nearest rival, Mr. Gowda of the Congress, who polled 1,308 votes. Elections were held for 33 of the 35 wards in the Bidar City Municipal Council as the matter regarding the remaining two wards was in court. As no party got enough seats to achieve a simple majority, the council turned to be a hung house. The Congress emerged as the single largest party with 15 seats, followed by the BJP (8), the JDS (7), the AIMIM (2), and the AAP (1). Last time, the BJP and the JD(S) had jointly held the power. Accepting the people’s verdict for Ballari Municipal Corporation, Infrastructure Development, Haj and Wakf Minister and Ballari in-charge B.S. Anand Singh said that all leaders in the party were responsible for the defeat. “We will retrospectively review and find the reasons for the defeat. Victories and defeats are very common in electoral politics,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/congress-retains-ballari-city-corporation/article34454687.ece
01 May 2021||Kalaburagi,KARNATAKA||Over 4,000 fresh cases in Kalyana Karnataka||The six districts of Kalyana Karnataka reported 4,299 new COVID-19 cases and 23 deaths on Friday. Ballari district reported 1,282 new cases along with 11 deaths. Kalaburagi and Bidar districts reported six deaths each on Friday. No deaths were reported from Raichur, Yadgir, and Koppal districts on the day. The cases reported on the day in the districts are as follows: Kalaburagi (1,256), Raichur (733), Bidar (447), Yadgir (325), and Koppal (256). The region has 30,885 active COVID-19 cases and the number of persons discharged on the day was 1,712.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/over-4000-fresh-cases-in-kalyana-karnataka/article34454685.ece
01 May 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Residents dismantle footbridge to Pavoor-Uliya Kudru||The footbridge that people got erected soon after every monsoon to connect Pavoor-Uliya Kudru (river island) in the Netravathi with the mainland at Adyar on National Highway 75 was submerged for a larger public cause — construction of the Adyar-Harekala vented dam-cum-bridge to provide drinking water to areas in Mangaluru Assembly Constituency. With the footbridge remaining under the backwater of the coffer bund built for constructing the dam about a kilometre downstream from the Kudru for over a week, the residents, under the leadership of Infant Jesus Church Parish Priest Fr. Jerald Lobo, dismantled the footbridge on Thursday. Shivappa, who was seen rowing a boat from the Kudru to the mainland on Friday, told The Hindu that it was back to square one for the residents of the island as the footbridge was found to be no longer sustainable. A percussion artist rendering service during Daivaaradhane, Mr. Shivappa’s is the lone Hindu family on the Kudru while the remaining 30 are Catholic Christians. Fr. Lobo has been instrumental in getting a rather stable footbridge erected on a steel pipe reinforcement for the last about four years as against the conventional wooden footbridge, said Mr. Shivappa. While the footbridge was erected soon after the monsoon every year, they had to depend upon boats during the monsoon when the Netravathi is in spate. The student community was the most affected with the inundation of the footbridge, he rued and added that there was no other option but to cross the river to get anything for the residents. A proposal to construct a hanging bridge too did not reach its logical end, he said. Minor Irrigation Department’s Assistant Executive Engineer Vishnu Kamath, who is monitoring the dam’s construction work, said that the present water level would be the minimum when water gets impounded after the dam is commissioned. The department has commissioned a survey through the National Institute of Technology, Surathkal, to assess areas that will get submerged in the backwaters when water is impounded for every half metre from the sil level. Saying that it was doubtful the footbridge could continue to be of any use, Mr. Kamath said that the department is identifying areas prone to backwater ingression into the Kudru where suitable protection walls will be built. It has also proposed to provide temporary motor boat facility for the residents, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/residents-dismantle-footbridge-to-pavoor-uliya-kudru/article34455191.ece
01 May 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Central Market kept out of bounds||Mangaluru City Corporation and Mangaluru City Traffic Police on Friday ensured that the Central Market area remained out of bounds for traders, street vendors and the general public following directions from the Deputy Commissioner on Thursday. Police erected barricades on all roads leading into and out of the Central Market to curb vehicular movement. Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra had asked the police to regulate vehicular movement into the market area while directing the city corporation to ensure all wholesale trade in vegetables and fruits takes place at APMC, Baikampady. This was to ensure social distancing to prevent the spread of COVID-19. Consequently, hawkers and street vendors spilled over to the main roads adjoining the Central Market and continued their business on Friday morning. No sooner hundreds of people flocked these stretches to buy fruits and vegetables ignoring COVID-19 appropriate behaviour. By closure time for essentials procurement window, police ensured that everyone packed up and left the area.  Police erected barricades on all roads leading into and out of the market to curb vehicular movement||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/central-market-kept-out-of-bounds/article34455185.ece
01 May 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Over 1,000 units of blood collected||Responding to a call for blood donation, a good number of youth turned up at the blood donation camp organised by the Bharatiya Janata Party in the city and Bantwal on Friday. Nearly 1,000 units of blood was collected at the blood donation camp organised at the T.V. Ramana Pai Conventional Hall in the city. The camp was organised jointly by the Bharatiya Janata Party’s Mangaluru South Assembly unit and Sevanjali Trust. BJP Mangaluru South Unit president Vijaykumar Shetty said that after the call by the State unit president Nalin Kumar Kateel, party activists, right at the booth level, were asked to mobilise volunteers for blood donation. Vehicles were provided to bring volunteers from their places and drop them back. Indian Red Cross and Kasturba Medical College, Mangaluru, provided 25 beds each for the camp. After registration and preliminary check by doctors, the donors were allowed to donate blood. Mangaluru City South MLA D. Vedavyas Kamath said that with the fourth phase of vaccination for those aged between 18 and 44 set to commence shortly, concerns were expressed about their inability to donate blood for about three months after the first dose. As a good number of volunteers turned up after the party’s call, organisers had to send back about 100 volunteers to avoid crowding. Mr. Kateel inaugurated the camp attended by Mangaluru Mayor Premanand Shetty, Karnataka Fisheries Development Corporation Chairman Nitin Kumar, Chairman of Mysore Electrical Industries Limited Santosh Rai Boliyar and BJP district president Sudershan M. BJP Yuva Morcha activists conducted blood donation camp on the Bantwal Taluk Hospital premises. Another camp was organised on the Sri Rama Vidya Kendra premises in Kalladka near Bantwal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/over-1000-units-of-blood-collected/article34455197.ece
01 May 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Proposal to construct hanging bridge at Kudru to be revived||The former Minister and MLA U.T. Khader on Friday said that he will revive the proposal to build a hanging bridge to connect Pavoor-Uliya Kudru with the mainland at Adyar. Mr. Khader said that though the proposal for erecting a hanging bridge at a cost of around Rs. 4 crore was finalised through the Malnad Area Development Board, it was shelved as residents wanted a bridge that could handle motorcycles. The estimated cost was Rs. 8 crore for this proposal. Construction of a regular bridge for a length of over 500 m was not found to be feasible, he added. He had released Rs. 3 lakh from the MLA Fund and Rs. 50,000 in his personal capacity for the erection of a steel pipe-fabricated footbridge, Mr. Khader recalled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/proposal-to-construct-hanging-bridge-at-kudru-to-be-revived/article34455188.ece
01 May 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||9,099 vaccinated in Dakshina Kannada, 8,477 in Udupi||With 9,099 persons receiving the jab in Dakshina Kannada on Friday, a total of 3.46 lakh persons have so far received the COVID-19 vaccine in the district. According to information available on the CoWin portal, 2,77.501 persons received the first dose and 69,176 received the second dose in Dakshina Kannada so far. As many as 355 persons received the jab at the Government Wenlock Hospital in Mangaluru. Among other government health centres in the city, 240 persons got the shot at Kulai Urban Primary Health Centre (UPHC), 227 at the Jeppu UPHC, 218 at the Bunder UPHC, 191 at the Kasaba Bengre UPH, 178 at the Kadri UPHC, 149 each at the Bondel and the Ullal PHCs, 140 at the Yekkur PHC, 116 at the Bajpe PHC, 113 at the Kudupu PHC, 110 at the Padil UPHC, 102 at the Katipalla PHC, 95 at the Surathkal UPHC, and 88 at the Kuloor UPHC. Of the other government health centres in Dakshina Kannada, 231 received the shot at the Puttur taluk hospital and 121 at the Puttur UPHC. As many as 170 were jabbed at the Uppinangady Community Health Centre (CHC), 100 each at the Bantwal UPHC and the Bantwal taluk hospital, 126 at the Moodbidri CHC, 130 at the Kateel PHC, 133 at the Panaje PHC, 122 at the Shirtady PHC, 122 at the Sullia taluk hospital, 127 at the Kurnad PHC, 117 at the Mani PHC, and 100 at the Ishwarmangala PHC. Of the private hospitals in Dakshina Kannada, 150 received the jab at Mangaluru Nursing Home, 147 at Vinaya Hospital, 105 at the K.S. Hegde Hospital, 102 each at the A.J. Hospital and Father Mullers Hospital, 101 at KMC Jyothi Hospital, and 100 at Chetana Hospital. Udupi By vaccinating 8,477 persons in Udupi district on Friday, a total of 2.52 lakh persons have been vaccinated so far. As many as 329 were jabbed at General Hospital, Kundapur, 240 at the Udupi district hospital, 196 at the Kota CHC, 191 at the Karkala taluk hospital, 182 at the Devalkunda Sub Centre, 180 each at the Kumbhashi PHC and the Kemmannu PHC, 176 each at the Brahmavara CHC and the Moodabettu PHC, 172 at the Saligrama PHC, 163 at the Malpe PHC, and 158 at the Shirva CHC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/9099-vaccinated-in-dakshina-kannada-8477-in-udupi/article34455204.ece
01 May 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Number of ICU beds in Udupi will be increased: DC||In light of the likely increase of COVID-19 positive cases in Udupi district in the next few days, Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha on Friday asked government and private hospitals to take steps to further increase the number of ICU beds. Chairing a meeting of the district-level expert committee, Mr. Jagadeesha said hospitals, which have space for further expansion of ICU beds, should take immediate action. The action so taken should not cause any inconvenience in continuing treatment to COVID-19 and other patients. He asked private hospitals to provide exact details of persons admitted and discharged every day, which will help district administration address issue of shortage of beds, if any, in a proper way. Asking hospitals to record all details of COVID-19 patients, Mr. Jagadeesha said patients whose condition is not serious should be sent for home isolation. While shifting patients from one hospital to another hospital, information should be passed on to the control room. Stating that there was no shortage of oxygen, Mr. Jagadeesha said hospitals should take care that patients are given right amount of oxygen and there is no wastage. Remdesivir should be given only if patients need, he added. In terms of testing, Udupi stands second in the state, he said. Dakshina Kannada district in-charge Minister Kota Srinivas Poojary on Friday said throat and nasal swabs can be tested at private laboratories if there is more load at the testing centre at the Government Wenlock Hospital. This will prevent delay in getting results, he said. Chairing a meeting to review COVID-19 preparedness, Mr. Poojary said three new machines were being procured for the testing centre at the Wenlock Hospital at the cost of Rs. 25 lakh, which will further increase the testing capacity of the centre. These machines will be installed in another three days. He asked officials to ensure that each of the taluk COVID-19 hospital has 50 ICU beds and this will reduce pressure on the district hospital. While asking officials to strictly enforce related to covid curfew, Mr. Poojary called upon people to wear masks, ensure social distance and follow other guidelines prescribed by the State government. The village-level task force teams should ensure that those coming to the villages from towns do not spread COVID-19 infection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/number-of-icu-beds-in-udupi-will-be-increased-dc/article34455203.ece
01 May 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Nodal officers appointed to pvt. hospitals to manage COVID-19||The district administration has appointed nodal officers to private medical college hospitals and private hospitals in Dakshina Kannada to ensure basic amenities to COVID-19 positive patients in view of the increasing number of cases. It has already ordered setting aside 75% of beds in medical college hospitals and 50% of beds in private hospitals for COVID-19 patients, said a press release. The general public may contact (see above) these nodal officers for any COVID-19 related issues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nodal-officers-appointed-to-pvt-hospitals-to-manage-covid-19/article34455195.ece
01 May 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Sample testing resumes at Wenlock Hospital||With the clearing of backlog COVID-19 samples and arrangements made for entry of test results in the ICMR portal, RT-PCR tests at the Government Wenlock Hospital here started with renewed vigour on Friday. Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra told The Hindu that the hospital has a capacity to test around 2,000 samples of nasal and throat swabs per day. In the last few days, the load increased to around 4,000 samples and there was backlog of around 1,800 samples every day. There were complaints about delay in getting test results. Dr. Rajendra said that a couple of days ago, backlog samples were distributed among laboratories of eight private medical colleges for tests. “This is the reason 1,700 new positive cases were reported on Thursday,” he said and added that the hospital has started testing fresh samples. To further increase the capacity of the centre, Dr. Rajendra said that orders have been placed to procure new automatic RNA extractor machine. This new machine will be deployed in addition to the RNA extractor machine that is in use now. He said that help has been taken from Kasturba Medical College’s Microbiology Department to speed up the process of RT-PCR tests in the hospital. District Health and Family Welfare Officer Kishore Kumar said that the 12 lab technicians and 16 data entry operators have been trained in technical aspects, including numbering of samples and entry in the ICMR portal. The personnel were working in shifts, including night. “We are ensuring that that the reports will be available within 48 hours,” Dr. Rajendra said. A decision has been taken to test samples of symptomatic patients and primary contacts at the testing centre. Asymptomatic patients have to give their samples for tests at private laboratories, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sample-testing-resumes-at-wenlock-hospital/article34455199.ece
01 May 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Accounts are regularly audited: Kukke temple||The management of Kukke Shree Subrahmanya Temple has said that temple accounts are being regularly audited by agencies concerned and there has been a delay in accounting only for financial year 2020-21 due to the COVID-19 situation. Temple Managing Committee president Mohanram Sulli and Executive Officer Ningaiah told reporters at Subrahmanya that there was no substance in the charge made by a few people that accounts were not audited. Audits for 2012-15 were done by the government audit department, Mangaluru Circle, while those for 2015-19 were done by private chartered accountants chosen from a panel suggested by the district administration. And, the temple’s auditor has carried out audit for 2019-20. The temple management has written time and again to the government to conduct audit for 2020-21, they said. It had also urged the government to conduct audit by government auditors from 2015-16, though audits were done by private chartered accountants. Mr. Ningaiah said that the temple has maintained records for every kind of income, including offering boxes, sevas and rent. Purchases of essentials for the temple and execution of works were carried out in a transparent manner through e-procurement and tender. Master Plan projects are being executed through the Public Works Department as per the government direction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/accounts-are-regularly-audited-kukke-temple/article34455200.ece
01 May 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||CCB arrests seven in two assault cases||The Central Crime Branch arrested seven persons said to be involved in two grievous assault cases reported in November 2020. The police gave the names of the accused as Abdul Jabbar, Nazeer Ahmed, Bilal Moiuddin, Ibrahim Shakir, Mohammed Nihal, Abbas Afwan and Mohammed Atim Isham. The accused were arrested in connection with the assault on Abdul Aziz in Kandavara in Bajpe Police limits on November 15. A week later, Aziz’s son-in-law Noushad was assaulted outside Unity Hospital in the city when he came to meet Aziz who was undergoing treatment there. The two assaults were carried out with an aim to force Mr. Aziz’s nephew Makdum to repay money to the accused. The police said that Makdum had to return close to Rs. 1crore to Nizamuddin, who is based abroad. As he failed to get his money back, Nizamuddin contacted Abdul Jabbar, who used “Rowdy” Tallat to get in touch with Basat and Safwan Hussain, who are also based abroad. Basat and Safwan Hussain sent their associates to assault Mr. Aziz. Noushad was mistaken to be Makdum and assaulted outside Unity Hospital, the police said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) Hariram Shankar said that efforts are on to trace “Rowdy” Tallat. A look-out circular has been issued against Nizamuddin, Basat and Safwan Hussain. Lauding the work of the Central Crime Branch team, Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar announced a reward of Rs. 10,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ccb-arrests-seven-in-two-assault-cases/article34455201.ece
01 May 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Three die, 1,865 new cases||Three COVID-19 patients died and 1,865 new cases were reported in Udupi and Dakshina Kannada districts on Friday. Two COVID-19 patients died and 660 new cases were reported in Udupi district. With 419 patients discharged, the number of active cases stood at 2,596 in the district. In Dakshina Kannada district, one COVID-19 patient died and 1,205 new cases were reported on Friday. With 380 patients discharged, the number of active cases stood at 6,486 in the district, a bulletin said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/three-die-1865-new-cases/article34455198.ece
01 May 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Bar raided, 1.53 lakh worth liquor seized||A city police team arrested cashier of a bar near Talapady checkpost on Friday and seized liquor worth Rs. 1.53 lakh that had been stocked illegally. According to Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar, the team raided Nisarga Bar and Restaurant around 2 p.m. Around 50 boxes of liquor was stocked in a room of the bar and there was no valid bills for it. The cashier told thgat police that the bar has been hoarding liquor for the last three months and transporting it to Kerala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bar-raided-153-lakh-worth-liquor-seized/article34455205.ece
01 May 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Police seize many vehicles||The city police is cracking down on unauthorised movement of vehicles during the lockdown hours amidst surge in the number of COVID-19 positive cases. Nearly 300 vehicles were seized in the last 24 hours alone and the Commissioner of Police Chandragupta himself was on the roads on Friday. The seized vehicles include autorickshaws, goods vehicles, 28 cars and over 250 two-wheelers. The owners of the vehicles have been booked for violation of the Janata curfew norms. Mr. Chandragupta said though there is a window between 6 a.m. and 10 a.m. for purchase of essential commodities many motorists were seen on the streets beyond the stipulated hours and hence the vehicles were seized. Warning He warned the public against unwanted movement in view of the prevailing COVID-19 conditions and said that there were certain category of trade and people exempted from the curfew while ambulance and vehicles on an emergency errand were also allowed to move. There is also a growing tendency of the people not to procure any essential commodities locally but to rush to the heart of the city around Devaraja Market which tends to be crowded like normal days during the window period of 6 a.m. to 10 a.m. This was also witnessed around the Small Clock Tower, Shivarampet etc. As a result social distancing norms are being violated regularly while a majority tend to wear the mask improperly and only to comply with the government directive. Hence it is not serving any purpose in keeping the people safe and prevent the spread of COVID-19 But outside the window period, trades and businesses declared as non-essential remained shut but pharmaceutical shops remained open. The number of passengers arriving and departing from the city by various modes of transportation was negligible. Sources in the railway said the number of people travelling in the intra-State trains were in two digits but there was good patronisation for inter-State long-distance services as they were fully reserved coaches.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-seize-many-vehicles/article34454811.ece
01 May 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Mysuru sees a record 3,500 cases||In the second wave of COVID-19, Mysuru registered an unprecedented 3,500 new cases and 13 deaths on Friday. This is the highest-ever single-day spike recorded in the district this year. With this surge, the active case tally breached the 10,000-mark on Friday. A 32-year-old SARI patient with no comorbidity is among those who died on Friday while 12 other deaths were reported on Thursday. All 13 persons, aged between 32 and 87, were suffering from Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI). The reason for death in two cases had been mentioned in the health bulletin as cardiac arrest and refractory hypoxia with type 2 respiratory failure. Nine patients died due to bronchopneumonia with severe ARDS. The death toll climbed to 1,205 as on Friday. Contacts Out of 3,500 cases, 2,551 were the contacts of the infected, 918 are ILI cases and 31 SARI cases. The highest number of 2,020 new cases was reported in Mysuru city. The taluks have also witnessed a big surge barring H.D. Kote. The break-up of cases: – Mysuru taluk 306, Hunsur 213, K.R. Nagar 232, Nanjangud 283, Periyapatna 153, and T. Narsipur 207. The cases also spiked in Mandya, Kodagu and Chamarajanagar as well. The new cases crossed 1,000-mark for the first time in Mandya where 1,348 cases were reported, followed by 609 cases in Kodagu and 474 cases in Chamarajanagar. The deaths have also gone up in the three districts. While Mandya and Kodagu reported five deaths each, six deaths had been reported in Chamarajanagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mysuru-sees-a-record-3500-cases/article34454801.ece
01 May 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Alcohol addiction driving vaccine hesitancy among tribals||A strong perception that one has to avoid liquor for a few days before and after vaccination against COVID-19 is contributing to vaccine hesitancy among a section of the adivasis in Mysuru district. Local NGOs who are working for tribal development said that this was also one of the reasons why the vaccination coverage had not gained momentum in the tribal hamlets in parts of Hunsur and H.D. Kote where the tribal population is high. This is emerging as a major challenge in the campaign to create awareness among tribals of the benefits of getting vaccinated, said G.S. Kumar, CEO, Swami Vivekananda Youth Movement, an NGO based out of Saragur and H.D. Kote and engaged in various activities related to tribal upliftment. Mr. Kumar said there are no guidelines on the issue and hence there was resistance from not only the tribal community but from those who drink regularly. On the question of whether one should avoid alcohol after receiving the COVID-19 vaccine, the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, in its FAQ says: As per experts, there is no evidence of alcohol impairing the effectiveness of the vaccine. S. Sreekanth of Development through Education (DEED) in Hunsur said almost every adivasi male above 20 years who goes out for work consumes liquor, and alcoholism was a menace in the community which the NGO was trying to eradicate. “There is awareness of COVID-19 and the availability of ‘injection’ (the local moniker for vaccine). “But somehow the word has spread of the need to abstain from consuming alcohol before and after taking the jab and hence many are avoiding it’’, said Mr. Sreekanth. As a result the coverage in the tribal hamlets in the district was low, he added. M.B. Prabhu, a tribal activist from Veeranahosahalli, said the district administration is in a dicey situation because it has to motivate the tribals to take the jab; but at the same time it has to strike a balancing act and cannot be seen as endorsing alcohol in their attempts to clear misgivings over the vaccine’s efficacy after consuming liquor. There are nearly 45000 tribals in Mysuru district and about 60 per cent of them are eligible to receive the vaccine against which the coverage is hardly 5 per cent to 10 per cent, Mr. Prabhu added. In Chamarajanagar district the authorities say the local hesitancy is from a combination of factors. M.R..Ravi, Deputy Commissioner, said only persons from a tribal hamlet in BR Hills had tested positive and hence they question the need to vaccine everybody. Also, the forest dwelling tribes are averse to any injection – not just vaccination – though they are not averse to taking tablets or syrup and tonics. And this is being addressed through counselling and creating awareness. The district administration has launched an outreach programme to cover the tribal hamlets and has established vaccination centres at Ashrama Schools.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/alcohol-addiction-driving-vaccine-hesitancy-among-tribals/article34454807.ece
01 May 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Remdesivir scarce in H.D. Kote, Hunsur||Amidst the doubts over the availability of Remdesivir injections in Mysuru, the District COVID-19 War Room, in its report, has disclosed the accurate number of vials available at the government hospitals and private hospitals across the district. Among the taluk hospitals, the highest number of Remdesivir injections are available in Periyapatna taluk where 44 vials of the anti-viral drug are in stock as on Thursday. The taluk hospitals in Mysuru barring Hunsur and H.D. Kote have a total stock of 59 vials. The hospitals at H.D. Kote and Hunsur have zero Remdesivir injections and are perhaps anxiously looking to replenish the stock amidst the rising cases. In Mysuru city, K.R. Hospital has 204 vials and the District Hospital has a stock of 122 vials. Among the private hospitals, Asha Kirana Hospital has 99 vials while Cauvery Hospital holds 47 vials, and the highest stock of 486 vials was available at the JSS Drug Centre in JSS Hospital. In total, private hospitals across Mysuru have 1,074 vials of Remdesivir as on Thursday, the report said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/remdesivir-scarce-in-hd-kote-hunsur/article34454805.ece
01 May 2021||May 01 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||COVID-19: Shorter hospital stay in second wave||With the COVID-19 pandemic spinning out of control and availability of beds becoming a challenge during this second wave, doctors in private hospitals are discharging patients on the fourth or fifth day if they develop clinical stability. This is different from last year when there were specific norms on when a patient should be discharged. V. Ravi, member of the State’s Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) and nodal officer for genomic confirmation of SARS-CoV-2 in Karnataka, said discharging patients soon after they develop clinical stability is essential so that beds are released for others who are in dire need of hospitalisation. Monitoring vital “This is only if the patient’s condition stabilises and oxygen saturation starts improving. If they are weaned off high flow nasal cannula (hfnc) and show clinical improvement, they can be transferred to a nearby stepdown hospital set up by private hospitals in collaboration with hotels or COVID-19 Care Centres,” he said. C.N. Manjunath, nodal officer for labs and testing in the State’s COVID-19 task force, said most patients are considered stable and on road to recovery if there is no exertional desaturation by more than 4% (on a six-minute walk test) and biomarkers are within reasonable limits. However, it is important that patients who are discharged within a short period should be monitored via telephone at least for the next seven days by hospitals. S. Sachidananda, Vice-Chancellor of Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences (RGUHS), said the expert committee at RGUHS has framed guidelines on transfer of patients from hospitals to stepdown centres once their condition improves. “We submitted this to the State government on Thursday. The guidelines are aimed at preventing patients from occupying hospital beds for long if their condition improves. The stepdown centres can be used for such patients under supervision of healthcare staff from the attached hospitals,” he said. Longer stay However, the scenario is different in government hospitals. Unlike private hospitals where even mild and moderate cases also get admitted, almost all those who are admitted in government facilities are critical cases. None are recovering before the 10th day, said doctors. At Victoria hospital, the largest designated government COVID-19 facility, where over 700 patients are on oxygen support, the recoveries have reduced to around 20 a day. “While we are getting 115-120 admissions every day, our recoveries per day are hardly 20. As almost all of them come in a critical condition, they require oxygen for a longer period,” said Smitha Segu, COVID-19 nodal officer in Victoria hospital. Manoj Kumar H.V., dean, director and Medical Superintendent at Bowring and Lady Curzon Medical College Hospital, said the average recovery time is 12 days. “Even if we have patients in general beds, they turn critical and require oxygenated beds. All our beds in Bowring and Charaka hospitals are occupied. We had to convert two normal beds into ICU beds on Friday to accommodate more patients, and our ICU was full,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-shorter-hospital-stay-in-second-wave/article34455057.ece
01 May 2021||May 01 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Recovery rate, hospital discharges up||More than half of the patients tested positive for COVID-19 in Mysuru in the month of April have recovered from the infection and discharged but the patient load on hospitals remained high with no substantial drop in new cases. The deaths too are going up, much to the worry of the district administration. Since last week, the number of daily recoveries is above 500 and was close to 1,000 on Thursday. As against 17,465 new cases reported from April 1 to 29, 9,720 patients had recovered in the same period, which is more than half of the cases reported during the period in the district. In fact, the cases started to spike from April 13 onwards and the daily count once alarmingly crossed 2,000, which was for the first time in Mysuru since the last wave. Barring April 2 and 4, Mysuru reported deaths every day till April 29. The disease claimed the lives of 138 people since April 1 and the fatalities peaked from April 25 with 36 deaths reported in a span of five days. The active case tally rose from 787 on April 1 to 8,366 on April 29, adding over 7,500 cases in nearly a month’s span, showing the rapid spread of the deadly current wave. Oxygen supplies Even as the Deputy Commissioner directed the oxygen producers to ensure there was no shortage for hospitals in Mysuru, the oxygen stock details had been disclosed by the COVID-19 District War Room in its report on Thursday. The district has 953 jumbo cylinders (47-litre capacity), 409 numbers of 10-litre capacity and 83 numbers of 1.1-litre capacity as on Thursday. In addition to this, Mysuru has 47 Dura cylinders – 200 literes of liquid medical oxygen. No beds in Nanjangud Barring Nanjangud, beds are available in all government hospitals across Mysuru district but the numbers are becoming scarcer with each passing day over increase in hospital admissions. In Mysuru COVID-19 government hospitals, only 59 beds, including six in District Hospital, 20 in Trauma Care Centre and 33 in K.R. Hospital are available as per the details shared by the war room. All 39 beds government hospitals in Nanjangud had been occupied and no beds are available. After JSS Hospital in Mysuru, which has nearly 288 beds, the second highest number of beds among private hospitals are available at Krishna Hospital in Nanjangud where 104 beds are unoccupied as on Thursday. The beds’ availability was released to give clarity on the situation amidst the claims of shortage in some places. Out of 1,104 beds in COVID-19 Care Centres across Mysuru district, including 625-bed CCC at KSOU building at Mandakalli near Mysuru, 584 beds had been occupied and 520 beds are available as on Thursday. Micro containment zones Meanwhile, out of 83 micro containment zones in the district, including 72 in the limits of Mysuru City Corporation, 26 had been released and 57 more zones are remaining. Out of nine containment zones, two have been released and 7 are remaining. Fine imposed In the last 10 days, over Rs. 14 lakh fine had been collected in the district for violation of mask and social distancing rules. Close to 10,000 persons had been fined in the last 10 days and nearly 5,000 persons had been penalised in a span of three days, collecting nearly Rs. 10 lakh fines. In total, Rs. 1.40 crore had been collected since the authorities started to slap fines .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/recovery-rate-hospital-discharges-up/article34454804.ece
01 May 2021||May 01 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Congress health helpline in Mysuru from today||The Congress will start Arogya Sahayavani, a health helpline, to assist COVID-19 patients and their attendants in Mysuru district on Saturday. Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) Working President R. Dhruvanarayan told reporters in Mysuru on Friday that the Arogya Sahayavani’s control room for Mysuru district will be opened at the party office in the city in the presence of District Congress President B.J. Vijaykumar and City Congress President R. Murthy. Arogya Sahayavani is a State-wide programme launched by KPCC with each district having different control rooms. The control room in Chamarajanagar will be inaugurated on Saturday afternoon. A total of 320 doctors, who had voluntarily registered themselves with KPCC’s Doctors’ Cell, will provide telephonic guidance to callers. For guidance on home treatment, the doctors can be contacted on 95351-77064, 98809-73703, 98803-02471 and 97403-61867. For psychiatric guidance, people can contact 78927-99074 or 096201-00245. Callers seeking Ayurvedic treatment can contact 97415-16746. For other forms of assistance including arrangement of beds, medicine, and funeral, volunteers assigned for Mysuru City can be contacted on 89043-38112 and 93433-05375 while volunteers assigned for Mysuru Rural areas can be contacted on 81053-05866 and 90089-51024. Mr. Dhruvanarayan said the volunteers will not only coordinate with medical establishments and officials, but will also be assisted by party MLAs in the district – H.P. Manjunath, Anil Chikkamadu, Tanveer Sait and Yathindra. The Congress had launched the Arogya Sahayavani programme after All India Congress Committee’s (AICC) General Secretary in charge of Karnataka Randeep Surjewala asked the party leaders in the State during a recent virtual conference to chalk out programmes to assist the citizens. Expressing concern over the alarming situation in the State, Mr. Dhruvanarayan said the mortality rate had doubled from 0.6 to 0.7 per cent in the first wave to 1.3 to 1.5 per cent in the second wave, which has been far more virulent. He said neighbouring Kerala had taken a lot of precautionary measures and had managed to limit the mortality rate. “There is no oxygen shortage in that State (Kerala). They have recruited a lot doctors and other medical personnel. There is not much manpower shortage there. They have learnt a lesson in the first wave and took precautionary measures”, he said. The Karnataka government did not take adequate steps though health experts in November last year itself had warned of a possible second wave, Mr. Dhruvnarayan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/congress-health-helpline-in-mysuru-from-today/article34454802.ece
01 May 2021||May 01 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Vegetable prices crash at APMC market||Vegetable rates crashed at the APMC market on Friday forcing the farmers to dump large quantity of tomato and other produce on the roads. While the cost of cultivating one kg of tomato has been pegged at Rs. 10, the market rates crashed to Rs. 4 per kg as a result of which the farmers could not even recover the cost of cultivation. Bulk of the vegetables to Mysuru APMC comes from K.R. Nagar, Bilikeri, H.D. Kote, Bannur, T. Narsipur, Srirangapatna and other places. Tomato is procured from Nagamangala and K.R. Pet and the downward spiral of prices left the farmers in the lurch. The APMC yard was strewn with tomatoes and other vegetables and vendors have complained that the situation is worse than what it was during the pandemic last year. Nagaraj, a vegetable farmer, said that the narrow window of 6 a.m. to 10 a.m. creates lot of anxiety among the purchasers and the farmers and rates tend to crash from 8.30 a.m onwards when there are no buyers for the produce at the market rate. “The police convoy enters the APMC yard around 9 a.m and goes around with a loudspeaker announcement that they should shut shops by 10 a.m. This creates a panic situation and people tend to even drop their plans of bulk purchase and head towards the exit gate’’, said Mr. Nagaraj. Many a times farmers beg and plead with ustomers to buy the produce at whatever rate the later wish to pay and leave the unsold vegetables in the APMC yard. The situation is such that a farmer let his cattle graze the vegetable that he had cultivated on his plot of land in Ganjam near Srirangapatna as the market rates were not remunerative. The narrow window of 6 a.m. to 10 a.m is causing lot of problems to the farmers and vendors and hence the local stakeholders have sought an extension of the timing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vegetable-prices-crash-at-apmc-market/article34454809.ece
01 May 2021||May 01 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||4 arrested for selling fake RT-PCR test reports||Two members of the technical staff at a Primary Health Centre (PHC) of Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) were among four persons arrested for allegedly running a racket selling fake negative RT-PCR reports. The racket was catering to people who wanted negative reports to fulfil conditions for travel and work, but did not want to take a test or wait for the report. Several such rackets have been busted across the country in the past two months, but this is the first such case in Karnataka, said a senior police official. “We are checking if there are more such rackets operating in the city,” the official said. Acting on a tip-off that two people near Sarjapur Main Road were churning out negative RT-PCR reports without even collecting swabs, for a price, two sleuths from the Central Crime Branch (CCB) police approached them and struck a deal for a report. The duo – Mukhesh Singh, 25, and Nagaraj, 39 – were arrested when they handed over the negative report for Rs. 700. Based on their interrogation, the police arrested Anil Kumar, a lab technician, and Bhagya, a contract employee, working with Dommasandra PHC of the BBMP. “As a lab technician, Kumar had access to certificates and seals of the PHC, which he misused to give certificates without even collecting swabs and testing them for the corona virus,” said a senior official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/4-arrested-for-selling-fake-rt-pcr-test-reports/article34455051.ece
01 May 2021||May 01 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Without vaccine, private hospitals clueless about what to do today||Private hospitals in Karnataka do not have any clarity on the modalities of procurement of vaccines for the fourth phase of vaccination. The government has made it clear that supplies from the State to private hospitals will stop from May 1. Meanwhile, Deputy Chief Minister Govind M. Karjol, who heads the Ministers’ task force, said private hospitals will have to procure vaccines from manufacturers at rates fixed by the Centre. They should not charge a service fee of more than Rs. 100 for every dose, he said. H.M. Prasanna, president of Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes’ Association (PHANA), said they have no information on how to procure vaccines. “Most of us have written to the vaccine manufacturers and are also in touch with vendors. But there is no confirmation from their side as to when supplies will start. In such a scenario, even the continuity of vaccination for those above 45 years is likely to be hit,” he said. ‘BBMP taking remaining stock’ He alleged that in Bengaluru, BBMP officials had started taking back vaccines from smaller hospitals that had been supplied earlier. “They had told us that all stocks remaining the end of April 30 should be returned. But officials started collecting from April 30 morning. We are clueless on what will happen from May 1. It may take at least a week before we start getting supplies,” he said. Sources in a corporate hospital pointed out that they are hoping the government will work out a formula on supplies to private hospitals. “Maybe the manufacturers will also consider supplying to private hospitals at the earliest as the rates fixed for us (private hospitals) is higher than that for the government,” sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/without-vaccine-private-hospitals-clueless-about-what-to-do-today/article34455047.ece
01 May 2021||May 01 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Cong. retains Bhadravati CMC, wins Tirthahalli TP||The Congress has retained the Bhadravati City Municipal Council and won Tirthahalli Town Panchayat, putting an end to more than two-decade-long BJP’s rule in the town. Of the 34 wards in Bhadravati, which went to the polls on March 27, the Congress won 18, JD(S) 11, BJP four, and an independent candidate won one ward. With this, Congress will continue to hold power in the urban local body. The party campaigned under the leadership of party MLA B.K. Sangameshwara. In Tirthahalli, the Congress won nine out of 15 wards. The BJP won only six seats, losing the urban local body after more than two decades. The result in Tirthahalli TP has taken BJP leaders by surprise. RDPR Minister K.S. Eshwarappa and MLC Ayanur Manjunath have expressed surprise over the result. Mr. Eshwarappa said the party’s district committee would analyse the results in consultation with Tirthahalli MLA Araga Jnanendra. Meanwhile, former chairman of Shivamogga DCC Bank R.M. Manjunath Gowda, who joined the Congress recently, has claimed that people of Thirthahalli defeated the BJP as they were fed up with that party’s repeated false promises. Celebrations The district administration had prohibited celebrations due to the COVID-19 lockdown. However, Congress workers assembled in Tirthahalli town after the results were announced and raised slogans praising former Minister Kimmane Rathnakar and Manjunath Gowda for the party’s victory. The local police took the party workers to task for violating the lockdown guidelines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cong-retains-bhadravati-cmc-wins-tirthahalli-tp/article34454798.ece
01 May 2021||May 01 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Mass cremation||To prevent long queues at crematoria in the city, the district administration has taken to mass cremations at T.R. Mill in Chamarajpet and at a makeshift open crematorium in Tavarekere on the outskirts. Residents of Nanjamba Agrahara, Chamrajapet, had recently staged a protest expressing concern about the health hazard. (Inset) A video grab of 26 bodies being cremated simultaneously at Tavarekere on Friday. K. MURALI KUMAR||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mass-cremation/article34455055.ece
01 May 2021||May 01 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||A painful smile||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/a-painful-smile/article34455187.ece
01 May 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Cases spiral in Alappuzha||COVID-19 cases continue to surge in the district with 2,224 people testing positive for the disease on Friday. Of the new cases, as many as 2,208 patients contracted the virus through local contact, while the source of infection of two others remains unknown. Thirteen people who came from other States and one from abroad also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. Meanwhile, 933 people who were undergoing treatment for the disease in the district tested negative. The active COVID-19 caseload stands at 15,833. The 2,224 cases include 328 logged from Alappuzha, 135 from Pattanakkad, 107 from Aryad, 102 from Cherthala, and 96 from Kayamkulam. In view of the rising number of cases, triage centres have been opened at the Taluk Hospital, Cherthala, General Hospital, Alappuzha, Taluk Hospital, Haripad, Taluk Hospital, Kayamkulam, and District Hospital, Mavelikara. Officials said the triage centres would function 24x7.  Triage facility Patients in isolation at Arookutty, Thuravoor, and Muhamma could seek treatment at the Taluk Hospital, Cherthala. Those from Ambalappuzha, Chettikkad, Veliyanad, and Chempumpuram could use the triage system at the General Hospital, Alappuzha. The triage facility at the Taluk Hospital, Haripad, could be used to treat patients from Thrikkunnapuzha, Chempumpuram, and Muthukulam. Patients from Chunakara along with Muthukulam would be provided treatment at the Taluk Hospital, Kayamkulam. Those from Kurathikad and Pandanad could seek treatment at the District Hospital, Mavelikara. Health officials said a total of 1,074 oxygen cylinders were available in government hospitals in the district. “Of these, 350 have been distributed to various COVID-19 treatment centres in the district and the rest are being kept as reserve,” an official said. District Collector A. Alexander said the Government Medical College Hospital, Alappuzha, might get an oxygen generator with Central funding. Mr. Alexander said he had discussed the matter with the Chief Secretary. The Collector on Friday issued an order appointing more employees in local bodies in the district to tackle the spread of the pandemic. As part of it, 780 schoolteachers have been deployed, which according to officials, will strengthen preventive measures against the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cases-spiral-in-alappuzha/article34454771.ece
01 May 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Training over for poll officials in Alappuzha||Elaborate arrangements are being made for the counting of votes cast in the April 6 Assembly elections in the district. Officials said counting would begin at 8 a.m. on May 2 in the nine Assembly constituencies in the district. In view of the COVID-19 pandemic, the process would be carried out adhering to the COVID-19 protocol. Officials deployed for counting votes had completed their training. Postal ballots would be counted first.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/training-over-for-poll-officials-in-alappuzha/article34454765.ece
01 May 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Checks intensified||The district administration has intensified checks at border check-posts in the wake of the surge in COVID-19 cases in Idukki district. Officials checked vehicles at the Bodimettu, Cumbumettu, Chinnar, and Kumily check-posts. The number of COVID-19 cases in the district reached over 1,000 for the third consecutive day with 1,231 people testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Friday. Devikulam Subcollector S. Premkrishnan said the inspection continued at the Chinnar check-post and at Munnar. The administration was focussing on ramping up facilities in hospitals to treat the maximum number of people. The District Hospital at Thodupuzha had been made into a COVID treatment centre. At the Taluk Hospital at Erupathekkar in Kattappana, arrangements were in place to treat COVID-19 cases. The Periyar Tiger Reserve has stopped all community-based ecotourism programmes from Saturday onwards. Munnar Wildlife Warden R. Lakshmi issued an order stating that all tourism programmes under the Munnar Wildlife Division would be stopped from Saturday until further notice. Eravikulam National Park range officer Job J. Neriamparampil said no tourism activities would be held until further notice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/facilities-ramped-up-in-idukki-hospitals/article34454772.ece
01 May 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||All set for counting of votes in Wayanad||All arrangements are in place for the counting of votes in the three Assembly segments in the district, Wayanad District Collector and District Electoral Officer Adeela Abdulla has said. The counting of votes would begin at 8 a.m. on Sunday. The counting of votes for the Kalpetta constituency will be held at the SKMJ Jubilee Hall here. Mary Matha Arts and Science College and St. Mary’s College would be the counting centres for Mananthavady and Sulthan Bathery constituencies respectively, Ms. Abdulla said. The postal and the electronically transmitted postal ballot (ETPB) for service voters would be counted at 8 a.m. and votes polled in the EVMs at 8.30 a.m. in those centres on the day, she said. Three halls would be set up in each centre and seven counting tables would be set up in each hall. Each table would be managed by a three-member team comprising a micro observer, a counting supervisor and a counting assistant. As many as 63 tables would be set up for counting the EVMs and 13 tables for counting postal ballots. Trained officials As many as 841 trained officials were appointed for vote counting process. They include 113 counting supervisors,136 counting assistants,116 micro observers, four ETPB supervisors, and 412 supporting staff members. The poll trends and results would be available on the election result portal:https://results.eci.gov.in/. It would also be available in the “Voter Helpline” mobile application, she said. Ms. Abdulla said victory rallies and public celebrations after the counting of votes would not be allowed in the wake of the spread of COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/all-set-for-counting-of-votes-in-wayanad/article34454712.ece
01 May 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||743 more test positive in Wayanad||As many as 743 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Wayanad district on Friday. Of the new cases, 729 patients, including 13 health workers, were infected through local contact and 14 people had returned from other States.  Active cases The total number of active cases on Friday was 8,634 in the district. As many as 25,691 persons are under observation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/743-more-test-positive-in-wayanad/article34454718.ece
01 May 2021||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Prohibitory orders in 23 local bodies in Kasaragod||In the wake of a steep increase in COVID-19 cases, Kasaragod District Collector D. Sajith Babu has imposed prohibitory orders in 23 local bodies, including in Nileswaram and Kanhangad municipalities. The prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the CrPC, will be effective till midnight of May 6. Crowding of more than five persons in public places is prohibited The orders will be implemented in Kanhangad, Neeleswaram municipalities, Ajanur, Balal, Bedadukka, Chengala, Chemmanad, Cheruvathur, East Eleri, Kallar, Kaiyur-Cheemeni, Kinanoor-Karinthalam, Kotom-Bellur, Madikkai, Madhur, Mangalpadi, Padana, Pallikkara, Pilicode, Thrikkarippur, Uduma and West Eleri grama panchayats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/prohibitory-orders-in-23-local-bodies-in-kasaragod/article34454717.ece
01 May 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Corpn. to open 24x7 help desk, mobile pharmacy||The Kochi Corporation will set up a round-the-clock control room and help desk to address requests for medicines and transport of COVID patients. A mobile unit will begin functioning for emergencies, and this unit will be equipped with a nurse, medicines, and oxygen supply, Mayor M. Anilkumar said. Keeping up with the times, and in what is a first for the civic administration, the corporation council had an online meeting via videoconferencing to discuss the COVID-19 situation. The corporation will launch an awareness campaign on COVID, measures to be taken, and facilities available if ill. The civic body’s food distribution drive for people in isolation at home will be expanded, and it will consider distributing food supply kits to homes where cooked food is not necessary, the Mayor said. Councillors have also suggested that once vaccine stock is available, doses should be made available daily at the division level, since requests have been growing from the public. Under the 12 health centres functioning within the corporation limits, vaccination camps will be held daily once sufficient stock is available, Mr. Anilkumar said. At the meeting, councillors flagged transport of COVID patients to hospitals as an issue, since shifting is delayed due to an acute shortage of vehicles. Councillor V.K. Minimol said additional community kitchens would be necessary, particularly in the West Kochi area. Quarantine centres are also needed, since there are families where most members test positive, and those who are negative find it difficult to remain in quarantine at home. Cases are soaring in the corporation area, particularly in parts of West Kochi, but vaccination camps have come to an abrupt halt, said Opposition Leader Antony Kureethara. The corporation must ensure availability of PPE kits and medicines in each health circle and at primary health centres in the city, besides arranging for ambulances to shift patients to hospitals, he added. Four COVID first-line treatment centres (FLTCs) have been readied under the corporation — one each at Mattancherry, Palluruthy, Edakochi, and Kaloor, the Mayor said. A 100-bed facility is also coming up at the Samudrika Hall on Willingdon Island, in collaboration with the Cochin Port Trust, he added. There have been delays in shifting patients to hospitals, since all requests for shifting are addressed by the busy district help desk, the Mayor said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/corpn-to-open-24x7-help-desk-mobile-pharmacy/article34455156.ece
01 May 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Schools gear up for virtual sessions ahead of new academic year||Schools under the Central Board of Secondary Education in the district have started preparing for the new academic year anticipating that classes will continue to be held online amid the worsening pandemic crisis. Managements have asked parents to remit the first instalment of fee before the second week of May. Textbooks and notebooks, which were earlier planned to be distributed from schools, will have to be purchased either online or from book shops suggested by schools as part of their agreement with vendors. The principal of a city school said that only tuition fee was being collected, as chances of offline classes starting in the first week of June were remote in view of the health crisis. “We have asked teachers and students to get ready for online sessions in the new academic year. “Last year, we had collected bus and lab fee without realising that the country would face a prolonged lockdown. It was refunded later,” she said. However, parents are worried about the collection of textbooks and notebooks from book shops recommended by managements. “It would have been better if the authorities had arranged vendors who could deliver online or give us the option to download textbooks online as visits to book shops would expose us to the pandemic threat,” they said. Some managements have made arrangements where a time slot would be given to parents to buy books from a common collection point or depot. This would avoid overcrowding and rush for textbooks, especially amidst reports that the pandemic situation may turn worse in the next two weeks. A section of parents echoed their opposition against a directive by some schools that students should attend online sessions wearing school uniforms. Many students would have to buy new sets of uniform going by the instruction adding to the already strained monthly budgets owing to the pandemic crisis, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/schools-gear-up-for-virtual-sessions-ahead-of-new-academic-year/article34455168.ece
01 May 2021||Kochi,KERALA||No victory rallies, COVID test for polling agents||With the COVID-19 spread threatening to run out of control, major political parties have asked their workers to follow the pandemic protocol on May 2, the counting day. There won’t be any victory processions on Sunday when the results would be out. Polling agents of the CPI(M) and the Congress, the key contestants in most of the Assembly constituencies in the district, will undergo screening tests for the disease on Saturday. Political parties will depute at least 21 polling agents, who clear the antigen and RTPCR tests, each to all the 14 Assembly constituencies in the district. For each constituency, there would be 21 to 28 counting agents. Besides these agents, the CPI(M) has drawn up a reserve list of around 45 party functionaries, who would be deputed in case of any agent testing positive, said C.N. Mohanan, CPI(M) district secretary. The party has already issued two rounds of directives to its functionaries at local levels to follow the protocol. The final round of instructions will be issued on Saturday. Party workers have been asked to strictly abide by the norms and instructions of the Election Commission not to hold processions at local levels. Candidates and election agents have been asked not to stay back at counting stations and to leave the premises as soon as the counting is over, said Mr. Mohanan. After organising classes for its counting agents, the Congress has asked them to arrive at a private lab in the city on Saturday for COVID tests. Since there would be 21 counting tables, the party would depute 21 agents each for the Assembly constituencies. An additional list of 10 agents has been drawn up for the Ernakulam constituency, said T.J. Vinod, former Ernakulam DCC president and the UDF candidate in the Ernakulam constituency. Instructions were issued to UDF workers to strictly follow physical-distancing norms and other health protocol and not create any situation that would worsen the health scenario of the district. There would not be any processions and rallies post-counting, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-rallies-covid-tests-for-polling-agents/article34454711.ece
01 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Vaccination centres in district witness heavy crowding||Vaccination centres in Ernakulam saw large crowds on Friday, when the drive resumed after a two-day break. The Ernakulam General Hospital witnessed crowding on Friday, with people queueing up from early in the morning with little physical distancing. A polling official who was at the General Hospital from 5.30 a.m. for his second dose of the Covishield vaccine said more people began to line up around 7.30 a.m., and that the crowd swelled by 9 a.m., when people began to arrive hoping that they would be able to walk in for the second dose. “There was initially no proper security system to issue tokens, but by around 9 a.m. tokens were finally being given, and we were told that around 200 people would get the shot. But the number of people who arrived was much higher, and physical distancing was entirely absent,” he said. “I had attempted to book a slot on the COWIN portal, but only one faraway centre was available with around 40 doses pending. I decided to take my chance and line up at the General Hospital,” the official added. Officials say they are largely helpless in bringing the situation under control, as the availability of vaccines is low. “People who want to take the first dose should avoid arriving at centres now. No new slots are being provided for those wanting to take the first shot,” said Dr. M.G. Sivadas, nodal officer for vaccination. Only 66 out of the 199 vaccination centres in the district were functioning on Friday. No private hospitals have been given stock. On Saturday, only 27 centres, all at government facilities, will be open. The district received 10,000 doses of Covishield on Friday. While the vaccination drive for those above 18 was to begin from Saturday, slots for the first dose will not be opened up in the district. The drive was halted on Wednesday and Thursday, since additional stock was awaited, and the doses that arrived had to be distributed to the centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vaccination-centres-in-district-witness-heavy-crowding/article34455159.ece
01 May 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Religious institutions cope with pandemic-induced changes||The spiralling number of COVID patients in the district has forced religious institutions to modify their practices and adapt to changes induced by the pandemic. Those heading such institutions said they have instructed the faithful to comply with health guidelines and protocols prescribed by the State government from time to time. Online Holy Mass Most of the churches in the State have shifted to online Holy Mass and television channels run by churches are airing the masses at different times to suit the faithful, said Fr. Mathew Kilukkan, Public Relations Officer of the Ernakulam-Angamaly Archdiocese. The faithful have also adapted to the online Holy Mass as they cannot physically attend the church during the period. During the morning hours, the Holy Mass would be held from 6 a.m. to 7 30 a.m. Believers, says Salahudheen Madani, the chief Imam of the Salafi Masjid, Pullepady, were urged to follow the protocol during the ‘Khutba’ (speech) that was given out before the Friday prayers. Wearing of face mask has been made compulsory in the mosque. The Imam wears a double mask during prayers at the mosque. For Ifthar, the breaking of the fast, water and dry fruits are provided in disposable cups and plates. The number of persons who turn up at mosques has dropped significantly as they have been advised not to form crowds at mosques, he said. At Siva Temple, Ernakulam, devotees have been denied access to Nalambalam, to the inner precincts of the temple till May 3. The restrictions were imposed after a few Devaswom officials and others associated with the temple tested positive, said P. Rajendraprasad, president of the temple advisory committee. Devotees will be allowed entry after completing the sanitisation of the Nalambalam area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/religious-institutions-cope-with-pandemic-induced-changes/article34455292.ece
01 May 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Bank directed to reimburse Rs. 6.26 lakh to NRI||The Kerala High Court has directed ICICI Bank, Kozhikode branch, to reimburse Rs. 6.26 lakh which an NRI account holder had lost through unauthorised transactions. Justice N. Nagaresh passed the directive while allowing a writ petition filed by Gopinathan Palakkal of Kozhikode challenging the order of the Banking Ombudsman rejecting his complaint against the bank. According to the petitioner, a total of Rs. 6,26,000 was unauthorisedly debited from his account in 2015.The money had been transferred to the ICICI Bank accounts of third parties. According to the bank, it was an instance of an internet phishing fund transfer case. The court said that the police investigation had prima facie established that a fraud had been committed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bank-directed-to-reimburse-rs-626-lakh-to-nri/article34454705.ece
01 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||RDO booked for quarantine breach||The Muvattupuzha police on Friday slapped a case against Muvattupuzha Revenue Divisional Officer A.P. Kiran under the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance for alleged quarantine violation. The move was in the wake of a complaint that Mr. Kiran had turned up at the office despite testing positive for SARS-COV-2. The petition said that he had undergone the test on Thursday and should have remained in quarantine till the result was out. However, Mr. Kiran claimed he was tested only on Friday and termed the petition politically motivated. “I was at office only for an hour and left as soon as the result was known. I was returning officer for Sunday’s counting and had to hand over charge, besides signing salary bills,” he said. Mr. Kiran claimed that he was asymptomatic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rdo-booked-for-quarantine-breach/article34455160.ece
01 May 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Over 30% test positivity rate in 57 panchayats||With 4,642 people testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Ernakulam on Friday, the district recorded a test positivity rate of 27.86%. A total of 49,866 people are under treatment for the infection, and 341 of them are in ICUs. With 57 panchayats in the district recording a test positivity rate over 30%, the District Disaster Management Authority will recommend to the State-level expert committee that additional restrictions be imposed, said a release from the district administration. Six health workers were among those who tested positive on Friday. Thrikkakara recorded the highest number of cases with 201 people testing positive. Thripunithura saw 143 new cases, Pallipuram 137, Varapuzha 126, Fort Kochi 112, Vengola 111, Maradu 109, Palluruthy 103 and Kalamassery 96. As many as 2,689 people recovered on the day, and 325 were discharged from hospitals and FLTCs. Fresh admissions to COVID hospitals and care centres stood at 525.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/over-30-test-positivity-rate-in-57-panchayats/article34455162.ece
01 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Compensation recovery from local bodies delayed||The process of recovering environment compensation from local bodies in Ernakulam that failed to set up scientific systems for waste management seems getting delayed. Nearly two months after issuing notices to the Kochi Corporation and Aluva and Thripunithura municipalities, the State Pollution Control Board (PCB) has not been able to recover the compensation assessed based on the ‘polluter pays’ principle. The Kochi Corporation, which was slapped with a penalty of Rs. 14.2 crore, had obtained a stay from the Kerala High Court against recovery of compensation. Board officials said they had initiated steps to get it cleared. Notice to civic bodies The compensation assessed for Aluva and Thripunithura municipalities was Rs. 2.12 crore and Rs. 3.78 crore respectively. The PCB Chairman had issued notices to the secretaries of the two municipalities on February 8 and 17 respectively. Representatives of the civic bodies were asked to submit explanation within 15 days on why compensation should not be recovered. However, the reply from them was not satisfactory, as no concrete measures were taken to rectify shortcomings, according to the board. The Principal Bench of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) had observed in January this year that the environment compensation for failure to comply with its directives against those responsible for the Brahmapuram fiasco had been assessed but not recovered. The tribunal said the “failure to uphold environmental rule of law is no different from maintaining law and order and protecting citizens against crimes. Continuing violation of environmental norms is not only violation of rights of citizens but also has the potential for causing damage to public health. It is unfortunate that in spite of several orders of this tribunal for the last two years, officers have only paid lip service. There is thus clear governance deficit which needs to be urgently remedied at [the] appropriate highest level in the State,” it said.  ‘Failure to uphold environmental rule of law is no different from maintaining law and order and protecting citizens against crimes.’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/environment-compensation-recovery-from-local-bodies-delayed/article34455167.ece
01 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Online services help lessen queues at RTOs||A plethora of online services introduced by the Motor Vehicles Department (MVD) and postponement of driving and fitness tests have helped lessen queues considerably at the Ernakulam Regional Transport Office (RTO) and most sub-RTOs in the district, unlike the situation in other districts where people still throng office counters with hard copies of applications and documents. Around 300 people used to visit the Ernakulam RTO a day before the pandemic struck. It fell to 100 recently, and the visits were mainly for personal hearings and general enquiries. The resurgence of the pandemic has resulted in the number further dropping to approximately 50 in the past week, Ernakulam Regional Transport Officer P.M. Shabeer said. The visitors include mostly those who urgently need driving licence and those bringing vehicles for temporary registration inspection. Apart from the pandemic situation, this has to do with people clarifying doubts over telephone or through e-mails. Similarly, driving and fitness tests stand postponed. The online option to register vehicles and issue learners’ licence too has helped. Up to 100 vehicles continue to be registered every day at the Ernakulam RTO. In this, dealers upload all relevant information regarding vehicles. The software for it is being upgraded. The increased demand for cars and bikes has been offset by the fall in demand for commercial vehicles. This and many private and tourist buses submitting G-form (to take a temporary break from service) in turn has led to around 15% slump in revenue collection in the form of taxes and fees, Mr. Shabeer said. More to go online Joint Transport Commissioner Rajeev Puthalath said more MVD services were slated to go online in May. “Even now, people have to seldom visit RTO offices, except for services like availing drop-box facility for transfer of ownership of vehicles,” he added. Nevertheless, many people visit offices with hard copies, posing risk to themselves and office staff. They include senior bureaucrats who want “instant service”. They often do not adhere to the visiting time either, said an RTO from another district who did not want to be identified.  Nearly 300 people used to visit the Ernakulam RTO a day before the pandemic struck P.M. Shabeer Regional Transport Officer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/online-services-help-lessen-queues-at-rtos/article34455163.ece
01 May 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Collector’s order on oxygen stayed||The Kerala High Court on Friday stayed an order of the Kollam Collector directing a firm supplying liquid oxygen to hospitals in Kollam, Kottayam, Alappuzha, Pathanamthitta and Thiruvananthapuram to supply oxygen from the Kerala Minerals and Metals (KMML) plant only to hospitals in Kollam district. The court directed the State Disaster Management Authority to ensure continuous supply of oxygen from the KMML to hospitals across the State. The court said that the Collector’s order was contrary to the unity of the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/collectors-order-on-oxygen-stayed/article34454785.ece
01 May 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Protocol violations continue unabated||A fish market at Pulinchodu in Muvattupuzha was closed on Friday following the spread of COVID-19. The market functions within the Muvattupuzha municipal limits. The market is frequented by fish vendors from Ernakulam, Kottayam and Idukki districts. A large number of COVID-19 cases are being reported from Muvattupuzha and nearby areas, which was also a reason why the market was shut down, said K. Karthik, District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural). The Puthencruz police on Friday registered cases against Basil, 27, and Murukan, 60, of Kolenchery for stepping out of their homes despite being primary contacts of their family members who had tested positive. The Ayyampuzha police registered a case against a group of 10 who had come to visit the Ezhattumukham nature village in violation of the protocol. They were slapped with charges under the Kerala Epidemic Disease Ordinance. The nature village remains closed in the wake of the surge in cases. They had reportedly ignored opposition from local residents and ventured into the river for having fun. The police also seized their vehicles. A case was registered against the manager of a toddy shop at Chully for serving toddy at the shop when only takeaways are allowed. Even otherwise, there is rush for takeaways in the morning hours at the shop. The police registered 106 cases for quarantine violations and arrested 35. Action was taken against 1,905 persons for not wearing masks and 1,610 for not maintaining physical distancing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/protocol-violations-continue-unabated/article34455161.ece
01 May 2021||Kochi,KERALA||MCH suspends all non-COVID services||All outpatient services and non-COVID emergency services have been suspended at the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), Kalamassery. In the wake of the rising COVID-19 cases in the district, the hospital is turning entirely into a 300-bed COVID care facility for critically ill patients. People should approach the Ernakulam General Hospital and the Aluva District Hospital for non-COVID services, according to a statement from Dr. V. Satheeesh, Principal, Government Medical College. After having functioned exclusively as a COVID hospital for around a year, the MCH had opened up for non-COVID treatments earlier this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mch-suspends-all-non-covid-services/article34455157.ece
01 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||CII aid to set up oxygen facilities||The Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) and CII Foundation have offered support to set up oxygen distribution facilities at two government hospitals in the State. Under the initiative, COVID-19 rehabilitation support is being extended for setting up a piped oxygen facility at the Paravoor Taluk Headquarters Hospital having a capacity of 50 beds and at the Community Health Centre (CHC), Moothakunnam, having a capacity of 35 beds, at a cost of Rs. 14 lakh. The CII has further recommended its member organisations to meet the expenses of vaccinating their employees and family members to reduce the financial burden on the State government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cii-assistance/article34454710.ece
01 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Lakshadweep patients evacuated to Naval hospital||Two senior citizens, a 67-year-old man from Kavaratti, and a 72-year-old woman from Androth, requiring emergency treatment for COVID-19, were air evacuated and admitted to INHS Sanjivani, the Naval hospital in Kochi, on Friday. Both patients, also suffering from multiple co-morbid conditions, were ferried by a Pawan Hans helicopter of the Lakshadweep Administration, which landed at the Naval Air Station Garuda in the afternoon. The patients are being provided with all medical care by the Southern Naval Command, which, based on a request from the Dweep Administration, had earlier reserved 10 beds for patients from the archipelago. Earlier on April 28, a 75-year-old COVID patient from Kalpeni, having a fracture of the femur, had also been air evacuated for treatment at INHS Sanjivani.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/covid-19-patients-from-lakshadweep-evacuated-to-city-naval-hospital/article34455165.ece
01 May 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Rival fronts keep their fingers crossed||With all set for counting of votes, the three political fronts in the district are keeping their fingers crossed ahead of the D-day. While CPI(M)-led Left Democratic Front (LDF) is hopeful of repeating the victory of 2016 by claiming all 11 seats, the United Democratic Front (UDF) insists that the picture will change this time. The NDA camp says it is looking forward to some surprises apart from improving its tally. “In the seven seats where the UDF has fielded Congress candidates, we are confident about at least four. While there is no doubt that the UDF will win Karunagapplly, Kollam, Kundara, Chavara and Chadayamangalam seats, we are also confident about some others including Kunnathur and Pathanapuram. The UDF will win majority of seats in the district and there is also a strong chance for a total reversal of 2016,” says a senior Congress leader. Meanwhile, the LDF leadership feels that there will not be any major change from the last Assembly polls and the front is all set for another clean sweep. “We have received favourable reports from all directions and there is hardly any possibility for any political miracle in Kollam. Despite launching all kinds of conspiracies against LDF candidates, they could not influence the electorate. Look at how they conspired against Fisheries Minister J. Mercykutty Amma and tried to manipulate the voters of Kundara. The whole EMCC episode was a controversy and we are confident about the outcome in all segments,” says a CPI(M) worker. While the NDA is pinning all their hopes on Chathannur, where they emerged second in 2016, they also believe that there will be a considerable growth in vote share. “The result of last local body elections is an indicator and we are definitely hopeful,” says a BJP leader.  Counting arrangements Meanwhile, the district administration has made all arrangements as per COVID-19 protocol for May 2. The counting will start at 8 a.m. and first the postal ballots will be counted. Five tables will be set for counting the postal ballots at all constituencies. Each counting table will have a supervisor, micro-observer, ARO and two counting assistants. Seventeen to 21 tables have been arranged in all constituencies for EVM counting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rival-fronts-keep-their-fingers-crossed/article34454767.ece
01 May 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||KMML to set up special COVID-19 care centre||In the wake of the rising cases, Kerala Minerals and Metals Ltd. (KMML) will set up a special COVID-19 care centre in the district. The facility coming up near the company at the Government Higher Secondary School, Chavara, will have a total of 500 oxygen beds. In the initial phase of the Rs. 50-lakh project, KMML will hand over 100 beds to the Health Department on May 3. The oxygen for the centre will be provided directly through a pipeline from the KMML oxygen plant. The distance between KMML and the school is 700 metres and at present pipe laying works are progressing. KMML will buy the required number of cots and beds from the Kerala Small Industries Development Corporation (SIDCO) and Coirfed. Oxygen supply The company's oxygen plant with a capacity of 70 tonnes a day (TPD) has been supplying oxygen to three licensed agencies as directed by the Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organisation (PESO) since its commissioning in October 2020. The plant produces six to seven tonnes of medical grade oxygen a day, which will be sufficient to meet the demands of the COVID-19 care centre. The decision to open the centre was taken at a meeting attended by representatives of the district administration, health officials and company authorities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kmml-to-set-up-special-covid-19-care-centre/article34454766.ece
01 May 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||BJYM protest||The Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) district committee organised a protest in front of the Kollam collectorate on Friday against the faulty vaccine distribution system of the State government. Yuva Morcha district general secretary Ajith Chozhathil inaugurated the protest and secretary Aneesh Jalal presided over the function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bjym-protest-against-vaccine-distribution/article34454773.ece
01 May 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Eco, waste management projects in Orthodox Church budget||The managing committee of the Malankara Orthodox Syrian Church on Thursday approved a budget of Rs. 841 crore under various schedules for the fiscal 2021-22. The budget, presented by association secretary Biju Oommen at an online meeting presided over by Baselios Mar Thoma Paulose II, gives thrust to projects for ecological conservation, waste management, and financial assistance to church members. The meeting also decided to inaugurate the year-long platinum jubilee of the canonisation of Mar Gregorious of Parumala and Mar Baselios Yeldho of Kothamanglam in November this year. The budget sets apart Rs. 10 lakh as financial assistance to the kin of economically weak church members who died of COVID-19.  Sanitiser unit It also proposes to launch a face mask/ hand sanitiser unit under the Marth Mariam Samajam at Rs. 25 lakh. A sum of Rs. 15 lakh has been allotted as uniform allowance to students who aspire to join the health sector. Sahaya Hastham, a dialysis and liver transplantation project initiated by the church, receives an allocation of Rs. 40 lakh while Rs. 25 lakh has been set apart for distribution of pension to deserving widows of the church members. Funds have also been allotted for providing educational assistance to students from poor families, construction of homes, and marriage assistance, among others. In honour of jawan Anish Thomas, a soldier who was killed in a shell attack by the Pakistan army, a fixed deposit will be opened in the name of his daughter. Funds will also be given for planting hybrid fruit saplings in the properties under the church, besides establishing a mini nature park at the Pambady Dayara. The budget also proposes to launch a mobile application for mapping the various establishments and services of the church. All metropolitans of the Orthodox church attended the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/eco-waste-management-projects-in-orthodox-church-budget/article34454764.ece
01 May 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||2,917 in Kottayam, 1,225 in Pathanamthitta||The number of COVID-19 cases continued to surge in Kottayam with 2,917 of the 10,791 samples testing positive for the viral infection. The test positivity rate has been put at 27.03%. Of the new cases, 2,903 contracted the infection through local transmission. Among local bodies, Kottayam municipality reported 303 cases, followed by Ettumanur with 131 cases. With 1,804 recoveries during the day, the district has 14,211 active cases while 58,049 are under surveillance. In Pathanamthitta, 1,225 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Friday. With 47 cases, Pathanamthitta municipality recorded the highest number of cases, followed by Thiruvalla municipality with 43 cases. The district also reported nine COVID-19 related deaths during the day. With 436 recoveries on Friday, Pathanamthitta has 10,635 active cases while 23,260 persons are under surveillance. Kollam reported 1,969 new cases and 2,124 recoveries on Friday. The new patients include 1,956 contact cases, four NRIs, five health workers, and five others who had travelled from different Sates. ( With inputs from Pathanamthitta and Kollam bureaus )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2917-in-kottayam-1225-in-pathanamthitta/article34454774.ece
01 May 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Corpn. comes up with Rs. 9-crore project to combat COVID-19||The Kozhikode Corporation has come up with a comprehensive plan to check the spread of COVID-19 in the city. Mayor Beena Philip told reporters here on Friday that a Rs. 9 crore project has been formulated to ensure the smooth functioning of ward-level rapid response teams (RRTs), first-line treatment centres (FLTCs) and domicile care centres. Under the project, all arrangements will be made at the ward-level for activities related to COVID-19. As a first step, the standing committee chairpersons, the Mayor and Deputy Mayor have been given special responsibility of a group of wards, to coordinate efforts to check the spread of the disease in the wards and to move patients to home isolation, domicile care centre or FLTC as required. One official from the Corporation has been appointed as surveillance officer in every ward. This person will be in charge of tracing contacts of patients, ensuring patients get necessary facilities, bringing any problems to the Corporation’s notice, ensuring the ‘Break the chain’ protocol is followed and coordinating the functioning of RRTs. A mobile vaccination unit of the Corporation will be active from May 1 onwards to enable the vaccination of elderly people. Three domicile care centres will be functional at Kolathara orphanage building, Cheruvannur community hall and Jinaraja School in Marad from Saturday onwards to accommodate COVID patients without symptoms, if they did not have facility for home isolation. The Corporation also plans to open a domicile care centre in every ward. The councillors have been asked to identify the infrastructure for such centres and coordinate the activities at ward-level. The Corporation is also opening a call centre from next week onwards, in association with the Indian Medical Association, to provide tele-medicine facility for COVID patients in home isolation. Earlier, an online meeting of the Corporation Council passed the Rs. 9 crore project and decided to donate Rs. 1 crore to the Chief Minister’s Distress Relief Fund.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/corpn-comes-up-with-rs-9-crore-project-to-combat-covid-19/article34454716.ece
01 May 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||As counting day nears, NoRKs are all eyes||Non-Resident Keralites (NoRKs), especially those in the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) nations, are keenly watching the developments in the State, where counting of votes to the Assembly polls will be held on Sunday. Many of them wanted to fly down to exercise their franchise but the COVID-19 surge forced them to stay back in their host countries. Like the residents in the State, they too are glued to television sets, holding weekend discussions, and talking about exit polls and the outcome of the elections in chat groups. Role of WhatsApp WhatsApp groups also enliven the discussions. “Mainly Gulf NRIs favour two types of political formations – the CPI(M)-led Left Democratic Front and the Congress-led United Democratic Front. The BJP supporters do not have much say in the Kerala polls, but they are busy raising the Sabarimala issue. As for the UDF, it is mostly the IUML that is vociferous in lively debates,” says Mohammed Hashim, a non-resident Indian in Dubai. “However, the majority of the Kerala diaspora feels that the Pinarayi Vijayan government must continue again. Possibly, his anti-CAA statement has evoked an appeal among a section. How far it will impact the result cannot be defined. Also, it is for the first time that NoRKs are discussing welfare schemes during the polls,” adds Mr. Hashim. Manoj Pillai, an NoRK in Bahrain , however, has a different opinion about the incumbent government in Kerala. “The government has always indulged in corruption and scams. At the same time, the Left government is taking credit for the schemes and funds provided by the Centre. The NoRKs will opt for a change. Maybe the BJP will win a few seats. But a change of guard is required to prevent the current government from retaining power and creating more damage for the State,” says Mr. Pillai. Online talks Harrison Morris in Saudi Arabia says groups affiliated to both the UDF and the LDF are organising online talks and analysis. “I feel the NoRKs are wholeheartedly engaging in political discussions more than in Kerala. Besides, party supporters are campaigning rigorously. The NDA is not very popular here for obvious reasons,” he adds. M.R. Rajesh, a legal advisor based in Kuwait, says NoRKs yearn for a change in the government. “We are surprised with the opinion and exit polls,” he adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/as-counting-day-nears-norks-are-all-eyes/article34454707.ece
01 May 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||How Priyadarshan discovered K.V. Anand||Priyadarshan was in a spot of bother. There was barely a month before the shoot of his new film began, but he did not have a cinematographer. He was planning to give the job to P.C. Sreeram, who, however, had taken up a Mani Ratnam film. He then tried Venu, who too was unavailable. Sreeram, though, came up with a suggestion. He recommended an assistant of his, named K.V. Anand. “I had met Anand when he came to the set of my Tamil film Gopura Vasalile , which was shot by Sreeram,” Priyadarshan told The Hindu over phone from Chennai on Friday. “He was a still photographer then and wanted to learn cinematography from Sreeram. When he asked me to try Anand out, I did.” Priyadarshan called up his friend Suresh Kumar, who was producing Kashmeeram , and requested him to let Anand shoot a few sequences. The result was spectacular. Anand was thus signed up as the cinematographer of Thenmavin Kombathu. The beautiful frames of the Mohanlal-starrer caught the eye straight away, back in 1994. Pollachi had rarely looked prettier. Neither had Shobana, the winner of the national award for the best actress that year. Laurels “I remember several colleagues calling me up after watching Thenmavin Kombathu to talk about its cinematography,” says Priyadarshan. “Balu Mahendra told me that he had never seen a camera work like that before and Mani Ratnam said few outdoor sequences looked as beautiful.” Anand’s outstanding work received the official stamp too: he won the national award for the best cinematography. He went on to work with Priyadarashan in films such as Minnaram, Chandralekha and Doli Saja Ke Rakhna . The director says Indian cinema lost one of its most talented cinematographers with the death of Anand. The cinematographer-turned-director passed away in Chennai on Friday at the age of 54, following a cardiac arrest. “It is such a tragedy, just like the premature death of Jeeva, another talented cinematographer I introduced to movies,” says Priyadarshan. “Like Anand, he too had died of cardiac arrest.” Cinematographer Manoj Pillai remembers watching Thenmavin Kombathu and being blown away by its visual beauty. “I thought Anand’s camera was brilliant in that film,” he says. “I have always admired his talent, especially the way he lit up the scenes and used the skin tones.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/how-priyadarshan-discovered-kv-anand/article34454784.ece
01 May 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Exclusive control room for migrant workers opens||With an aim to prevent the exodus of migrant labourers from Kozhikode, the Labour Department has opened an exclusive control room at its district office that will deal with workers’ vaccination and treatment needs, and provide quarantine support. Officials experienced in handling various languages are part of the special control room (04952-370538/8547655275) set up to offer quick solutions on call. Though the majority of workers in the unorganised sector have already gone back to their home States amid the spread of COVID-19, many are still staying back with the support of their employers and the Labour Department. These workers will be offered all field-level assistance to combat the pandemic and stay healthy. There are approximately 18,000 such labourers in Kozhikode district who are covered by various government schemes and welfare initiatives. Subsequent to the latest instructions from the State government, the Labour Department has submitted a fresh list of facilities and services needed to take care of migrant labourers. Once approved, there will be exclusive first-line treatment centres and quarantine facilities for the workers. Efforts are also on to look into their food and accommodation requirements, if any, in case of a lockdown. “As the large-scale return of migrant workers may create a standstill in the construction sector, we are doing everything possible on our part to improve their security here. Anyone can make use of the available control room services to seek support for them,” said District Labour Officer (Enforcement) V.T. Sivaraman. He added that there would be exclusive vaccination drives for the workers. The support of the local police and people’s representatives will also be sought to ensure proper monitoring of migrant workers’ camps in various parts of the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/exclusive-control-room-for-migrant-workers-opens/article34454719.ece
01 May 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Vehicle checks to track pleasure riders||The police on Friday swung into an uncompromising enforcement action by putting up barricades in 34 selected locations within the Kozhikode city to screen out motorists who defied the COVID-19 protocol and allegedly attempted pleasure rides. The squad impounded 15 such vehicles and charged the drivers under various Sections of the Epidemic Diseases Act and the IPC. Police officers, who coordinated the checking drive, said there were 36 jeep patrol squads and 44 bike patrol squads to assist the special drive which would be continued in the days to come. The location of the barricades would be changed on a regular basis to ensure stringent action, they said. A senior officer, who coordinated the drive, said many motorists were found behaving very casually when they were stopped for various safety protocol violations. “Within the last 24 hours, over 15,000 vehicles were inspected. Of this, 3,331 persons were found violating various safety guidelines. Other 4,277 persons were warned for not complying with the existing traffic regulations in view of the pandemic threat,” he said. According to patrol squad members, there were 969 drivers, who did not even care to wear the masks properly. Fines were collected on the spot from 582 persons. Others were served notice to pay it in the court. The checking was carried out simultaneously at various points without interrupting the traffic flow.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vehicle-checks-to-track-pleasure-riders/article34454720.ece
01 May 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Tight security in north Kerala||Security has been beefed up in north Kerala in view of the counting of votes of the Assembly polls on Sunday. The deployment of the police along with armed battalions has been finalised in politically and communally sensitive areas, especially in Kozhikode rural and Kannur district. This follows an intelligence input that some regions could witness severe post-poll violence after the election results are out on Sunday. Already, Section 144 of the CrPC and sections of the Kerala Police Act have been imposed in most of the districts in Malabar to curb the COVID-19 spread. “A three-layer arrangement has been finalised at the counting centres,” Ashok Yadav, IGP, North Zone, told The Hindu on Friday. He said that the forces would be deployed inside the counting hall, the periphery of the counting centre and outside the designated venue. The usual gathering outside the counting centres would not be allowed, Mr. Yadav said. The IGP also said that around 400 pickets, 150 mobile patrols, 90 bike patrols in the northern districts. Strike forces would be attached at Station House Officer, DySP and SP levels. Additional manpower would be deployed in sensitive regions, he said. In Kozhikode, the police have identified almost all the Assembly segments in Vadakara taluk as sensitive. They include the constituencies of Vadakara, Nadapuram, Kuttiyadi, and Perambra. In the 2020 polls, Balussery witnessed clashes between Congress and CPI(M) workers. In Koothuparamba in Kannur district, an IUML worker was hacked to death allegedly by CPI(M) workers in connection with the post-poll violence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-throw-security-blanket-over-north-kerala/article34454709.ece
01 May 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||War memorial yet to be made a reality||Military veterans’ call for building a war memorial within the Kozhikode city limits is yet to become a reality with the delay in identifying a suitable patch of land. For over three years, ex-servicemen and their associations have been after various departments and the district administration to accomplish their dream and pay obeisance to martyrs on important occasions. Veterans who campaign for the demand say there are about 30 soldiers from various parts of Kozhikode district who have sacrificed their lives for the country in various armed conflicts. Apart from this, there are nearly 15,000 ex-servicemen, 3,000 widows and thousands of soldiers who have taken part in various wars for the country. A district-level memorial will certainly be an honour for them, they point out. “Only five cents, preferably on the Kozhikode beach area, is required to start the construction work. Our city corporation can definitely help us realise this dream. It is even possible for the district panchayat to bear the rest of the construction expenses,” says R.K. Nair, director, Calicut Sainik Welfare Trust. He points out that many other districts have already come up with such memorials paying tribute to soldiers. According to Col. (Rtd) Nair, veterans are now forced to arrange commemoration events in front of small columns or temporarily erected structures in the absence of a district-level monument. “It should change. If interested, the district administration can take the memorial constructed in Malappuram as a model,” he adds. It was on March 4, 2019 that a district-level veterans’ committee led by Brigadier (Rtd) P.T. Gangadharan took up the project with the district administration. The committee had also designated Colonel (Rtd) P. Mohandas as representative of the committee to be present in official discussions. The estimated cost of the project apart from the land cost was then Rs. 50 lakh. Though there were initially proposals from administrators to construct it in a village area, it was opposed by the majority of veterans citing access issues. Members of the Sainik Welfare Trust and various military veterans’ associations in the district point out that the opening of a district-level memorial will help the public easily pay homage to late soldiers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/war-memorial-yet-to-be-made-a-reality/article34454713.ece
01 May 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Officials ordered to collect oxygen cylinders of industries||District Collector S.Sambasiva Rao has directed village officers to collect oxygen cylinders used for industrial purposes and deposit them at the warehouse of the Kerala Medical Corporation at the earliest. This is to overcome the crisis that may arise at the FLTCs and CFLTCs in the district due to the shortage of oxygen. The village officers will collect the oxygen cylinders with the help of officials in the industries department and tahsildars will lead the operation. A special squad has been formed under Additional District Magistrate N.Premachandran for the purpose. Meanwhile, 4,915 new COVID-19 cases were reported in the district on Friday. District Medical Officer V.Jayashree said that four of the new patients had returned from foreign countries recently while 17 were from other States. The source was unknown in 177 cases while 4,717 had got infected through local transmission. 2,013 recover At the same time, 2,013 people, who had been under treatment for COVID, had been cured and discharged. At present, there were 42.815 COVID patients in the district. There are 97,188 people under observation. Meanwhile, 19,123 samples were sent for testing on Friday. The test positivity rate was 27.05%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/officials-ordered-to-collect-oxygen-cylinders-of-industries/article34454714.ece
01 May 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Steps in place for counting of votes||The anxious wait for the result of the high stakes battle for Pathanamthitta, fought across five Assembly segments, is finally set to be over. With just a couple of days left for the counting of votes, the authorities have completed arrangements at the five counting centres here. According to officials, the counting tables at the centres have been arranged in line with the COVID-19 protocol. The process will begin at 8 a.m on Sunday with the counting of postal ballots. Only persons who have completed the two-dose vaccination or underwent RT-PCR or antigen tests will be permitted to these centres. The votes polled in the Thiruvalla Assembly segment will be counted at Mar Thoma Residential School at Kuttambuzha. The votes polled in EVMs will be counted in 16 rounds across 20 tables while seven tables have been set apart for postal votes. In Ranni, where the votes are slated to be counted at St.Thomas College, votes in EVMs will be counted in 19 rounds across 15 tables while the postal votes will be counted across five tables. The votes polled in Konni will be counted at the Musaliyar Engineering College, Malayalappuzha, in 19 rounds across 15 tables. The counting of votes in Aranmula will be held at Mount Bethani Public School at Kumbazha across 18 tables in 19 rounds. The counting centre for Adoor, set up at Tapovan Public School at Manakkala, will have 15 tables for counting the EVM votes in 21 rounds, besides five tables for postal ballots. As part of ensuring the COVID-19 guidelines, District Collector Narasimhugari Tej Lohit Reddy on Thursday convened a meeting of political party representatives online. District Police Chief R.Nishanthini was present. Net connectivity To ensure internet connectivity at the counting centres, the Collector has banned digging of public roads till the completion of the counting process. The action followed a complaint lodged by the BSNL against road digging works, which caused connectivity disruptions. Those violating this order will be prosecuted under IPC Sections 188 and the RP Act 1951. Meanwhile, the Election Commission of India has appointed five observers for monitoring the counting process in each of the Assembly segments in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/steps-in-place-for-counting-of-votes/article34454763.ece
01 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Vaccination slow in tribal areas||COVID-19 vaccination in tribal settlements in the district has been slow off the blocks. Only around 400 of the 23,000 tribespeople in the district have been vaccinated so far, as per Tribal and Health Department officials. They have now urged the District Collector and the District Medical Officer to intervene urgently to speed up the vaccination for the tribespeople. The spread of COVID-19 in society has also seen tribespeople get exposed to the disease. Vithura, Kuttichal, and Peringamala panchayats have been reporting an increase in COVID-19 cases among tribespeople. With fairly comprehensive testing under way in the tribal areas, nearly 30 to 40 tribespeople are testing positive every day, say officials. Department officials say there is little facility in some settlements for tribespeople to isolate themselves, thus heightening the possibility of local transmission. Four members of a family in Aamala settlement tested positive recently. Tribal promoters familiar with families help ascertain who all need to go into quarantine or isolation or require a visit to the hospital. Facilities With hospitals likely to be stretched to capacity soon, officials point to the need for COVID-19 first-line treatment centres (FLTC) to prove medical care to the tribespeople. Accordingly, steps are under way to start an FLTC at a CBSE school in Peringamala. The Vithura panchayat has also decided to convert the Thalathuthakavu Lower Primary School inside a settlement into an FLTC. Tribal promoters say many of the tribespeople, especially the older generation, feel that because they live inside the forests, they are safe from COVID-19. However, because they travel outside for work, they are vulnerable to the infection. Vaccination camps were held initially in a few centres in the tribal areas. The response that was poor initially and picked up somewhat only after a lot of effort. However, since the launch of the online registration and the subsequent vaccine shortage, the camps have come to a halt. Now, promoters have to register the names of tribespeople online and arrange vehicles to transport them to the primary or community health centres for the vaccination. The cost involved, especially if the tribespeople belong to remote settlements, is substantial, not to mention the time and effort. Only a few are able to get vaccinated in a day. Some of them get vaccinated in hospitals when they travel to urban areas. Also, not all public health institutions administer vaccines every day owing to vaccine shortage. Vaccinations conducted at an easily accessible location near the settlements will help vaccinate more people, say the promoters. District Collector Navjot Khosa, however, says no such inference can be made about the pace of vaccinations in the tribal areas, as calculations are made on the basis of people vaccinated in a PHC. The mobilisation of tribespeople for the vaccinations has been good and vaccine hesitancy has been less. Vaccination has been going on uninterrupted; tribespeople can walk into PHCs or CHCs at a given time and get vaccinated. The efforts will continue so that they can get the shots faster. Plans are under way to administer them the second doses too, says the Collector.  District Collector and the District Medical Officer told to speed up the process||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vaccination-slow-in-tribal-areas/article34455279.ece
01 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||18 more deaths in capital district||The COVID-19 death toll in the district continued to grow alarmingly as 18 recent deaths were attributed to the deadly disease on Friday. The pandemic has claimed 989 lives in Thiruvananthapuram district so far, the highest in the State. Kozhikode and Thrissur followed with 615 and 576 deaths respectively. The case fatality ratio, which stood at 0.68, also remained higher than State average (hovering around 0.4). The deaths of 12 women with ages ranging from 36 to 80, and six men aged between 50 and 89 had taken place between April 26 and 28. The district’s COVID-19 caseload went up by 3,535 to reach 24,919 on the day, even while 1,602 people recovered from the illness. The test positivity rate stood at 21.6. As many as 67,986 people were currently under quarantine here. The ongoing vaccination drive has been suspended for two days until Sunday. On Friday, as many as 18,446 people were vaccinated across the district. These included 2,979 who were administered vaccine at the Jimmy George indoor stadium. Among those who were vaccinated on the day, 17,298 people were administered Covishield, and the rest got Covaxin. The district authorities has established 37 domiciliary care centres (DCCs), 17 COVID-19 first-line treatment centres (FLTCs) and 16 COVID-19 second-line treatment centres (SLTCs). The number of DCCs went up within a few days with the administration arranging 2,010 beds in these centres meant for accommodating asymptomatic COVID-19 patients who did not have adequate facilities for home quarantine. There were also 1,851 beds and 1,171 beds in FLTCs and SLTCs respectively. Details regarding occupancy in FLTCs will be regularly updated by the District Programme Management Support Unit, following which the details will be uploaded on the COVID-19 Jagratha portal.  COVID-19 facilities In SLTCs, 392 beds were occupied. As many as 149 beds have been identified in peripheral institutions including Neyyattinkara General Hospital and Nedumangad District Hospital. A total of 225 beds were currently earmarked for COVID-19 treatment currently and 80 more beds will be readied in the days to come. While around 75 beds were equipped with oxygen facilities, steps were afoot to ensure all beds had the required facility. While the Government Medical College Hospital had 736 COVID-19 beds, this will increase to 1,000 in a few days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/18-more-deaths-in-capital-district/article34455288.ece
01 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||1 lakh more active cases in 5 days||Kerala’s COVID-19 graph seemed a bit sluggish and while the daily new cases did not go up on Friday, there was no reduction in cases either . The State added 37,199 new cases to its tally on Friday when 1,49,487 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The average test positivity rate (TPR) in the State now seems to have stabilised around 25% for the past three to four days and registered 24.88% on Friday. The active case pool of the State, which had climbed rapidly over the past one week, crossed the three lakh mark, with 3,03,733 patients. The last one lakh cases were added to the active case pool in a space of just five days. The number of COVID patients currently being treated in hospitals in the State seems to have shown a slight dip, at 23,826 patients. However, daily hospitalisation number went up on Friday, with 5,206 patients being admitted in hospitals across the State. At present, a total of 6,19,703 persons have been put on home or institutional isolation in the State. On Friday, 17,500 patients recovered and were discharged from hospitals, a reflection of the State’s new policy. It is becoming evident over the past four days that it is perhaps the new and revised discharge policy of the State which could finally be helping the State manage patients within its surge capacity. The total recoveries till date is 12,61,801. On Friday, Kerala has 1,690 critically ill patients who are being cared for in ICUs, while those requiring ventilator assistance has risen to 613. The cumulative case burden now stands at 15,71,183 cases. 49 deaths On Friday, the State added 49 new deaths to its toll, taking the cumulative fatalities in the State to 5,308 deaths. This included 18 deaths in Thiruvananthapuram between April 22-28, Ernakulam and Kozhikode seven each, Kannur six, Thrissur four, Kottayam three, Kollam two while one death each was reported from Pathanamthitta and Wayanad. The active case pool in Ernakulam has the highest number of patients at 49,857. However, the number hospitalised is 3,043. Thiruvananthapuram despite having about half the number of active cases as Ernakulam, at 24,919 cases, has the highest number of patients in hospitals at 3,246. Kozhikode reported the highest number of new cases with 4,915, Ernakulam 4,642, Thrissur 4,281, Malappuram 3,945, Thiruvananthapuram 3,535, Kottayam 2,917, Kannur 2,482, Palakkad 2,273, Alappuzha 2,224, Kollam 1,969, Idukki 1,235, Pathanamthitta 1,225, Kasaragod 813, and Wayanad 743 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1-lakh-more-active-cases-in-5-days/article34454791.ece
01 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||An engrossing wait ends tomorrow||Kerala’s preoccupying wait amid a harrowing pandemic for the results of the 2021 Assembly elections would climax on counting day on Sunday. Multiple exit poll projections aired on television channels on Friday seemed to whet the public’s anticipation of the outcome of the polls. A majority of the pollsters have accorded the ruling Left Democratic Front (LDF) a definite edge over the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) Opposition. Some have predicted a close race. The major coalitions, including the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA), seemed cautious about publicly interpreting pollster data. Voting pattern Nevertheless, politicians privately expressed concern about some pollsters reporting an asymmetrical voting pattern in scores of constituencies. “If true, it meant last-minute shifts in voter behaviour,” a politician said. The spectre of cross-voting has inserted an element of uncertainness into poll calculations. It seemed to worry opposing fronts in varying degrees. The major coalitions reacted differently to the exit poll predictions. Left Democratic Front (LDF) convener A. Vijayaraghavan refused to hazard a guess on the ruling front’s seat tally. Public opinion favoured continuity of governance. The “absence” of an anti-incumbency sentiment had advantaged the LDF. Voters have seen through the lies and deceptions of the Congress and BJP, he claimed. Oppn. confident Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala said Sunday’s results would spell the end of the Pinarayi Vijayan government. “A defeated Chief Minister is in denial,” he said on Friday. Mr. Chennithala said voters had dashed poll predictions in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. They gave 19 out of the 20 seats to the UDF. Exit polls were, at best, superficial. They did not have the reliability of the booth-level forecasts forwarded to the leadership by UDF agents. Internal reports indicated a UDF sweep, he said. BJP’s stance BJP leaders appeared to view the exit polls with a measure of smugness. Several pollsters had predicted the BJP would increase its seats in the Assembly. More importantly, some pollsters posited the results would cement BJP’s emergence as an increasingly decisive third force in Kerala politics. BJP State vice president A. N. Radhakrishnan said the exit polls “clearly indicated” the NDA's ascendancy in Kerala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/an-engrossing-wait-ends-tomorrow/article34454787.ece
01 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||50% hospital beds for COVID patients||The government, in an attempt to deal with the extraordinary situation, has issued orders earmarking 50% of the hospital beds in both government and private hospitals, cooperative and ESI hospitals, exclusively for COVID care. The order, issued by the Chief Secretary, in his capacity as the chairman of the State Disaster Management Authority, says that with increasing number of COVID patients requiring hospitalisation, more resources in both public and private sector will have to be allocated for COVID care. The order directs that hospitals treating COVID patients should minimise the hospitalisation of elective cases and non-serious non-COVID cases. However, emergency non-COVID cases should be taken care of as is usually done. The district disaster management authorities (DDMAs) will manage the allotment of hospital beds to COVID-19 patients in 25% of the total hospital beds in both government and private sector, with the help of District Programme Monitoring and Support Units. The order further says that the DDMAs will appoint incident commanders in all major hospitals. This arrangement will be in force till the State tides over the COVID-19 situation and the situation returns to normalcy, the order states.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/50-hospital-beds-for-covid-patients/article34454789.ece
01 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||More weekly markets being planned||In August last year, the Agriculture Department experimented with a weekly, roadside vegetable market in the capital city as part of finding dedicated markets for farmers from the rural areas and guaranteeing farm-fresh produce to city residents. The concept quickly caught on, and around 90 such markets are now active in the district. The first weekly outlet was organised on the Kowdiar-Kuravankonam road in the capital city, but it travelled fast to the panchayats, Agriculture Department officials said. Initially organised under the banner of the Subhiksha Keralam food security programme and Jeevani initiative, the weekly markets are now promoted under the banner of Kerala Farm Fresh Fruits and Vegetables. Apart from fruits and vegetables, the markets also sell value-added products from agricultural produce. A shadow The second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic and consequent tightening of restrictions are, however, casting a shadow on this arrangement. The markets—organised once a week—continue to operate adhering to health guidelines, but temporary disruptions are becoming common with the spike in COVID-19 cases. The Sunday market at Karakulam, for instance, was halted due to the restrictions. But as many of these markets are organised with the help of residents associations, options exist for advance bookings of vegetables and fruits, which help to avoid crowds at the outlets. “So far, the weekly markets have experienced only temporary disruptions. The response from the public has, on the other hand, been tremendous. We had started the weekly markets through the department’s Ecoshops, and Kudumbashree, in the city areas. Now we have in all, around 90, across the district. In the city areas, vegetables and fruits are brought in from the rural areas by farmer groups. In the panchayats, the markets are organised locally,” Principal Agricultural Officer (Thiruvananthapuram) George Alexander says. The response to a ‘farmer’s market’ organised on the Kowdiar-Kuravankonam road in August last year had encouraged the department to make the street markets a regular feature.Thrilled by the response, the department has drawn up plans to open more outlets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/more-weekly-markets-being-planned/article34455282.ece
01 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Tight security cover in city||The capital district is set to come under a tight security blanket with just a day left for the counting of votes for the Assembly polls. With Thiruvananthapuram witnessing stiff electoral battles in many constituencies, the police are striving to ensure peace. The worrying situation has necessitated strict adherence to pandemic norms. The City police will deploy 1,400 personnel across the capital with 500 of them posted at the five counting stations alone. While a bulk will be stationed at the Mar Ivanios Vidya Nagar where the counting of votes in 10 constituencies will take place, others will be positioned at the other four counting centres at St. Mary’s School, Pattom; Government GHSS, Cotton Hill; Loyola School, Sreekaryam; and Government Girls HSS, Manacaud. Polling officials, candidates, agents of political parties, and others will be permitted to the counting centres only after a thorough screening. The police will enforce the ban of celebratory processions. In rural areas In the city outskirts and rural areas, the Thiruvananthapuram Rural police will deploy nearly 1,350 personnel. The security scheme has been divided into five sub-divisions — Attingal, Varkala, Neyyattinkara, Nedumangad and Kattakada —each of which will be headed by Deputy Superintendents of Police. Each police station will have three mobile patrol and one bike patrol teams.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tight-security-cover-in-city/article34455289.ece
01 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||No change in deferred salary payment: Isaac||Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac has said that the government will disburse the first instalment of one month’s salary deducted from the government employees and teachers last year after the salary bills are cleared by the treasury in May. “There is no change in the decision announced by the government to pay the deferred salary in five instalments. The first instalment will be given after the salary for April is disbursed,” Dr. Issac said here on Friday. Six days salary of the government employees and teachers were deducted for five months from April to August last year to meet the expenses for the State’s fight against COVID-19. Initially, it was decided to merge the deferred salary in the Provident Fund of the employees, but later it was decided to give it in five instalments along with the salary of April. The Finance Minister said the treasury was not able to disburse the first instalment of the deferred salary along with the salary for April. During the last two months, the officials have been very busy shifting the treasury systems to the new server. Union’s request Dr. Isaac said those government employees and teachers interested would also have the opportunity to contribute the first instalment of the deferred salary to the Chief Minister's Disaster Relief Fund (CMDRF). The NGO union had requested the government to allow the employees and teachers the option of donate the deferred salary instalments to the CMDRF.  Six days’ salary of govt. staff, teachers deducted from April to August last year to meet the expenses for COVID-19 battle||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-change-in-deferred-salary-payment-isaac/article34454782.ece
01 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Poll results likely to see a slight delay||While clear indications of the winners of the April 6 Assembly elections are expected by Sunday afternoon, the official declaration of the results is likely to be slightly delayed. Election officials say they are hopeful of coming out with the results by 9 p.m.-10 p.m. on Sunday, but everything depends on the progress made in the counting of the postal ballots. The Election Commission of India had distributed 5,84,238 postal ballots to various voter categories. Till April 28, as many as 4,54,237 of the ballots had been returned to the commission. The counting of the postal ballots will start at 8 a.m. on Sunday, and that of the votes polled in the EVMs, half an hour later. The final two rounds of EVM votes will be counted only after the postal ballots are fully counted. Of the total electorate of 2,74,46,039 in the State, 2,03,27,893 had exercised their franchise at the polling booths on April 6.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/poll-results-delay-likely/article34454769.ece
01 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CM puts labs on notice||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Friday put private hospitals and diagnostic clinics on notice that they would face prosecution if they charged excess from citizens for the RT-PCR test for detecting COVID-19 infection quickly. Mr. Vijayan said the government had set the rate for the test at Rs. 500. It had fixed the cost for the test after studying the current market price of RT-PCR field test kits. However, the government had received petitions that some private labs and hospitals charged up to Rs. 1,500 and above for a test despite the government order. The administration would crack down on the malpractice, Mr. Vijayan said. The RT-PCR test was currently a prerequisite for air travel and various other necessities, including journeying across State borders. Moreover, Congress legislators Shafi Parambil and K.S. Sabarinathan had moved the High Court to prevent private entities from exacting a high cost from the public for conducting COVID-19 diagnostic test. They alleged in their petitions that private hospitals and diagnostic laboratories routinely charged up to Rs. 1,700 for an RT-PCR test that cost less than Rs. 300. Similarly they exacted Rs. 600 for antigen tests that cost less than Rs. 125.  The Health Department has communicated the government’s decision to players in the medical sector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-puts-labs-on-notice/article34454768.ece
01 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Bed capacity in private hospitals to be increased||The Association of Healthcare Providers (India) (AHPI), Thiruvananthapuram chapter, on Friday announced plans to increase the total bed capacity for category ‘B’ and ‘C’ COVID-19 patients in member hospitals in the city by another 370 beds. The decision was taken at an emergency COVID-19 crisis management meeting of the AHPI chapter in view of the sharp rise in cases. “The main issue in Thiruvananthapuram hospitals is the rapid increase in category B and C patients. Category B patients will require oxygen support while category C patients need critical care and even ventilation,” the AHPI said. The committee will work with NGOs, citizen groups and the government. Stretched facilities “Doctors, nurses and paramedical staff have been allocated specifically for COVID-19 duty and hospital operations including surgeries have been separated to avoid cross contamination,” the association noted. At present, all beds equipped with oxygen supplies and critical care beds are full in all hospitals and there are more people waiting for care.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bed-capacity-in-private-hospitals-to-be-increased/article34455290.ece
01 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Plus Two papers valuation postponed||The valuation of Plus Two higher secondary theory papers, scheduled to begin on May 5, has been postponed. The decision comes in the wake of the week-long restrictions to come into effect here on May 4 to contain the COVID-19 surge. The curb on non-essential travel will make it difficult for teachers to reach the valuations camps. New date will be announced later, after a review of the situation when the restrictions end. The valuation was scheduled to be held at 79 centres. Fifteen working days would be enough to complete the valuation, Secretary of the Board of Higher Secondary Examinations said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/plus-two-papers-valuation-postponed/article34455280.ece
01 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Bank hours to change from May 4 to 9||The business hours of banks in the State have been reduced from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. from May 4 to 9. Staff will stay back till 2 p.m. for the bank’s internal work. The change is based on a decision of the State Level Bankers Committee sub-committee meeting with the Reserve Bank of India, member banks, and other stakeholders here on Thursday. Pension norm Since the first week of May is pension payment week, it has been decided to stagger the disbursal of pension payments. Pension account holders with account numbers of last digit 0 and 1 will get pension on May 3 from the bank branches, 2 and 3 on May 4, 4 and 5 on May 5, 6 and 7 on May 6, 8 and 9 on May 7.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bank-hours-to-change-from-may-4-to-9/article34454781.ece
01 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Man sentenced to life for raping minor||The Thiruvananthapuram Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) court on Friday sentenced a man accused of raping a minor multiple times to life imprisonment, besides imposing a fine of Rs. 1 lakh. The 40-year-old man was found guilty of raping his cousin brother’s daughter, then aged six years, in October 2010. The case was probed by a team led by Medical College Circle Inspector Syamlal and Thumba Sub-Inspector N. Shibu. The convict used to induce the victim to come to his house, where he gave her sweets and sexually abused her. He then threatened heragainst telling her mother.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-sentenced-to-life-for-raping-minor/article34455281.ece
01 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Four arrested in Sreekaryam murder attempt case||The Sreekaryam police arrested four people on Friday in connection with the brutal attack on a 27-year-old person two days ago. They were Sumesh, 28, of Madathunada; Manoj alias Bakery Manoj, 40, of Chencheri; Vinukumar, 43, of Chettivilakam; and Ananthu M.S., 30, of Pathirappally.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/four-arrested-in-sreekaryam-murder-attempt-case/article34455285.ece
01 May 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||No let-up in number of cases in Thrissur||There is no let up in the number of COVID-19 cases in Thrissur. The district recorded 4,281 positive cases on Friday and 1,283 people recovered from the disease. The test positivity rate of the district is 28.32%. A vast portion of the district has been declared a containment zone. Active cases in the district is 31,319 and 110 people from the district are undergoing treatment in various other districts. So far 1,47,993 COVID-19 cases have been reported from the district and 1,15,975 people have recovered. According to the official statistics, 4,233 people, including 15 health workers, contracted the disease through local contact on Friday. Of them, 525 people are above the age of 60 and 268 children are below the age of 10. In all, 24,517 people are under home care. As many as 15,115 samples were taken for the test on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-let-up-in-number-of-cases-in-thrissur/article34455240.ece
01 May 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Two accused in black money robbery case held||The police on Friday arrested from Kannur two key accused in the hawala money robbery case at Kodakara. The arrested, Mohammed Ali and Abdul Rasheed, are being interrogated, the police said. It is reported that Abdul Rasheed leaked information about the hawala money deal to the gang of robbers. Both the accused got Rs. 5 lakh each as reward. The police found that they made money deals worth Rs. 45 lakh after the robbery. Complaint According to a complaint lodged by Shamjeer Shamsudheen, 37, of Kozhikode, with the Kodakara police, a gang waylaid him at the Kodakara flyover and robbed him of Rs. 25 lakh and his car while he was on his way from Kozhikode to Kochi on April 3. The car was later recovered from West Fort. Though the complainant mentioned robbery of Rs. 25 lakh, the police later found that the money involved was much more and arrested nine people. They recovered Rs. 23.3 lakh, 24 g of gold, and receipt of loan repayment certificate at a bank worth Rs. 6 lakh from one of the nine accused. Election process There were allegations that the money was meant for sabotaging the election process. Though the CPI(M) and the Congress had alleged a BJP link to the incident, the police gave hints about the connection only on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-accused-in-black-money-robbery-case-held/article34454780.ece
01 May 2021||May 01 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Beyond law-keeping||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/beyond-law-keeping/article34455284.ece
01 May 2021||May 01 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Awaiting jab||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/awaiting-jab/article34454777.ece
01 May 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Anantapur gearing up to tackle any eventuality||The Anantapur district administration on Friday put in place all the arrangements to tackle any eventuality that might arise in the days to come with the district recording the highest-ever single-day COVID-19 tally of 1,882, the third highest in the State after Guntur and Chittoor. The district had logged 1,536 cases on Thursday and 1,291 cases on Wednesday. In Kurnool district, the number of positive cases remained below 1,000. The district clocked 967 cases in the 24 hours ending Friday morning. The death toll reached 661 in Anantapur district with five more succumbing to the virus on Friday. Seven deaths each were reported on Thursday and Wednesday. In Kurnool district, the cumulative toll remained at 548, which included four recorded on Friday. District Collector Gandham Chandrudu and Joint Collector A. Siri appealed to the people’s representatives to actively participate in the COVID-19 mitigation activities and enthuse the employees. “We can fight the virus with the cooperation of one and all, including the people’s representatives,” the District Collector said in a teleconference with the Mayor, Municipal Chairpersons and Municipal Commissioners of all the ULBs. The Joint Collector, Revenue, visited the COVID-19 wards in the GGH and a COVID Care Centre in the Polytechnic College. Meanwhile, a new wing was readied with oxygen-equipped beds in the cancer hospital. Following a complaint lodged by Anantapur Urban MLA Anantha Venkatarami Reddy, the parking lots at the GGH and Super Speciality Hospital were moved out of the hospital premises. Tents were put up there for the benefit of the relatives of COVID-19 patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/anantapur-gearing-up-to-tackle-any-eventuality/article34455215.ece
01 May 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||MRO, VRO in ACB trap||The Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) sleuths led by Deputy Superintendent of Police Kulasekhar Reddy trapped Mudigubba Tahsildar (MRO) K. Anwar Hussain and Village Revenue Officer (VRO) S. Chandrasekhar Reddy when they were accepting a bribe of Rs. 2 lakh from one M. Gopal Naik for making online entries in the 1B Adangal. Acting on the complaint lodged by Mr. Gopal Naik from Ralla Anantapuramu village, the ACB officials laid a trap and sent Mr. Naik with Rs. 2 lakh to be handed over to the VRO as per the instructions of the Tahsildar. At the time of handing over the money, Tahsildar was not present in the office and the VRO received the cash. The ACB sleuths seized the amount and arrested the VRO. Later, they recovered the file related to the 1B Adangal entry request from the Tahsildar and arrested him too. Both the accused were produced before the Special ACB Court in Kurnool.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mro-vro-in-acb-trap/article34455216.ece
01 May 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Karnataka’s toll up by 217, new cases cross 48,000||Kerala added 37,199 new cases of COVID-19 on Friday, testing 1,49,487 samples. The average TPR was 24.88% on Friday. The active case pool of the State, which climbed rapidly over the past one week, crossed the three lakh mark, with 3,03,733 patients. The last one lakh cases were added to the active case pool in a space of just five days. At present, a total of 6,19,703 persons have been put on home or institutional isolation in the State. On Friday, 17,500 patients were declared to have recovered and were let off from hospitals, a reflection of the State’s new discharge policy. It is becoming evident over the past four days that it is perhaps the new and revised discharge policy of the State which could finally be helping the State manage patients within its surge capacity The State added 49 new deaths, 18 from Thiruvananthapuram, while Ernakulam and Kozhikode added seven each, Kannur six, Thrissur four, Kottayam three, Kollam two and one death each was reported from Pathanamthitta and Wayanad. Night curfew was extended till May 8 in Telangana. Night curfew will be in force from 9 p.m. to 5 a.m. and it is mandatory for all the offices, firms, shops, establishments, restaurants and others to close down by 8 p.m. during the night curfew days. Hospitals, diagnostic labs, pharmacies and those dealing with supply of essential services have been exempt from the restrictions. Public transport services, including autos and taxis, would be allowed to function within the stipulated time for transportation of the categories of persons like patients and pregnant women during night curfew. The State’s TPR on Thursday was 9.92% with 7,646 positive cases. A total of 77,091 samples were tested, and 53 deaths were reported. Andhra Pradesh added 17,354 infections on Friday and 64 patients died. The cumulative tally reached 11,01,690 and nearly two lakh cases were reported in the past month. There were 1,22,980 active cases and 8,468 patients have recovered in the past day. On Friday, 86,494 samples registered a TPR of 20.06%. Meanwhile, Tamil Nadu added 18,692 more cases of COVID-19 on Friday, taking its tally to 11,66,756. Another 113 people succumbed to the infection, taking the toll to 14,046. Active cases touched 1,15,128. As many as 16,007 people were discharged after treatment, taking the total figure to 10,37,582. In Chennai, 5,473 people tested positive for the infection, taking the tally to 31,222. As many as 5,327 people were discharged in the district after treatment. It also logged 42 fatalities.  (With inputs from Hyderabad, Vijayawada, and Chennai bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/karnatakas-toll-up-by-217-new-cases-cross-48000/article34454520.ece
01 May 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cong. wins in 6 urban local bodies in Karnataka, JD(S) in two, BJP in 1||The Opposition Congress has registered a spectacular victory in the elections held to 10 urban local bodies (ULBs) in Karnataka by securing a majority of the seats in six ULBs, including the Ballari City Corporation, while the JD(S) managed to bag two ULBs. The ruling BJP performed poorly by securing victory only in the Madikeri City Municipal Council (CMC). No party secured a majority of seats in the Bidar CMC. The Congress emerged as the single-largest party by winning 15 wards out of the 33 in Bidar. In the elections held to 263 wards, the Congress emerged victorious in 120 wards, the JD(S) in 66, and the BJP in 57. Others won in 20 wards. It is argued that bad handling of the COVID-19 pandemic by the BJP government and increased sufferings of the people in urban areas owing to State road transport corporation employees’ strike in the run-up to the campaign were the major reasons for the setback to the ruling party in the elections, which were held on April 27, in the middle of the pandemic. The BJP lost two ULBs of Bhadravati and Thirthahalli in Shivamogga, the home district of Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K.S. Eshwarappa. The Congress secured power in the Ballari City Corporation, CMCs of Ramanagaram and Bhadravati; town municipal council of Belur in Hassan district, and town panchayats of Thirthahalli and Gudibande (Chickballapur district). Victory in the Ramanagaram CMC seems to indicate the popularity of KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar and his brother and MP D.K. Suresh in the district.The JD(S) secured a majority of seats in the Channapatna CMC in Ramanagaram district and Vijayapura Town Municipal Council (TMC) in Devanahalli taluk. Defeat in Channapatna has been considered as a loss of face to Tourism Minister C.P. Yogeshwar. The ruling BJP retained its traditional bastion of Madikeri by securing 16 wards out of the 23. The Social Democratic Party of India won five wards. In the Ballari City Corporation, the Congress bagged 21 wards, while the BJP secured 13 and the JD(S) drew blank. The Independents won in five wards.In the elections held to 33 wards of the Bidar CMC, the Congress emerged as the single-largest party with 15 seats, the BJP got nine, the JD(S) seven, and the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul-Muslimeen and the Aam Aadmi Party won one seat each. The Congress is likely to come to power in Bidar with the support of the AIMIM and the AAP. The Congress won the byelection held to one ward of the Hallikheda TMC in Humnabad, while an Independent won in one ward of the Hirekerur Town Panchayat. In a tweet, Mr. Shivakumar said, “I request @INCKarnataka party workers and leaders not to celebrate in any way and continue assisting the people the best they can in this national health emergency”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cong-wins-in-6-urban-local-bodies-in-karnataka-jds-in-two-bjp-in-1/article34454508.ece
01 May 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Death of 85-year-old COVID patient at hospital triggers row||The death of an 85-year-old coronavirus patient at the District Headquarters Hospital here in the early hours of Friday led to tension as the family members, along with relatives of several other patients, staged a protest, alleging negligence. The health officials said that an ‘unruly mob’ barged into the ward violating the COVID protocols. Upon information, Chittoor Collector M. Hari Narayanan made senior officials rush to the spot and pacify the protesters. District Coordinator of Health Services (DCHS) P. Saralamma told The Hindu that the patient collapsed when he was going to the toilet in the early hours and died. “An unruly mob from Punganur rushed into the hospital premises, ignoring the COVID protocols,” he said. The family members of the old man and relatives of other patients undergoing treatment gathered in front of the hospital in the morning and staged a protest. They alleged that the patients were not being provided with nutritious food and that the staff forced them to skip food in the night on several occasions. The protesters attributed the death of the patient to the neglect by the staff in the ward. It was further deplored that the body of the patient was left unattended for hours in the ward. Meanwhile, Collector M. Hari Narayanan held an mergency meeting with the COVID Task Force personnel and said that a top priority should be given to tracing and testing of the contacts of the infected patients and triaging, apart from the right medication to the them. COVID Control Room Inspecting the COVID Control Room here, the Collector enquired about the number of phone calls being received from across the district. He said that prompt help was being extended to those seeking helkp of the centre. The patients with respiratory problems are being shifted to the COVID Care Centres and hospitals and those under home isolation have been strictly advised to reach out the triage centres for proper diagnosis and healthcare services.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/death-of-85-year-old-covid-patient-at-hospital-triggers-row/article34455217.ece
01 May 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Religious gatherings banned in rural areas of Chittoor||With Chittoor district logging a record 2,764 COVID-19 cases and 54 deaths in the 24 hours ending Friday morning, the district police instructed its personnel in the Madanapalle, Palamaner, Chittoor, Puttur and Sri City sub-divisions to prohibit public gatherings for festivities such as ‘jatara’, or ‘harikatha’ and ‘burrakatha’ in the rural areas. Hectic activity is generally witnessed in the rural hinterland during May as villagers gather to celebrate local festivals. Such celebrations had been done away with following the lockdown imposed after the pandemic first broke out in 2020. However, with only partial lockdown imposed now, instances of people gathering to celebrate festivals are being reported at a few places. Addressing the media, DSP (Law and Order) N. Sudhakar Reddy said that surveillance teams were formed to monitor the village festivities. ‘Celebrate in ekantham’ “People are advised to celebrate the festivals at their households only. We have banned the celebration of Ganga Jatara in Chittoor and elsewhere in the district as a public event. The organisers have been asked to celebrate them in ‘ekantham’ and avoid congregations,” Mr. Sudhakar Reddy said. “Organising street and stage plays and recital of ‘harikatha’ and ‘burrakatha’ is also prohibited with immediate effect. Those who violate the orders will be booked under IPC sections in view of public safety,” Mr Sudhakar Reddy said. Meanwhile, Superintendent of Police S. Senthil Kumar asked the police personnel in all the sub-divisions, particularly in the rural areas, to propagate among people the need to use face mask and adhere to the protocols.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/religious-gatherings-banned-in-rural-areas-of-chittoor/article34455227.ece
01 May 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Officials told to complete Nadu-Nedu works in schools by May-end||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has directed the officials of the School Education Department to ensure that the works taken up under the Nadu-Nedu programme in 15,715 schools across the State are completed by the end of May. While reviewing the progress of works at a meeting on Friday, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said the schools should look attractive with colourful and artistic designs on the walls. The schools should also have a wall of photographs showing the school before the works were taken up, the renovations carried out, and the present status of the buildings. Vidya Kanuka “I do not want any laxity in the works. That is the reason why we have constituted parents’ committees. Ensure that the works are carried out during summer break and complete the quality audit. maintenance of toilets should also being ensured. Teachers should be trained in English medium. Also ensure that the uniforms, bags and shoes under the Jagananna Vidya Kanuka scheme are ready by the beginning of the next academic year. Ensure that English dictionary is provided as part of the kit,” the Chief Minister said. Reiterating that the State government was committed to conducting the Intermediate Public Examinations from May 5, the Chief Minister said that the Central government had not taken any stand on examinations and left the decision to the States. “We have taken the decision to conduct the examinations keeping the interest of the students in view. A good result in the examination will ensure a better future. What is the use if the students get a mere pass certificate? It is very easy to say we want to cancel the examinations. But it is very difficult to conduct the examinations. The teachers will have to remember that we have taken the decision to conduct the examinations even in these times only to ensure a better future for the children,” said Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy. Minister for Education A. Suresh, Secretary, School Education, B. Rajasekhar, Commissioner, School Education, V. Chinabadradu, and Project Director, SSA, Vetri Selvi, were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/complete-nadu-nedu-works-in-schools-by-end-of-may-cm/article34454510.ece
01 May 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pulling out all the stops to contain spread of COVID-19: Collector||District Collector Vivek Yadav has said that the administration is putting to use all its resources to contain the spread of COVID-19. Addressing a press conference here on Friday, Mr. Vivek Yadav said that the 2,072 infections recorded on Thursday was the highest in the district since the outbreak of the second wave of the pandemic about two weeks ago. Of these, 702 cases were from the Guntur Urban areas, he said, and added that many cases were being reported from Tadepalli and Mangalagiri municipalities.  Active caseload “At present, there are 10,852 active cases in the district, and 90% of them have mild symptoms,” he said. “We have also scaled up testing by conducting more than 9,000 RT-PCR tests daily, and efforts are on to declare the results within 24 hours,” the Collector said.  “There is no shortage of oxygen and Remdesivir injections. The district is receiving 40 to 43 tonnes of oxygen daily,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pulling-out-all-the-stops-to-contain-spread-of-covid-19-collector/article34454561.ece
01 May 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Former MP pays tributes to Soli Sorabjee||Former MP Y. Sivaji on Friday paid rich tributes to former Attorney General of India Soli Sorabjee, who passed away at the age of 91 on Friday. Dr. Sivaji said that India had lost an eminent jurist who fought for human rights and championed freedom of expression during the Emergency. He recalled that Sorabjee was the keynote speaker at the M.R. Masani Memorial Lecture in Hyderabad in 2005, which former Chief Minister K. Rosaiah attended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/former-mp-pays-tribute-to-soli-sorabjee/article34454562.ece
01 May 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Probe charges against Minister, says KCR||Telangana Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao on Friday asked Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar to order a full-fledged probe against complaints of land grabbing in Achapuram of Masaipet mandal of Medak district received from the assignees. A group of assignees complained that senior TRS leader and Health Minister Eatala Rajender and his followers threatened them to part with their lands, which were taken over for expansion of a poultry and hatchery unit allegedly owned by the Minister. Mr. Eatala said he was known for his struggle against exploitation of weaker sections and was prepared to face any inquiry even if it was by a sitting judge. He asked the State government to institute inquiries by the highest agencies in the country or a sitting judge to prove the land grabbing charges against him. ‘Not availed benefits’ “The government is extending hundreds of crores of incentives to industry, but I never thought of availing of such benefits. I asked the CMO secretary about the modalities for acquisition of lands for expansion without seeking any concessions even though they were offered to me,” he said. “I am ready to face any inquiry, be it by a sitting judge or by the reputed agencies in the country. Let a fullscale probe be conducted so as to bring out the facts,” the Minister said at a late evening press conference here on Friday. Stating that he had won six times from the constituency because of the credibility he enjoys among the people, he asserted that he was ready to take “sanyas” if the allegations against him were proved. The Minister said he was prepared for any kind of probe as the people know his character since the commencement of the Telangana agitation. “People know Rajender cannot be lured by posts or properties. A section of people are indulging in character assassination and maligning my image,” he said adding that people would not believe this concocted stories as they were aware of his integrity. Mr. Rajender explained that the lands in question were the ones which were barren and the owners requested him to show a way out from these properties. Lands pertaining to the hatcheries were purchased at Rs. 6 lakh an acre and the promoters had later approached the banks for Rs. 100 crore loan for expansion after the hatchery turned profitable. Since there were assignment lands involved, the promoters sought the cooperation of the Industries Department and then approached the Chief Minister’s Office. “The owners signed agreements voluntarily. We had more than 120 acres land before 2004,” he said. Mr. Eatala said he had purchased and sold lands, including those in the Chief Minister’s Assembly constituency Gajwel. Mr. Eatala wondered why the people who garnered hundreds of crores in a single generation were not being questioned, and said he had never spoken against the government or its policies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/probe-charges-against-minister-says-kcr/article34454512.ece
01 May 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Night curfew extended by one more week in TS||Night curfew has been extended by seven more days till 5 a.m. on May 8 across the State. Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar has issued orders to this effect on Friday, the last day of the night curfew imposed on April 20. Night curfew will be in force from 9 p.m. to 5 a.m. and it is mandatory for all the offices, firms, shops, establishments, restaurants and others to close down by 8 p.m. during the night curfew days. Hospitals, diagnostic labs, pharmacies and those dealing with supply of essential services have been exempt from the restrictions. Public transport services, including autos and taxis, would be allowed to function within the stipulated time for transportation of the categories of persons like patients and pregnant women during night curfew. With increasing number of people testing positive to coronavirus (COVID-19), the State Government had imposed night curfew 10 days ago. The restrictions had been extended by another week owing to the steep escalation in the number of positive cases as also the number of daily deaths which crossed 50 since the past one week. The Chief Secretary directed all the collectors and district magistrates, commissioners/superintendents of police to strictly implement night curfew. Restrictions on screening of shows in the theatres have also been extended for one more week. Accordingly, no night shows would be allowed in the theatres and they should be closed at 8 p.m. Cinema halls had been instructed to follow strict COVID-19 safety protocols during the permitted business hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/night-curfew-extended-by-one-more-week-in-ts/article34455132.ece
01 May 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Non-cooperation by private hospitals sparks criticism||Threats of non-cooperation by the private hospitals in Kadapa district came in for sharp criticism from the public as well as activists, who showed their resentment on social media platforms. Fervent appeals were also made to the government to take over the private hospitals and convert them into COVID hospitals, in view of the health emergency. At a meeting convened by the Collector Ch. Hari Kiran along with Joint Collector Saikant Varma on Friday, the private hospital representatives repented for the ‘few hours’ of non-cooperation and brought their problems to his notice. Mr. Kiran assured them that no official would knock their doors if they adhered to rules. The decision of private hospitals came in the wake of a series of raids by the police department’s Special Enforcement Bureau over allegations of diversion of essential drugs and over-charging of certain diagnostic tests and treatment procedures. Taking umbrage at the raids that even led to arrests, the local chapter of the IMA had reportedly endorsed the decision of non-cooperation. Meanwhile, Chief Whip G. Srikanth Reddy appealed to the private hospitals to reconsider their decision and relaunch the COVID-19 services. The government’s intention is not to punish the hospitals, but to ensure adherence to the rules stipulated vis-a-vis charges and quality standards. “The government’s intention is to make Remdesivir injections available to the deserving poor, but they are flooding the open market. Some doctors are bringing disrepute to the fraternity by selling them for Rs. 30,000 to Rs. 70,000, which has come to the notice of the government. Your services will be recognised at the appropriate time,” Mr. Reddy said, while inaugurating TrueNat testing lab in Rayachoti. TDP politburo member R. Sreenivasa Reddy called the announcement at the crucial hour ‘unfortunate’ and appealed to the hospitals to reconsider their decision. He said the district administration and the hospitals should discuss the issues rather than indulge in a tug of war. The TDP leader also called upon the State government not to resort to harassment of the medical fraternity. The government’s decision to consider upward revision of the tariffs fixed for certain drugs and procedures is likely to bring curtains on the turmoil, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/non-cooperation-by-private-hospitals-sparks-criticism/article34455230.ece
01 May 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Coconut, banana processing units to be established in E.G.||The State government has begun a search to identify 26 acres of land to set up three integrated processing units at a cost of Rs. 190 crore in East Godavari district. The units will give a fillip to the marketing and value addition of coconut, banana, mango and millet in the district. The Central government has given its in-principle nod to financially aid the establishment of the processing units, which would procure horticulture crops through the YSR Rythu Bharosa Kendras (RBKs) at remunerative prices. Deputy Director of Horticulture (East Godavari) and A.P. Food Processing Society S. Rammohan told The Hindu that the State government and Centre will fund the project together. “The coconut integrated processing unit will be set up in Amalapuram Parliamentary segment at an estimated cost of Rs. 100 crore on a ten-acre campus to produce nearly 20 varieties of products from coconut. In Rajamahendravaram Parliamentary segment, a banana integrated processing unit will be set up on an eight-acre campus at a cost of Rs. 75 crore. In Kakinada Parliamentary segment, a mango and millet integrated processing unit will be set up on an eight-acre campus,” Mr. Rammohan said. “The RBKs have been told to identify a half-acre land for procurement of coconut, banana, millet and mango to be sent to the respective processing units in the future,” Mr. Rammohan said. Statistics from the Andhra Pradesh Food Processing Society show that the annual production of coconut is above 724 million nuts in East Godavari district, where the total extent of land under horticulture is above 1.72 lakh hectares by the end of Kharif season 2020-21.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/coconut-banana-processing-units-to-be-established-in-eg/article34455257.ece
01 May 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Control profiteering, HC tells Kerala govt.||Observing that the spike in COVID-19 cases was mind-boggling and that the government had an “unexpendable role in controlling profiteering” by stakeholders, including by private hospitals, a Division Bench of the Kerala High Court on Friday asked the State government to come up with suggestions on reducing COVID-19 treatment cost. The Bench comprising Justice Devan Ramachandran and Justice M.R. Anitha passed the order when a public interest litigation complaining of overcharging by private hospitals in the State for COVID-19 treatment came up for hearing. State Attorney K.V. Sohan, appearing for the government, submitted that the government had issued an order last year regulating the treatment cost in private hospitals and it still held the ground. As per the order,the government had fixed Rs. 2,300 for general ward, Rs. 3,300 for High Dependency Units (HDU), Rs. 6,500 for Intensive Care Unit (ICU) without ventilator, and Rs. 11,500 for ICU with ventilator. It would consider if further downward revision would be possible after consulting all stakeholders, including private hospital managements. The court observed that ordinary and hard-working citizens were torn between the social and emotional fallout of distancing protocol and lockdowns on one hand, and the “excruciating load of medical treatment cost” on the other. The court said that the role of the State government in regulating costs in private hospitals was fraught with problems. But when its citizens were pushed to the precipice, the government had an “unexpendable role in controlling the profiteering”. On May 4 The court noted that new wave had brought with it memories of the first one and quoted the remark of a hapless patient that “it is easier to survive the shock of the disease than what is inflicted by the hospital bills”. The court posted the case for further hearing on May 4.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/control-profiteering-hc-tells-kerala-govt/article34454514.ece
01 May 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Train attack: Kerala HC initiates suo motu case||The Kerala High Court on Friday initiated a suo motu case in connection with an incident in which a 31-year-old woman passenger was attacked by a man on board a running passenger train in Kochi. The woman who sustained injuries on her head after she jumped off the train is undergoing treatment in a private hospital in Kochi. Justice Bechu Kurian Thomas initiated the suo motu proceeding on the basis of newspaper reports on the incident. In six weeks The court also directed the State police chief and Railway authorities to hold meeting and devise a method for ensuring passenger safety. The court also ordered that the outcome of the meeting be submitted to the court in six weeks. When the petition came up for hearing, senior Government Pleader Suman Chakravarthy submitted that the accused would be nabbed soon. The police were holding constant discussions with the Railway Safety Commissioner, Chennai, on the issue of enhancement of passenger safety. In fact, the police were implementing safety measures with help of various stakeholders, including regular passengers and porters. The introduction of the red button system was being explored. The pressing of the red button would send a distress message directly to the guard and control rooms. In fact, the computer-aided dispatch system (CADS) would send a distress message to the Railway beat constables once a passenger in distress made a call on 112.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/train-attack-kerala-hc-initiates-suo-motu-case/article34454515.ece
01 May 2021||MACHILIPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police pick up Hyderabad doctor in Remdesivir smuggling case||The Chillakallu police, which busted an inter-State Remdesivir injections smuggling racket, picked up gynaecologist Bhavya, the third suspect in the case, from Hyderabad on Friday. The police seized 100 Remdesivir vials that was being transported in a TSRTC bus from Hyderabad to Guntur, at Garikapadu checkpost on A.P.-Telangana border on Thursday and arrested M. Ajay Kumar a hospital employee and G. Subba Rao, a doctor and Bhavya father, who runs Bhushaiah Memorial Nursing Home at Yedlapadu in Guntur district. During questioning, the suspects reportedly confessed that the vials were packed at the Landmark Hospital, owned by Dr. Bhavya. The gynaecologist went absconding soon after the police busted the racket on Thursday. Special teams formed to probe into the illegal transportation and black marketing of Remdesivir visited Telangana and Guntur, said Krishna Superintendent of Police M. Ravindranath Babu. “The police are trying to find out how the Landmark Hospital management got such a huge stock of Remdesivir,” the SP told The Hindu . ‘Registers being verified’ Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) Additional Superintendent of Police Vakul Jindal, who is monitoring the probe, said the investigating officers were trying to find out whether more people were involved in the illegal trade in the medicine. “We suspect the role of some pharmacists and hospital staff in Telangana in the illegal trade. The police are verifying the medical indents, stock registers, phone call data of the accused,” he said, adding that the Chillakallu and Jaggaiahpet police are questioning Dr. Bhavya about how she had procured the stock and other information regarding the trade. “During a raid on Bhushaiah Memorial Nursing Home at Yadlapadu, the police found that a few COVID patients are bring treated illegally. We spoke to the Guntur Rural Police and the patients have been shifted to the designated COVID hospitals,” Mr. Ravindranath Babu said. Two accused remanded The police on Friday produced Ajay Kumar and Dr. Subba Rao before the Nandigama court, which remanded them to judicial custody . “A case under Section 27 of the Drugs and Cosmetics Act has been registered,” said Nandigama Deputy Superintendent of Police G. Nageswar Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ap-police-pick-up-hyderabad-doctor-in-smuggling-case/article34455139.ece
01 May 2021||NANDIGAMA (KRISHNA DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||Four held for smuggling liquor from Telangana||Officials of the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) and the police seized 1,000 liquor bottles being transported illegally in a car from Telangana, and arrested four persons, at the Anasagaram checkpost on Friday. The accused had reportedly concealed the liquor stocks inside the vehicle doors and the seats. The Non-Duty Paid Liquor (NDPL) was seized during regular vehicle checking at the Anasagaram checkpost on the A.P.-Telangana border, officials said. Investigation on SEB ASP Vakul Jindal said that the liquor bottles along with the vehicle was seized. The liquor was being transported from Suryapet district to Nandigama. An investigation is on, the ASP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/four-held-for-smuggling-liquor-from-telangana/article34455305.ece
01 May 2021||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||New cases unabated in Nellore||The intensity of the second wave of coronavirus did not come down even a wee bit in South Coastal Andhra Pradesh as the viral disease claimed 14 more lives and infected 1,794 more persons in a span of 24 hours. The number of active cases inched closer to 20,000 in the region as over 1,133 persons in SPSR Nellore district and 661 persons in Prakasam district tested positive in the last 24 hours ending 9 a.m. on Friday. Eight deaths in Nellore The toll touched the 1,240 mark in the region as eight patients in SPSR Nellore district and six in Prakasam lost the battle against the disease during the period. The virus has so far claimed 628 lives in Prakasam and 612 in Nellore district. The tally crossed the 1.53 lakh mark in the region with SPSR Nellore district accounting for about 82,000 cases so far and Prakasam district for the rest. Hospitals in the two districts overflowed with patients as the positivity rate continued to be high when compared to the recovery rate. The number of new cases was more by over 1,200 when compared to recoveries as only 573 patients, including 425 in SPSR Nellore district, were discharged. The recovery rate which was over 99% till last month, dipped down further to 86.28%. Reviewing the health situation, SPSR Nellore District Collector K.V.N. Chakradhar Babu exhorted the health professionals to decongest the hospitals by keeping only needy patients in hospitals and sending those requiring further monitoring of health condition in COVID-19 Care Centres. Only those with a roomy accommodation should be allowed to isolate as it had been found that patients in congested houses had expedited the spread. Longer wait for vaccine Over 11,000 persons took the jab in Prakasam district till late on Friday, District Medical and Health Officer P. Ratnavalli said. The present stock of 10,000 doses would be kept aside for those requiring the second dose of vaccine. Those in the age group of 18 to 44 would have to wait as priority would be given to those aged above 45.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/new-cases-unabated-in-nellore/article34455221.ece
01 May 2021||NUZVID,ANDHRA PRADESH||RGUKT IIIT staffer succumbs to COVID||An employee of Rajiv Gandhi University of Knowledge Technologies (RGUKT), Nuzvid IIIT, reportedly died of COVID-19. The patient, aged around 40 years, was staying at the staff quarters on the university campus, and died at a COVID Hospital in Eluru on Thursday night. The IIIT management sanitised the campus on Friday. Instructions were issued to the staff not to go out of the campus. Students and employees suffering from fever, body pains or any COVID symptoms were admitted to the campus hospital, said Nuzvid IIIT Director G.V.R. Srinivas Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rgukt-iiit-staffer-succumbs-to-covid/article34454567.ece
01 May 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||ANU students educate people on COVID||The National Service Scheme (NSS) volunteers of the Acharya Nagarjuna University (ANU) postgraduate campus organised an awareness campaign in a slum area here and educated people on COVID-appropriate behaviour. The volunteers led by Praksam district NSS programme officer Mande Harsha Preetham Dev Kumar explained the slum-dwellers of Pragati Colony that the battle against the coronavirus could be won only by following the preventive behavioural practices. They ueged the residents of Pragadi Colony to wear mask, wash hands with santiser and soap, and maintain social distance to protect themselves from contracting the infection. Those eligible for vaccine should take the jab without fail as it ensures a fool-proof protection against the viral disease.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/students-educate-people-on-covid-safe-behaviour/article34455219.ece
01 May 2021||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Work on ESI hospital to begin today||Rajamahendravaram MP Margani Bharat on Friday said that Health Minister Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas will kick-start the construction work of the 100-bedded Employees State Insurance (ESI) hospital in Rajamahendravaram city on Saturday. “Work on the Rs. 97.98 crore ESI hospital will kick-start on Saturday in front of the paper mill campus. Construction is expected to be completed by the year-end,” said Mr. Bharat. The hospital is being built on a five-acre campus by demolishing the buildings of the paper mill in the city. In January, Union Labour Minister Santosh Gangwar was supposed to lay the foundation stone for the hospital but the programme had to be postponed due to COVID-19. “Mr. Gangwar will visit the project site sometime in the future,” Mr. Bharat said. The Central government has granted another 100-bedded ESI hospital at Gopalapuram in West Godavari district in the Rajamahendravaram Parliament constituency. “The site near the Gopalapuram stone quarry has been finalised for the proposed new ESI hospital,” said Mr. Bharat.  The Health Minister will review the existing infrastructure facilities and measures being taken by the East Godavari district authorities to provide timely medical care to COVID-19 patients, at the Collectorate in Kakinada city on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/work-on-esi-hospital-to-begin-today/article34455256.ece
01 May 2021||Sumit Bhattacharjee,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Private hospitals taking undue advantage of beds’ shortage’||Two days ago, Prasad (name changed), in desperation called up a private hospital that is registered under category -B of notified COVID hospitals in the city, as he wanted to admit his 25-year-old son-in-law, who has tested COVID-19 positive and his oxygen count had gone down below 90. The management of the hospital demanded charges of Rs. 25,000 per day and an advance of Rs. 1 lakh. He said that he was not in a position to pay that amount and could afford only the government approved charges. In response, the hospital official curtly told him to ‘try another place’. Fortunately, with great difficulty and after pulling some strings, he could get his son-in-law admitted to GIMSR (GITAM Institute of Medical Sciences). On Thursday, another person with similar desperation informed The Hindu that a COVID-notified corporate hospital demanded an advance of Rs. 5 lakh and the management further told him that insurance policies will not be entertained. The situation in the city is grim, as beds in hospitals, especially with oxygen supply or ICU beds, have gone dry and people are seen queueing up outside hospitals to admit their near and dear. The only place where a common man can afford or try is government hospital, but as per sources in KGH CSR block, there are three patients in line for one bed. The district administration is aware of the situation but after a point they are helpless, as the shortage has hit them hard. “The coming of a second wave was discussed and talked off, but its enormity was not anticipated. Today, though the official estimate of positivity is around 16%, in reality it is much higher and that is why the number of persons infected is much higher than the availability of beds,” said a senior doctor from King George Hospital. As of now, the district administration has around 6,700 beds spread across 61 category A and B hospitals, which include over 2,000 beds in government-owned hospitals and over 4,500 in private or corporate sector. Out of the total, around 60% of the beds are covered with oxygen, which include ICU and ventilator connected. “But we definitely need more at this moment,” said District COVID Special Officer and Principal of Andhra Medical College P.V. Sudhakar. With the demand exceeding the supply by many times, it has come handy for the private players, who are not only charging high for the beds or special rooms, but even making a killing when charging for the medicines, including Remdesivir. There were cases, when hospitals charged from Rs. 25,000 to Rs. 50,000 for one shot of Remdesivir, despite the government supplying copious quantities to all notified hospitals at the usual MRP. “There is a feeling that the scarcity is hyped up for everything, so that people are made to pay the rate demanded out of desperation. To avoid such situation, as the second wave is yet to peak in the district and in the State, the government needs to scale up the infrastructure and see that beds are made available freely, especially for those who need oxygen support,” said former Union Secretary E.A.S. Sarma.  3,000 beds to be added According to a senior officer from the Health Department, the district administration is planning to scale up the beds by another 3,000 in the district in the next couple of days. Though the requirement is another 5,000 with oxygen, but 3,000 would suffice the present situation, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/private-hospitals-taking-undue-advantage-of-beds-shortage/article34455319.ece
01 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala set to flag concern over Centre’s ‘IN’ series registration||Kerala is set to flag its concerns over the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways (MoRTH) rule for new registration ‘IN’ series for vehicles to ease the transfer of registration of vehicles from one State to another in case of relocation of the registered owner. The new series, replacing the State code with a pan-India ‘IN’ code for personal vehicles, is aimed at easing the complex re-registration processes under Section 47 of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988. Now, an individual who has moved States has to re-register the vehicle to the State she/he has moved to after 12 months. The new “IN” series is for defence personnel, Central and State government employees, and personnel of Central and State public sector units and private sector companies with offices in five or more States or Union Territories. There will be a standard motor vehicle tax across the country for these vehicles with two years’ initial road tax and then in multiples of two years. Thus, road tax on a new car getting registered with the ‘IN’ series will be substantially lower than on a car with a State registration that has one-time road tax for 15 years. A uniform road tax rate has been proposed which will be 8% for vehicles under Rs. 10 lakh, 10% for those valued between Rs. 10-20 lakh, and 12% for vehicles above Rs. 20 lakh. Diesel, electric vehicles Diesel cars will have to pay 2% additional tax while electric vehicles will get 2% discount. ‘IN’ vehicles will not have to be re-registered if the owner moves to another State and it can be opted for new and existing vehicles, according to MoRTH. The Transport Department is of the view that the initiative will cause loss to the exchequer as road tax is less for ‘IN’ series personal vehicles and there will also be a fall in the GST revenue. “We have decided to seek clarity on allowing employees of private sector companies with offices in five or more States or Union Territories. Clear benchmarks are needed as this option can be misused by even a staff of a hotel chain having five units in different States to claim tax concessions,” says Joint Transport Commissioner Rajeev Puthalath. The State will also seek clarification on whether those having ‘IN’ registration will have to re-register if they come to another State after retirement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-set-to-flag-concern-over-centres-in-series-registration/article34454516.ece
01 May 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘All TTD staff will be inoculated’||TTD Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy on Friday said that the inoculation programme would be extended to all the employees working in the TTD in the next two weeks. Mr. Reddy, who took stock of the prevailing conditions in the wake of the second wave of COVID-19, instructed the officials to initiate steps for reimbursement of medical bills to the employees availing themselves of treatment for the virus at private hospitals. Expressing his condolences, Mr. Reddy promised all help to the families of the 15 employees who had succumbed to the virus. “Employees working in Tirupati will also be offered the option of attending to duties in 50:50 ratio on par with those working in Tirumala. Special beds with oxygen and ventilator facilities will be set up at BIRRD hospital in Tirupati exclusively for the benefit of the employees,” Mr. Reddy said. Appeal to devotees Reiterating that all the guidelines must be strictly adhered to while in Tirumala, Mr. Reddy appealed to the devotees suffering from cold, cough and fever to postpone their pilgrimage. “Those cancelling their pilgrimage can avail darshan on any day before the end of the year,” he said. He also pointed out to the downswing in the booking of darshan tickets despite the TTD releasing15,000 tickets daily during the month of May. Organic products Mr. Reddy also said that the TTD, on an experimental basis, shall use organic farm products in the daily ‘naivedhyam’ to the presiding deity from Saturday, and later extend it to the preparation of ‘laddu’ and ‘vada’ and the ‘nitya annadanam’. For the purpose, the TTD, besides encouraging the farmers of both the Telugu States in growing organic products, is considering taking up organic farming in the lands donated to it. Later, Mr. Reddy inspected the Vaikuntam queue complex and supervised the availability of hand sanitizers and social distancing methods adopted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/all-ttd-staff-will-be-inoculated-in-next-two-weeks-subba-reddy/article34455223.ece
01 May 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||New principal of Sainik School takes charge||Captain (Indian Navy) Vikrant Kishore has taken over as the principal of Sainik School Kalikiri for the second time. Previously, he had served as the fourth principal of the same school for seventeen months from October 2018 to August 2020. Captain Kishore took charge from the Officiating Principal Lt. Colonel. Susheel Kumar Mahapatro in a simple event on Friday following the COVID protocols. “The school continues with the virtual mode in view of the re-emergence of the pandemic,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/new-principal-of-sainik-school-takes-charge/article34455224.ece
01 May 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tirupati vegetable market to be decentralised||Indira Priyadarsini vegetable market, located in the heart of Tirupati and catering to more than half of the city’s requirements, is all set to be decentralised, thanks to the COVID-19 situation. Mayor R. Sireesha, who came on a surprise visit to the market early on Friday, expressed concern that the market could become a viral hotspot in view of hundreds thronging the market at any given point of time. As during the first lockdown, she saw the need to close down the market and serve the public through markets located in various neighbourhoods. “We will take a decision on this in consultation with MLA Bhumana Karunakar Reddy and Commissioner P.S. Gireesha,” she said. The market would be allowed to remain open only from 12 a.m. to 7 a.m. to facilitate transfer of inward cargo. Later, she visited the Rythu Bazar near Annamaiah Circle and advised the sellers not to spill over to the streets, thus blocking traffic. She also appealed to the public to use the corporation’s vegetable market in their respective localities to avoid unnecessary congregation at the main market. Revenue Officer N. Sethumadhav, sanitary supervisor Sumathi and municipal corporation contractors accompanied her.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tirupati-vegetable-market-to-be-decentralised/article34455225.ece
01 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Scared of infection, kin shy away from funeral of COVID patients||A college student and her younger brother sit clueless at the mortuary of the Government General Hospital (GGH) in Vijayawada. Just a few hours ago, they were informed that their 52-year-old father, who was undergoing treatment for COVID-19, had breathed his last. “I have been calling my uncle. We are waiting here at the mortuary. Nobody is helping us. Despite several calls and texts, none of my close family members is responding. They all live in this city. I have no clue how we will perform the final rites of my father,” says the girl, while her mother weeps inconsolably nearby. Fear of contracting the infection is so palpable that let alone relatives, even the close family members are shying away from helping out those who are struggling to shift the bodies from hospital for the last rites. Sanitation workers, mortuary staff and ambulance drivers are seen helping the kin of the deceased COVID patients. Such scenes are becoming common at the hospital mortuaries in Guntur, Machilipatnam, Vijayawada and other places as the virus continues to take toll. “Only two or three family members of the deceased are coming to have the last glimpse, but from a distance. In a majority of the cases, we help the hospital staff shift the the body it the ambulance,” says an ambulance driver. Some hospital staff say that many bodies lie unclaimed as family members do not even come forward for it. “We call up to the mobile numbers of the kin of the deceased, but there is no response,” claims a hospital employee. ‘Shortage of stretchers’ With the unclaimed body keeping piling up, the hospital staff are facing shortage of stretchers as the number of patients getting admitted has been on the rise.  “We are facing a shortage of stretchers as they are occupied by bodies. The bodies cannot be shifted to burial grounds or crematorium as many ambulance drivers are scared to shift them. We have seen people shifting bodies in auto-rickshaws,” says a hospital employee requesting anonymity. With kin shying away from the funeral, the sanitation workers and government staff are performing the final rites of the patients. A few days ago, Avanigadda CI B. Ravi Kumar and Nagayalanka SI K. Srinivas performed the last rites of a 38-year-old woman, who died of COVID at Perlavani Lanka. Only two members of her family were present at the funeral. The Athkur police retrieved the body of a person who reportedly jumped into a water tank fearing that he had contracted COVID infection, in Krishna district a few days ago. Despite repeated appeals, the villagers refused to help retrieve the body, the police officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/scared-of-infection-kin-shy-away-from-funeral-of-covid-patients/article34454566.ece
01 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||RWAs deny entry to outsiders into apartments as cases spike||Santikiran, a native of Hyderabad, wanted to visit his sister who is living in an apartment at Ramavarappadu in Vijayawada to assist his two nieces as both their parents were undergoing treatment for COVID-19 at a hospital. But, the apartment welfare association refused him entry, saying outsiders were not allowed. This is not a stray incident. The rapid surge in COVID infections has prompted resident welfare associations (RWAs) in the city to implement lockdown-like measures on their premises. The residential societies have also drawn up guidelines to limit the entry of outsiders. “In view of the surge in cases in the colony, outsiders are not allowed. Please cooperate,” reads a signboard hung on the entrance gate of Lotus Landmark at Ayodhya Nagar. Many apartments are following the same though they have not put up similar signboards. A large apartment complex near Sri Datta Peetham at Patamata, for instance, has barred the entry of outsiders. The RWA has put a few chairs in the parking lot. The inmates have to come down to the parking lot to see the visitors. The RWAs, however, claim that the situation is somehow relaxed, with the rules based on government guidelines. The residents say that there has been a lot of change as compared to the first wave of the pandemic last year. “We ask the residents to follow the basic rules of social distancing, wearing masks and hygiene,” says M. Srinivas Rao, a resident of Varsha Apartment near Satyanarayanapuram. Precautionary measures D.V.S. Ramana Kumar, a resident of Indira Apartment says that they are insisting on everyone coming inside the apartment sanitising themselves and wearing masks. Explicitly, there is no bar on entry of outsiders, he says. The associations are doing their best to follow the government guidelines to contain the spread of the virus. “We understand that the people in the apartments need domestic help. Cooperation from the residents is the most important aspect during these tough times,” says an owner of a flat. Quoting his experiences, Krishna Prasad Abhishek, a resident of Mutyalampadu, says that he visited his friend’s apartment at Patamata recently. “The visitors are not allowed there. The security guard sends a message to the inmates that they have a visitor. I had to meet him (friend) near the gate,” he says. Tax Payers Association (TPA) president M.V. Anjaneyulu says that it is not correct on the part of RWAs to restrict the entry of outsiders, more particularly the relatives of the residents. “The associations cannot ostracise an affected family. It is harassment and causes trauma to everyone in the family. Instead, the RWAs can help by providing provisions to the family. Just leave it at their doorstep. Don’t enter the premises,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rwas-deny-entry-to-outsiders-into-apartments-as-cases-spike/article34454563.ece
01 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||HC dismisses petitions for cancellation of Tirupati bypoll||A Division Bench of the Andhra Pradesh High Court, comprising Justices Joymalya Bagchi and M. Ganga Rao, on Friday dismissed the writ petitions filed by K. Ratna Prabha and Panabaka Lakshmi seeking cancellation of the byelection conducted to the Tirupati (SC) Lok Sabha constituency on April 17. The court observed that as per Article 226 of the Constitution, it cannot interfere with the conclusion of the election process, and being the competent election tribunal for the purposes of deciding election disputes to Parliament and Assembly constituencies under the Representation of People (RP) Act, it can examine evidence like a civil court and come to a conclusion after trial. In her petition, Ms. Ratna Prabha, the BJP candidate, alleged that the bypoll had witnessed large-scale fraudulent polling and booth capturing by the YSRCP activists as the officials on duty remained mute spectators and fell prey to the machinations of the ruling party. There were many instances of impersonation of legitimate voters and the absence of police barracks and check-posts resulted in massive irregularities, she alleged. The election was, therefore, violative of Articles 14, 19 and 21 of the Constitution and the RP Act, she observed. Ms. Lakshmi, the TDP candidate, said the government officials and police had aided the YSRCP leaders in intimidating the voters and getting votes cast by outsiders. Besides, the ward and village volunteers had threatened the people that the benefits being given to them under welfare schemes would be withdrawn if they did not vote for the YSRCP candidate, she alleged. Citing various other electoral malpractices, she appealed for a repoll.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hc-dismisses-petitions-for-cancellation-of-tirupati-bypoll/article34455234.ece
01 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vaccination for 18-45 age group not from today: Health Secy.||Principal Secretary (health) Anil Kumar Singhal has said that the government has decided not to launch the COVID-19 vaccination drive for people aged between 18 and 45 from May 1, keeping in view the priority to be accorded to those above 45 years. Steps were taken for procuring 13 lakh doses – Covishield (9,91,700) and Covaxin (3,43,930) – for the month of May as suggested by the Centre. However, price negotiations were not yet held, Mr. Singhal told the media on Friday. Government hospitals had 30,559 Remdesivir injections at their disposal on April 30 against 29,000 on April 29, he said, Besides, 437 tonnes of liquid oxygen was supplied in the last 24 hours, he stated. Mr. Singhal said an IAS officer was posted in-charge of the cases under treatment in home isolation, at the Covid Command Control Centre, to ensure that medicines and PPE kits were available to them. The 104 call centre was being flooded with enquiries. The number of calls received per day last week was about 7,000, which went up to 15,000 on Friday. Mr. Singhal said the Centre facilitated the use of tankers of petroleum firms or transporting liquid oxygen. Other steps to maintain supply of essentials were being taken as the number of cases rose rapidly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vaccination-for-18-45-age-group-not-from-today-health-secy/article34455236.ece
01 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Now, pay railway freight charges online||The Ministry of Railways on Friday, has issued guidelines for online payment of freight charges, which will be implemented from June 1, 2001. An online payment system through Freight Business Development (FDB) portal through SBI’s payment gateway, will be available round the clock, Railway authorities said. Payment shall be available through all modes like Netbanking/RTGS/NEFT, credit card/debit card/UPI through customer’s dashboard, officials said, adding that freight loading will get a boost with the decision.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/now-pay-railway-freight-charges-online/article34455306.ece
01 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Education Minister directs inoculation of exam invigilators||Education Minister A. Suresh on Friday directed the officials to ensure that the teachers being posted as invigilators at the examination centres of the Intermediate Public Examinations were administered the vaccine against COVID-19. In a video-conference with the District Collectors, Joint Collectors, Superintendents of Police and other officials of the Education, Medical and Health, and Municipal departments, and AP State Road Transport Corporation, the Minister said nothing should be left to chance while making arrangements at the examination centres. He said arrangement were made for vaccination to nearly 28,000 people, some of whom had already taken the jab. He said every examination centre should have one isolation room with availability of at least five PPE kits. The Minister said fool-proof arrangements at the centres was necessary to win the confidence of the parents, who were worried about their children’s health. About the commuting facility for students, he said route maps should be given to RTC officials who would plan operation of buses accordingly. The police should make adequate bandobust outside the exam centres and prevent crowding by the students, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/education-minister-directs-inoculation-of-exam-invigilators/article34455233.ece
01 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ensure access to medical services for all sections, demands Congress||APCC president S. Sailajanath on Friday said in a health emergency situation like this, the government should ensure that all sections had access to medical services. Addressing the media, he said that neither Prime Minister Narendra Modi nor Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had risen to the occasion. “Both the leaders should stop making tall claims. The ruling parties should own up their mistakes that resulted in the present crisis,” he said. Criticising the move of conducting SSC examination at a time when the virus was spreading at an alarming rate, he said the government’s “adamant stand” might put the students at risk. Referring to the State-level COVID Control Centre set up at the party headquarters, Mr. Sailajanath said they would soon establish the centre at the district level to help those who contracted the virus find timely medical help. “I am a medial doctor and I’ll actively take part in the awareness drive,” he said. Later, Dr. Sailajanath met DGP D. Gautam Sawang, seeking permission for the party to extend medical services in the COVID-hit areas in every parliamentary constituency. Mr. Sawang responded positively to the suggestion that cinema theatres and wine shops should be closed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ensure-access-to-medical-services-for-all-sections-demands-congress/article34455231.ece
01 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Govt. doing everything to check virus’||CEO of A.P. Tourism Authority Pravin Kumar on Friday said the government was leaving no stone unturned to manage the pandemic situation without having to go for a lockdown. Speaking at a session on ‘Awareness and Preparedness for COVID-19’, jointly organised by the CII and the AP Tourism Authority, he said, in addition to allocation of hospitals to treat the patients, special care units were handling the asymptomatic patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-doing-everything-to-check-virus/article34455232.ece
01 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District reports highest single-day spike of 1,358 COVID-19 cases||The Visakhapatnam district reported 1,358 new COVID-19 infections in the last 24 hours taking the cumulative tally to 79,916. This was the highest single-day tally since the pandemic broke out in March last year in the district. The previous highest tally was 1,227 on August 2, 2020. Consecutively for the sixth day in a row, the single-day tally has breached the 1,000-mark. For the first time during the second wave, the district has reported eight deaths in a day taking the toll to 611. The district saw a steep increase in cases in April. In the 30 days, as many as 17,618 infections reported, averaging 587 cases a day. As many as 65 persons succumbed to the coronavirus in the month. In March, the district had reported 1,758 infections and seven deaths. According to the COVID-19 bulletin released on Friday morning, the number of active cases has breached 10,000-mark and stands at 10,250. The number of active cases on March 1was 24. In a span of 61 days, the number increased to 10,250. With the recovery of 279 patients, the number of recoveries has increased to 69,055.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-reports-highest-single-day-spike-of-1358-covid-19-cases/article34455315.ece
01 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||RINL building 1,000-bed hospital||For the first time, the Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Limited-Visakhpatnam Steel Plant (RINL-VSP) using all its internal resources and available facilities has embarked upon building a 1,000-bed COVID Care Hospital facility at its function hall Gurajada Kalakshetram in Ukkunagaram. The decision was taken at a review meeting with Steel Minister Dharmendra Pradhan, wherein he directed the RINL collective to build facilities for providing COVID care to 1,000 patients in Ukkunagaram, township of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant. Fabrication work for cots for the hospital is going on in full swing at its Utility Equipment Repair Shop (UERS) inside plant premises. All the material procurement and arrangements to facilitate the clinical delivery of medical oxygen near the patients’ beds are being expedited. According to a release from the VSP, facilitating a makeshift hospital at Gurajada Kalakshetram is the first step towards fighting the surge in cases and in a phased manner various community halls and public halls/spaces will be converted into hospital wards for treatment of patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rinl-building-1000-bed-hospital/article34455321.ece
01 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Increase beds in chest hospital to 300, Collector tells officials||District Collector V. Vinay Chand has instructed the officials to increase the bed capacity from 288 to 300 at the Government Hospital for Chest and Communicable Diseases. He inspected several government hospitals, including GHCCD, ENT and Regional Eye hospital, here on Friday. Mr. Vinay Chand asked the officials to have an ambulance positioned at the hospitals and also procure PPE kits and masks as per the requirement. The Collector also insisted the officials to provide healthy food to the COVID-19 patients according to the guidelines. He later checked the vaccine storage room at the Government Hospital for Mental Care (GHMC) and asked the officials to complete the works of the building at the earliest. Andhra Medical College Principal P.V. Sudhakar and a few others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/increase-beds-in-chest-hospital-to-300-collector-tells-officials/article34455312.ece
01 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI(M) seeks isolation centres in Agency areas||The lack of COVID-19 isolation centres in the Agency areas of Visakhapatnam district despite the second wave is causing untold hardship to the tribal people, say CPI(M) district committee secretary K. Lokanadham and district secretariat member Killo Surendra. In a memorandum to the District Collector on Friday, they said that the tribal people live like a family at a common place in the village. If a single member of the family was affected, there was a danger of the whole village getting infected by the virus. Citing examples, they said eight cases were registered in Tokuru panchayat of Anantagiri mandal and they were forced to stay in the village due to lack of an isolation centre. Similarly, in China Labudu panchayat of Araku Valley mandal there were some infected persons and in Lothugedda PHC limits one affected person had to be put up on the road. There are 100 persons, above 45 years of age, in China Labudu panchayat of Araku Valley mandal, who have to take the jab. They have to travel 15 km to the Ginnela PHC to get vaccinated, the CPI(M) leaders said. They said that the government should set up isolation centres and provide vaccination centres in all the panchayats in the Agency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cpim-seeks-isolation-centres-in-agency-areas/article34455310.ece
01 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||AU professor passes away||C. Ravi Shankar Patnaik, a faculty member of the Fine Arts Department of Andhra University, died of cardiac arrest on Thursday night. He is survived by his wife, a son and a daughter. Ravi Shankar Patnaik had served as Head of the Department in the past. Many of the statues in AU campus, were made by him. He was one among the few prominent sculptors in the country, whose works have been put up in different States. Born in August 1961, Ravi Shankar Patnaik had done B.A(Fine Arts) with Sculpture from M.S. University, Baroda in 1982 and Masters from the same university in 1984 and an advance course in sculpture from the School of Fine Arts, National Technical University, Athens, Greece. Principal of AU Colleges of Arts and Commerce P. Rajendra Prasad condoled the death of Ravi Shankar Patnaik and expressed his sympathies to the bereaved family members. Ravi Shankar Patnaik’s father CSN Patnaik is also a renowned artist. AU Vice Chancellor P.V.G.D. Prasad Reddy, Registrar V. Krishna Mohan and Rector K. Samatha condoled the death and expressed their sympathies to the bereaved family members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/au-professor-passes-away/article34455262.ece
01 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Meter readers demand free vaccination||The APEPDCL Meter Readers’ Union has demanded that EPDCL arrange for free COVID-19 vaccination of all meter readers in the five districts under the purview of the Discom. In a statement on Thursday, union president L. Ramakrishna and general secretary K.N.D.S.K. Reddy said there are 1,500 meter readers working in Srikakulam, Vizianagaram, Visakhapatnam, East and West Godavari districts. They were going from door to door performing ‘spot billing’ duties despite the threat of the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/meter-readers-demand-free-vaccination/article34455255.ece
01 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Speed up tests, MP tells KGH staff||YSR Congress Party MP V. Vijaya Sai Reddy visited King George Hospital, 104 centre at the Collector office and Visakha Institute of Medical Sciences (VIMS), where he checked COVID-19 services being offered, here on Friday. The MP inspected the virology lab at KGH and asked the staff to speed up the lab tests. He also checked the sample collection centre. Wearing a PPE kit, Mr Vijaya Sai visited the COVID-19 block in VIMS and spoke to the patients being treated and learnt about their issues. He also interacted with the family members of the patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/speed-up-tests-mp-tells-kgh-staff/article34455313.ece
01 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||ATC||Death of former Attorney General and senior advocate Soli Sorabjee is a deep loss to the legal fraternity, said senior advocate and president of Forum of Legal Professionals Kuppili Muralidhar. Mr. Muralidhar said that Soli Sorabjee was awarded Padma Bhushan for his exemplary services to the nation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/atc/article34455316.ece
01 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||ATC||YSR Congress Party MP V. Vijaya Sai Reddy handed over a Rs. 12 lakh cheque on behalf of the party to the family members of the victims of Juttada murder case, at their residence here on Friday. He assured them justice in the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/atc/article34455317.ece
01 May 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID Care Centres will get 3,000 beds: MP||Vizianagaram Member of Parliament Bellana Chandrasekhar on Friday said that the government was arranging nearly 3,000 beds to provide proper treatment to COVID-19 patients in the district. Along with Vizianagaram Collector M. Hari Jawaharlal, Mr. Chandrasekhar inspected the infrastructure and facilities at the CCCs established in JNTU College of Vizianagaram. Speaking to reporters, he said that four centres with 1,000 beds were already functioning in the district. He said that more oxygen cylinders and ambulances were being readied at hospitals to ensure quick medical aid to patients. The Collector said that doctors and staff were being given PPE kits and other facilities to provide treatment to patients without any fear. He said that the lives of frontline staff was being given top priority in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-care-centres-will-get-3000-beds-mp/article34455260.ece
01 May 2021||VIZIANAGARAM/SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Over 50 lakh people at risk due to exams’||The State government’s decision to hold exams for students of Class X and Intermediate, at a time when the second wave of COVID-19 is spreading rapidly, will put close to 50 lakh people at risk, representatives of political parties and teachers’ associations said. The Telugu Desam Party’s Vizianagaram Parliamentary wing president Kimidi Nagarjuna feared that Andhra Pradesh would soon report the highest number of COVID-19 cases in the country if the examinations are allowed to be held without properly assessing the ground-level situation first. “Hospitals are already unable to take on any new patients as the health infrastructure is saturated. Many COVID-19 victims are dying on the roads due to non-availability of oxygen and ambulances. In this grim scenario, the government is inviting more trouble with its adamant attitude over conducting exams,” he said. BJP Etcherla in-charge Nadukuditi Eswara Rao urged the government to concentrate on speeding up the vaccination process instead of focusing on conducting exams. “The second wave is spreading to every nook and corner of the State after the elections to the municipalities, ZPTCs and MPTCs. Now, every house will have at least one COVID-19 patient if the exams will be held,” he said. Lok Satta Party State executive president Bhisetti Babji urged the government to hold an all-party meeting to discuss the COVID-19 situation and examination process. Andhra Pradesh Teachers’ Federation State president K. Bhanumurthy said that postponing the examination was the best way forward in the current scenario. “The teachers have to go to police stations to collect the question papers. The coding process ill be taken up after the examination. Close movement of teachers in exam halls cannot be avoided in spite of precautions. APTF has already explained its stand to the government,” said Mr. Bhanumurthy. All India Federation of Educational Association’s council member Sannasetty Rajasekhar said that many States had already postponed exams to safeguard students’ lives apart from preventing a further spread of the infection. “Many teachers have lost their lives to COVID-19. The government should not put teachers at further risk. Postponing of the exams by two months would be the right thing to do,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/over-50-lakh-people-at-risk-due-to-exams/article34455261.ece
01 May 2021||May 01 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||The long wait!||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/the-long-wait/article34455264.ece
01 May 2021||May 01 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cattle feed||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cattle-feed/article34454522.ece
01 May 2021||May 01 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Spreading the word||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/spreading-the-word/article34455308.ece
01 May 2021||May 01 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Grim reality||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/grim-reality/article34455238.ece
01 May 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Special officer to monitor COVID treatment||District Collector M V Reddy on Friday appointed Dr Sujatha special officer to coordinate and oversee the functioning of 22 hospitals designated for COVID-19 treatment in Kothagudem, Palvancha, Bhadrachalam and Charla areas in the district. Mr Reddy reviewed the COVID-19 prevention measures and treatment services with the officials concerned through a teleconference at the Collector’s camp office in Kothagudem on Friday, according to a press release. He said teleconferences/videoconferences would be held on a daily basis with the officials of the health and other allied departments to monitor the oxygen stock availability, COVID-19 diagnostic and treatment services at the designated centres across the district. He outlined a slew of initiatives taken by the State government to stem the spread of coronavirus and implement the COVID-19 vaccination drive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/special-officer-to-monitor-covid-treatment/article34455271.ece
01 May 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Policemen prepare playground for youth||After holding a slew of sports tournaments and distributing volleyball kits to the tribal youth of the border mandal, the Dummugudem police created a playground for local youth in Dummugudem to promote sporting talent in Telangana’s tribal heartland. The local police led by Dummugudem Circle Inspector of Police Venkateshwarlu turned a vacant government land beside the Primary Health Centre (PHC) into a playground with the help of the staff of the PHC and various other government departments. The hitherto underutilised land with full of rocks and bushes has been transformed into a perfect playground thanks to the joint shramadanam conducted by the police and others, sources said. Speaking to The Hindu , Mr Venkateshwarlu said the playground had been created to help the local youth unravel their talents in various sports, including athletics. The new playground will serve as an ideal facility for tribal youth to maintain physical fitness and excel in various sports tournaments and also in recruitment tests, he noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/policemen-prepare-playground-for-youth/article34455273.ece
01 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Daily COVID positivity rate around 10%||The daily COVID-19 positivity rate in Telangana remained around 10% for the fourth consecutive day. On Thursday, it was 9.92% with 7,646 positive cases reported during the 24-hour period till 8 p.m. on April 29. A total of 77,091 samples had been tested during the day. Similarly, daily deaths due to COVID-19 infections crossed 50 for the fourth day in a row as 53 deaths were reported during the day. With fresh positive cases and deaths, the total numbers have gone up to 4,35,606 and 2,261, respectively. According to a bulletin issued by the Directorate of Public Health on the status of COVID cases on Friday, 5,926 infected persons were declared recovered during the day taking the total recoveries to 3,55,618. The virus spread continues to be high in the Greater Hyderabad area with over 1,000 positive cases being reported every day for the past eight days. On Thursday, a total of 1,441 cases were reported from the region. The spread is also high in surrounding areas, including Medchal-Malkajgiri and Rangareddy districts. According to public health officials, a total of 252 micro containment zones earmarked for containing the spread of COVID infection with a majority of such zones lying in Greater Hyderabad region (33) followed by 22 in Vikarabad, 18 in Kumram Bheem-Asifabad, 14 each in Khammam, Mulugu and Rangareddy, and 11 in Yadadri-Bhuvanagiri district. The active cases on Thursday stood at 77,727. Vaccination Meanwhile, a total of 46,08,675 doses of COVID vaccine have been administered to healthcare workers, frontline workers and the priority age group of above 45 years till 9 p.m. on Thursday. According to a bulletin issued by the government, a total of 40,12,294 persons have been given the first dose and 5,96,381 the second dose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/daily-covid-positivity-rate-around-10/article34455127.ece
01 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Showdown was coming but TRS leaders had no inkling||A recent visit of Health Minister Eatala Rajender to a district to review the COVID treatment arrangements and his confession to some leaders that his hands were being tied with no support from the higher-ups perhaps indicated the developments that unfolded on Friday. “Where is the money” was the irritant reply by the Minister when some doctors wanted better facilities, medicines and equipment to deal with the swarming patients. During the series of interviews with major newspapers in the following days, the Minister indicated that he was helpless and powerless, though not directly saying the same. Was the frustration an indication of the things to come? Shocking But the developments were definitely shocking to TRS leaders, including Ministers and those considered close to Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao. The swift reaction from the Chief Minister for an inquiry into the land grabbing allegations have taken aback the TRS leaders who did not have an inkling of such an event unfolding just a few minutes after the municipal elections were over. “The content quite clearly indicated that it was prepared in advance and aired minutes after the polling was over.” The showdown between the CM and Mr. Rajender was being expected for the last two years but was postponed for politically-convenient reasons. There were a series of elections since 2019, including Parliament and local body elections, and any action by the CM would have created political turmoil affecting the party’s chances as Mr. Rajender is a popular leader among the Backward Castes, and also associated with the Telangana movement for the last two decades. Nothing was hunky-dory between the Chief Minister and the Minister for over the last two years, particularly since the time of Mr. Rajender’s sensational comments in August 2019 that they (he meant those who fought for Telangana) were equal owners of the pink flag. In a meeting in Huzurabad, he said that the Cabinet berth was not an ‘alms’ to him but an honour bestowed on a BC leader. It was kind of a challenge that the TRS leadership prefers to nip in the bud. It was widely expected that Mr. Rajender would be ousted in the cabinet expansion where TRS working president K.T. Rama Rao and Finance Minister T. Harish Rao were inducted. But the tactful CM did not even give an indication of dropping him. Will this strong BC leader with a sizeable following rebel against the party that was associated since its formation? The developments clearly indicate that the party doesn’t want him and his continuation will only be a humiliation for him. The TRS old-timers and BC organisations have been backing him to rebel even as the BJP had been trying to lure him into its fold as it wants to build the party on the BC plank. But the CM seems to have calculated all these risks and finally hit him at a time when the party has no elections to face. A senior leader confessed that all the heat that Mr. Rajender might generate will eventually die down. Such showdowns are not new to TRS that has seen a few revolts earlier but could not maintain the steam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/showdown-was-coming-but-trs-leaders-had-no-inkling/article34455142.ece
01 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Vaccine delivery on drones to take wing in Vikarabad||A pilot project for using drones to supply vaccines proposed in Telangana has received a boost with Union Ministry of Civil Aviation granting conditional exemption from certain rules for such experimental delivery. “MoCA gives conditional exemption from Unmanned Aircraft System Rules, 2021 to government of Telangana for conducting experimental delivery of vaccines using drones within Visual Line of Sight (VLOS) range,” the Ministry tweeted on Friday about the April 29 order. Last month, the State had applied for the exemption and the Directorate General of Civil Aviation gave approval on April 26, the Ministry said. An important clearance, Telangana government, however, is expected to go ahead with the pilot project after getting Ministry of Home Affairs approval for operating drones with the vaccine payload Beyond Visual Line of Sight (BVLOS). Permission to operate BVLOS, which the official said, was likely to be received within a fortnight, would help reach the vaccine over longer distance. The plan is to conduct the pilot project for 24 days. With BVLOS permission, the drones can be operated to delivery locations 9 km away and with payloads of around 7 kg. Vikarabad has been chosen for the project and eight firms, including Marut Drones that was incubated at T-Hub in Hyderabad, have been shortlisted. Besides the drone companies, firms health domain as well as those into drawing up and monitoring the drone path (UAV) would be part of the project. A release from Industries and IT Minister K.T.Rama Rao’s office said the ‘Medicine from the Sky’ (MFTS), as the project is called, involves undertaking BVLOS flights in Vikarabad with the Area Hospital as take-off site and various PHCs and sub-centres as landing sites. The State government has already engaged the district administration to plan the on-ground operations and identified nodal officers. Each drone would carry a combination of dummy vials and regular vaccines over the course of the trials and the performance would be recorded. The data will guide further policies regarding full-scale adoption. The eight selected consortia would be divided into four batches of two consortia. Each batch would perform sorties for six days. A week to conduct on-ground recces would be given to all consortia ahead of the programme. “While the government is still pursuing the BVLOS exemptions, the MFTS programme has been approved to undertake VLOS feasibility studies for a year. With the support and guidance of MoCA and DGCA, Telangana government has finally received required approvals and exemptions to conduct these trials, including no-objection from AAI on use of identified airspace in Vikarabad district,” the release said. Industries and IT Secretary Jayesh Ranjan said the approval from MoCA is highly appreciated and “we look forward to working with the Ministry in conducting these trials in the safest manner by strict adherence to SOPs and having risk mitigation strategies in place”. A PIB release said similar permission was given to the Indian Council of Medical Research for conducting feasibility study of COVID-19 vaccine delivery using drones in collaboration with IIT-Kanpur. The trials will also assist in assessing conditions such as population, degree of isolation and geography, thus helping identify regions that specifically require drone deliveries.  TS government has finally received required approvals and exemptions to conduct these trials, including no-objection from AAI on use of identified airspace in Vikarabad district. Govt. release||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/vaccine-delivery-on-drones-to-take-wing-in-vikarabad/article34455130.ece
01 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Top priority to women’s health: VP||Vice President M. Venkaiah Naidu has underlined the need for according highest priority to the health needs of women. “We will not be able to create a healthy society if the health needs of women get neglected,” he said. “Health interventions relating to women must focus on bolstering their health needs since they form the bedrock of a healthy society.” Mr. Venkaiah Naidu was speaking on Friday after presenting the Yudhvir Memorial Award through a video conference to Hyderabad-based gynaecologist Dr. Evita Fernandez in recognition of her service for the cause of women’s healthcare and empowerment. He said considerable progress had been made in reducing maternal mortality ratio and there is a need to accelerate the decline to achieve target 3.1 of sustainable development goals set by the United Nations that aims to reduce the global maternal mortality ratio by less than 70 per 100,000 live births by 2030. Focus on normal birth “There should also be concerted efforts to address the problem of under-nutrition among women,” he said. Complimenting Dr. Evita Fernandez for her pioneering work in the areas of women’s health and reproduction, he said she is a strong votary of normal birth. The VP appreciated the efforts of the State government and Fernandez Hospital along with the UNICEF to reduce caesarean sections and increase normal births in public hospitals. “It is a laudable objective and more private hospitals should join the drive to reduce C sections,” he added. He also said that improving maternal health care was of crucial importance and commended Dr. Evita’s initiative to create a national cadre of midwives. He paid rich tributes to the late Yudhvir on whose name the award was instituted asserting that he was man of many facets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/priority-to-womens-health-vp/article34455152.ece
01 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Senior IAS officer Chitra Ramachandran retires||Special Chief Secretary Chitra Ramachandran was accorded a warm farewell by officers and staff on her superannuation from service on Friday. Commissioner of Collegiate and Technical Education Navin Mittal, Commissioner and Secretary Intermediate Education Syed Omer Jaleel and others participated in the function duly observing strict COVID protocols on Thursday at the Vidhya Bhavan. Mr. Mittal recalled the critical decisions taken by her in the challenging times of lockdown, which helped the department in facing the challenges successfully while Mr. Jaleel recalled his association with her from the Municipal Corporation of Hyderabad (MCH) and now in the education department. The department had successfully conducted the Intermediate exams, valuation work and gave flawless results because of continuous monitoring and valuable inputs given by Mrs. Ramachandran. Online classes were also initiated at a very short notice during the lockdown as a result of constant encouragement. All the pending promotions were cleared during her tenure. The Special CS said she owed a lot to her father for her success in life. She spoke warmly of the affection and unstinted support of her colleagues in all her tenures which made it successful, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/senior-ias-officer-chitra-ramachandran-retires/article34455144.ece
01 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||AP asks TS to upload info on assistant labour commissioners||The State Reorganisation wing of Andhra Pradesh has asked the Telangana Labour Commissioner to upload the cadre strength of officials in the category of assistant commissioner of labour on the reorganisation portal. AP Reorganisation Affairs secretary L. Premchandra Reddy, in a communication to the Telangana Labour Commissioner, wanted the details of the assistant commissioners of labour like date of birth, date of entry into service and others in the Form III of the reorganisation portal. This would enable the special commissioner of labour to get the data relating to assistant commissioners of labour uploaded on the portal. The AP government drafted a tentative list of 87 assistant commissioners of labour from the two States who would be covered in the division. The department has a total of 106 posts of assistant commissioners of which 19 were reserved for direct recruits. The move comes as part of efforts to speed up allocation of the posts of the officials concerned between the two successor Telugu States Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. A separate login had already been created on the AP Reorganisation portal to enter the details for the purpose of allocation of assistant labour commissioners as on June 2, 2014. User IDs had already been allotted separately for the labour commissioners of the two States and the user ID and password had been communicated to the nodal officers for uploading the cadre strength in respect of the said posts. The circular memos/guidelines/instructions relating to allocation of the State cadre employees were available on the reorganisation portal and this information could be referred to in case of doubts, if any, in uploading the information. Allocation of the posts between the two States had been pending resolution following differences over the integrated seniority list of officers prepared by AP government. A section of Telangana officials are contending that the list had been prepared unilaterally and the government should keep the interests of the State employees before giving its consent for bifurcation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ap-asks-ts-to-upload-info-on-assistant-labour-commissioners/article34455278.ece
01 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BJP objects to Eatala’s remarks against Centre||The Telangana BJP has taken strong objection to Minister for Health Eatala Rajendra criticising the Centre for the second COVID wave and shortages and accused him of changing the tune only to please Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao as his post was shaky. Senior leader D.K. Aruna said the Minister had earlier hailed the Centre for providing sufficient oxygen to Telangana and reverted to attacking the Centre only to save his post. “Is Mr. Rajendra in control of the Health department at all? KCR is running the department directly with Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar and the Minister is not even invited for the review meetings. Similarly, the Director of Public Health and Director of Medical Education don’t report to him,” she claimed on Friday. In a press statement, the party vice president claimed the Centre has made arrangements for manufacturing 400 metric tonnes of oxygen in Telangana, five more plants are scheduled to be opened through the PM Cares Fund and a few more are in the pipeline even as the Railways and the Air Force have been ferrying oxygen containers. About 48 lakh vaccines, 1,400 ventilators and sufficient vials of Remdesivir injections have been supplied to the State by the Centre which has also released 1.92 metric tonnes of foodgrains for free distribution to the poor, she added.  KCR is running the department directly with Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar and the Minister is not even invited for the review meetings. Similarly, the Director of Public Health and DME don’t report to him.  D.K. Aruna Senior BJP leader||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/aruna-objects-to-eatalas-remarks-against-centre/article34455147.ece
01 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BJP for high-level probe||TS BJP president Bandi Sanjay Kumar on Friday demanded a high-level probe by a sitting judge into the ‘land grabbing’ and ‘corruption’ charges of every single Minister and MLA of TRS. “Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao should react to the expose by his own channel on the large-scale land grabbing by his Cabinet Ministers. Mr. Rajender himself sought a probe, so he should do it,” he said in a virtual press meet. The government here has been focusing on criticising the Centre for everything instead of explaining to the people what it had done to mitigate the sufferings of the people in the second wave. Mr. Sanjay Kumar said that the ‘political gimmicks’ of the official party channel talking of land grabbing could also be a ruse to deflect people’s attention from the prevailing collapse of the healthcare system.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bjp-for-high-level-probe/article34455146.ece
01 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Eatala a scapegoat: Cong.||AICC spokesperson Sravan Dasoju on Friday said that Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao was making Health Minister Eatala Rajendar a scapegoat to cover up his failures in curtailing COVID spread in Telangana. He claimed that the CM had crafted a political conspiracy on the BC leader and a Telangana fighter, who has been serving people sincerely ever since the coronavirus outbreak. “The CM has intentions to defame the Minister through allegations made in a section of the media,” he said. He asked how come KCR had ignored other land-grabbing ministers, including his son K.T. Rama Rao and TRS MLAs, but only targeting the leaders representing the weaker sections of society. He said KCR declined funds to the Health department and refused to include COVID treatment under Aarogyasri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/eatala-a-scapegoat-cong/article34455154.ece
01 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Mask rule violation at Hyderabad airport to attract Rs. 1,000 penalty||Telangana State DGP M. Mahender Reddy has authorised officials of Hyderabad International Airport to enforce government orders for compliance with mask rule on the airport premises at all times. Accordingly, 20 officials of the airport have been appointed as Special Police Officers (SPOs) to safeguard and help in the enforcement of COVID-19 safety guidelines. The government also issued the orders of imposing a penalty of Rs. 1,000 for not abiding by the protocols. These special officers’ authority will only be limited to imposing penalty on passengers, visitors and staff not following the COVID safety guidelines on the airport premises. Officials of Rajiv Gandhi International Airport and Cyberabad police station imparted training to the SPOs on using the software and procedure for generating e-challan. The appointment order of SPOs will come into force from May 1 and stay in effect till July 31, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mask-rule-violation-at-hyderabad-airport-to-attract-rs-1000-penalty/article34455131.ece
01 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||High power panel for allocation of Tocilizumab||The State government has constituted a high power committee for allocation of Tocilizumab drug for COVID-19 patients in government and private hospitals across Telangana. The committee will comprise Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences director and directors of Medical Education, and Public Health and Family Welfare as its members. The office of the Director of Medical Education would receive the request for Tocilizumab from the hospitals for specific patients and place it before the committee. The patient-wise request from hospitals should have detailed recommendation of a team of three specialist doctors from the hospitals which is indenting the drug after assessment of the patient’s condition. The committee should satisfy criteria like no active bacteria/fungal/tubercular infection, no improvement despite use of steroids, significantly raised inflammatory markers and presence of severe disease (preferably within 24 to 48 hours of onset of severe disease/ICU admission) and make allocation. According to a note from the Union Health Ministry, Tocilizumab is expensive and Cipla is its sole distributor in the country. The drug went out of stock in the past few weeks and had been replenished in limited quantities with States being allotted fixed quotas. Most States secured between 25 and 200 units of the drug, and would further distribute them to government and private hospitals, the note added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/high-power-panel-for-allocation-of-tocilizumab/article34455134.ece
01 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||No vaccination this weekend||There will be no vaccination at the Government COVID Vaccination Centres across the State on Saturday and Sunday due to non-receipt of vaccine doses. Director for Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao said instructions have been given to vaccine storage points to stop issuing vaccine to private hospitals from Friday forenoon itself. Private vaccination centres were asked to utilise available stock till Friday and return leftover stock, if any, to the government. A total of 46,08,675 doses have been given to healthcare workers, frontline workers and priority age group of above 45 years till 9 p.m. on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/no-vaccination-this-weekend/article34455128.ece
01 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Metro rail to continue curtailed night service||Hyderabad Metro Rail will continue to be operating its last train at 7.45 p.m. from all terminal stations until further notice from the government in view of the extension of night curfew till May 8. The first train service has no change and will continue to start at 6.30 a.m. Passengers are advised to plan their travels accordingly. Passengers are also advised to strictly follow the COVID-19 safety guidelines, including social distancing, wearing of face masks, regular hand sanitisation and thermal screening, among others. They are requested to cooperate with security personnel and other metro staff in their efforts towards keeping their journey safe, said an official release on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/metro-rail-to-run-fewer-night-services/article34455138.ece
01 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||ATM robbery accused flees with cash, gun||One of the culprits involved in the daylight armed robbery at an ATM in Kukatpally on Thursday afternoon reportedly escaped with cash and a country-made firearm, while the other was caught by the Special Operations Team of Cyberabad police on Thursday night. The investigators suspect that the fugitive might have boarded a train to Maharashtra from Lingampally railway station. “A man involved in the offence is in our custody and we are interrogating him. He was caught near Chandanagar,” an SOT official said. He said that the duo was from Bihar. They came to Hyderabad in search of a livelihood a few months ago and were working as daily wagers. Police suspect that the two had committed a similar offence on April 16 at a money transfer agency at Jeedimetla. Two persons entered the centre by wearing a mask and a helmet, and robbed off Rs. 1.95 lakh. “They were doing a recee of the area for the past few days and were also following the cash vehicle,” police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/atm-robbery-accused-flees-with-cash-gun/article34455151.ece
01 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Last date extended||The last date for submission of online applications for admission into 5th class in Social, Tribal, BC and General Welfare Residential Educational Institutions for 2021-2022 has been extended from April 30 to May 10. Candidates can contact TSWREIS’s toll-free number 1800 425 45678 for admission-related queries. The date of entrance exam will be intimated later. Candidates should visitwww.tswreis.inhttp:/tgcet.cgg.gov.inhttp:/mjptbcwreis.telangana.gov.in, http:/tgtwgurukulam.telangana. gov.inhttp:/tresidential.gov.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/last-date-extended/article34455268.ece
01 May 2021||KHAMMAM/siddipet,TELANGANA||57.91% voter turnout in KMC polls||Around 57.91% of the nearly 2.88 lakh voters exercised their franchise in the election to Khammam Municipal Corporation (KMC) held in the midst of a COVID surge on Friday. The perceived fear appeared to have impacted the electoral participation as was evident from the relatively low voter turnout compared to the previous election. The Urban Local Body (ULB) registered a voter turnout of 67.68% in the 2016 election, KMC sources said. Amid tight security and COVID safety precautions, the election was held for 59 wards of the total 60 in the KMC from 7 a.m. to 5 p.m. on Friday. TRS candidate Madhuri had already been elected from the 10th ward unopposed (unanimously). Sporadic incidents of minor clashes between TRS and Congress workers in 55th and 57th divisions were reported during polling. Police chased away a group of agitated Congress cadre when they tried to stage a sit-in on the road in 57th division in protest against alleged bogus voting at a polling booth at the NSP camp area. An agitated Congress worker created a flutter by dousing himself with petrol demanding action against those allegedly resorting to ‘electoral malpractices’. A commotion broke out near a polling booth in the 20th division when a group of BJP cadres tried to stage a dharna against what they termed ‘largescale bogus voting’ and ‘misuse of power’ by some ruling party local leaders. Police swiftly intervened and brought the situation under control. Prominent among those who cast their votes in the initial hours were Transport Minister P. Ajay Kumar, Khammam MP Nama Nageswara Rao, and Collector R.V. Karnan. The KMC election witnessed a keen contest between the TRS-CPI combine, Congress-CPI (M) alliance and the BJP-Jana Sena Party (JSP) combine. TRS fielded its candidates from 57 wards leaving three wards to its ally the CPI as part of a pre-poll alliance to retain the ULB. Meanwhile, the ballot boxes were shifted to the strong rooms at the SR&BGNR Government Degree and PG College in the town where the sealed boxes were kept under tight security. Counting of votes will be taken up on May 3 and the results will be declared on the same day. Polling in Siddipet The election for Siddipet municipality was held peacefully on Friday. Polls were held for as many as 43 wards in the municipality of 1,00,678 voters. A polling percentage of 67.18 was recorded till 5 p.m., which was only 13.13% till 9 a.m. As many as 67,636 people cast their votes, out of which 34,556 were men and 33,075 women. Finance Minister Harish Rao, MLC Farooq Hussain, and Commissioner of Police D. Joyal Davis did cast their votes in one of the 130 polling stations established in the town. District Collector P. Venkatrama Reddy visited several polling stations along with general observer Vasam Venkateswarlu, Additional Collector Muzammil Khan, and Assistant Commissioner G. Narsaiah. He examined the arrangements of the strong room and counting at Indur Engineering College. Only agents, contested candidates and media representatives would be allowed in the counting centres. General public was advised to stay 500 metres away from the counting centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/5791-voter-turnout-in-kmc-polls/article34455150.ece
01 May 2021||MEDAK,TELANGANA||Land grab charges against Eatala||Serious allegations were levelled on Friday evening against Health Minister Eatala Rajender that he had ‘grabbed’ about 20 acres of assignment land at Achampet in Masaipet mandal of Medak district. According to sources, eight farmers reportedly wrote a letter to Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao alleging that Mr. Rajender had grabbed their land. A poultry farm was set up by Mr. Rajender in the name of his wife Jamuna and son Nithin, some time ago, named “Jamuna Poultry Farms”. Now, some farmers who own assigned land adjacent to the poultry farm alleged that the Health Minister ‘eyed’ their land and pressurised them to sell these. Some of them were even offered Rs. 1.5 lakh-Rs. 3 lakh an acre to sell their land. Charges were levelled against the Minister’s relatives for using influence and even roping in the police of Veldurthi to put pressure on the farmers in this regard. A few farmers were allegedly lathi-charged also. “We were forced to sign some papers at the MRO but were not taken inside the registration office. Some of us were paid. We lodged a complaint with MLA Ch. Madan Reddy and others, but to no avail,” said Srinivas, a farmer from the village. The farmers alleged that they were paid peanuts when the land rates were anywhere between Rs. 30 to Rs. 40 lakh. Another farmer alleged that the then Sub-Inspector of Veldurthi, Gangadhar, threatened them and forced them to sell their land. The role of one Suri and another Yanjala Sudhakar Reddy, allegedly close associates of Mr. Rajender, were pointed out in the entire episode. Then Collector K. Dharma Reddy and Joint Collector Nagesh, who are facing corruption allegations, were being quoted by some TV channels to be approached by the Health Minister for regularising about 20 acres of assignment land adjacent to the poultry farm. However, they rejected the request stating it was not possible.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/land-grab-charges-against-eatala/article34455141.ece
01 May 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Two die in Sangareddy government hospital||At least two persons affected by coronavirus reportedly died at the district hospital on Friday. According to sources, a person from a village near Zaheerabad was brought to hospital for admission. He died while undergoing treatment. A 58- year old man from Pedda Gottimukkala village in Shivampet mandal died in the government hospital. In a related development, District Welfare Officer Padmavathi said a helpline was launched to extend assistance for aged and differently abled persons in getting vaccination. Aged people can all 14567 and differently abled can call 1800 572 8980.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-die-in-sangareddy-government-hospital/article34455270.ece
01 May 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Vaccination for 18 plus to wait||As expected, there will be no vaccination from Saturday, May 1, for those who crossed 18 years as announced earlier. This is in view of the shortage of vaccine availability in the district. Shortage of vaccine is hitting the public hard and they are being forced to return home with a suggestion to come again. In a release here on Friday, District Medical and Health Officer (DM&HO) Gayatri Devi said that vaccination for those who crossed 18 years would be taken up once the State government issued guidelines in the matter, said the DM&HO.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/vaccination-for-18-plus-to-wait/article34455269.ece
01 May 2021||May 01 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Ice, ice, baby||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ice-ice-baby/article34455136.ece
01 May 2021||May 01 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Voluntary lockdown||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/voluntary-lockdown/article34455275.ece
01 May 2021||New Delhi,||Hospital says it won’t be responsible for ‘mishap’||A week after 20 critically ill patients died over one night, which was “linked” to an oxygen crisis in Jaipur Golden Hospital, a notice was put outside the hospital’s emergency department that it won’t be responsible for “any mishap” due to “supply of oxygen”. The notice stuck on a barricade outside the emergency read: “This is to inform you that due to erratic supply of oxygen you are kindly advised to make alternative arrangements for the safety of patients/your patients. In case of any mishap due to supply of oxygen hospitals, doctors and management will not be held responsible for any consequences [sic].” However, the hospital claimed that there was no oxygen shortage as on Friday. “The oxygen situation is slightly better. Our current oxygen stock would last for 24 hours,” said D.K. Baluja, Medical Director of the hospital. But the hospital is not currently admitting new patients. Relatives of patients also said that they were not facing any issues related to oxygen. Arun Kumar, 46, whose relative is admitted to the hospital, said there were no major problems at present. “We needed ICU, but we didn’t get an ICU. Currently, they have not told us to get oxygen or informed us that there is any problem with the oxygen supply. But no new admission is happening due to the ongoing oxygen shortage in Delhi,” he said. Not hospital’s blame Abhishek Jain, 35, lost his mother and father to COVID-19 while being admitted at the hospital, but he said he won’t blame the hospital. “We won’t blame anyone, the hospital or the doctor. The work they are doing, even if they are doing 50%, at a time when others are not stepping out, they are putting their lives on the line,” said, Mr. Jain, whose mother died on April 22 and father on Friday. Two oxygen cylinders were also found at the parking of the hospital and one of them had the name “Beena” written at several places on it. “We are not taking new patients. After taking new patients and if there is no oxygen and someone dies, then who will we blame?” one of the security guards said. There was no rush or queues at the hospital on Friday. A 24-year-old woman got emergency care for her COVID-19 positive mother at the hospital after multiple requests, but the hospital said they don't have vacant beds to admit her. Multiple hospitals are still running at a reduced bed capacity due to the oxygen crisis and many are waiting for oxygen refill, as the stock left would last only for a couple of hours. Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital, which had reduced the bed capacity from 650 to 350, due to oxygen shortage has stopped admissions on Thursday night, said officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/hospital-says-it-wont-be-responsible-for-mishap/article34454828.ece
01 May 2021||New Delhi,||When there is no Plan B||On a moonlit night, under an orange and maroon shaadi-waala shamiana, about 12 cars wait. Next to them are jumbo, 25-litre medical oxygen cylinders battered from use. At the Hemkunt Foundation, just off Gurugram’s Golf Course Road, is a dusty parking lot, where COVID-19 patients and their families queue up for oxygen, now in short supply in Delhi-NCR. It is a 24x7 service, offered free when the cylinders are filled. “The filling process can take up to three days, and depending on the vendor’s capacity, we can do from 300 to 800 in a day,” says Harteerath Ahluwalia, the community development director. They source oxygen from three States, and a truck is escorted by a vehicle, currently provided by Mahindra. “I am directly in touch with the CEO,” he says, adding that there has been an outpouring of both individual and CSR donations, with companies postponing paperwork to transfer funds or goods quickly. Under wraps He, though, doesn’t disclose numbers of people coming in, funds raised, or the amount spent daily, except that there are 4,000 cylinders in circulation, with 3,000 at the head office in Gurugram and 1,000 in Maharashtra, mainly Mumbai and Pune. They deliver at home and offer cylinders against a deposit of Rs. 10,000, though he says a filled cylinder costs them Rs. 12,500 with another Rs. 2,000 or so for accessories (mask, humidifier). In circulation daily on site are 10-15 cylinders. People with oxygen levels as low as 35% have travelled from Greater Noida, Ghaziabad, driving 60 kilometres one way; some have taken an auto or cab from Delhi. There are families with three COVID positive members: a son with diabetes and breathlessness has brought his father and weak mother for oxygen. He hasn’t eaten since the morning and he is offered juice by a volunteer – a person with a fluorescent vest, shifting between fixing the cylinder, offering a kind word, and a warm meal sourced from a local Gurdwara. Isolated lives A single man, a driver who has no one inthe city, is on a Rexine futon on the ground, attached to a cylinder. A family of four drives in with a naani who needs oxygen. Her seven-year-old grandson is in the front seat, because there’s nowhere to leave him. A man in his 20s, who has just lost his job, has come with his brother after having tried several hospitals. They symbolise the isolation of city life made more ironical with strangers bearing flashing kirpans and untamed beards offering help. Mr. Ahluwalia, who is a management student and has volunteered with the foundation for four years, says he’s been in several disaster situations, but this has been the worst. It is because, he says: “We can’t predict anything.” However, what’s different from last year is mental health. “The efficiency of the volunteers has gone down,” he says, signalling burnout of people working from last year to provide relief. “Also, 50% of us are down with COVID.” On ground, it’s not the ideal situation. There are no doctors or nurses here, few volunteers at night, mosquitoes breed, and dogs frolic in between cars. But a taxi driver, who has driven his neighbour for the second time in the day here, says, “These people are doing excellent work. Please don’t write anything bad about them.” And a man whose pregnant wife is getting oxygen asks where he can make a donation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/when-there-is-no-plan-b/article34454832.ece
01 May 2021||New Delhi,||‘All above 18 will be vaccinated in 3 months’||Terming it a humongous task which the Delhi government needed the cooperation of many to accomplish, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday said all of the people of Delhi aged above 18 would be vaccinated against COVID over the coming three months, if things went according to plan. He also appealed to people not to queue up outside vaccination centres in the Capital from Saturday. The universal administration of COVID vaccination to people aged between 18 and 44 begins across the country on May 1. The Chief Minister stated that the Delhi government had not yet received vaccine doses from companies manufacturing them, which are to arrive in a day or two, following which the government will begin the drive. “Beginning May 1, the vaccination drive for those aged between 18 and 44 is set to begin. The vaccination drive for those aged 45 and above is already in motion. The procedure for those between 18 and 44 has garnered an overwhelming response and many people have registered,” he told a digital briefing. “We have not yet received the vaccine and are in continuous touch with the companies and hope the vaccines will be delivered in a day or two. We’ve been assured of this,” he also said. First, he said, three lakh doses of Covishield are supposed to be delivered by one-two days, after which more doses will arrive. He requested people not queue up at the centres to avoid a law and order situation or hindering social distancing protocols. Once the Delhi government gets the vaccine doses, it will make an official announcement, following which only those who are registered and given appointments should come to the vaccination centres. “I request everyone not to rush. Everyone is to be inoculated and preparations have been made for the same. We have two vaccines – Covishield and Covaxin – and both the manufacturers have been urged to render 67 lakh doses each,” he said. “We have also requested them to provide these 67 lakh doses within three months, and the Delhi government is prepared to bear the financial costs. The people of Delhi will be provided with the vaccines free of cost and we have also demanded a schedule from both the companies specifying the days when they supply the vaccines within these three months,” he also said. The Delhi government, he said, had formulated a plan and even the infrastructure needed for it was in place and things now depended on the two manufacturers as to how swiftly they could provide the vaccine doses. If they were able to provide sufficient quantities of the vaccine, the Delhi government would try to vaccinate the people of Delhi within three months, he said. It had been observed, he said, that those who had been inoculated were comparatively better off than those who had not been. It was not that they did not catch COVID, but even if they did, it was not fatal and did not turn into something serious. “The vaccine acts as a protective shield. Therefore, I urge everyone to get vaccinated as these are completely safe and entail no danger. Do request everyone around and your relatives to get inoculated,” he stated. “We need everyone’s support. Only if we are able to garner the support of the people of Delhi, can we complete the process within the next three months. This is a humongous exercise and to execute this herculean task is a massive challenge. This can only be completed with everyone’s support,” he also stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/all-above-18-will-be-vaccinated-in-3-months/article34454823.ece
01 May 2021||New Delhi,||SDMC arranges 3,500 quintals of wood for cremation of virus victims||Having received no reply from the Delhi government regarding arrangement of firewood to ensure uninterrupted funerals of hundreds of COVID bodies ending up at the city’s crematoria every day, the three municipal bodies have sought outside assistance. The South Delhi Municipal Corporation has arranged as many as 3,500 quintals of wood from Haryana Van Nigam for cremations as an exigency measure even as it is engaged in increasing the capacity of funeral venues in its jurisdiction by 50% on a daily basis. The other two civic bodies have made similar arrangements too. “We have taken the decision to arrange 3,500 quintals of firewood given the dynamic situation at hand and given the daily number of COVID bodies,” said a senior SDMC official. “Temporary funeral platforms are being created on a parcel of land in Dwarka Sector 29 where the SDMC has four acres of land and located 150 feet away from a dog sterilisation which is in operation,” the official also said. According to records compiled by the three municipal corporations, the last rites of as many as 5,808 people took place over the last 11 days between April 19 and April 29. Figures compiled till 6 p.m. on April 29 by the civic bodies posited that the last rites of 717 people had been performed at 29 funeral venues across the city during the day. Assuming that the performance of last rites began as early as 6 a.m., as civic body officials say they have been since earlier this month, over 59 funerals were performed every hour till the time of the compilation of Thursday’s report. “We have not received any response from the Delhi government to a letter written to Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal requesting directions to the forest department to help in arranging firewood,” said Jai Prakash, Mayor, North Delhi Municipal Corporation. “Apart from issuing an order allowing the utilisation of cow dung and stubble mixture for funeral pyres, we have written to the National Highways Authority of India and the Uttar Pradesh forest department for the arrangement of firewood,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/sdmc-arranges-3500-quintals-of-wood-for-cremation-of-virus-victims/article34454825.ece
01 May 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi reports 375 COVID deaths, 27,047 new cases||Delhi reported 375 COVID-19-related deaths in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of deaths to 16,147, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Friday. Also, 27,047 new cases were reported, taking the total cases to 11,49,333. A total of 82,745 tests were done in a day, the bulletin said. Of the total cases, 10,33,825 people have recovered and there are 99,361 active cases. The positivity of new cases was 32.69%. This means more than 32 out of 100 people taking the test are testing positive for COVID-19. The positivity, which is the percentage of people testing positive out of the total tests done, has been almost on the same level for the past one week. There was a sharp rise in positivity from 3.5% on April 1 to 36.2% on April 22. But since then, it has stayed below it. Out of the total 21,156 beds for COVID-19 treatment in the city, only 6.14% were vacant at 11 p.m. on Friday. Also, only 44 ICU beds were vacant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhi-reports-375-covid-deaths-27047-new-cases/article34455101.ece
01 May 2021||New Delhi,||Private hospitals all set to begin jab for 18-plus||Private hospital groups Fortis, Apollo, and Max said that they will start COVID-19 vaccinations for people above 18 from Saturday. “Fortis will administer COVID-19 vaccines for 18 plus at its centres across North India from Saturday. Fortis centres in other cities will commence vaccination as soon as supplies are made available by the authorities,” an official statement said. Fortis Hospitals will administer Covaxin at Rs. 1,250 per dose, including cost of the vaccine and administration charges.” Max Healthcare is one of the first hospital chains in the country to procure vaccines (Covishield) and will be starting the universal vaccination drive from select hospitals in the network in the NCR. Presently, vaccines will be available at Max Healthcare facilities at Panchsheel Park, Patparganj, Shalimar Bagh, Rajinder Place (BLK-Max Hospital), Noida and Vaishali in the NCR,” Max Healthcare said. Citizens will have to register on the CoWin app (www.cowin.gov.in) and book an appointment slot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/private-hospitals-all-set-to-begin-jab-for-18-plus/article34455105.ece
01 May 2021||New Delhi,||Total collapse of Delhi’s health system likely: BJP||BJP State president Adesh Gupta on Friday said that shortage of hospital beds, COVID medicines and oxygen was overwhelming and the peak of the pandemic, anticipated around May 8 by experts, may lead to the total collapse of the health system in the Capital. Iqbal’s statement Mr. Gupta said AAP MLA Shoaib Iqbal’s statement to the effect that President’s Rule needed to be imposed had substantiated the BJP’s stand. “Shoaib Iqbal’s statement is not a normal statement; it is a result of his hearing and accepting his inner soul’s voice,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/total-collapse-of-delhis-health-system-likely-bjp/article34454821.ece
01 May 2021||New Delhi,||AAP MLA demands President’s Rule in Delhi||AAP MLA Shoaib Iqbal on Friday demanded imposition of President’s Rule in Delhi in view of the massive surge in COVID-19 cases. The Matia Mahal MLA, who left the Congress and contested the Delhi Assembly polls last year on an AAP ticket, said neither him nor the government is able to offer any help to the people affected by the second wave of COVID-19. No immediate reaction was available from AAP on Mr. Iqbal’s demand. “I feel embarrassed being an MLA since I cannot be of use to anyone... our government is unable to stand with the people. Despite being a six-time MLA, there is no one to listen to [me] and I cannot contact anyone,” Mr. Iqbal said in a video message. He urged the Delhi High Court to impose President’s Rule in the national capital with immediate effect for three months. “Delhi is in a very bad situation. I request the Delhi High Court for imposition of President’s Rule in Delhi with immediate effect. Otherwise there will be bodies across the city,” the AAP MLA said. “I feel like crying, I can’t sleep. People are desperate and unable to find medicines and oxygen. I cannot even help a friend who is in hospital without oxygen and medicines,” he said.   Mr. Iqbal said his demand for President’s Rule was not against his party. “People are dying due to COVID-19 and saving them should be the only priority,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/aap-mla-demands-presidents-rule-in-delhi/article34454819.ece
01 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Cong. wants display outside hospitals on bed availability||The Delhi Congress on Friday alleged that incorrect figures were being shown on the State government’s Delhi Corona app on availability of beds and demanded that digital displays be put up outside hospitals to show the actual availability of beds. Delhi Congress chief Ch. Anil Kumar said that last year, when incorrect data was shown regarding beds on the app released by the Delhi government, he had demanded a digital display outside hospitals in an all-party meeting called by the Lieutenant-Governor and the order was implement, but that during the current wave it was not being followed strictly. “Neither correct information is available on the app, nor are digital displays installed outside most hospitals due to which wrong information is being given to the patients. As a result, patients are dying while moving from one hospital to another,” Mr. Kumar said The party also demanded that 25% beds be reserved for the poor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/cong-wants-display-outside-hospitals-on-bed-availability/article34454820.ece
01 May 2021||New Delhi,||Kejriwal brief||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal’s wife Sunita Kejriwal, who had tested positive for COVID-19, has been admitted to Max Hospital, Saket, sources said on Friday. Last year, all three Ministers of the AAP government — Satyendar Jain, Manish Sisodia, and Gopal Rai — who had tested positive were also admitted to the hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/kejriwal-brief/article34455102.ece
01 May 2021||Noida,||10 more deaths, 1,310 new cases in G.B. Nagar||With 10 more fatalities, the death toll due to COVID-19 reached 212 in Uttar Pradesh’s Gautam Buddha Nagar on Friday while the infection count climbed to 41,312 with 13,10 new cases, official data showed. The number of active cases in the district rose to 8,267 from 8,130 the previous day, according to the figures released by the U.P. Health Department for a 24-hour period. On the bright side, 1,163 patients got discharged during the period, with the overall recoveries reaching 32,833 in the district, the fifth highest in the State, it showed. Death toll Gautam Buddha Nagar now has a death toll of 212 with a mortality rate of 0.51%. The recovery rate of patients reached 79.47% from 79.17% the previous day, statistics showed.  State figures Meanwhile, the number of active COVID-19 cases in Uttar Pradesh reached 3,10,783 from 3,09,237 on Thursday as the overall recoveries climbed to 9,28,971 and the death toll surged to 12,570 on Friday, data showed.  As many as 1,163 patients got discharged in 24 hours, with the overall recoveries reaching 32,833 in the district, the fifth highest in the State Health bulletin||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/10-more-deaths-1310-new-cases-in-gb-nagar/article34454826.ece
01 May 2021||GURUGRAM,||Weekend lockdown in nine Haryana districts||The Haryana government on Friday imposed a weekend lockdown in nine districts. The lockdown will remain in force from 10 p.m. on April 30 till 5 a.m. on May 3. The movement of all essential goods will be allowed during this period. The lockdown will come into force in Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonipat, Rohtak, Karnal, Panchkula, Hisar, Sirsa and Fatehabad. The order said no person should leave their homes or move on foot or by vehicle or travel or stand or roam around on any road or public place during the lockdown. However, there will be no curbs on inter-State and intra-State movement of essential and non-essential goods. The vehicles and persons in bonafide transit will be allowed to pass after verification. Similarly, those tasked with law and order, emergency and municipal services, including media persons with accreditation, are exempted on the production of identity card. The restaurants, hotels and food courts in shopping malls can remain open for home delivery. Besides, the delivery of all essential goods, including food, pharmaceuticals, medical equipment etc. through e-commerce, private security services, farming operations by farmers, petrol pumps, petroleum and gas retail and storage outlets are also exempted. Hospitals, veterinary hospitals and all medical establishments, including pharmacies, dispensaries etc., are outside the ambit of the lockdown order. The passengers going to or returning from airport or railway and bus stations are also exempted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/weekend-lockdown-in-nine-haryana-districts/article34454746.ece
01 May 2021||Mumbai,||HC orders Centre to include Remdesivir in scheduled drugs’ list, regulate pricing||The Nagpur Bench of the Bombay High Court on Friday asked the Centre to include Remdesivir in the list of scheduled drugs and to regulate its pricing. The direction came while the Bench was hearing a suo motu public interest litigation (PIL) petition on the shortage of oxygen, non-availablity of Remdesivir, Tocilizumab injections, and hospital beds in Nagpur district. When Ulhas Aurangabadkar, assistant solicitor general of India, told a Bench of Justice Sunil Shukre and Justice Avinash Gharote that it would be difficult to include Remdesivir in the scheduled drugs, the Bench said, “Prima facie, we are of the view that it is possible to regulate the pricing if a liberal interpretation is given to the provisions of Drugs and Cosmetics Act (DCA).” The Bench went to state that the provisions of the DCA did allow restriction or regulation of prices of a drug that was essential during a natural calamity or epidemic. “The laws empower the Union government to take such steps,” said the Bench and noted that even the Drugs Control Act provides for fixing rates of essential drugs. Both the Drugs Control Act and DCA enable the central government to issue a notification to fix rates of essential drugs during an epidemic, noted the Bench. Till now, not a single drug has been added to the scheduled drugs, and “the Central government can now do so and fix the rates of Remdesivir” it noted. “If the powers conferred on the Central government are exercised, it will go a long way. It will stop extortion of money from families of COVID-19 patients, and will also put a full stop to the black-marketing of the drug. The Centre should perform its fundamental duty by fixing the prices,” the Bench said. The court also came down heavily on Maharashtra for not having a proper mechanism to procure and distribute Remdesivir vials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/hc-orders-centre-to-include-remdesivir-in-scheduled-drugs-list-regulate-pricing/article34454755.ece
01 May 2021||Mumbai,||‘Sudha Bharadwaj trying to use ill health to get bail’||Rubbishing the claims of ill health by Sudha Bharadwaj, an accused in the Bhima-Koregaon violence case, Sadanand Gaikwad, superintendent of Byculla jail, on Friday told The Hindu : “Ms. Bharadwaj keeps complaining. She has no body ache, no diarrhoea. She resorts to these gimmicks to get bail.” On April 29, Ms. Bharadwaj called her daughter Maaysha from the prison and said she had diarrhoea, fatigue, and had lost her appetite and sense of taste for the last three weeks. Speaking to The Hindu, Maaysha said, “My mother has not been feeling well since she got vaccinated around three weeks ago. She was telling me that she had even written to the superintendent of Byculla jail about her health. Her letter requested him to take her to JJ Hospital for a thorough body check-up but to no avail.” However, Mr. Gaikwad said, “Ms. Bharadwaj is a big complainer. She keeps complaining about everything. Even when she was in Yerwada jail, she used to complain a lot.” When asked about her health, Mr. Gaikwad said, “She is anyway over 60 years old. She is bound to have some aches and pains.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/sudha-bharadwaj-trying-to-use-ill-health-to-get-bail/article34454760.ece
01 May 2021||Navi Mumbai,||Search on for man who blackmailed bank official||The Unit I of the Navi Mumbai Crime Branch is looking for an unidentified man who tried to get a ‘loan’ from a senior official of a bank in Vashi while threatening him with private videos of his wife. The man approached the bank official via WhatsApp call and demanded a loan of Rs. 15 lakh. When the official refused to grant the loan in the absence of proper documents, the accused forwarded a video of nine seconds of the official’s wife. The man again called and told the official that he had around 850 such videos and he also had the mobile numbers of his relatives to whom he would send the videos if the loan was not approved.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/search-on-for-man-who-blackmailed-bank-official/article34454756.ece
01 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Tough time for all-infected households||From reaching out on social media for help to turning to neighbours and relatives for help, families where all members have tested positive are facing a difficult time in managing essentials. While several are now dependent on home-delivered food and medicines, many others are anxious about the continuing shortage of beds, injections and oxygen and wary of the steps to be taken in case of an emergency, requiring hospitalisation. For many others, being a caregiver to a family member while taking care of themselves at the same time, are also taking a toll. Bhavya D.N. (26), who tested positive recently, said: “It was initially my father who was infected and in the process of taking care of him, my mother and I caught it as well. When my mother developed symptoms, I was the one having to manage all domestic chores apart from office work. We are getting most of the medicines delivered at home.” Constant fear “As of now, we are managing well, but there is a constant fear that the health of one of us might deteriorate and with limited resources, it is a very scary thought,” the east Delhi resident said. Procuring medicines, which are out of stock, have also posed a major issue for the families where all the members are affected and isolated. Deepika Sethi, a resident of Kailash Colony, said: “It all started when our cook developed symptoms and although he isolated himself immediately, my elderly parents-in-law started showing symptoms the next day and I started showing symptoms the day after. We all tested positive. My husband and children, aged nine and 13, were staying in the flat upstairs, which is empty. But my husband also got infected and now my children are upstairs alone. It becomes tough when doctors ask for a CT scan or prescribe medicines that are out of stock. Other friends and family are also going through a similar situation, so asking for help also becomes impossible.” Ms. Sethi added that keeping her children safe was turning out to be a tough job as they have to get food from outside and are unable to deal with the loneliness. For 32-year-old Reema, arranging for an injection for her father, who had to be hospitalised, proved to be big a hurdle with all other members being affected as well. “We had to reach out on social media and even there we did not get volunteers who could stand in queues and get the injection. Everyone at home was affected so there was nobody who could visit from one shop to another. I had to finally reach out to a colleague of mine as we had no other option,” said Ms. Reema.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/tough-time-for-all-infected-households/article34454753.ece
01 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Oxygen ‘langar’ with 15 cylinders lands in a soup — no supply||Outside a park near a mall in west Delhi’s Subhash Nagar, 60-year-old Rama lay on a bench as her daughter-in-law Indu cried for help. They were waiting at an oxygen service provider, which was yet to open its doors for the day. The ‘Drive-thru oxygen langar’ was started by Akal Purakh Ki Fouj on Tuesday with 15 oxygen cylinders of 50-litre capacity. It hit the first roadblock on Wednesday night when they ran out of oxygen. “Oxygen filling plants deny giving us oxygen as we take 15 cylinders to them at a time. They are either giving oxygen to hospitals or filling one at a time for people who have cylinders. We haven’t been able to get oxygen since Wednesday night,” said Amreek Singh Rekhi (61), a member of the organisation. Mr. Singh added that some of the oxygen cylinders were stopped on the way from Haryana. “We have tried all possible avenues to get those cylinders released. We also got a letter from the local MLA, but nothing has happened so far,” Mr. Singh said on Friday afternoon. Mr. Singh has to be around COVID patients to continue the services. On this, he said: “The almighty is making us do this.” Ever since the refilling of cylinders stopped, the service has been running on oxygen concentrators, which need to rest of seven-eight hours, those managing the service said. One of the members sat in the park behind a counter and faced people who helplessly reached out for oxygen. He informed them that the service will open only around 3 p.m. “Are there oxygen cylinders available here?”, “Can you refill my cylinder?”, “You’ll take the patients after 3 p.m. for sure?” were some of the questions the member had to field. He told them that they don’t provide oxygen cylinders and that if they have cylinders, they should visit Mayapuri to get them refilled. He also said they will be taking patients on a first-come-first-serve basis after handing out tokens. The member, on request of anonymity, said that they take 10 patients at a time, while the rest wait in a queue. “At a stretch, we provide oxygen to one patient for about three-five hours, after which their oxygen levels usually stabilise. This gives time to people to look for another permanent arrangement,” he said. They had run the machines all night and were giving them rest on Friday morning till 3 p.m., he said. ‘Oxygen level 30-70’ “We are also only taking patients whose oxygen levels have dropped substantially – between 30 and 70 – and we are not taking people with 85-90 oxygen levels. We have energy drinks for them.” Meanwhile, Ms. Rama’s oxygen continued to drop, and her daughter-in-law continued to weep. A 70-year-old Bhupinder Kaur sat in an auto, waiting for oxygen as her SpO2 levels dropped to 45.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/oxygen-langar-with-15-cylinders-lands-in-a-soup-no-supply/article34454754.ece
01 May 2021||New Delhi,||Partly cloudy weather expected today: IMD||Delhi’s maximum temperature dipped slightly on Friday but remained a notch above the normal, said India Meteorological Department. The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative figures for the city, recorded a maximum of 40 degrees Celsius. The minimum temperature settled at 23.2 degrees Celsius, a notch below the normal. The mercury had breached the 44 degrees Celsius-mark in parts of Delhi over the last two days. Partly cloudy weather is expected in the city on Saturday. The maximum temperature is expected to dip to 38 degrees Celsius by Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/partly-cloudy-weather-expected-today-imd/article34454750.ece
01 May 2021||New Delhi,||Baijal tests COVID positive||Delhi Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal said on Friday he has tested positive for the virus and has mild symptoms. Mr. Baijal had taken both doses of the vaccine. “I have tested positive for COVID with mild symptoms. I have isolated myself since the onset of symptoms and all those who were in contact with me have been tested,” he tweeted. The L-G He said he would would continue to work and monitor the situation in Delhi. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, his deputy Manish Sisodia and Health Minister Satyendar Jain wished for Mr. Baijal’s speedy recovery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/baijal-tests-covid-positive/article34454749.ece
01 May 2021||Noida,||Noida residents get helpline number to consult doctors||Residents of Noida and Greater Noida can now use a dedicated helpline number to consult doctors for queries or ailments without having to go to the hospital amid the pandemic, officials said on Friday. The helpline — 0120- 2425301 — has been made available by Noida Authority under its initiative, ‘Doctor on Call’, with the support of the Indian Medical Association (IMA), Noida, they said. According to officials, doctors would be available for telephonic consultation from Monday to Saturday between 10 a.m. and 6 p.m. “The facility can be availed by any resident of Gautam Buddha Nagar district, which includes Noida and Greater Noida,” Noida Authority CEO Ritu Maheshwari told PTI. Specialists like ophthalmologists, gynaecologists, psychiatrists, orthopaedics, paediatricians, will also be available to assess patients over the phone. The Noida Authority said more specialist doctors could be added to this list, depending on the need of the people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/noida-residents-get-helpline-number-to-consult-doctors/article34454751.ece
01 May 2021||Pune,||Recoveries again surpass cases, but Maharashtra records 828 fatalities||In heartening signs of a trend reversal, Maharashtra’s recoveries exceeded its case surge for the second consecutive day, with the State reporting 62,919 new COVID-19 cases on Friday as opposed to 69,710 patients discharged. With this, the State’s active case tally dipped further to 6,62,640. The mortality rate, however, continued to remain alarmingly high with 828 deaths being reported to push the fatality toll to 68,813. Of these, 422 deaths occurred in the last 48 hours and 167 during the last week. A further 239 were from the period before the past one week, the State Health Department said. The total cases have reached 46,02,472 while its cumulative recoveries have risen to 38,68,976 with the recovery rate going up to 84.06%. “Of a total 2,71,06,282 laboratory samples tested thus far, 46,02,472 (with the average case positivity climbing to 17%) have returned positive with over 2.90 lakh samples being tested in the last 24 hours,” State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said, adding that the State’s case fatality rate had incrementally declined to 1.5%. Pune district reported a spike of more than 10,000 new cases to take its total case tally to 8,43,262. According to the State Health Department figures, 150 deaths were reported (of which more than 114 were from an earlier period) as the death count touched 9,588. As per district authorities, the active case tally again rose to 96,000 while the death toll has crossed 12,900. Mumbai continued to see low spikes, reporting just 3,888 new cases, taking its total tally to 6,48,471 of whom 65,670 are active. As many as 89 fatalities took the city’s death toll to 13,125. Nagpur district in Vidarbha registered a big surge of more than 7,000 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/recoveries-again-surpass-cases-but-maharashtra-records-828-fatalities/article34454758.ece
01 May 2021||Pune,||Despite shortage, CM keen to start vaccination for 18-44 age group today||Despite an acute paucity of vaccines, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray was eager to start the third phase of the vaccination drive for citizens in the 18-44 age group on the occasion of Maharashtra Day on May 1, Health Minister Rajesh Tope said on Friday. Stating that Maharashtra had the capacity to conduct eight lakh vaccinations a day, Mr. Tope said he hoped that the Centre would give the State more vaccines keeping in mind its inoculation capabilities. “While we certainly will not be able to inoculate many persons in the 18-44 age group owing to the unavailability of vaccines, the Chief Minister is disposed towards starting the drive in at least a limited manner,” he said, while stressing that the vaccination would be carried out as per the Centre’s guidelines. The Health Minister had earlier said that the State government would be spending Rs. 6,500 crore to provide free vaccine jabs to all citizens between 18 and 44 years, and that it would require at least 12 crore vials to inoculate 5.71 crore people in this age category over a six-month period. Mr. Tope said that Maharashtra, among all the States in the country, was ahead in daily vaccinations and had the best record in the country in terms of vaccine wastage figure. “Maharashtra’s vaccine wastage figure is barley 1% which is even better than India’s figure of 6%. The State has 13,000 big and small organisations affiliated to the Public Health Department alone. With this infrastructure, we have been able to conduct a record 5.34 lakh vaccinations in a day,” Mr. Tope said. He said if the Centre could give Maharashtra a stock of even 50-60 lakh vaccines over the next few days, then the State government could commence the third phase of inoculation in a relatively smooth manner. “One thing is certain, however, that if we begin vaccination in the 18-44 age group, then the number of centres will be severely reduced as we are not going to have the requisite number of vaccines,” he said, adding that there would probably only be a handful in each district catering to this age group. Mr. Tope also said that more clarification on the third phase was needed from the Centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/despite-shortage-cm-keen-to-start-vaccination-for-18-44-age-group-today/article34454759.ece
01 May 2021||May 01 2021 00:00 IST,||Shutdown no barrier||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/shutdown-no-barrier/article34455107.ece
01 May 2021||Meron,||45 dead in Israel pilgrimage stampede||A massive stampede at a densely packed Jewish pilgrimage site killed at least 45 people in Israel on Friday, as Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu promised an investigation into one of the nation’s “worst disasters”. The nighttime carnage struck after pilgrims thronged to Meron at the site of the reputed tomb of Rabbi Shimon Bar Yochai, a second-century Talmudic sage, where mainly ultra-Orthodox Jews, or haredim, mark the Lag BaOmer holiday. The Health Ministry put the death toll at 45. The Magen David Adom rescue agency said an estimated 150 had been injured. Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, who was helicoptered in to the scene in Israel’s far north, said the “Mount Meron disaster” was “one of the worst to befall” the country since its foundation seven decades ago. “What happened here is heartbreaking. There were people crushed to death, including children,” he said in a tweet. He promised a “thorough, serious and in-depth investigation in order to ensure that such a disaster does not recur.” This year’s pilgrimage drew tens of thousands of people who were seen packed together joyfully singing, dancing and lighting bonfires before the deadly crush. In a cruel irony, the BaOmer holiday celebrates the end of a plague that killed thousands of Talmudic students at the time of Rabbi Bar Yochai. Police blamed “This year, as we continue to inch closer to the end of a modern-day plague, I encourage everyone to find meaning and joy in celebrating the end of a different plague that occurred many years ago,” a rabbi wrote in the Jerusalem Post before Friday’s tragedy. Some witnesses blamed police for not allowing people to exit through a ramp that could have allowed them to escape the crush. The police “closed it (the ramp). Then, more people arrived, and more and more... and police wouldn’t let them exit, so people started to fall on top of each other”, Shmuel, 18, said. There were also indications that pilgrims sought to burst through iron sheet barricades as the choke-point formed. They “didn’t open it (the passageway) until it crashed and all the crowd was blown away to the sides. Tens of people were crushed”. Northern Israel’s police chief Shimon Lavi told AFP his officers had done all they could to save lives on a “tragic night”, helping to ferry those injured to hospital. The pilgrimage was the largest public gathering in Israel and possibly the world since the COVID-19 pandemic erupted early last year. ‘Overcrowded’ festival Ten thousand people had been authorised to attend the tomb compound, but Israeli media outlets said 90,000 massed at the site, a figure that could not be immediately confirmed from official sources. With the launch of an inquiry into the disaster, the regional police chief told reporters: “I, Shimon Lavi... take upon myself the overall responsibility, for good and for bad, and I am ready for every inspection”. The Army and emergency services deployed helicopters to evacuate the wounded. Scenes from Meron hours after the accident showed an ultra-Orthodox Jewish crowd in distress, the men in long black coats and wearing black hats, and debris scattered across the ground. Britain, France and the European Union offered their condolences.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/45-dead-in-israel-pilgrimage-stampede/article34454446.ece
01 May 2021||Washington,||‘Surge in attacks on Afghan Army’||Deadly insider attacks against the Afghan Army jumped in the first quarter of this year as Taliban rebels took advantage of the coming American and NATO troop withdrawal, according to a U.S. government report on Friday. The quarterly report of the Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction (SIGAR) said attacks on the Afghan security forces, mainly by the Taliban rebel group, surged 37% over the January-March period from a year earlier. Notably, insider attacks — when security forces are targeted by Taliban infiltrators within their ranks — jumped 82%, and casualties from them doubled, according to the report, which did not specify the overall number of casualties, saying the data is classified. But according to coalition figures, it said, 115 Afghan military personnel were killed and 39 wounded in 31 insider attacks in the first three months of this year. But it made clear that the attacks threaten the stability of the Afghan government after the withdrawal of thousands of U.S. troops and civilian defense contractors by September, as ordered earlier this month by President Joe Biden. It noted that the Afghan government and particularly Afghan security forces remain highly dependent on U.S. support, both financial aid and manpower. “The basic risk facing the current and any potential post-peace Afghan government is whether future foreign assistance levels during this uncertain period will be sufficient to prevent its collapse,” said John Sopko, the SIGAR head. Meanwhile, dozens of Afghans who worked as interpreters in often deadly conditions with the U.S. military expressed fear on Friday of being targeted by the Taliban after American troops head home, and they urged Washington not to leave them behind. ‘Don't leave us behind’ The interpreters gathered in Kabul on the eve of the beginning of Washington’s formal troop withdrawal — although forces have been drawn down for months. “The main thing we want is that we should be taken to the United States. That’s what we were promised,” said Mohammad Shoaib Walizada, an Afghan interpreter, who worked with U.S. forces between 2009 and 2013. The pullout will involve around 2,500 U.S. service members, 7,092 other forces in the US-led coalition, and 16,832 civilian contractors for the Pentagon who were in the country at the beginning of April.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/surge-in-attacks-on-afghan-army/article34454459.ece
01 May 2021||Moscow,||Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan seek to ease cross-border tensions||A ceasefire on the border between Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan largely held on Friday following a day of intense fighting between the two ex-Soviet Central Asian neighbours that killed 39 people and wounded more than 175. More than 7,000 Kyrgyz residents have been evacuated from the area engulfed by the fighting as troops from the two countries exchanged gunfire around a water supply facility near the village of Kok-Tash, located in western Kyrgyzstan on the border with Tajikistan. Both nations have claimed the area around the water supply facility in Kok-Tash, a dispute dating back decades to when they were both part of the Soviet Union. Kyrgyz officials reported firing on the border early on Friday but later said the truce was being observed. Kyrgyzstan’s Deputy Health Minister, Jalalidin Rakhmatullayev, told the Interfax news agency that 31 people died and 154 others were injured in the clashes, which marked the worst outbreak of hostilities between the two countries since they gained independence in the 1991 collapse of the Soviet Union. Local officials in Tajikistan’s city of Isfara reported eight dead and over 30 wounded. A large part of the Tajik-Kyrgyz border remains unmarked, fuelling fierce disputes over water, land and pastures. The latest conflict erupted on Wednesday when Tajik officials attempted to mount surveillance cameras to monitor the water supply facility amid the tensions over water distribution, and Kyrgyz residents opposed the move. Both sides began hurling stones at each other and troops quickly entered the fray.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/kyrgyzstan-tajikistan-seek-to-ease-cross-border-tensions/article34454448.ece
01 May 2021||Moscow,||Navalny network added to extremist list, lawyer held||Russia on Friday added Alexei Navalny’s political network to its database of terrorist and extremist organisations, as Moscow moves closer to shutting down the jailed opposition politician’s movement against President Vladimir Putin. The network appeared on a list maintained by Russia’s financial monitoring service after Rosfinmonitoring said Friday it had updated the list. The network of Mr. Navalny’s regional offices had disbanded on Thursday in anticipation of the move. Organisations on the list include the Islamic State group and al-Qaeda, and bans them in Russia, with members and supporters facing lengthy jail terms. It was not immediately clear whether the move was related to a request by prosecutors earlier this month to designate Mr,. Navalny’s regional network and his Anti-Corruption Foundation (FBK) as extremist organisations. But the former coordinator of Mr. Navalny’s offices in Moscow, Oleg Stepanov, indicated on Telegram that the move was connected to the ongoing court case. “Well of course, why wait? After all, the decision of the ‘court’ is already known in advance: fighting corruption in Putin’s Russia is ‘extremism,’” he wrote. “They don’t even try to create the appearance of legality.” The FBK did not appear on the list. The court hearings in the case are expected to resume on May 17. Meanwhile, Russian police on Friday detained prominent rights lawyer Ivan Pavlov — who is representing jailed Kremlin critic Alexei Navalny — on criminal charges, his organisation said. Team 29 said on its website that Mr. Pavlov is facing charges of disclosing information about a preliminary investigation in the case of former journalist Ivan Safronov. The offence is punishable by up to three months in jail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/navalny-network-added-to-extremist-list-lawyer-held/article34454450.ece
01 May 2021||Rome,||Pope lets Vatican courts to try cardinals, bishops||Pope Francis has sent another message to Vatican-based cardinals and bishops about his intent to hold them accountable for criminal misconduct with the removal of the procedural obstacles that had spared them from being prosecuted by the Vatican’s criminal tribunal. A new law published on Friday makes clear that Vatican city-state prosecutors have jurisdiction over Holy See cardinals and bishops and need only the Pope’s consent to proceed with investigations against them. The law abrogated a regulation, upheld as recently as last year, that said only the tribunal’s highest appeals court, which is composed of three cardinal judges, could assess the actions of cardinals and bishops accused of criminal offences. The reform is the latest sign that after eight years of preaching about ending corruption and other criminal activity in the Holy See, Pope Francis is taking concrete steps to make it easier to hold his own cardinals and bishops accountable while emboldening Vatican prosecutors to go after them. Cap on gifts On Thursday, he passed a different law forcing Vatican superiors to declare their finances are clean, and set a €40 ($48) cap on work-related personal gifts received by any Vatican employee. The gift cap was seen as a way to cut down on the rampant practice of financial gift-giving to Holy See clerics and the chance that such money could grease favours. Friday's reform follows the Pontiff’s’ decision last year to strip a senior Vatican official, Cardinal Angelo Becciu, of his rights and privileges as a cardinal in a move seen as laying the groundwork for him to possibly be put on trial. The allegations against him aren’t clear, however, and he hasn't been charged with any crime. Cardinal Becciu, who had said the Pope cited a €100,000 donation he made using Holy See funds to a charity run by his brother, has denied wrongdoing, noting that he had full authority to disburse the funds, the money was destined for the charity, not his brother, and the money never left the diocesan bank account into which it was sent.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/pope-lets-vatican-courts-to-try-cardinals-bishops/article34454457.ece
01 May 2021||Tokyo,||Share Suez blockage cost: shipowner||The Japanese owner of a massive container ship that blocked the Suez Canal for nearly a week, halting billions of dollars in maritime commerce, is asking owners of the freight to share the cost of the damages demanded by Egypt. Shoei Kisen Kaisha Ltd. said on Friday that it has asked freight owners to share the damages in a deal known as a general average declaration. The damage sharing scheme is often used in maritime accidents covered by insurance. The company said it has notified a number of the owners of the approximately 18,000 containers on the ship to assume part of the damages demand, estimated at about $916 million. The ship, the Ever Given , is at Great Bitter Lake and won’t be allowed to leave until the settlement is reached, the firm said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/share-suez-blockage-cost-shipowner/article34454452.ece
01 May 2021||London,||EU--Europe-Apple||EU regulators accused Apple on Friday of violating anti-trust laws, alleging that the firm distorts competition for music streaming by imposing unfair rules on rivals. It slammed Apple's practice of forcing app developers selling content to use its payment system, which charges a 30% commission on subscriptions.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/eu-europe-apple/article34454451.ece
01 May 2021||Seoul,||North Korea defectors defy South to launch anti-Kim leaflets||A North Korea defector group this week twice defied a ban by Seoul on flying anti-Pyongyang leaflets across the Demilitarised Zone dividing the peninsula, it said on Friday. The launches by the Fighters for a Free North Korea were the first since the law was passed in December. The group “flew 500,000 leaflets, 500 books and $5,000 in cash bills... on two occasions near the DMZ between April 25 and 29”.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/north-korea-defectors-defy-south-to-launch-anti-kim-leaflets/article34454453.ece
01 May 2021||Ramallah,||Palestinian polls postponed until Jerusalem voting guaranteed: Abbas||Palestinian President Mahmud Abbas said on Friday that legislative and presidential polls — called for May 22 and July 31 respectively — had been postponed until there was a guarantee voting can take place in Israeli-annexed east Jerusalem, further delaying polls in a society which last voted in 2006.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/palestinian-polls-postponed-until-jerusalem-voting-guaranteed-abbas/article34454455.ece
01 May 2021||May 01 2021 00:00 IST,||Calamity in the capital||At 3 p.m. on April 24, a woman walks out of the main building of Jaipur Golden Hospital, Delhi, her eyes red from crying. She is in her thirties. Three family members have their arms around her. The woman is silent and keeps her head down. Her relative, though, snaps out of her shock and cries, “He has been murdered!” The woman crosses the hospital gate, sits on the pavement and starts wailing. Her 37-year-old husband, Dinesh, a cabin crew member in an airline, was among the 20 critically ill COVID-19 patients at the hospital who had died the previous night over an “oxygen crisis”, according to the hospital authorities. “These people killed him. They didn’t give him oxygen. They didn’t tell us anything about an oxygen shortage,” says a family member. The woman has two children aged three and five years. It is a summer of fear and grief in the national capital. This wave of the COVID-19 pandemic has hit Delhi with tremendous force. The number of daily new cases and deaths is as high as 28,000 and 300, respectively, every day. There is sickness in the air and death too. The health system is being stretched to its limits, often cracking under the burden of cases. Many people with symptoms of COVID-19 are lining up outside testing centres as early as 4 a.m. Every day, the sick travel to about five-six hospitals in search of a bed. Many of them die outside hospitals just waiting for admission. Inside the hospitals, apart from deaths due to the infection and related complications, some lives have been lost due to oxygen shortages. The queues are long outside hospitals and they are long outside cremation grounds too. Pyres burn through the night. Letting down its guard How did it come to this? The Delhi government says the disaster is due to an unexpected spike in cases due to the spread of a variant of the virus, but medical experts say the government let its guard down too early. Believing that the worst was behind us, the government did not increase beds or build capacity at oxygen plants, they say. “Not just Delhi, but nationally too the assumption was that there won’t be a second wave. Many experts in Delhi had announced on TV that we have achieved herd immunity and the pandemic has ended,” says Dr. K. Srinath Reddy, epidemiologist and president of the Public Health Foundation of India. He says people gave up social distancing and stopped wearing masks properly. The picture was different just a few months ago. January 27 was a good day for the Delhi government. The number of new COVID-19 cases had dropped to 96, the lowest in nine months in the capital. On February 16, it dropped to 94. Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain took note of it. “I feel now that all the three waves of the coronavirus have hit the city. It’ll die down eventually. Now it is no more a pandemic but an endemic. The infection will not be eradicated much like other diseases, but the surge is on the wane. I hope we won’t see 8,600 cases a day. I feel we are out of the danger zone but we still need to take proper precautions. Masks and social distancing need to be maintained,” he said in a statement on February 19. A few days later, on February 24, the number of new cases hit 200. Despite this, that month, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal addressed crowded election rallies for by-elections to five seats in municipal corporations. There was no social distancing at these rallies and several did not wear masks. On March 7, Jain again stated that COVID-19 was nearing an “endemic” phase in the capital. “Experts say some cases will continue to occur in the endemic phase over the next few years, but it will not spread like it was in the pandemic phase. Delhi witnessed a swine flu outbreak around 10 years ago but still some cases are reported every year. COVID-19 is not going to end completely. We will have to learn to live with it,” he said. Jain provided encouraging data: the positivity rate had been lower than 1% for two months, he said. Nearly two months since that reassurance, the positivity rate stands at over 32%. Before the cases began spiking, the Delhi government lifted most of the COVID-19 restrictions. The number of beds for COVID-19 patients was reduced in hospitals as cases were low. “See, politicians are not technical experts. They get opinions from experts. They may project it in an over-enthusiastic way. So, don’t point a finger at the Minister alone, but also at the experts who advise him,” Dr. Reddy says. Given that many other countries have experienced a second and even third wave, India should have taken note, Dr. Reddy says. “Even as early as January and February, there was an increase in cases in Maharashtra and other States. Not just Delhi, but other States should have also taken note,” he says. The Delhi government spokesperson and the Health Minister did not respond to questions sent byThe Hindu. Unable to keep up with demand The “unexpected spike” has spiralled into an unimaginable crisis today with people running around to find beds, drugs and oxygen. Around 11:30 a.m. on a hot April day, a woman in her early thirties walks with the help of her husband outside the emergency ward of Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital, commonly known as GTB Hospital, the second largest government hospital in Delhi. She is suspected of having COVID-19. Her condition slowly worsens. Unable to sit, she lies down at the entrance to the emergency ward. The ward is overwhelmed: stretchers are used as beds, with one touching the other, and people share beds. A long queue of hopeful people wait outside. About half an hour later, the husband, Surender Kumar, 35, struggles alone with her body. With no one to help, he drags it from the stretcher into an ambulance. “She breathed her last while we were waiting,” says Kumar, a daily wage labourer from Bihar. Within just an hour, two people are declared dead outside the emergency ward. Finding a bed is one of the biggest challenges today. “This is the fifth hospital I’m coming to with my mother. I called GTB Hospital. The government website showed that it had 292 vacant beds, but the hospital said it doesn’t have any. Her oxygen level is 80%. What will we do now,” asks an anxious 17-year-old standing outside the Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan (LNJP) Hospital, the largest Delhi government hospital. Though the number of new cases started rising from February 24, the Central and Delhi governments did not increase the city’s healthcare infrastructure through March. On March 1, the number of new cases was 175 and the number of active cases was 1,404. This quickly rose to 1,819 new cases and 8,838 active cases by March 31 — an increase of 939.4% and 529.4%, respectively. However, during the same period, the number of hospital beds for COVID-19 increased only by 1.6% — from 5,721 to 5,815, as per official data. Also, the number of beds in COVID Care Centres stayed stagnant at 5,525 throughout March. By April 28, the government increased the beds by 259.8%, to 20,926, compared to March 1, but this too fell terribly short of demand. Dr. Girish Tyagi, Secretary of the Delhi Medical Council, says there is a huge gap between the demand and supply of beds, oxygen, medicines and ICU beds in Delhi. “The system has practically collapsed. The government didn’t anticipate such a spike. But there was an increase in Mumbai in February and March and we should have been better prepared,” he says. Dr. Reddy says whatever happened in Delhi from December to April cannot be seen in isolation. “During this period, the U.K. variant of the virus, B.1.1.7., came into Delhi and Punjab and was in circulation. But people became careless. We went back to the routine practices of 2019 and we started non-COVID-19 treatment in hospitals. To convert hospitals to treat COVID-19 patients takes time,” he says. But the government should have added more beds, especially in COVID-19 Care Centres, he adds. “The government cannot say it did not expect this situation. It has epidemiologists and experts advising it. They should have made predictions. Having said that, we do not know whether experts had advised the government and were ignored,” Dr. Tyagi says. A senior official says there was no prediction on how the rise would be this time. “Last year, the V.K. Paul Committee had predicted that cases could go up to 15,000 a day. But this time no one knew how the rise would be. There were so many other factors in play,” the official says. In May and June last year too, as cases started to rise, people were forced to travel from one hospital to another in search of beds. Many were unable to find a bed in a hospital, even when beds were available according to official data. On June 27, 2020, in a video statement, Kejriwal accepted that there was a shortage of beds. “In the first week of June, there was a shortage of beds in Delhi and there were fewer tests [being conducted]. Due to a shortage of beds, some people did not get beds, and the number of deaths also started to increase,” he said. Kejriwal added that he used to get calls at nights about the shortage of beds and it was fixed later. The situation is far worse this year as the vacancy of beds has been as low as 5%  on many days and the number of vacant ICU beds has been lower than 20 for the whole of Delhi over the past one week. Last year, too, the government increased the number of beds only after the spike. Now, the government is trying to make available 1,500 more ICU beds and says these will be ready by May 10. On April 29, there were only 17 ICU beds vacant in the whole city. Gasping for air On April 18, Kejriwal tweeted that Delhi is facing an “acute shortage of oxygen” and it was becoming an “emergency”. On April 23, a day before the deaths at Jaipur Golden Hospital, 25 of the “sickest” patients died at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital due to an oxygen crisis. Several other hospitals also sent out distress statements reporting dwindling supplies even as the number of COVID-19 patients mounted. Many said oxygen was available at dangerously low levels. Often, oxygen supplies had reached just in time to save people, they said. Many hospitals stopped admitting patients and two major Delhi government hospitals — GTB Hospital and Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital — reduced the total number of beds by a total of 1,100. There has been a shortage of liquid medical oxygen in the city for over 10 days, but this urgent need is yet to be resolved. It has now turned into a political blame game. On April 21, Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia blamed the Haryana and Uttar Pradesh governments for not allowing a smooth supply of oxygen from private oxygen plants in those States to Delhi. The Delhi government has submitted data before the Delhi High Court suggesting that while oxygen provided to the national capital by the Centre was well short of target, some States were getting more than what they had asked for. Since April 19, the Delhi High Court has been monitoring the situation in the capital and has castigated both the Centre and the Delhi government for the lack of availability of medical oxygen and its distribution. Ideally, there should be a buffer stock of oxygen to last at least 48 hours in hospitals, say doctors. But since the record surge in cases, hospitals have been working with smaller stocks and are refilling oxygen almost on a daily basis. People too are scrambling for oxygen. On April 28, Jitender Kumar, a resident of Paschim Puri, stands in the queue outside an oxygen-filling plant in Naraina. He has been there since 4 a.m. “I have already lost two relatives to COVID-19 because we couldn’t get a bed in a hospital. I am standing here trying to save the third person,” he says. The struggle to cremate the dead However, even if there are beds and oxygen, the capital’s problems would be far from over. On April 19, Ved Prakash, 40, died inside his car while waiting outside the Sardar Patel COVID Care Centre. The centre had more than 350 vacant beds, but did not allow him admission as he had not followed the procedure, which was not in place that day. Around 9:30 p.m., Megh Singh, 60, who was waiting in queue at a crematorium to do Prakash’s last rites said, “He was critical, but he was still responding to us when we reached the centre. Now he is gone. No hospital attended to him.” Delhi’s municipal corporations are struggling to cope with the daily pile of bodies at crematoriums and and burial grounds administered by them across the city which have, over the last 11  days, witnessed the last rites of over  5,800 citizens who died of COVID-19. Funeral pyres, according to the Mayors of the three Municipal Corporations, burn round the clock — sometimes even on the ground for want of space — at 29 funeral venues spread across the 11 municipal zones in Delhi. This is despite the enhancement of capacity dedicated for the last rites of COVID-19 patients at these venues by over 93% between April 19 and April 29. Temporary platforms have been created hurriedly at crematoriums and extra space has been allotted at burial sites to deal with the sudden surge in the numbers of the dead. The Mayors say they hope to ensure that no citizen is turned away and denied the right to cremate their kin. The sheer magnitude of the daily death toll has forced the Bharatiya Janata Party-run civic bodies to reach out to Kejriwal for help requesting resources ranging from more hearses to an uninterrupted supply of firewood to keep the pyres lit. According to records of the Delhi Municipal Corporation,  5,808 cremations and burials with COVID-19 protocols were performed between April 19 and April 29 (6 p.m.). The Delhi government, however, recorded 3,271 COVID-19 deaths in this period. The capacity at crematoria and burial grounds on April 19 was 505; by April 29 this had increased to accommodate  978 bodies. “North Delhi Municipal Corporation (DMC) had the capacity to cremate 230 bodies till April 15 but within 10-12 days, the total capacity has been increased to 570. Three new cremation grounds have been developed besides increasing the capacity of existing ones,” North DMC Mayor Jai Prakash said in a letter to Kejriwal on April 28. “Out of a total of 570, 304 wooden and 54 CNG pyres are fixed for COVID-19 deaths and the rest are for non-COVID-19 deaths. We are transforming ourselves as per the need of the hour,” he said. South DMC Mayor Anamika Mithilesh Singh said 20 funeral platforms recently created at two adjacent public parks in Sarai Kale Khan will be increased five-fold to 100 and beyond that if required in the coming days. East DMC Mayor Nirmal Jain said funerals at the facilities in his jurisdiction are undertaken from dawn till dusk and though waiting times have been getting longer, the corporation was trying its best to ensure that the last rites of as many citizens as possible were performed. The North DMC Mayor has asked Kejriwal to provide at least 100 ambulances to the municipal corporations to transport patients to available healthcare facilities which could also be utilised as hearse vans in those cases of citizens losing their battle with COVID-19. He also demanded that the Delhi government direct the forest department to provide firewood from damaged or ailing trees for final rites given the increasing number of funerals. The Mayors accused the Delhi government of giving incorrect figures related to COVID-19 deaths to hide its alleged failure at taming the pandemic. BJP spokesperson Harish Khurana alleged that the Delhi government was “politicking on deaths”. A Delhi government source says a significant reason for the mismatch is the deaths of COVID-19 patients either on their way to hospital or at other places as they could not get admitted to a hospital on time. The discrepancy in funeral and COVID-19 deaths data maintained by the government could also be related to the fact that some are dying at home or are dying of critical illnesses aggravated by the virus, the source says. Responding to reports on the mismatch between cremation figures and the COVID-19 death toll recorded by the Delhi government, the Health Minister told reporters on April 29 that the government has kept everything “transparent”. “This is not the time to politicise things. Six months ago, the same concern was seen, but it was proved that the numbers were accurate,” he said. For the relatives of the dead, these measures and explanations mean little. Outside the CNG cremation chamber at Nigambodh Ghat, Dinesh Singh waits for his turn to perform the last rites of his father, Abhay Singh, 65, a retired municipal officer who was “suspected” to have died of COVID-19. Singh’s body had been lying in an ambulance for over two hours. His turn will come after four-five hours, Dinesh is told. “His body has begun to putrefy. He had retired as an inspector-rank officer. How could they treat him like this after death,” he grieves. No one has an answer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/calamity-in-the-capital/article34454444.ece
01 May 2021||May 01 2021 00:00 IST,||Felled by insensitivity, incompetence||Earlier this week, a young woman in Uttar Pradesh tweeted a cry for help. Her grandmother’s oxygen level had fallen to 40. “Pls help us in getting one bed in hospital in Bareilly,” she wrote in desperation. Soon a handle that called itself “Team Hindu Unlimited” was on her: “Stop trying to defame UP government and Yogi Ji. Delete this tweet or you will face consequences.” This ugly tweet has since been deleted, but the plaintive response of the young woman is still there. “I’m just asking for help,” she had to say. The storm troopers were the advance guard. Now, the State itself has decided it will step in. The Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh has threatened hospitals with punitive action if they dare to publicly speak about low supplies of oxygen. How could they when there is no shortage? Nineteen Eighty-Four has arrived four decades late, the Ministry of Truth has at last been established in India. This is where we are today. India floundering A catastrophe has hit India, caused in the main by a combination of arrogance and incompetence at the highest levels of the government and political leadership. Yet, the hubris has not ebbed and there is no sign that the competent have replaced the incompetent in dealing with the ferocious second wave of the pandemic. Since public health services cannot deal with the catastrophe, citizens have been left to their devices to, literally, survive. When they seek each other’s help to care for the sick in their families, the vigilantes who now prowl our virtual and physical streets, threaten violence as they defend the reputation of their political heroes. Power in one office We may claim otherwise, but with all its extreme economic and caste-driven inequalities, Indian society was never known for its compassion. What we have become today though is something else. We have a government that has no moral compass to guide it; its only compass is to remake India into one where all are not equal and where it must be “mukt” of all diversity. In carrying out this agenda over more than five years, it has transformed the purpose and capacity of the state. To govern is not the main purpose; to create a Hindu Rashtra is the aim. To do so, it has bribed, threatened, or browbeaten all independent institutions and deprived them of an independent voice. It has made a mockery of federalism and reduced State governments to near vassals. It has centralised power in one office, the ominous sounding “PMO”. It has weakened the bureaucracy to an extent that civil servants are too terrified to do anything other than what their political masters want. To achieve its objective, it is focused entirely on winning every single election, from the municipal to the national, or failing that, engineering defections by hook or by crook so that it can wield untrammelled power. Is it any wonder then that when the storm clouds gather, there is no one to tell the Emperor he is not wearing any clothes? There was no institution, no group and no individual in the circles of power to say that India was no Vishwaguru, that India was not special and that the pandemic was not in retreat. There was no one to tell a Chief Minister that holy as the Ganga’s waters are, this round at least will be won by the evil of SARS-CoV-2 if devotees gather every day in tens of thousands on the banks of the river. The Election Commission of India has become such a shell of its former self that it dare not do anything that will reduce huge “road shows”, that new hallmark of Indian democracy that the ruling party specialises in. And there is no one to tell the Prime Minister that to say with pride (without wearing a mask), “I have never seen such a large crowd” at an election meeting, as he did in Asansol in mid-April when daily new cases of COVID-19 were over 200,000, is an invitation to create a public health disaster. The hubris of our political leadership has indeed turned the Government of India into a “Vishwaguru” of a certain kind — one that catalyses, not prevents, a humanitarian disaster. A government that has lost its sense of purpose in governance will not have a machinery that can cope with a public health catastrophe. Its incompetence has descended to such levels that it cannot match numbers on supply with demand when it draws up a vaccination drive. It is so eager to shirk responsibility that it abandons a decades-long policy of free universal vaccination and then places half the burden of vaccination on the financially crippled States. It does not seek cooperation and support from the Opposition. It instead thinks it is more important to abuse former Prime Ministers who offer suggestions. And it is so obsessed with managing the narrative that it sends anonymous WhatsApp messages to the media with talking points about how to criticise the Opposition. It has created such an immoral universe that as people lie on pavements outside hospitals seeking medical help, the market feels free to engage in price gouging of the desperate. No compassion This is a government that is incapable of showing any compassion for those who are suffering. The DNA of the state has changed so much that it does not even think it should reach out with messages of comfort to those who are bewildered with what has overwhelmed them. The political leadership is so much in love with showing its ‘strength’ that it thinks compassion is another word for weakness. A strong government is not one that uses every occasion to ask its citizens to demonstrate their sense of nationalism. It is instead one that can admit it is wrong, seek forgiveness for its actions that have created harm and show compassion for those who are struggling to stay alive. When it does so, it can surely draw everyone into a collective effort to deal with this catastrophe. It is not just a question of competence, this is a mammoth crisis that no government can handle on its own. The Government of India needs the support of citizen groups, of the Opposition, of the courts, of the medical profession, of industry — of everyone who is willing to help get the better of this nightmare. It was in a similar situation this time last year that it had the opportunity to form a national government (https://bit.ly/3h3B6yT). It instead chose the first wave of the pandemic to further centralise power, push State governments aside, use the infamous Delhi police to throw young people into jail on false charges, issue a slew of ordinances and then railroad unpopular legislation through Parliament. It used the pandemic in 2020 not to build a healthier society but for short-term political gain to further centralise power in one office. It may be against the nature of this government to accommodate differences of opinion and seek everyone’s help. But Indians are now struggling for something as basic as oxygen as this vast country finds itself felled not by the virus but by a government’s insensitivity and incompetence. There is much more at stake than the self-interest of one political party and one individual. Hubris and compassion sit on two mountains. Which one are we going to climb? C. Rammanohar Reddy is Editor of the digital publication, ‘The India Forum’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/felled-by-insensitivity-incompetence/article34454437.ece
01 May 2021||May 01 2021 00:00 IST,||The rising sun in India-Japan relations||Contrary to the expectations of many, Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga has turned out to be a true successor of his predecessor, Shinzo Abe, on the foreign policy front. His visit to the United States last month has set the agenda for the wider Indo-Pacific engagement of Tokyo and its evolving priorities. Focus on China Right at the outset, it was clear that the crux of the discussions during this first in-person meeting between the newly anointed President of the United States, Joe Biden, and Mr. Suga would revolve around China. To begin with, Tokyo and Washington drilled down to brass tacks on their joint security partnership given the need to address China’s recent belligerence in territorial disputes in the South and East China Seas as well as in the Taiwan Strait. Both sides affirmed the centrality of their treaty alliance, for long a source of stability in East Asia, and pledged to stand up to China in key regional flashpoints such as the disputed Senkaku Islands and Taiwan. Reflecting the changed nature of conflict, both sides acknowledged the importance of extended deterrence vis-à-vis China through cooperation on cybersecurity and space technology. Discussions also touched upon Chinese ambitions to dominate the development of new age technologies such as 5G and quantum computing. Given China’s recent pledge to invest a mammoth $1.4 trillion in emerging technologies, Washington and Tokyo scrambled to close the gap by announcing a Competitiveness and Resilience Partnership, or CoRe (https://bit.ly/3eN6DlT). The two allies earmarked billions in funding for the deployment of secure 5G networks, committed to building digital infrastructure in developing countries and promised to collaborate on setting global digital standards. Both sides have also signalled their intent to continue the Trump-era policy of pressure on China to reform economic practices such as “violations of intellectual property rights, forced technology transfer, excess capacity issues, and the use of trade distorting industrial subsidies” (https://bit.ly/2Sbb81H). Tokyo and Washington also rallied around the standard of shared values. Both powers repeatedly emphasised their vision of a Free and Open Indo-Pacific that respects the rule of law, freedom of navigation, democratic norms and the use of peaceful means to settle disputes. In the aftermath of the successful Quad Summit (https://bit.ly/2Rfcp7n), both parties expressed their continued support for the four-nation grouping of the United States, India, Australia and Japan. China’s human rights violations in Xinjiang, its heavy-handed suppression of protests in Hong Kong and military aggression towards Taiwan came in for heavy criticism. Given that the Japanese premier plans to visit India as soon as the situation permits following the COVID-19 pandemic, his dealings with the U.S. are a preview of what New Delhi can expect from Tokyo.  A preview First, one can expect a continuation of the balancing security policy against China that began with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Shinzo Abe in 2014. During a phone call with the Indian Prime Minister, Mr. Suga expressed concern over China’s “unilateral” actions in the East and South China Seas, Xinjiang and Hong Kong. Crucially, India’s clashes with China in Galwan have turned public opinion in favour of a more confrontational China policy. In just a decade, New Delhi and Tokyo have expanded high-level ministerial and bureaucratic contacts, conducted joint military exercises and concluded military pacts such as the Acquisition and Cross-Servicing Agreement (ACSA) logistics agreement. Further, no meeting would be complete without an affirmation of New Delhi and Tokyo’s support for a Free and Open Indo-Pacific and continued willingness to work with the Quad, which is fast emerging as a central pillar of the security strategies of both nations. A Modi-Suga meeting, accompanied by the planned 2+2 Ministerial meetings, will likely aim to take stock of the state of play in the security relationship while also pushing the envelope on the still nascent cooperation on defence technology and exports. Technology partnership Second, the two powers will look to expand cooperation in sectors such as cybersecurity and emerging technologies. During the Shinzo Abe years, New Delhi and Tokyo put together a digital research and innovation partnership that ran the gamut of technologies from AI and 5G to the Internet of Things and space research. As with the U.S.-Japan summit, Mr. Suga and Mr. Modi may look to deepen cooperation between research institutes and expand funding in light of China’s aforementioned technology investment programme. It is yet unclear whether Mr. Suga will attempt to stir the pot and bring up the disagreements over India’s insistence on data localisation and continued reluctance to accede to global cybersecurity agreements such as the Budapest Convention. Third, economic ties and infrastructure development are likely to be top drawer items on the agendas of New Delhi and Tokyo. While Japan has poured in around $34 billion in investments into the Indian economy over the course of the last two decades, Japan is only India’s 12th largest trading partner (https://bit.ly/3xENISD), and trade volumes between the two stand at just a fifth of the value of India-China bilateral trade. A Modi-Suga summit will likely reaffirm Japan’s support for key manufacturing initiatives such as ‘Make in India’ and the Japan Industrial Townships. Further, India will be keen to secure continued infrastructure investments in the strategically vital connectivity projects currently under way in the Northeast and the Andaman and Nicobar Islands. Third country outlook Finally, a Suga-Modi Summit would undoubtedly devote much attention to evolving a joint strategy towards key third countries and multilateral bodies. In years past, New Delhi and Tokyo have collaborated to build infrastructure in Iran and Africa, provide vital aid to Myanmar and Sri Lanka and hammer out a common Association of Southeast Asian Nations outreach policy in an attempt to counter China’s growing influence in these corners of the globe. However, unlike previous summits, the time has come for India and Japan to take a hard look at reports suggesting that joint infrastructure projects in Africa and Iran have stalled with substantial cost overruns. Tokyo will also likely continue its charm offensive on the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership in an attempt to get New Delhi to reverse its decision not to join the massive trade compact. Writing in 2006, Shinzo Abe, in his book, Utsukushii Kuni E (Toward a Beautiful Country), expressed his hope that “it would not be a surprise if in another 10 years, Japan-India relations overtake Japan-U.S. and Japan-China relations”. Thus far, New Delhi has every reason to believe that Japan’s Yoshihide Suga is willing to make that dream a reality. Harsh V. Pant is Director, Studies, at the Observer Research Foundation (ORF), New Delhi. Shashank Mattoo is a research intern at the ORF||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-rising-sun-in-india-japan-relations/article34454440.ece
01 May 2021||May 01 2021 00:00 IST,||A timely warning||The Supreme Court has issued a timely warning to the States against any attempt to clamp down on the dissemination of information about the serious health crisis besetting the country, or calls for help through social media from citizens affected by COVID-19. The comment, obviously in response to the utterly despotic threat issued by U.P. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath that those “spreading misinformation” or “rumour” would be detained under the National Security Act (NSA) and their property seized, will surely help prevent ill-advised action by the police and the administration to treat appeals concerning shortage of hospital beds, medical oxygen and vital drugs as attempts to bring the government into disrepute. The police in Amethi registered an FIR against a man who appealed on Twitter for an oxygen cylinder for a family member for allegedly circulating a rumour and seeking to cause fear and alarm. Mr. Adityanath appears quite convinced that complaints about oxygen shortage in his State are either imaginary or, worse, malicious, and wants to treat them as attempts to “spoil the atmosphere”. While it is entirely in order that the government has directed the police to crack down on the profiteering on medicines in the black market, it is quite a different matter if the administration starts seeing all appeals for help in a grave crisis as nothing more than activities aimed at tarnishing the government’s image. Given the propensity of such leaders to treat the voicing of grievances by citizens as a personal affront to their administrative capabilities, the Court’s warning that any attempt to stifle the people’s voices would attract action for contempt of court is quite timely and necessary. As Justice D.Y. Chandrachud, who heads the Bench, remarked, any clampdown on information is contrary to basic precepts. He underscored the significance and necessity for the free flow of information during a grave crisis by recalling the role it played in containing a famine in 1970. The Court was apparently drawing inspiration from the theory, articulated by economist Amartya Sen, that the fundamental attributes of democracy — such as a free press and the need to face the people at elections and respond to political criticism — help prevent famines. However, how far the present regime feels itself accountable to the people at large is now unclear. It faces criticism both within the country and from the international media that a major cause of the crisis is its reluctance to acknowledge its own failure to prepare for a calamitous second wave. Questions fired at it by High Courts are also on these lines. Any move to stifle such criticism or believe that this is a problem of managing perceptions will be of no avail if the infections and body count keep rising alarmingly and the health system draws close to a collapse.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-timely-warning/article34454431.ece
01 May 2021||May 01 2021 00:00 IST,||Facts and figures||With India’s official death toll from the coronavirus crossing 200,000, it is now placed fourth, after the United States, Mexico and Brazil. This is just another of the grim milestones in India’s wrenching journey through the pandemic, but it dents the government’s year-long endeavour to obfuscate and dodge unpleasant reality. At Health Ministry press briefings, officials have long sought to convey that India’s death toll as a fraction of its population was lower than that of several countries. This is fact and continues to be so. The three countries with a higher death toll have, per million, 1,600-1,800 deaths between them. India’s is only about 150. This low count is meant to impress that India has done a better job in protecting its people. These numbers and the slackening of the coronavirus curve in winter even prompted respected scientists to hypothesise if genetic or peculiar social circumstances had combined to confer a certain broad immunity to the vast heterogenous population. On the other hand, a spectrum of independent experts have pointed out the problems in the system of death-reporting in India. Though undercounting deaths in a pandemic is expected, the concern in India has been that of deliberate omission. As this paper pointed out, on April 16, as per Gujarat’s health bulletin, there were 78 official deaths. But 689 bodies were either cremated or buried following COVID-19 protocol. Last year, Tamil Nadu, Delhi and West Bengal did not count deaths in those who had co-morbidities as COVID-19 deaths. However, these backlogs were corrected over time. Two in three deaths in India occur at home and 14% of deaths are not registered. There are wide discrepancies within States on how many deaths are actually recorded and among these, how many are attributable to COVID-19. However, the ferocity of the second wave has brought COVID-19 deaths into renewed focus. Visuals of bodies and of people on the threshold of death from a lack of access to basic medical facilities such as oxygen have made it harder for the government to convince people that the coronavirus is better controlled in India than anywhere else. The aged continue to be the most vulnerable to the infection but that India on average being younger than the West is less vulnerable to death is a specious argument. The absolute number of the aged — coupled with the fact that they lack the kind of access to health care their counterparts in developed countries have, means that the coronavirus, left unchecked, would wreak havoc. Even now, less than 4% Indians above 60 have been fully vaccinated. This when over 15 crore vaccine doses have been administered so far. India must redouble its efforts at being honest and transparent with its numbers, however unpalatable they may be.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/facts-and-figures/article34454432.ece
01 May 2021||MUMBAI,||Reliance Q4 profit more than doubles||Reliance Industries Ltd. on Friday said fourth-quarter consolidated net profit more than doubled to Rs. 13,227 crore, from Rs. 6,348 crore a year earlier, as revenue grew 13.6% to Rs. 1,72,095 crore. For the year ended March 31, RIL recorded an 18.3% decline in revenue to Rs. 5,39,238 crore. Net profit (after exceptional items) increased 34.8% to Rs. 53,739 crore. The board announced a dividend of Rs. 7 per share. “The decrease in revenue was primarily due to lower volumes and realisation across key products in O2C segment,” RILsaid in a filing. “The retail segment also reported lower revenue, [affected by] the pandemic. This was partially offset by higher ARPU [average revenue per user],” it added. Jio Platforms Ltd.’s fourth-quarter profit zoomed 47.5% to Rs. 3,508 crore. Revenue from operations rose 19% to Rs. 18,278 crore. Its value of services grew to Rs. 21,650 crore, from Rs. 17,993 crore. For the full year, Jio reported net profit of Rs. 12,537 crore. Its total customer base increased by a net 37.9 million customers to 426.2 million. Jio clocked total data traffic of 62.5 billion GB, recording 28.9% growth. Reliance Retail reported fourth-quarter net profit growth of 45% to Rs. 2,247 crore. Revenue from operations rose 20% to Rs. 41,296 crore. For FY21, revenue from operations at the retail arm slipped 4.92% to Rs. 1,39,077 crore. Annual revenue at its oil to chemicals business declined 29% to Rs. 3,20,008 crore on account of lower volumes and price realisation across key products. Sharp demand contraction in the first half impacted growth. “We have registered robust recovery in O2C and retail segments, and resilient growth in the digital services business,” said CMD Mukesh Ambani. “Sustained high utilisation rates across sites and improvement in downstream product deltas as well as transportation fuel margins aided O2C earnings growth,” he added. “Our consumer businesses have proved to be a digital and physical lifeline for the nation in these challenging times. Jio’s high-speed connectivity services enabled millions of Indians to work from home, study from home and even receive healthcare from home. Reliance Retail ensured safe supplies of essential goods and services to customer homes,” he said.  (With PTI inputs)   Jio added a net of 37.9 mn customers, taking the total to 426.2 mn. Data traffic for the year came to 62.5 bn GB||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/reliance-q4-profit-more-than-doubles/article34454415.ece
01 May 2021||MUMBAI,||Non-food credit growth slows in March||Non-food bank credit growth for March ’21 stood at 4.9% compared with 6.7% a year earlier, as per data on sectoral deployment of bank credit collected by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) from 33 scheduled commercial banks. This accounted for about 90% of the total non-food credit deployed by all scheduled commercial banks for the month. However, credit growth to agriculture and allied activities accelerated to 12.3% from 4.2%. Credit to industry decelerated marginally to 0.4% from 0.7%. Credit to medium industries registered robust growth of 28.8% compared with a contraction of 0.7%. Growth in credit to micro and small industries decelerated to 0.5% from 1.7%, while credit to large industries contracted by 0.8%, from a growth of 0.6% a year earlier, the RBI said. Within industry, credit to food processing, textiles, gems & jewellery, paper & paper products, glass & glassware, wood & wood products and leather & leather products saw accelerated growth. However, credit to mining & quarrying, rubber, plastic & plastic products, vehicle, vehicle parts & transport equipment, basic metal & metal products, cement & cement products, all engineering, chemical & chemical products and construction contracted. Credit to the services sector decelerated to 1.4% from 7.4%, mainly due to deceleration in credit growth to NBFCs and contraction in credit to professional services. However, credit to the trade segment continued to perform well, accelerating to 11.8% growth compared with 4.6% in March 2020. Slowdown in growth of personal loans continued, decelerating to 10.2% from 15%. But, vehicle loans and loans against gold jewellery continued to perform well, seeing accelerated growth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/non-food-credit-growth-slows-in-march/article34454414.ece
01 May 2021||MUMBAI,||‘Second wave may dent housing sales revival’||The recent outbreak of the second wave of COVID-19 and semi-lockdowns in many States may impede the housing sector’s revival seen during the last nine months, a real estate industry executive said. “In April 2021, the online demand for houses has decreased as compared to March 2021. There has been a low double-digit decline,” said Mani Rangarajan, Group COO, Housing.com, Makaan.com and PropTiger.com. “If the COVID situation worsens from now, the real estate market will take a bigger hit,” he added. PropTiger.com on Friday released a research report on the housing sales for January-March 2021 quarter in top cities. According to the report, nearly half of the total housing demand in the primary residential market across 8 major cities was for two bedroom apartments costing up to Rs. 45 lakh. It said housing sales across eight major cities declined by 5% year-on-year to 66,176 units, indicating that demand is inching back to pre-COVID levels. According to the report, about 45% of sales in January-March 2021 were affordable homes priced below Rs. 45 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/second-wave-may-dent-housing-sales-revival/article34454412.ece
01 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||March core sector sees rebound on base effect||Output at the eight core sectors grew 6.8% in March, after a 3.8% fall in February, aided largely by the base effect from March 2020, when a national lockdown led industrial activity to contract. Economists said core sector numbers for March came in below expectations and the uptick was misleading. While steel, cement, electricity and natural gas recorded sharp double-digit increases from a year earlier, the other four sectors remained in the red — coal (-21.9%), fertilizers (-5%), crude oil (-3.1%) and petroleum refinery products (-0.7%). The core sector constitutes 40.3% weightage in the Index of Industrial Production (IIP). Care Ratings chief economist Madan Sabnavis said industrial output is expected to grow close to 10% as it had contracted 16.7% in March 2020. “The March, April and May growth numbers for core sector and industrial growth were expected to be high and misleading as they come on the back of sharp declines registered last year... core sector growth in March must be interpreted with caution,” he said, adding that core sector output fell 7% in FY21 — the first such instance in eight years. ICRA chief economist Aditi Nayar said the core sector had been expected to grow by about 10% in March.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/march-core-sector-sees-rebound-on-base-effect/article34454417.ece
01 May 2021||New Delhi,||‘April GST collections may go up to Rs. 1.2 lakh cr.’||Goods and Services Tax (GST) collections are likely to remain robust at about Rs. 1.15 lakh crore to Rs. 1.2 lakh crore in April, despite the spate of lockdowns across the country, SBI said in a report on Friday, ahead of the official GST revenue data expected on May 1. GST collections have clocked more than Rs. 1 lakh crore for six months in a row, with a record Rs. 1.24 lakh crore flowing in, in March. “Our internal simulation model indicates that Apr’21 GST collections will be in the range of Rs. 1.15-1.20 lakh crore. This will be quite impressive given that during April, most States imposed partial lockdowns,” SBI group chief economic adviser Soumya Kanti Ghosh said in the report. “Despite the curbs due to the second wave, the All India GST e-way bills till April 25 have reached 4.89 crore; we estimate it to cross 5.5 crore comfortably.” At the peak of the lockdown in April and May 2020, only 0.9 crore and 2.5 crore e-way bills were generated, respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/april-gst-collections-may-go-up-to-rs-12-lakh-cr/article34454419.ece
01 May 2021||MUMBAI,||‘COVID-19 curbs to delay multiplexes’ recovery’||Localised lockdowns and night curfews amid the newer wave of COVID-19 are set to take a toll on multiplexes in the country, and companies in this sector will report operating losses for the second consecutive year, a report said on Friday. The sector, arguably one of the worst impacted by the pandemic, can look at a recovery only in the next financial year, the report by domestic credit rating agency Crisil said. Crisil reminded that multiplexes were the first ones to close in March 2020, even before a lockdown was announced, and the last to resume operations in October. Occupancies had started improving post-resumption and was expected to reach 18-22%, the breakeven level in terms of operating profit, in the current quarter, the agency said. However, the recent spike in COVID-19 cases will send the estimate of a recovery asked and defer recovery to the second half of this fiscal, the rating agency said. “A full recovery is seen only in fiscal 2023,” Crisil added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/covid-19-curbs-to-delay-multiplexes-recovery/article34454421.ece
01 May 2021||MUMBAI,||HDFC Bank to revamp, focus on three areas||Seven months after Sashi Jagdishan took over as its CEO and MD, HDFC Bank announced wide-ranging organisational changes. The bank has been reorganised into three pillars of ‘business verticals,’ ‘delivery channels’ and, ‘technology and digital,’ as per a statement. The lender has made a slew of changes in the senior leadership roles as well, with group head for corporate banking Rahul Shukla being entrusted with commercial banking (MSME) and rural verticals. “We are creating engines of growth with top talent backed by technology and digital transformation to capitalise on opportunities accruing in the coming time,” Mr. Jagdishan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/hdfc-bank-to-revamp-focus-on-three-areas/article34455028.ece
01 May 2021||MUMBAI,||Sensex drops 2% on fears of slowdown||Equity indices plunged almost 2% on Friday, ending a four-day rising streak, as traders offloaded banking and financial stocks fearing an economic slowdown. The S&P BSE Sensex plunged 984 points, or 1.98%, to end the session at 48,782 while the Nifty lost 264 points, or 1.77%, to 14,631 amid widespread selling pressure. Top losers included HDFC, HDFC Bank, ICICI Bank and Asian Paints. “Heavy selling in pivotals kept indices in the red as fears of localised lockdowns manifesting into a slowdown made investors cautious,” said S. Ranganathan of LKP Securities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sensex-drops-2-on-fears-of-slowdown/article34454416.ece
01 May 2021||CHENNAI,||SFHL raises stake by 6.84% in Flometallic||Sundaram Finance Holdings Ltd. (SFHL) has increased its stake in Chennai-based Flometallic India Pvt. Ltd. (FIPL) to 46.8%, following the acquisition of 650 shares from individual shareholders for Rs. 12.5 crore.  The shares of Rs. 1 lakh each have been purchased from 14 individual shareholders, excluding stamp duty, SFHL, which earlier owned 40% in FIPL, said in a filing. Flometallic India is engaged in the manufacture of iron castings for the automotive industry. The manufacturer of automotive castings reported a turnover of Rs. 304 crore for FY20 and a net profit of Rs. 10 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sfhl-raises-stake-by-684-in-flometallic/article34454422.ece
01 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Yes Bank posts Q4 loss of Rs. 3,788 cr.||Private sector lender Yes Bank on Friday posted a whopping standalone net loss of Rs. 3,788 crore for the fourth quarter ended March 2021 due to a fall in income and jump in provisions for bad loans. The bank had reported a loss of Rs. 3,668 crore in the same period last year. However, due to the exceptional write back of Rs. 6,296.94 crore, the lender’s bottomline turned positive at Rs. 2,628.61 crore during January-March period of 2019-20. During the quarter, the total income of the bank declined to Rs. 4,805.30 crore from Rs. 5,818.59 crore in the same period a year ago, Yes Bank said in a regulatory filin. Provisions and contingencies rose to Rs. 5,239.59 crore against Rs. 4,872.34 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/yes-bank-posts-q4-loss-of-rs-3788-cr/article34454426.ece
01 May 2021||MUMBAI,||Borosil unveils COVID-19 relief for staff||Borosil Ltd. and Borosil Renewables Ltd. said in the event of an employee losing life due to COVID-19, his/her family will continue to receive the salary for the next two years (in addition to all the other benefits). “The firm will also take care of the education of their children till graduation,” Swapnil Walunj, head of marketing, Borosil Renewables Ltd. said in a LinkedIn post.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/borosil-unveils-covid-19-relief-for-staff/article34455027.ece
01 May 2021||New Delhi,||Lenovo India CEO Rahul Agarwal resigns, Shailendra Katyal takes charge||Personal-computer maker Lenovo India's chief executive and managing director Rahul Agarwal has resigned after a 20-year stint with the company, the IT hardware firm said in a statement. Lenovo India PC and smart devices executive director Shailendra Katyal has been promoted as managing director of the consumer business of the company.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/lenovo-india-ceo-rahul-agarwal-resigns-shailendra-katyal-takes-charge/article34454423.ece
01 May 2021||New Delhi,||M&M to hike stake in Meru to 100 pc||Mahindra and Mahindra on Friday said it has inked a pact with shareholders of Meru to increase its stake to 100% in the ride-hailing service provider. M&M will acquire 44.14% shares from private equity investor True North and others for an amount not exceeding Rs. 76.03 crore and 12.66% shares from Neeraj Gupta and Farhat Gupta, for an amount not exceeding Rs. 21.63 crore, it added.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/mm-to-hike-stake-in-meru-to-100-pc/article34454424.ece
01 May 2021||Mumbai,||Forex reserves rise USD 1.701 bn to USD 584.107 bn||India’s foreign exchange reserves increased by $1.701 billion to $584.107 billion in the week ended April 23, RBI data showed. The rise in was on account of an increase in foreign currency assets (FCAs) that rose by $1.062 billion to $541.647 billion, the Reserve Bank of India’s (RBI) weekly data showed. Gold reserves increased by $615 million to $35.969 billion, as per the data.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/forex-reserves-rise-usd-1701-bn-to-usd-584107-bn/article34454425.ece
01 May 2021||New Delhi,||Wipro ups IT services revenue guidance to 8-10 pc in June qtr||Wipro on Friday revised upwards its IT services revenue outlook to 8-10% sequential growth in the June quarter, following the completion of its $1.45 billion buyout of Capco. While announcing its March quarter results, Wipro had said it expects to log a sequential growth of 2-4% without including revenue from Capco and Ampion acquisitions.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/wipro-ups-it-services-revenue-guidance-to-8-10-pc-in-june-qtr/article34454428.ece
01 May 2021||Chennai,||Satwender — as artistic as they come||If footwork is the essence of quality batsmanship, Satwender Singh was as good as they come. He would dance down the track or go right back, disrupt the bowler’s length, and find the gaps with sheer timing. Satwender, who represented Tamil Nadu in the 60s and 70s — he made 2726 runs in 60 First Class games at 39.50 with four hundreds — will be celebrating his 75th birthday on Saturday (May 1) and it’s time to recall his glittering attributes. Scooter accident Son of the formidable left-arm spinning all-rounder A.G. Ram Singh, his two brothers A.G. Kripal Singh and Milkha Singh played for the country. Satwender missed out on representing India primarily because he was involved in a nasty scooter accident at his peak. Former India leg-spinner V.V. Kumar told The Hindu , “Satwender was my room-mate for Tamil Nadu. A fine batsman, he analysed cricket well and was a guide to debutants.” Dwelling on Satwender’s batting attributes, Kumar said, “He was never in a hurry, was a man for crisis situations at No. 4 or 5, and his execution was exemplary.” The former leg-spinning ace rated Satwender ahead of Kripal and Milkha. “Kripal was very good on the on-side. Milkha played on both sides but was a bit impatient. But Satwender used the crease better than both of them.” Kumar explained, “He would go deep into the crease and play the ball late and this is how he countered Bishan Bedi, Bhagwat Chandrasekhar and Erapalli Prasanna.” Paying a rich tribute he said, “When it came to playing spin, Satwender was as good as Sunil Gavaskar and Vijay Manjrekar. He was also competent against pace and countered well some very good Sri Lankan seamers in the Gopalan Trophy.” Kumar said, “He would come down the track too and was a very attractive batsman with silken drives and precise placement. He had balance in his stance and strokes.” The leg-spinner observed, “His cover-drives and square-cuts were top class. So were shots between mid-wicket and mid-on.” Satwender was a rare bird who could have flown higher but for a sad mishap.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/satwender-as-artistic-as-they-come/article34454583.ece
01 May 2021||KOCHI,||Things looking tough for Sreeshankar||With the list of countries suspending flights from Indian getting longer every day, long jumper M. Sreeshankar is aware that this July’s Tokyo Olympics is going to be a tough one. “We had planned for some international competitions during the last week of May and June but now I think the chances of going are down,” said the 22-year-old in a chat with The Hindu from Palakkad. Sreeshankar hit a high in March when he broke his own National record with an 8.26m leap at the Federation Cup in Patiala and qualified for the Olympics. Currently joint third in the world outdoor list, he realises that with every passing week, the odds stacked against him are getting bigger. “Competitions are going on in American, Caribbean and European countries, so they have a big advantage,” said the youngster. Quality competition Sreeshankar desperately needs quality competition to fine-tune his act for Tokyo, feels his dad S. Murali, a former international who is also his coach. “We need to get some three to four competitions to get to form, if not outside, at least in India,” he said. “Not three, he needs some 10 meets to be in top form,” said Anju Bobby George, the country’s only World championships medallist. With the COVID situation in the country appearing to get under control a couple of months ago, Sreeshankar had planned to go abroad. “We were planning to go to France and applied for visas. We don’t know what stage the process is in now. And since our teams could not go for the Relay Worlds, we know there will be a problem for the travel,” said Murali. But the biggest worry is the 14-day quarantine. “If countries insist on a 14-day quarantine, it will affect our health badly and training is very crucial now since we are close to the Olympics. If they remove the restrictions, I would definitely like to compete outside,” said Sreeshankar. Reasons to worry With the next few competitions, including the Grand Prix (June 15) and Inter-State Nationals (June 25-29) looking doubtful, Sreeshankar has many reasons to worry. But the star and coach are trying to staying positive. “We have our training in Palakkad, some four hours every evening even during lockdown. And I feel we may go to the Olympics directly from here. That is how it looks like now,” said Murali.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/things-looking-tough-for-sreeshankar/article34454569.ece
01 May 2021||May 01 2021 00:00 IST,||Rahul, Gayle, Harpreet put a spoke in the RCB juggernaut’s wheel||It was a night to remember for Harpreet Brar. Playing his first match of the tournament, he returned a terrific all-round performance to guide Punjab Kings to a 34-run win over Royal Challengers Bangalore at Ahmedabad on Friday. After making an unbeaten 25, Harpreet picked up the crucial wickets of Virat Kohli, Glenn Maxwell and AB de Villiers to stifle the RCB chase. Chasing 180, RCB lost Kohli (35, 34b) in the 11th over. The skipper rushed down the track, but played all over a short, skiddy delivery from Harpreet. The left-arm spinner struck the very next ball, clipping Maxwell’s off-stump with a beauty. Harpreet then accounted for de Villiers (3, 9b), who punched straight to K.L. Rahul at cover. Harpreet’s triple strike, executed in the space of two overs, shut RCB out of the contest. Harpreet, featuring in only his fourth match in three IPL seasons, finished with figures of three for 19. PBKS, which recorded a third win in seven outings, scuttled RCB’s chance to take the sole lead in the points table. Earlier, captain Rahul carried PBKS to a good score. Rahul became the highest run-scorer of the tournament during the course of his unbeaten 57-ball 91. On the rampage Chris Gayle, who blasted a quick 46, provided some support. The West Indian let loose in the sixth over, smashing Kyle Jamieson for five fours. Gayle’s assault gave PBKS — stuck at 29 for one in five overs — a much-needed boost. After Gayle departed, wickets began to tumble, leaving PBKS at a precarious 118 for five. Nicholas Pooran’s woes continued, when he was dismissed by Jamieson for a fourth duck this season. Rahul, who started slowly, dragged the side back into the contest along with Harpreet (25 n.o., 17b, 1x4, 2x6). The duo’s unbroken 61-run sixth-wicket stand turned out to be a key factor in PBKS’ success. Rahul was severe on pacer Harshal Patel, who leaked 40 runs in the 18th and 20th overs. Rahul extended his golden run against RCB, to go with scores of 61 n.o. and 132 n.o. in the previous two meetings between the sides.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rahul-gayle-harpreet-put-a-spoke-in-the-rcb-juggernauts-wheel/article34454530.ece
01 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Olympics more important than World Cup||Champions have an uncanny sense of timing. When some Indian athletes are struggling to travel for training and competition abroad, Asian skeet champion and World record holder Angad Vir Singh Bajwa was able to find his way to Italy, for a long training stint. With the shotgun World Cup scheduled to be staged in Lonato from May 7, Angad flew into Europe, about a month in advance, before airlines and countries banned Indian travellers. Relieved “I came before the situation got bad. I am training at my own expense,” said Angad from Italy, relieved that he could not only train but also get some repair work done on his gun. The government machinery often does not keep pace with the urgency of the athletes. Even though he has been covered by the Target Olympic Podium Scheme (TOPS), there was no time for Angad to wait and get the sanction. “It is unfortunate that athletes who are going to the Olympics cannot get sanction, but others do. Olympics is very important and training here is the key, especially with the COVID cases in India going crazy. Hoping to stay here and train till the situation gets better,” said Angad. About a fortnight after Angad, another skeet shooter Gurjoat Singh Khangura also managed to reach Italy. Coach Jitender Beniwal is with Angad and that has been a big help. Mairaj Ahmad Khan, the second Olympic quota winner in skeet, has had a bereavement in the family with his father passing away. “I will start training at the Delhi range next week. As the COVID scene is very bad, trying to keep safety as a priority,” said Mairaj, hopeful of regaining his focus . “I hope Mairaj can make it here, as he will benefit with training here prior to the Olympics. The Olympics are more important than the World Cup,” observed Angad. With a long term visa helping in training in Europe, Angad was optimistic of capitalising on the situation. “May and June will be really important for Olympic preparation,” observed Angad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/olympics-more-important-than-world-cup/article34454818.ece
01 May 2021||May 01 2021 00:00 IST,||Heavyweights go toe to toe in marquee clash||Clash of the titans. That’s what it is when Chennai Super Kings meets Mumbai Indians in the Indian Premier League. The two most successful teams in the IPL, outfits with character and resilience, that’s what CSK and MI are. And when they clash at New Delhi’s Feroze Shah Kotla ground on Saturday, it will be two heavyweights landing blows on each other. CSK’s punches have been more on target lately though. M.S. Dhoni’s men have run into serious form with five wins in six games. MI, invariably a sluggish starter, has three in six. Plenty of factors have been going right for CSK this season. Its openers have run into form, so crucial since the side bats deep, and thus, with wickets in hand, can blaze away in the end overs. Grace and flow Light of foot, Ruturaj Gaikwad has delighted at the top of the order with his timing and placement. The grace and flow in his batting is hard to miss. His opening partner Faf du Plessis, with exemplary hand-eye coordination, has fired the ball to different parts of the ground. The two will, however, be up against a high-quality new-ball pair in Jasprit Bumrah and Trent Boult, a right-left combination of toe crushers and swing. Leg-spinner Rahul Chahar will also be a threat. Moeen, a vital cog And Moeen Ali is critical to CSK. He lends the line-up aggression and momentum at No. 3. And along with the game-changing Ravindra Jadeja, forms a competent spin attack that can derail MI in the middle overs even if the pitch is expected to favour batsmen. MI has stroke-makers at the top, none more dangerous than Rohit Sharma, and heavy-hitters who can fire down the order. Deepak Chahar and left-armer Sam Curran could dent the line-up though with their swing. This is a marquee clash none would want to miss.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/heavyweights-go-toe-to-toe-in-marquee-clash/article34454533.ece
01 May 2021||KOLKATA,||Mirabai Chanu all set to fly to USA today||Ace weightlifter Mirabai Chanu will fly to the USA on Saturday to address her shoulder issue. After failing in her first two snatch attempts and managing 86kg in her third in the Asian championships in Tashkent recently, Mirabai had requested the government to allow her to train in the USA so that she could get rid of the problem prior to the Tokyo Olympics. During an interaction with the media on Thursday, Mirabai — who created a world record in clean and jerk in Tashkent — said her USA trip would ultimately help her improve her snatch performance. Mirabai's trip to the USA for training was approved at a meeting between the Sports Ministry and Sports Authority of India (SAI) officials on Friday. The SAI and the Indian Weightlifting Federation (IWLF) worked overtime to clear her proposal at Rs. 70.81 lakh. Two coaches, including chief coach Vijay Sharma, will accompany her. It is learnt that Olympic Gold Quest will appoint a manager for a short period to look after their day-to-day affairs in the USA. Cleared quickly “Since Mirabai has an American visa, her proposal was cleared quickly. As there is uncertainty over the status of flights next week due to the COVID crisis, the authorities thought it would be wise to send Mirabai this week,” said a source close to the development. Mirabai, a former world champion and a Tokyo Olympics medal prospect in 49kg weight class, will train under the guidance of physiotherapist Dr. Aaron Horschig for around two months. Last year, Mirabai trained with Dr. Horschig for a month to treat her lower back issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mirabai-set-to-fly-to-usa-today/article34454580.ece
01 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Olympics more important than WC’||Champions have an uncanny sense of timing. When some Indian athletes are struggling to travel for training and competition abroad, Asian skeet champion and World record holder Angad Vir Singh Bajwa was able to find his way to Italy, for a long training stint. With the shotgun World Cup scheduled to be staged in Lonato from May 7, Angad flew into Europe, about a month in advance, before airlines and countries banned Indian travellers. Relieved “I came before the situation got bad. I am training at my own expense,” said Angad from Italy, relieved that he could not only train but also get some repair work done on his gun. The government machinery often does not keep pace with the urgency of the athletes. Even though he has been covered by the Target Olympic Podium Scheme (TOPS), there was no time for Angad to wait and get the sanction. “It is unfortunate that athletes who are going to the Olympics cannot get sanction, but others do. Olympics is very important and training here is the key, especially with the COVID cases in India going crazy. Hoping to stay here and train till the situation gets better,” said Angad. About a fortnight after Angad, another skeet shooter Gurjoat Singh Khangura also managed to reach Italy. Coach Jitender Beniwal is with Angad and that has been a big help. Mairaj Ahmad Khan, the second Olympic quota winner in skeet, has had a bereavement in the family with his father passing away. “I will start training at the Delhi range next week. As the COVID scene is very bad, trying to keep safety as a priority,” said Mairaj, hopeful of regaining his focus. “I hope Mairaj can make it here, as he will benefit with training here prior to the Olympics. The Olympics are more important than the World Cup,” said Angad. With a long term visa helping in training in Europe, Angad was optimistic of capitalising on the situation. “May and June will be really important for Olympic preparation.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/angad-training-with-intent-in-italy/article34454794.ece
01 May 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM:,||Mzilikazi appeals most in feature||Mzilikazi may score in the first division of the Emperor Of Rome Handicap (1,400m), the feature event of the races to be held here on Saturday (May 1).  SANTA ANITA HANDICAP (1,400m), 5-y-o & over, rated 20 to 45, 10-30 a.m.: 1. Asian Warrior (6) P. Koushik 60, 2. Victoria’s Secret (2) Surya Prakash 59.5, 3. Lady Blazer (9) K.V. Baskar 57.5, 4. Wonderful Era (3) Nakhat Singh 57.5, 5. Dominant (5) A.M. Alam 56, 6. Fun Lover (4) Farid Ansari 55, 7. Amaterasu (10) Manikandan 54, 8. Fabulous Show (11) P. Sai Kumar 54, 9. Swiss Agatta (8) R. Manish 54 and 10. Wild Passion (7) B.R. Kumar 54.  1. WONDERFUL ERA, 2. FABULOUS SHOW, 3. VICTORIA’S SECRET   MAY DAY CUP (1,300m), maiden 3-y-o only (Terms), 11-00: 1. Knott So Knotty (5) Surya Prakash 56, 2. Stage Craft (9) R. Manish 56, 3. Whistle Podu (4) Kuldeep Singh 56, 4. Andromeda Sky (7) B.R. Kumar 54.5, 5. Beauregard (10) A.M. Alam 54.5, 6. Bohemian Grandeur (3) Nakhat Singh 54.5, 7. Glorious Symphony (8) Nikhil Naidu 54.5, 8. Hallucinate (6) P. Koushik 54.5, 9. Queen Of Fame (2) Shahar Babu 54.5 and 10. Sovereign Power (1) Rajendra Singh 54.5.  1. GLORIOUS SYMPHONY,   2. BOHEMIAN GRANDEUR,   3. WHISTLE PODU   PLENIPOTENT HANDICAP (1,300m), 6-y-o & over rated 40 to 65, 11-30: 1. Dont Dilly Dally (8) Shyam Kumar 60.5, 2. Starlight (1) Manikandan 60.5, 3. Princess Sasha (4) Stephen Raj 57.5, 4. Texas Rose (10) A.A. Vikrant 57.5, 5. My Kingdom (6) P. Sai Kumar 56, 6. Desert Hawk (9) M. Bhaskar 55, 7. Decisive (7) Shahar Babu 54, 8. Pappa Rich (5) Koshi Kumar 53.5, 9. Branka (3) P.K. Gaddam 52.5 and 10. Welcome Baby (2) R. Manish 51.  1. STARLIGHT, 2. MY KINGDOM,   3. BRANKA   EMPEROR OF ROME HANDICAP (Div. II) , (1,400m), 5-y-o & over, rated 60 to 85 (Outstation horses eligible), 12-00 noon: 1. Priceless Ruler (5) Nakhat Singh 60, 2. Mon General (3) Stephen Raj 59, 3. Breaking Bounds (6) Koshi Kumar 57.5, 4. Octavian (4) Nikhil Naidu 57.5, 5. Sentosa (2) Surya Prakash 56.5, 6. Star Twist (8) R. Manish 56.5, 7. Excellent Phoenix (1) P. Koushik 55.5, 8. Sasakwa (7) Kuldeep Singh 55.5 and 9. Optimus Commander (9) Indrajeet K 55.  1. SASAKWA, 2. PRICELESS RULER, 3. BREAKING BOUNDS   EMPEROR OF ROME HANDICAP (Div. I) , (1,400m), 5-y-o & over, rated 60 to 85 (Outstation horses eligible), 12-30 p.m: 1. Oscar Thunder (1) A.M. Alam 61.5, 2. Treasure Delight (2) P. Koushik 60, 3. Royal Chieftain (4) Nakhat Singh 59, 4. Mzilikazi (6) B.R. Kumar 58, 5. Storm Flag (8) A. Imran Khan 57.5, 6. That’s My Class (7) K.V. Baskar 56.5, 7. Emissary (9) Koshi Kumar 56, 8. Hebron (3) Nikhil Naidu 55 and 9. Knight In Armour (5) Kuldeep Singh 54.5.  1. MZILIKAZI, 2. HEBRON,   3. THAT’S MY CLASS   COONOOR HANDICAP (1,600m), rated 20 to 45, 1-00: 1. Supreme Excelsior (8) B.R. Kumar 60, 2. Farewell (6) A. Imran Khan 59, 3. Queen Of Gibraltar (4) Nakhat Singh 57.5, 4. Glorious Sunlight (10) Nikhil Naidu 56.5, 5. Royal Pearl (1) Brisson 56.5, 6. Wise Don (3) Kuldeep Singh 56.5, 7. God’s Wish (9) P.K. Gaddam 56, 8. Platini (7) Shahar Babu 56, 9. Brilliant Script (2) Koshi Kumar 55.5 and 10. Blue Patent (5) Manikandan 52.  1. GLORIOUS SUNLIGHT, 2. QUEEN OF GIBRALTAR, 3. WISE DON||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mzilikazi-appeals-most-in-feature/article34454570.ece
01 May 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM:,||Penang claims Queen’s Guest Handicap||Penang (A. Imran Khan up) won the Queen’s Guest Handicap, the main event of the races held here on Friday. The winner is owned by Mr. K.R. Muthukaruppan & Mr. V.M. Gopal and trained by Mandanna.  1. BOLD RUNNER HANDICAP (1,200m), rated 00 to 25: MULLIGAN (Koshi Kumar) 1, Chanakya (Surya Prakash) 2, Fantastic Hit (P. Koushik) 3 and Country’s Moon (K.V. Baskar) 4. 2-1/2, 4-1/4 and 3. 1m, 16.70s. Owners: Mr. J. Ramesh, Mr. R. Rajesh Khanna & Mr. R.G. Shrinivas. Trainer: P. Krishna.  2. NORA HANDICAP (1,300m), 5-y-o & over, rated 00 to 25: BEFORETHEDAWN (Kuldeep Singh) 1, Symphony In Style (P. Sai Kumar) 2, Amazing Kitten (Shahar Babu) 3 and Princess Saaraa (A. Ayaz Khan) 4. 1, 3/4 and 3-1/2. 1m, 24.09s. Owner: Mr. S.T. Shivaprasad. Trainer: Mandanna.  3. BE SAFE PLATE (Div. II) , (1,200m), maiden 3-y-o only (Terms): EMPRESS ETERNAL (B.R. Kumar) 1, Lakshanam (Nikhil Naidu) 2, Geisha Girl (Kuldeep Singh) 3 and Wisaka (Shahar babu) 4. 2-1/4, lnk and 1/2. 1m, 17.43s. Owner: The Estate of Late Mr. Lakshmanan R.M. Trainer: R. Foley.  4. BE SAFE PLATE (Div. I) , (1,200m), maiden 3-y-o only (Terms): EAGLE PRINCE (Nakhat Singh) 1, Elegant Touch (Nikhil Naidu) 2, Fashion Of Stars (B.R. Kumar) 3 and Diamond And Pearls (Shahar Babu) 4. Not run: Marshall. 5-3/4, hd and 1/2. 1m17.14s. Owner: The Estate of Late Mr. Lakshmanan R.M. Trainer: R.Foley.  5. QUEEN’S GUEST HANDICAP (1,600m), rated 40 to 65: PENANG (A. Imran Khan) 1, Ganton (Surya Prakash) 2, Shield Maiden (Shahar Babu) 3 and Demerara (A. Ayaz Khan) 4. 4, shd and 2-1/4. 1m, 41.91s. Owners: Mr. K.R. Muthukaruppan & Mr. V.M. Gopal. Trainer: Mandanna.  6. PANDORA HANDICAP (1,300m), 4-y-o & over, rated 20 to 45: MAJESTIC CHARMER (B.R. Kumar) 1, Oberon (P. Koushik) 2, Carnoustie (Surya Prakash) 3 and Senora Bianca (M. Bhaskar) 4. 3/4, 2-1/4 and lnk. 1m, 23.65s. Owner: Mr. C. Gnanvel. Trainer: N. Rupa.  7. TROJAN RIVER HANDICAP (1,300m), rated 20 to 45: KATAHDIN (Manikandan) 1, Bolivia (A. Imran Khan) 2, Beauteous Maximus (Nakhat Singh) 3 and Off Shore Breeze (Nikhil Naidu) 4. 2, 5-1/4 and 1. 1m, 22.18s. Owners: Mr. M.J. Asad & Mrs. Masooda Asad. Trainer: Saddam Iqbal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/penang-claims-queens-guest-handicap/article34454575.ece
01 May 2021||Margao,||FC Goa ends campaign on a disappointing note||FC Goa suffered a 2-0 defeat at the hands of UAE’s Al Wahda in the final group stage match to end its maiden campaign in the AFC Champions League on a disappointing note on Thursday. Already out of reckoning for a place in the knockouts, Goa played without its foreign players and also missed the services of head coach Juan Ferrando. First strike An unmarked Omar Khrbin struck in the 61st minute, taking advantage of a brilliant ball from Tim Matvaz, sending his shot on to the left side of the FC Goa goalkeeper. The visitor made it 2-0 when Mohammed Ali Menhali found the back of the net in the 90th minute. Al Wahda almost doubled the lead but goalkeeper Naveen Kumar, who replaced first-choice custodian Dheeraj Singh Moirangthem after an injury he picked following a collision with his own defender, managed to save the attempt by the visiting side in the 72nd minute. However, the visitor made it 2-0 when Mohammed Ali Menhali found the back of the net in the 90th minute. No clear-cut chances The Indian Super League club didn’t have any clear-cut chances in the first half but managed to defend well, even as Al Wahda looked to attack on a regular basis. Iran’s Persepolis FC topped the group with 15 points after beating Al Rayyan of Qatar earlier in the day. Al Wahda also qualified for the knockouts as one of three best runners-up with 13 points. Goa failed to register a win but logged three points after drawing three matches and losing as many games. Before the match, Ferrando had wished his players. “Good luck to our @FCGoaOfficial guys and technical staff ahead of tonight's match. Be sure we are proud of you all and no one is going to assess your performance based on a single game when you have already shown so much during an entire season. Make it count!” Ferrando tweeted.  The result : FC Goa 0 lost to Al Wahda 2 (Khrbin 61, Menhali 90).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/fc-goa-goes-down-to-al-wahda/article34454572.ece
01 May 2021||Oeiras (Portugal),||Riya Bhatia advances||Riya Bhatia and Gabriela Ce of Brazil survived four match points to beat Matilde Jorge and Ana Filipa Santos 3-6, 6-3, 14-12 in the doubles quarterfinals of the $25,000 ITF women’s tennis tournament here. In the €44,820 Ostrava Challenger in Czech Republic, Sriram Balaji and Jeevan Nedunchezhiyan were beaten 6-2, 2-6, [10-6] by Americans Evan King and Hunter Reese in the quarterfinals.  Doubles quarterfinals results:   €44,820 Challenger, Ostrava, Czech Republic: Evan King & Hunter Reese (USA) bt Sriram Balaji & Jeevan Nedunchezhiyan 6-2, 2-6, [10-6].   $25,000 ITF women, Oeiras, Portugal: Gabriela Ce (Bra) & Riya Bhatia bt Matilde Jorge & Ana Filipa Santos (Por) 3-6, 6-3, [14-12] .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/riya-bhatia-advances/article34454576.ece
01 May 2021||KOLKATA,||Indian team reaches Sofia for Olympic qualifier||After more than 48 hours of uncertainty, a 12-member Indian wrestling team has landed in the Bulgarian capital Sofia to take part in the World Olympic Games Qualifiers to be conducted from May 6.  The team was originally supposed to travel via Amsterdam but, according to Wrestling Federation of India (WFI) assistant secretary Vinod Tomar, the concerned airlines cancelled the tickets as the Netherlands Governmentimposed a ban on Indians flying out of their country. “Our president (Brij Bhushan Sharan Singh) approached the Ministry of External Affairs. Following negotiations with the Dutch and French embassies, both countries relaxed travel formalities for the Indian wrestlers on a priority basis. “Finally, we booked the tickets on a flight via Paris and our wrestlers boarded the flight on Thursday night,” said Tomar. India has selected three wrestlers each in men and women freestyle categories and six in Greco Roman weights for the qualifying event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/indian-team-reaches-sofia-for-olympic-qualifier/article34454578.ece
01 May 2021||New Delhi,||It’s been a nightmare of a week, says Ashwin’s wife||India off-spinner R. Aswhin’s wife Prithi Narayanan on Friday said her family has been through a “nightmare of a week” after 10 members tested positive for COVID-19. Ashwin decided to pull out of the IPL to support his family. Days after her husband’s withdrawal, Prithi, in a series of tweets, shared the ordeal her family has faced after contracting the highly contagious virus. “Feeling ok enough to croak a tiny hi to all of you. 6 adults and 4 children ended up testing positive the same week, with our kids being the vehicles of transmission — the core of my family, all down with the virus in different homes/hospitals. A nightmare of a week. One of three parents back home,” she tweeted. “Take the vaccine. Give yourselves and your family the best chance to fight this,” Prithi added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/its-been-a-nightmare-of-a-week-says-ashwins-wife/article34454523.ece
01 May 2021||Pallekele,||Sri Lanka 469 for six, Taskin scalps three||Sri Lanka reached 469 for six on the second day of the second Test against Bangladesh on Friday. Paceman Taskin Ahmed took three for 119, removing Lahiru Thirimanne (140), Angelo Mathews (5) and Pathum Nissanka (30). From 382 for six, Ramesh Mendis and Niroshan Dickwella added 87 for the seventh wicket. Dickwella brought up his half-century off just 48 balls. He was on 64 at stumps while Mendis was 22 not out.  The scores: Sri Lanka 469/6 in 155.5 overs (Dimuth Karunaratne 118, Lahiru Thirimanne 140, Oshada Fernando 81, Niroshan Dickwella 64 batting, Taskin Ahmed 3/119) vs Bangladesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sri-lanka-469-for-six-taskin-scalps-three/article34454536.ece
01 May 2021||MUMBAI,||UAE back-up for T20 WC||Days after the pandemic forced the International Cricket Council’s events team to defer its plan to conduct a recce of the grounds shortlisted for the T20 World Cup, the BCCI has confirmed the United Arab Emirates as the back-up venue for the marquee event. “It would be UAE. And we are hoping it will again be done by BCCI. We will take the tournament there, so it will be still run by BCCI,” Dhiraj Malhotra, BCCI-appointed tournament director for the T20 World Cup, told ‘Stumped’, a BBC podcast. Malhotra, who has recently joined the BCCI as general manager (game development), added that despite the deadly wave of COVID-19, the Board is still hopeful of hosting the tournament in India in October-November. In talks with ICC “I am doing everything we can to make sure that it happens. We will be doing normal scenario, COVID scenario, worst case scenario... we are in talks with ICC at the moment,” he said.  The Hindu understands that the ICC’s annual conference, scheduled to be held in June, will make a final decision on the venue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/uae-back-up-for-t20-wc/article34454537.ece
01 May 2021||BARCELONA,||Granada stuns Barca||Barcelona spurned the chance to go top of the table on Thursday as a shock 2-1 defeat by Granada added another twist to LaLiga’s most unpredictable title race in years.  The result : Barcelona 1 (Messi 23) lost to Granada 2 (Machis 63, Molina 79).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/granada-stuns-barca/article34454540.ece
01 May 2021||New Delhi,||‘Shooter Dadi’ succumbs to COVID-19||Octogenarian shooter Chandro Tomar, who became the oldest woman sharp shooter in the world after taking up the sport in her 60s, died on Friday after battling COVID-19. She was 89 and was being treated at a hospital in Meerut since April 26. ‘She has left me’ “Mera saath chhoot gaya, Chandro kaha chali gayi (She has left me, Chandro where have you gone?),” her sister-in-law Prakashi Tomar, who is also one of the oldest female sharp shooters, wrote on her Twitter page. Tomar, who was nicknamed ‘Shooter Dadi’ for her exploits, was hospitalised after complaining of difficulty in breathing. Tests revealed she had contracted the highly contagious virus. Hailing from a village in Uttar Pradesh’s Baghpat district, Tomar was 60-plus when she picked up the gun for the first time but went on to win many national competitions for veterans. An icon Considered a feminist icon, Tomar was all of 15 when she got married and took to shooting after she was well over 65.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/shooter-dadi-succumbs-to-covid-19/article34454571.ece
01 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Aronian pulls level with Carlsen||Levon Aronian claimed the must-win fourth game to draw level at 2-2 with Magnus Carlsen in the first match of their semifinal clash in the New in Chess Classic rapid online tournament on Thursday. After two drawn games, Carlsen took the lead after Aronian committed an serious blunder. In the fourth, just when it appeared that Carlsen had found a way to escape, Aronian slammed the door for a match-levelling triumph. In the other semifinal, Hikaru Nakamura won three out of four decisive games to lead 3-1 against Shakhriyar Mamedyarov. It was also a day when Carlsen and Nakamura suffered their first defeat in the tournament.  The results:   Semifinals: Match One: Magnus Carlsen (Nor) drew with Levon Aronian (Arm) 2-2; Hikaru Nakamura (USA) bt Shakhriyar Mamedyarov (Aze) 3-1 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/aronian-pulls-level-with-carlsen/article34454524.ece
01 May 2021||HARARE,||Alam and Butt in good nick||Fawad Alam notched up his fourth Test hundred as Pakistan built an imposing first innings lead over Zimbabwe on the second day of the first Test here on Friday. Alam’s unbeaten 108, along with Imran Butt’s painstaking 91 earlier in the day, guided Pakistan to 374 for six at close, giving the visitors a lead of 198. Zimbabwe was bowled out for 176 in its first innings. Fawad has hit 16 fours in his 155-ball innings so far.  The scores: Zimbabwe 176 vs Pakistan 374/6 in 120 overs (Imran Butt 91, Abid Ali 60, Fawad Alam 108 batting, Mohd. Rizwan 45, Donald Tiripano 3/89) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/alam-and-butt-in-good-nick/article34454539.ece
01 May 2021||New Delhi,||Team should aim for a medal, says Baskaran||Former captain V. Baskaran feels the Indian men’s hockey team cannot afford to be content with only playing in the Olympics if it is to relive the glory days and finish on the podium in Tokyo. Baskaran, who had led India to its last Olympic gold medal in hockey in the 1980 Moscow edition, advised the team to keep up its confidence. “The men’s team has been playing really well. My advice to them is to keep the confidence level up. Each player has come up the hard way to reach here,” Baskaran said on a HI podcast ‘ Hockey Te Charcha .’ “It would perhaps be the first Olympics for about seven-eight players, and I feel they shouldn’t just be happy with the ‘Olympian’ title but they should aim for a medal. This is possible only when everybody believes they can be a medal-winning team and finish on the podium.” Focus Talking about the Indian women’s team that defeated USA to qualify for the Olympics, Baskaran said the side has earned its place by determination and now must remain focused on finishing in the top-four.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/team-should-aim-for-a-medal-says-baskaran/article34454574.ece
01 May 2021||May 01 2021 10:59 IST,||Sudoku — May 1, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-may-1-2021/article34455807.ece
01 May 2021||May 01 2021 00:00 IST,||This film we live in||Even as the Oscars roll out, we remain engrossed in only one story. Whether a fan of apocalypse movies or not, we’re living in what seems like one. Yet no bare-chested muscled star emerges, every gelled hair in place, to super-power the virus to another planet, nor any wild-haired genius to lock it into a time machine to another dimension to become someone else’s problem. The film we’re speeding through is more reality TV, without the glamour of fake tears dripping off fake eyelashes. There is neither script (despite the rollicking conspiracy theories) nor idea who will be called on next. Someday, (and we will get to this day), we will look back — and applaud those who starred in this film. The unlikely cast won’t grace a red carpet, or even be allowed near it. A man in a sweat-stained shirt who keeps nodding off. A woman with cracked soles and nervous eyes. A girl who sleeps with her shoes on. A child who screams when his screen is turned off. A woman who smiles from a wall. The exhausted hero is the autorickshaw driver who ferries passengers free in any emergency to the nearest hospital. He’s stayed awake and on the road for a week or longer, and has saved a dozen lives at least, not that he counted. The female lead is the domestic help who walks five miles daily to plead to work all day in an apartment that keeps accusing her of carrying the virus in from her slum. She still lands up because keeping her family alive has more to do with putting food on the table than any microscopic threat. The supporting actor is a nurse who does back-to-back shifts and sleeps in her uniform and shoes in case she gets called back to an emergency. The child is every child who stays glued to his screen through a year of online classes, so he can ‘study hard and not worry Mummy-Papa even more’. And the woman on the wall took care of the sick in her family. They made it. Which is why her picture smiles. The darkest movie stars the most shimmering people. These, and those who cook and drive and stand in queues for hospital beds for their friends. Who feed starving dogs on the street. Who step up to help their domestic help. The virus can’t kill this spirit. Where Jane De Suza, author ofFlyaway Boy , pokes her nose into our perfect lives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/this-film-we-live-in/article34454990.ece
01 May 2021||May 01 2021 00:00 IST,||Find your flavour||During last year’s lockdown, the owners of Matamaal, the Kashmiri Pandit restaurant in Gurugram, realised that people were craving their dishes like rogan josh and yakhni curry. “We started thinking of something that can be easily made at home,” says chef and director Nalini Sadhu, who came up with the Rogan Josh Spice Mix — a tweaked version of a family recipe. Lockdown or not, several others have taken a similar route to bring family favourites to the masses. A round-up:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/find-your-flavour/article34455020.ece
01 May 2021||May 01 2021 00:00 IST,||A bed, a bed, a kingdom for a bed||I have been acquainted with asthma since the age of four, and the thought of not being able to breathe has a very real power to frighten me. So, when the second wave came and brought with it a raging oxygen shortage, I had a minor ‘what-if’ moment. It made me call a friend with connections to doctors to ask if it made sense to keep an oxygen cylinder at home as a precaution. Her sources said there was no shortage yet in Chennai, which sounded reassuring, and I killed the thought. It’s significant that I had wanted, momentarily, to ‘hoard’ an oxygen cylinder when I had resisted through the past year the idea of hoarding anything, whether masks, sanitisers, groceries or medicines. Clearly, a tiny window of fear had opened fleetingly, a window that many among us don’t shut, or don’t know how to, or don’t see why it should be shut. The episode led me to think about the concept of medical triage, and how ignorant we are about it, despite its life-saving potential. The dictionary defines it as “the assignment of degrees of urgency to illnesses to decide the order of treatment, when both patients and casualties are large”. A pandemic is exactly when triage should kick in. Unfortunately, that’s exactly when we throw it to the winds and enter into a sort of wild race to corner resources for ourselves and our families. The word triage comes from the French trier , to sift, select, sort out, and medical triage was invented by Dominique Jean Larrey during the Napoleonic Wars to prioritise which of the wounded would get treatment first, depending purely on the gravity of injuries, disregarding rank and other considerations. The format saved many lives during disasters, when resources and personnel are limited, and was soon widely adopted. Zoom in to India. Even during a pandemic, many hospital beds, both public and private, are kept vacant “in case” a minister or industrialist might need one. Filmstars and sportspeople with the mildest symptoms are given prompt hospital admission. In an absurd reversal of triage, serious but uninfluential patients get pushed back to accommodate the influential. As with everything else, medical resources in India are distributed according to power and pelf, on ‘who you know’. Even in a catastrophe, hospitals dare not declare that patients will be prioritised purely by medical urgency and nothing else because that would horrify the privileged. Ideas of prestige and status are so closely connected to ‘how best you can jump the queue’ that it would be inconceivable to tolerate a situation where money or influence can’t be brandished. In New Delhi, a hundred rooms in Ashoka Hotel were booked as a care centre for members of the Delhi High Court, a move that was quickly reversed following a public outcry. Such ideas don’t come from a vacuum. They come from minds that believe it’s fine for some people to have medical care on standby while ordinary citizens languish in a pandemic. This attitude is intrinsic to the democracy of ‘favours’ that we occupy. Here, utilities don’t flow to everybody because everybody is a citizen; instead, there is an individualised cornering of resources by those with money and connections. Consequently, just as everyone aspires to be ‘important’ enough to defy red lights like the cars with government or judicial plates do, every Tom, Dick and Kalyani also aspires to the same assured access to healthcare when money or names are dropped. Given this social reality, can you imagine a hospital CEO telling a minister or his protégé he can’t get a hospital bed because his symptoms are mild? Ideas like medical triage work best when there is a social compact, an understanding that the community’s interest must be placed above the individual’s in order to save maximum lives. It can’t work if a Delhi MP dishes out Fabiflu like toffee instead of distributing it to public health centres. Or if ministers corner vital medicines for their own constituencies. Or if we begin to privately stock resources rather than work in tandem with a system that’s already stressed by the government’s abject failure to prepare for just such an eventuality. Where the writer tries to make sense of society with seven hundred words and a bit of snark.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/a-bed-a-bed-a-kingdom-for-a-bed/article34454961.ece
01 May 2021||May 01 2021 00:00 IST,||Young royals open up their palaces||A resplendent yellow Maheshwari sari made with the age-old composition,garbh reshmi, is paired with a ‘jaal’ or brocade blouse with floral motifs; a cape worn by the erstwhile Maharaja Yeshwantrao Holkar is recreated using a lining of four pedal textile. Created at the royal house of the Holkars in Maheshwar earlier this year, the installation is a collaboration between the Holkar family and textile designer Sanjay Garg. It is one of four works on display in the second edition of The Karkhana Chronicles, a digital exhibition that went online on April 24, initiated by The Refashion Hub. Fair fashion for artisans The idea came to Akshita Bhanj Deo, 28, the project’s creative director, when she saw the devastation Covid-19 had caused to the artisan community. “They have always been part of erstwhile kingdoms and have reposed trust in them. Among the displaced were master craftsmen, and I understand what their role was in the field. So I had an idea to connect historical properties and communities,” says Deo, who reached out to her generation of the royal houses to include their historic properties (palaces, forts, iconic landmarks) working in the arts, and have them directly use their digital platforms and premises to connect consumers with local artisan clusters. Last August, the first edition of Karkhana Chronicles hosted installations curated by the royal houses of Gwalior, Jaisalmer, and Mayurbhanj. A digital repository The royal houses of Kathiawad, Mysore, Indore, and Bhavnagar are participants of the second edition (KCII). Following the launch of the exhibition, the seven participating royal heirs — Yeshwantrao Holkar, Akshita Bhanj Deo, Sangita Kathiwada, Brijeshwari Gohil, Chaitanya Raj Singh, Yaduveer Wadiyar, and Priyadarshini Raje Scindia — engaged in a discussion on ‘Contemporary Patronage: Celebrating sustainability through heritage craft’. “The immediate vision was to provide India’s different artisan clusters a livelihood through commissioned pieces and installations at iconic properties. The broader vision through KCII was to build a digital repository that documents South Asian art,” adds Deo. Founder of Mumbai’s multi-designer store, Mélange, Sangita Kathiwada has re-imagined thekasotaweave in the installation at Raaj Mahal, Kathiwada City House. The installation also showcases a bamboo jacket, exquisitely crafted bead jewellery, and a hand-blockbaghprint garment piece. Yaduveer KC Wadiyar’s installation at Mysore — a gorgeous Mysore silk sari paired with a utilitarian khadi jacket — promotes the idea of power dressing in an Indian context. “It highlights empowerment, modernity and the liberal minds of the erstwhile kingdom of Mysore, sartorially,” says Wadiyar, the 29-year-old royal custodian. At Nilambagh Palace in Bhavnagar, Brijeshwari Gohil engaged designer Adaa Mallikk to create “our ownbandhanitextile” and designed a gown using it. “The sari is now being worn in versatile ways. We need to create a ‘trend’ factor for Indian textiles to match foreign brands, to get the required local response,” says Gohil on this western creation.  The Karkhana Chronicles can be viewed at karkhanachronicles.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/young-royals-open-up-their-palaces/article34454969.ece
01 May 2021||May 01 2021 00:00 IST,||Through a biodiversity lens||Long before the elite left India in their private jets, abandoning the country in its pandemic distress, visual artist Vibha Galhotra had touched upon this raw nerve — of the privileged leaving the planet after depleting its resources. In December 2019, she approached her colleagues and friends (the who’s who of the Delhi art scene) to create The Final Feast , which is currently showing at the Asia Triennale in New York. Based allegorically on Leonardo da Vinci’s Last Supper , the photo-dramatisation featured art-connoisseur Shalini Passi as a glamorous interpretation of Jesus, hosting a supper and cutting an Earth-shaped cake amid her apostles: gallerists Peter Nagy and Bhavna Kakar, art curator Ina Puri, designers Rajeev Sethi, Rohit Gandhi and Rahul Khanna, dancer Navtej Johar, and architect Mrinalini Ghadiok, to name a few. “ The Final Feast is part of my exploratory Life on Mars series, which looks at climate change. It demonstrates how human greed has taken over, leaving the world in shreds, just like the circular blue cake that is cut, eaten, and forgotten,” says Galhotra. As artists increasingly explore such hard-hitting topics, especially biodiversity, canvases and installations are popping up across the country. Read the full story on weekend.thehindu.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/through-a-biodiversity-lens/article34454964.ece
01 May 2021||May 01 2021 00:00 IST,||Chef’s table: spices 101||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/chefs-table-spices-101/article34454988.ece
01 May 2021||May 01 2021 00:00 IST,||India’s new spice merchants||It is estimated that a spice changes hands almost 10 times (in trade) once it leaves the farm. Inevitably, freshness is lost, and valuable essential oils are sometimes extracted before it lands on retail shelves. For something that forms the underpinning of most Indian cuisines, it is ironical that the way spices are sourced and used gets such little attention in the modern Indian kitchen. Fortunately, a few small farmers and entrepreneurs are trying to fix this by putting high quality, cleanly-sourced spices into the spice box. It is an approach which can eventually make our pantries more fragrant and discerning, even as small growers benefit.  Araku’s green gold  When industrialist Anand Mahindra recently tweeted that “Araku could be the new Shangri-La”, he was not just giving a thumbs up to a sustainable agriculture project in Andhra Pradesh known for its coffee. He was heralding a new approach that the social enterprise project is ushering into the growth and trade of a commodity that is in need of a major overhaul in India: pepper. Part of the Naandi Foundation, a public charitable trust, the Araku project has helped 1,00,000 a divasi farmers who grow coffee in the region. But this year, some of these small farmers forayed into exporting pepper, whose price globally has been zipping up. Though Malabar pepper is the gold standard, the collective found that the vines curling up their shade trees for coffee were bearing enough green gold to kickstart a pepper vertical. The farmers managed to hand-pick 23 metric tonnes — a tedious task involving climbing tall trees, and standing upright for hours while picking the green pepper from vines. This bulk was exported to Denmark. “All are farmers with just two to three acre plots. They climbed 200 trees each, and hand-picked the pepper,” says Manoj Kumar, CEO of Naandi Foundation. “We helped them with basic processing such as destalking, winnowing, and drying, and they were able to make a profit of Rs. 1 lakh each with the export.” Ordinarily, a small farmer may sell the entire growth of his plot for a meagre sum like Rs. 20,000 to a big trading company “and feel happy about it…” says Kumar, but now “they are realising the potential”. The Foundation plans to develop a separate spices vertical, where not just pepper but a few other spices, such as ginger and long pepper ( pipali , the pre chilli pepper used in ancient Indian gastronomy), will be grown organically and fair traded both internationally and domestically.  Paying heed to seasonality  Modern spice trade in India, dominated by middlemen and big trading companies, is a throwback to British colonialism, where both plantations and trade to Europe were controlled by the colonisers. An approach to buying spices directly from small farmers has the potential to change this, ensuring livelihood and profit for those working the land, and fresh ingredients at home. This kind of buying can also bring the focus back on seasonality in spices, an important concept based in Ayurveda that is forgotten in most Indian kitchens using garam masala indiscriminately, all year round (warming spices were typically used in winter, while summer and other seasons had their own spices in many cuisines.) Tijara Farm in Rajasthan is a popular stopover for Indian and foreign chefs interested in local, organic and seasonal produce. Owner Sneh Yadav — who started the farm in 2011 with her ex-Army husband — has been growing hyperlocal spices such as rai , kachri powder (a souring agent increasingly falling out of use), and even shibuli stamen known as the poor man’s saffron. She sells these directly to niche customers via WhatsApp and supplies to top restaurants in the NCR, including Olive and Annamaya. “I am a family farmer and want to keep it small, where I can personally guide people on what to buy and how to use it,” Yadav says. On the farm, which runs on solar and biogas, cropping follows Ayurvedic seasonality. Fifteen local families are involved in the processing. Turmeric, for instance, is hand pounded. Yadav says essential oils are not lost in these traditional methods sans heat or heavy machinery, “plus, local families earn wages.”  Decolonising spices  Lockdowns and an increased interest in home cooking, means more consumers are looking for better-sourced food. Though one must be wary of ‘green washing’ — food companies trying to pass things off as organic or fair trade, while merely paying lip service to the idea in order to charge a premium — the ‘trend’ has been spurred by legit entrepreneurs too. In the US, Indian origin Sana Javeri Kadri set up the now hugely popular Diaspora Co in 2017 for online retail of direct-from-farm spices. Kadri works closely with the Indian Council of Agricultural Research to identify and support 12 farmers and 320 farms in the country. Her aim is to “decolonise a commodity back into a seasonal crop”, and pay farmers fairly (the website mentions they get paid up to six times more than regular commodity prices).  Origin story  Finally, the fact that provenance is important is seen from the new awareness around Lakadong turmeric. Despite having a GI tag and the reputation for the “purest turmeric in the world” — with 7% curcumin (instead of the 3%-4% found in regular turmeric) — the Meghalaya village was virtually unknown outside the Northeast till a few years ago, when local brand Zizira began sourcing it from farmers and putting their brand on platforms like Amazon. Others are following suit. Young restaurant professional and pop-up chef Tanisha Phanub buys from village farmers known to her family and brings it to Delhi for use by fellow chefs. Through the pandemic, she was using the spice to make simple but nutritious Khasi meals that were home delivered. Other Northeastern spices such as Khasi ginger and pepper, are also distinct, and she says she hopes “to create a market for these”. When it comes to spices, hyperlocal will be an interesting way forward, as customers enlist more curators and take that extra step (and pay a premium) for a spice box that is direct from source. Continued on page 2||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/indias-new-spice-merchants/article34455017.ece
01 May 2021||May 01 2021 00:00 IST,||Pandemic pivot||Covid care: The Indian Hotels Company Ltd, Taj Hotels’ parent company, has partnered with hospitals to offer paid rooms to asymptomatic and mildly symptomatic Covid-19 patients. tajhotels.com/en-in/covid-care. In Mumbai, the Oberoi Group’s Trident hotel, Bandra Kurla, has partnered with Reliance Foundation Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/pandemic-pivot/article34454992.ece
01 May 2021||May 01 2021 00:00 IST,||Kalidasa on stage||This month, Staged@RS presents Vikramorvasheeyam, a play based on Indian poet Kalidasa’s work. Directed by Guru G Venu, the interpretation by the Kottichetham Kutiyattam ensemble has only Sutradhara, King Pururavas, and Urvashi. Rs. 150; video on demand on insider.in. If you’re a fan of Sherlock Holmes and Hercule Poirot, catchUnusual Suspects,an immersive murder mystery by Ethiros Theatre. The plot follows a group of friends on a video call who find that they have to solve a murder. May 1. Rs. 249. insider.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/kalidasa-on-stage/article34454994.ece
01 May 2021||May 01 2021 00:00 IST,||Comics in the making||Learn how to become a comedian at Zero to 60, a writing workshop. Conducted by comedian Kunal Rao, it’s designed for newbies and will cover the basics such as ideas, structure, performance, and delivery. May 1 and 2. Rs. 1,699. insider.in. Meanwhile, award-winning mixologist, and juggler, Ami Shroff, will teach participants to juggle three balls (any round object will do) as part of a course. Participants will also learn exercises, tricks, and basic grab and throws. May 1,2. Rs. 99. bitclass.live.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/comics-in-the-making/article34454996.ece
01 May 2021||May 01 2021 00:00 IST,||The written word||Not many know that Jhumpa Lahiri began writing the 2018 Dove Mi Trovo in Italian while living in Rome with her family. The book, which focusses on a woman in an unnamed European city, is now available in English as Whereabouts , translated by the author herself. Rs. 499. Meanwhile, rare manuscripts, writing materials and books, like the first edition of Ottoman author Kâtip Çelebi’s The Mirror of the World are on display at the ongoing in-person Tales of the East exhibition by the Sharjah Book Authority. Till May 3. sba.gov.ae||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/the-written-word/article34454998.ece
01 May 2021||May 01 2021 00:00 IST,||Tons Valley’s apples||While online marketplace Tons Valley Shop, started by Uttarakhand travel company Tons Trails, began selling apples last year , it has now launched a dedicated shop online. Prebook a gift box of Red Royals or Green/Golden apples with an Apple Booking Coupon at Rs. 215. Till July 15.  tonsvalleyapples.com. Meanwhile, in America, Starbucks has introduced Starbucks Premium Instant coffee in three varieties: medium, dark and blonde roast; they are made with 100% Arabica coffee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/tons-valleys-apples/article34455000.ece
01 May 2021||May 01 2021 00:00 IST,||Weekend watchlist||This week, catch a host of new titles on Amazon Prime Video. Fans of dystopian drama The Handmaid’s Tale can finally see Elizabeth Moss’s June return in season 4. If thrillers are more your cup of tea, catch Michael B Jordan in action as an elite Navy SEAL in Tom Clancy’s Without Remorse , a spin-off of the Jack Ryan franchise. For comedy offerings, the unscripted series LOL- Hasse Toh Phasse, hosted by Boman Irani and Arshad Warsi,  pits entertainers like Cyrus Broacha, Sunil Grover, and Aditi Mittal against each other.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/weekend-watchlist/article34455002.ece
01 May 2021||May 01 2021 00:00 IST,||Spotify’s big moves||Here’s some good news for podcasters. After Apple rolled out a subscription-based podcast service last week, podcasters on Spotify can now monetise their channels at no cost for the first two years. The platform has also partnered with Facebook to allow the social network’s app users to listen to music and podcasts hosted on Spotify as part of a new initiative, Project Boombox. The integration is being rolled out via a new ‘miniplayer’ experience that launched this week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/spotifys-big-moves/article34455004.ece
01 May 2021||May 01 2021 00:00 IST,||Batsheva x Ella Emhoff||Designers Batsheva Hay and Ella Emhoff (American vice-president Kamala Harris’ stepdaughter) have come together for a knitwear collab. The collection comprises three pieces: a crocheted vest, a corset, and a crochet bag. batsheva.com. Nykaa Fashion is hosting a Sustainability Edit featuring labels like GAYA, A Humming Way, Paio Shoes, and Little West Street. Over this month, there will also be chat sessions with design experts such as Pernia Qureshi and styling videos with designers. nykaafashion.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/batsheva-x-ella-emhoff/article34455006.ece
01 May 2021||May 01 2021 00:00 IST,||Talking point||Travel ban: With Maldives restricting Indian tourists from visiting inhabited islands, the list of countries closing their borders to India is growing. It now includes Bangladesh and even Djibouti. Meanwhile, Australian IPL players have been told to make their own arrangements to return home once the tournament concludes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/talking-point/article34455008.ece
01 May 2021||May 01 2021 00:00 IST,||Indian realty attracts $922 million in Q1 2021||Institutional investments continued the momentum during the first quarter (Jan-March) of 2021, registering 21% growth in volumes at $922 million, indicating sustained investor interest in India’s real estate market, according to JLL’s recently-released Capital Markets Update Q1 2021. Investments during the quarter were driven by more activity from funds and closed development stage deals, and were further supported by external macroeconomic factors. However, the pandemic surge during the second half of March 2021 is expected to delay the investment pipeline in the second quarter, says JLL. “Institutional investment momentum continued during the first quarter of 2021, registering 21% growth in volume at $922 million, indicating the sustained investor interest in India’s real estate market,” says Dr Samantak Das, Chief Economist and Head of Research & REIS (India), JLL. “The remarkable resilience of the office market and confidence in its long-term growth led investors to chase quality assets available at the core and development stages. We also see the maturing listed REIT market providing an alternative to other asset classes, which lacked income stability,” he added. Driven by Commercial Commercial office assets dominated deals with $864 million transacted, translating into 94% of the total value in the first quarter. Office space developers liquidated their portfolios to deleverage or raise growth capital for the next phase of expansion. In addition, investors are actively scouting for warehousing assets at present and deals are likely to be concluded in the coming quarters. The housing sector, meanwhile, continues to experience an infusion of last-mile funding for project completion.   City-wise  Hyderabad witnessed the highest capital flows of $384 million, accounting for a 42% share of investments during the first quarter of 2021, due to the launch of new developments by the Phoenix Group. Mumbai accounted for 21% share of investments with $193 million deployed in its office and residential segments, supported by the reduction in stamp duty introduced by the State Government of Maharashtra.  The REIT market     The successful début of three listed REITs further positioned India on the radar of institutional investors. The Brookfield India REIT issue of ~$521 million was successfully launched in February 2021 and was eight times oversubscribed, with domestic mutual funds being major anchor investors. The market capitalisation of India’s listed REITs stood at $6.6 billion as on April 16, 2021, which is around 30% of the total market capitalisation of Nifty Realty Index companies. Looking ahead Though resurgence in the number of new Covid cases has caught the nation off guard, a swift response to the pandemic and lessons from the past are expected to guide our current actions. As per JLL, the following broad trends are likely to emerge: - Investors are likely to continue evaluating deals and concluding investment processes with relaxation in conditions - JLL believes that the listing of more REITs will gather pace in 2021, also influencing the investment momentum - Apart from commercial office space, recovery in the housing sector is expected to attract funds, especially for projects in the last stages of completion - Residential sales in Q1 (January-March) 2021 recovered to more than 90% of the volumes witnessed in Q1 2020 (pre-Covid) across the top cities. Smart recovery in demand in 2021 is expected to improve investment prospects. Opportunities for construction finance would be available - Entry of new data centre operators and expansion plans of major players supported by infrastructure and PE funds are expected to drive deals - Platform deals in the logistics sector are likely to remain active as the segment benefitted from growing e-commerce demand as well as pandemic induced demand for cold storage facilities from the pharma sector Institutional investments have stayed on a firm wicket despite the pandemic in 2020 and are likely to gain further pace in 2021.  Commercial office assets dominated deals with $864 million transacted, translating into 94% of the total value in the first quarter||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/indian-realty-attracts-922-million-in-q1-2021/article34455023.ece
01 May 2021||May 01 2021 00:00 IST,||Ready vs. under-construction homes||The price gap between ready and ‘off plan’ or under-construction housing has been narrowing y-o-y since 2017 across the top seven cities. Latest Anarock data reveals that the price gap between ready-to-move-in (RTM) and under-construction (UC) homes reduced to a mere 3-5% by Q1 2021. In 2017, the difference between the two categories was anywhere between 9% and 12% across cities, while in 2018 it was 5-8%. Cities with least and highest price difference in Q1 2021: NCR and MMR recorded the least price difference between RTM and UC homes at 3%. The average prices of RTM homes in NCR were Rs. 4,650 per sq. ft. while for UC homes it was Rs. 4,500 per sq. ft.; in MMR it stood at Rs. 10,700 per sq. ft. and Rs. 10,350 per sq. ft. respectively.  Pune, Hyderabad, and Chennai have the highest RTM/UC price difference at approx. 5%  In Bengaluru and Kolkata, the difference is just 4% Previously, buyers of under-construction homes had one major advantage, says Anuj Puri, Chairman, Anarock Property Consultants, adding, “Their patience and willingness to court construction risk were rewarded by notably lower prices. However, construction delays and stalled projects had a predictable outcome and risk-aversion set in, with demand tilted heavily towards ready properties. While the fact that RTM homes do not attract GST has been an added attraction, even the price gap between RTM and UC homes has eroded substantially — from 9-12% in 2017 to just 3-5% by Q1 2021.” The shrunk price gap works well for end-users as well as investors. End-users can see what they buy and save rent by moving in immediately, while investors focused on steady rentals can start earning right away. In the past four years, developers have been reluctant to increase the prices of ready homes as they need to clear their inventory. Not surprisingly, ready homes are popular now.  2017 vs. Q1 2021   MMR has seen the highest reduction in the gap over the last four years. In 2017, the gap b/w RTM and UC homes in MMR was 12% — among the highest. Now, in Q1 2021, it has reduced to just 3%, the lowest  Bengaluru comes next — in 2017, the price gap b/w RTM and UC homes was 12%; as of Q1 2021 it has shrunk to 4%  In Pune, the price gap in 2017 also stood at 12% while in Q1 2021, it has reduced to 5%  In NCR, the price gap in 2017 was 9%; as of Q1 2021, it is just 3%  In Hyderabad, the price gap was 10% in 2017 while in Q1 2021, it is down to 5%  In Chennai, the price gap in 2017 was 9%; in Q1 2021, it has come down to 5%  In Kolkata, the price gap between the two categories reduced from 10% in 2017 to 4% in Q1 2021 MMR and Bengaluru  MMR at 12% to 3%: The average prices of RTM homes were Rs. 10,365 per sq. ft. in 2017, and those of UC homes at Rs. 9,251 per sq. ft. In Q1 2021, the prices were Rs. 10,700 per sq. ft and Rs. 10,350 per sq. ft. respectively.  Bengaluru at 12% to 4%: In 2017, the average prices of RTM homes were Rs. 4,889 per sq. ft. while those UC were at Rs. 4,365 per q. ft. In Q1 2021, it is at Rs. 5,130 per sq. ft. and Rs. 4,910 per sq. ft. respectively.  Anarock Property Consultants   Pune, Hyderabad, and Chennai have the highest RTM/UC price difference at approx. 5%||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/ready-vs-under-construction-homes/article34455026.ece
01 May 2021||May 01 2021 00:00 IST,||Find your fl av ou r||During last year’s lockdown, the owners of Matamaal, the Kashmiri Pandit restaurant in Gurugram, realised that people were craving their dishes like rogan josh and yakhni curry. “We started thinking of something that can be easily made at home,” says chef and director Nalini Sadhu, who came up with the Rogan Josh Spice Mix — a tweaked version of a family recipe. Lockdown or not, several others have taken a similar route to bring family favourites to the masses. A round-up:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/find-your-fl-av-ou-r/article34454728.ece
01 May 2021||May 01 2021 00:00 IST,||A bed, a bed, a kingdom for a bed||I have been acquainted with asthma since the age of four, and the thought of not being able to breathe has a very real power to frighten me. So, when the second wave came and brought with it a raging oxygen shortage, I had a minor ‘what-if’ moment. It made me call a friend with connections to doctors to ask if it made sense to keep an oxygen cylinder at home as a precaution. Her sources said there was no shortage yet in Chennai, which sounded reassuring, and I killed the thought. It’s significant that I had wanted, momentarily, to ‘hoard’ an oxygen cylinder when I had resisted through the past year the idea of hoarding anything, whether masks, sanitisers, groceries or medicines. Clearly, a tiny window of fear had opened fleetingly, a window that many among us don’t shut, or don’t know how to, or don’t see why it should be shut. The episode led me to think about the concept of medical triage, and how ignorant we are about it, despite its life-saving potential. The dictionary defines it as “the assignment of degrees of urgency to illnesses to decide the order of treatment, when both patients and casualties are large”. A pandemic is exactly when triage should kick in. Unfortunately, that’s exactly when we throw it to the winds and enter into a sort of wild race to corner resources for ourselves and our families. The word triage comes from the French trier , to sift, select, sort out, and medical triage was invented by Dominique Jean Larrey during the Napoleonic Wars to prioritise which of the wounded would get treatment first, depending purely on the gravity of injuries, disregarding rank and other considerations. The format saved lives during disasters, when resources and personnel are limited, and was widely adopted. Zoom in to India. Even during a pandemic, many hospital beds, both public and private, are kept vacant “in case” a minister or industrialist might need one. Filmstars and sportspeople with the mildest symptoms are given prompt hospital admission. In an absurd reversal of triage, serious but uninfluential patients get pushed back to accommodate the influential. As with everything else, medical resources in India are distributed according to power and pelf, on ‘who you know’. Even in a catastrophe, hospitals dare not declare that patients will be prioritised purely by medical urgency and nothing else because that would horrify the privileged. Ideas of prestige and status are so closely connected to ‘how best you can jump the queue’ that it would be inconceivable to tolerate a situation where money or influence can’t be brandished. In New Delhi, a hundred rooms in Ashoka Hotel were booked as a care centre for members of the Delhi High Court, a move that was quickly reversed following a public outcry. Such ideas don’t come from a vacuum. They come from minds that believe it’s fine for some people to have medical care on standby while ordinary citizens languish in a pandemic. This attitude is intrinsic to the democracy of ‘favours’ that we occupy. Here, utilities don’t flow to everybody because everybody is a citizen; instead, there is an individualised cornering of resources by those with money and connections. Consequently, just as everyone aspires to be ‘important’ enough to defy red lights like the cars with government or judicial plates do, every Tom, Dick and Kalyani also aspires to the same assured access to healthcare when money or names are dropped. Given this social reality, can you imagine a hospital CEO telling a minister or his protégé he can’t get a hospital bed because his symptoms are mild? Ideas like medical triage work best when there is a social compact, an understanding that the community’s interest must be placed above the individual’s in order to save maximum lives. It can’t work if a Delhi MP dishes out Fabiflu like toffee instead of distributing it to public health centres. Or if ministers corner vital medicines for their own constituencies. Or if we begin to privately stock resources rather than work in tandem with a system that’s already stressed by the government’s abject failure to prepare for just such an eventuality. Where the writer tries to make sense of society with seven hundred words and a bit of snark.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/a-bed-a-bed-a-kingdom-for-a-bed/article34454731.ece
01 May 2021||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan govt. seeks emergency allocation of 201 MT of oxygen||Amid acute shortage of medical oxygen in hospitals, the Rajasthan government on Friday sought the allocation of 201 metric tonnes of oxygen from the Centre on an emergency basis. The State, which needs 466 MT oxygen for treatment of COVID-19 patients, has only 265 MT in its stock. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot said here that there was a shortage of 201 MT oxygen in the State, which had been allocated just 1.60% of the oxygen, despite recording 5% of the total COVID-19 positive cases in the country. “Rajasthan will require a total of 550 MT oxygen within a week. We request the Centre to allocate 201 MT oxygen today as an emergency,” Mr. Gehlot tweeted. The number of active cases in the State at present is about 1.70 lakh and 20,400 patients require oxygen support. Mr. Gehlot said though the Union government had taken control of oxygen and essential medicines for their better management, it should allow the States to help each other under its supervision. “We wish to deal with the crisis arising out of the raging pandemic in collaboration with the Centre. We have been requesting the Centre to get the help even from the foreign countries and assist Rajasthan and other States,” Mr. Gehlot said. The State government has also announced a special package with several incentives and facilities for setting up medical oxygen plants. Those setting up the projects will be required to invest Rs. 1 crore and generate oxygen by September 30 for getting advantage of the package.  Speedy approval The oxygen projects will be exempted from regulatory approvals and inspections for three years under the Rajasthan Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (Facilitation of Establishment and Operation) Act, 2019. The State government will also help them in getting necessary approvals from the Centre and give them power and water connections at the earliest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/rajasthan-govt-seeks-emergency-allocation-of-201-mt-of-oxygen/article34454739.ece
01 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Soli had all that jazz going||Soli knew he was going. “We are in the departure lounge waiting for visas to come through,” he told his friend Subash a week or so ago. You wouldn’t have thought that a month earlier, when he was on stage at the India International Centre, bantering with Supreme Court judge Justice Rohinton Nariman at the launch of his collected works, Down Memory Lane. The occasion was also the delayed celebration of his 90th birthday, twice postponed from last year due to Covid. It was time between the subsidence of one wave and the rise of another. In a life full of myriad achievements, Soli himself had ridden — and crested — many a wave himself, before being swept away by this dreadful one. None would have pleased Soli more than being president of Jazz India Delhi Chapter (and later Capital Jazz). Jazz Yatra, the international festival of jazz music, was first held in Bombay, in 1978. It was Soli, along with fellow jazz-lovers (the above-mentioned) Subash Lal, Rudy Cotton, Harish Salve and a few others, who formed Jazz India Delhi Chapter to bring the Yatra to Delhi. The Yatra (and Jazz Utsav in its later avatar) became a staple of the Capital’s cultural circuit. It was the forerunner to the “live” concerts by international artists taken for granted by today’s music-loving public. I got to know Soli in the early 80s, first when I volunteered as backstage help for the Jazz Yatras and later as a member of the JIDC managing committee. I was a young sports reporter then, and in awe of him — the highest-paid lawyer in the country — as we would attend meetings at his Sundar Nagar office-cum-residence. But Soli never let that show then, or in the 35-odd years I’ve known him. I was an equal, a fellow jazz lover. When he visited Singapore while I was working there in the 1990s, much to my delight, he called me and took me out shopping.  Bombay’s jazz era Growing up in Bombay in the 1930s-40s it was natural Soli would “swing” to the music of that era — he passionately loved the music of Benny Goodman and played the clarinet himself. When Soli, as attorney-general, was introduced to sax-playing American President Bill Clinton, he told him, “You are the second President who loves tenor sax, the first was Lester Young (the American tenor saxman of the 1940s was nicknamed ‘Prez’).” The passion extended to people who made the music, too: he was a patron to the jazzmen of his era. A proposed line-up for a Jazz Utsav in the 2000s didn’t feature any Indian bands. Soli promptly shot off a note, saying: “I may frankly state that if there is no Indian band performing at the Utsav it will be very difficult for me to associate myself with the Utsav.” In tune with the times Soli’s preferred music was that of a bygone era. Meetings of Capital Jazz would start with him talking about a particular solo Lester took in the latest CD he’d heard. But as President of Capital Jazz he ensured that the music performed in Jazz Utsav was in tune with the times. If the line-up had Grammy winner saxophonist Rudresh Mahanthapa to please the purists, he would also have Larry Carlton, the Grammy winning guitar virtuoso, to attract the youth. He did this by allowing younger people to have a voice in Capital Jazz: first there was (the late) Amit Sehgal, better known as a rock impressario; later Arjun Sagar Gupta, who runs the only Jazz Pub in Delhi/Gurgaon. That was quintessential Soli — a traditionalist with one hand, so generous with the other. When finally his visa came, it was dated International Jazz Day.  (The author is a veteran Delhi-based sports journalist.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/soli-had-all-that-jazz-going/article34454743.ece
01 May 2021||Chandigarh,||Punjab to revive closed oxygen units||To ensure adequate supply of oxygen as the COVID-19 cases continue to rise, the Punjab government has directed officials of the Industries and Commerce Department to identify closed oxygen generating units and explore possibilities of production. Industries and Commerce Minister Sunder Sham Arora said the government was working to ensure uninterrupted medical supplies, especially medical oxygen and vaccines. “I have already instructed the authorities to identify the industries that have the capacity to produce medical oxygen but don’t have the licence to produce. The government will act swiftly and issue the licence as soon as possible. The supply of oxygen to industries was stopped and now 98% oxygen is going towards the medical requirements,” Mr. Arora said. He said there was a need to make available adequate oxygen because of a high number of oxygen-dependent cases and also urged the Centre to ensure adequate supply.  All help assured Mr. Arora said the Industries Department would extend all help to identify land and get consent to establish a plant if anyone wanted to set one up. He urged the State-run oil firms to establish Pressure Swing Adsorption medical oxygen generation plants and procure cryogenic containers for transporting liquid medical oxygen to meet the acute shortage in the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/punjab-to-revive-closed-oxygen-units/article34454737.ece
01 May 2021||GUWAHATI,||Help of Muslims sought in identifying JMB members||The Assam police on Friday sought the help of Muslims in Assam in identifying members of a new module of the extremist Jamaat-ul-Mujahideen Bangladesh (JMB). The appeal followed the arrest of two recruits of the module in western Assam’s Dhubri district bordering Bangladesh. The police recovered four firearms and Rs. 1.02 lakh in fake Indian currency notes from the duo. “…we appeal to the respected Muslim community and their leaders to come forward and assist us in identifying the other members of this module. We also appeal to them to help us bring all such radicalized elements to mainstream,” Assam’s Director-General of Police Bhaskar Jyoti Mahanta tweeted. He also advised Muslim society to not entertain the “radicalised elements” but help the police. “We will not allow any orientation for radicalisation. We received information that some elements of this module have been frequenting Bangladesh,” he added. Muslims are a majority in Dhubri, accounting for 79.67% of the district’s population (2011 Census). Mr. Mahanta said police investigations revealed some Bangladeshi mullahs got Indian visas for the purpose of treatment in Chennai but violated the visa rules by visiting different parts of Assam to radicalise people.  Module busted The State police had in 2014 busted a JMB module in western Assam’s Barpeta, which ranks second after Dhubri in terms of the Muslim population, and arrested more than a dozen people. This module had spread to Baksa district, police said. Additional Director General of Police (Special Branch) Hiren Nath said the JMB elements blended in as ordinary people plying various trades. “They misguide the youth and make them follow the JMB’s ideology,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/help-of-muslims-sought-in-identifying-jmb-members/article34454744.ece
01 May 2021||Guwahati,||8 Naga women sentenced for humiliating woman||A court in Nagaland’s Tuensang district has sentenced a group of eight women to a year in prison for publicly humiliating a woman three years ago. The eight had chopped off the woman’s hair, stripped and paraded her naked on the road in 2018 after a kangaroo court subscribing to tribal customary laws found her guilty of having an extra-marital affair. The court of judicial magistrate first class also fined the group Rs. 3,000 for the offence under various sections of the Indian Penal Code.  Extra-marital affair The court observed that the victim did have an extra-marital affair, but the villagers took matters into their own hands and meted out “inhumane justice” in their kangaroo court. “…the village folk asserting the so-called rights given unto them by the customary law outraged the modesty of the victim in the most barbaric fashion,” the court said in its order. “It is such an inconceivable fact to even think that the women folk would go to the extent of chopping off a lady’s hair, stripping her and parading her naked on the roadside,” the court noted.  ‘Village resolution’ In their statements, the eight women said their village had passed a resolution in 2018 to punish adulterous women according to the customary practices. The judicial magistrate’s court said the “misconceived notion of empowering oneself with the so-called “village resolutions” to do barbaric acts should be avoided at all cost. Article 371A recognises the customary practices of the Nagas. But if all villagers allude to the constitutional provision for invoking laws that “uncultured civilisations” practised, there would be a total breakdown of law-and-order in society, the court observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/8-naga-women-sentenced-for-humiliating-woman/article34454736.ece
01 May 2021||Patna,||Bihar Chief Secretary dies of COVID-19||Bihar Chief Secretary Arun Kumar Singh died of COVID-19 complications on Friday morning. A 1985 batch IAS officer, Mr. Singh tested positive on April 15 and had since been in a private hospital in Patna where he died. He was appointed the State’s Chief Secretary in February 2021. Earlier, he has served as the Development Commissioner and Secretary of various departments. Chief Minister Nitish Kumar and other leaders of the State have mourned the passing of Mr. Singh. The Chief Minister got information about his death during a meeting of the State Cabinet. Following this, the Cabinet observed one minute silence to pay respect to Mr. Singh, according to an official statement.  (With PTI inputs )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bihar-chief-secretary-dies-of-covid-19/article34454740.ece
01 May 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Help sought for orphaned children||The Odisha State commission for Protection of Child Rights (OSCPCR) has directed the State government to provide immediate support and care to children in case of death of parents in COVID-19. The OSCPCR chairperson Sandhyabati Pradhan drew attention of Special Relief Commissioner P. K. Jena about condition of children during the pandemic. “In case parents are affected by COVID-19 and in home quarantine or in hospital, the children may need care and protection. Also in case of death of parents the child may require immediate support and care. Necessary arrangement need to be done to reach out to these children within a stipulated time,” said Ms. Pradhan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/help-sought-for-orphaned-children/article34454745.ece
01 May 2021||Srinagar,||Curfew brings life to standstill in J&K, 30 dead||Life came to a standstill in J&K as the Union Territory (UT) administration imposed a strict 84-hour ‘corona curfew’ in all 20 districts on Friday, even as 3,532 more tested positive and 30 died due to COVID-19 in the past 24 hours. An official said out of 30 who were reported dead due to the infection, included 17 from the Jammu division and 13 from the Kashmir division. The active positive cases have risen to 28,359 in J&K. Most of the COVID-designated hospitals in the Kashmir valley were touching its full bed capacity, which included the Chest Disease Hospital, the Sher-i-Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences and the Jawahar Lal Nehru Memorial hospital, officials said. Meanwhile, all market places and streets across the UT wore a deserted look due to the ‘corona curfew’, which started on Thursday evening and will end on Monday morning. Most people preferred to stay indoors. Security forces were deployed across the Kashmir valley to implement the curfew. Barricades and extra checkpoints were set up in the Valley and across Srinagar city to regulate movement of people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/curfew-brings-life-to-standstill-in-jk-30-dead/article34454741.ece
